24-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand police to deploy additional force to stop farmers’ march to Delhi||US Nagar police are all set to stop farmers’ march to Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation on the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday. A significant number of police personnel will be deployed on all routes along the Uttar Pradesh border, said an official. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar said, “Elaborate arrangements are being made at the state border so that farmers of our district cannot go to Delhi to join the farmers’ stir. This exercise is being undertaken to check the spread of Covid-19 and to co-operate with the UP government in maintaining law and order.” Several farmers’ unions have decided to attend the Delhi march on the call of BKU on Friday. They are getting ready with their tractors and ration as well as daily needs. On the other hand, police of the district are preparing to stop them at any cost, said a senior police officer. Authorities in Uttar Pradesh have requested US Nagar police to stop farmers leaving for Delhi as farmers are creating a ruckus on the way resulting in law-and-order problems. Kunwar said, “We have been requested by our counterparts in UP not to allow farmers of the district to enter UP to take part in the agitation in Delhi. Therefore, no farmer will be allowed to cross the border to join the stir.” The police on Wednesday held meetings with farmers in some gurudwaras and requested them to persuade the farmers to co-operate with the police. Tajendra Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sanghthan said, “Police’s act is absolutely illegal and against democracy. Farmers must not be stopped from raising their voice in a democratic manner. It is the police’s autocratic behaviour if they stop farmers forcibly.” Baba Anoop Singh of Nawabganj gurudwara in Gadarpur has issued an appeal advising farmers not to take any such step which creates law and order problem. He has requested them to avoid confrontation with the police and not to damage government property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-to-deploy-additional-force-to-stop-farmers-march-to-delhi/story-Igwd5Lbmtx03UPAjhnLbiN.html
24-12-2020||India||To build urban infrastructure, Odisha starts 1st land pooling scheme in Bhubaneswar||To manage urban expansion and improve socio-economic activities through a structured process, the Bhubaneswar Development Authority started state’s first ever Town Planning Scheme through land pooling.Inaugurating the scheme by distributing Record of Rights to 11 landowners of Sahajpur village on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the scheme would usher in a new era of planned development in the state. “This is a fair, transparent and practical way of expanding the cities in a planned manner. I hope that we implement this scheme in a time-bound manner and create a model for the rest of our cities to emulate. We have to plan our cities in a sustainable manner and enable an organic growth while ensuring safety nets for the vulnerable sections,” said Patnaik.Under the scheme, the landowners would give 40 per cent of their area to BDA, but the Development Authority would not give any compensation but will ensure infrastructure such as roads, hospitals, schools, parks, electricity lines, water and sewerage facilities on the remaining 60 per cent area. The BDA has already prepared the plan of action to implement the first Town Planning Scheme covering parts of Mouzas of Sahajpur, Naragoda, Sijuput and Paikarapur over an area of 746.70 acres – a first of its kind project in the state.In the first phase, 358 numbers of Record of Rights (RoR) will be distributed to the land owners of Sahajpur village.“The Town Planning scheme is a win-win for both – land owners and the authority. The land owner usually gets a percentage of his holding back in rectangular shape nearby his or her original holding. One may also get additional Floor Space Index due to which the value of the returned land will be a multiple of the worth of his original holding, even though the plot size has shrunk,” said BDA vice-chairman Prem Chandra Chaudhury.Chaudhury said the BDA will now adopt the land pooling method instead of the traditional land acquisition for infrastructure development and urban growth in Bhubaneswar and its outskirts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-build-urban-infrastructure-odisha-starts-1st-land-pooling-scheme-in-bhubaneswar/story-EYdrc50i0C8zywMRQa9aTL.html
24-12-2020||India||Trinamool Congress worker, supporter found dead in Bengal||A Trinamool Congress worker and a supporter were found dead in two different districts in West Bengal on Thursday. The body of a TMC supporter was recovered from the banks of a canal at Khanakul in Hooghly district in south Bengal, while the body of a TMC worker was found at Cooch Behar in north Bengal. The body of 70-year-old Khalek Mia was recovered from a field by the roadside at Toofanganj in Cooch Behar. He was missing on Wednesday night. A knife and a BJP flag were also found from the spot. Local TMC leaders have claimed that Mia was murdered by BJP workers, but the BJP refuted the allegations saying that it was the result of TMC infighting. “He was a TMC worker and had refused to attend a BJP rally. That’s why he was murdered by the BJP,” said Rabindranath Ghosh, state minister and a senior TMC leader. “It was the result of TMC infighting. BJP is being false implicated. We want an independent investigation,” said Malati Rabha, local BJP leader. The victim’s son Jahir Mia, however, said that his father was a TMC worker and that he was clueless about who had murdered his father. “We have initiated a case. Further investigation is on,” said a senior police officer of Cooch Behar. Meanwhile in Hooghly, 35-year-old Suchand Jana was found dead on the banks of a canal with bruises on his face. “The body was sent for post-mortem examination. We are treating this as an unnatural death case till the autopsy hints at some foul play,” said a senior police officer in Hooghly district. Neither the TMC nor the BJP raised any allegations of foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-worker-supporter-found-dead-in-bengal/story-sSms7VlHbE1Qrd1Q21DnTI.html
24-12-2020||India||Bitter cold persists in north India, light snowfall likely in Kashmir over weekend||Bitter cold conditions persisted in most parts of north India on Thursday as the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at several places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.There was slight improvement in cold conditions in Kashmir as the minimum temperature rose across the valley, even as the Meteorological office forecast the possibility of light snowfall over two days from Saturday.In the national capital, the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and a maximum of 23.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions are likely in parts of Delhi over the next two days and the mercury is expected to drop to three Celsius on Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, the IMD said. Earlier in the day, “dense” fog reduced visibility in parts of the city, affecting traffic movement. In Haryana and Punjab, the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits.Adampur in Punjab reeled under intense chill recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius, while biting cold prevailed in Ludhiana too at 2.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa also registered below normal minimums at 5.7, 2.9, 4.6, 4.6, 5.2 and 6.3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.7 degrees Celsius.Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa and Mandi shivered at sub-zero temperature. The tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, Met centre Shimla director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Mandi recorded a low of minus 2.2 and minus 1 degrees Celsius, he added. Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of zero, 4.3 and 4.5 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius, he added. The Met centre has forecast rain and snowfall in isolated places of the state on December 27 and 28. In Jammu and Kashmir, the night temperature marked an improvement but continued to settle below the freezing point, the Met officials said.The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, they said.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius –up from the previous night’s minus 5 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, is considered the harshest winter period in Kashmir as a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The Met office has said the weather is likely to remain mainly dry till December 25, but there is a possibility of light in the valley for two days from Saturday.There is no forecast of any major snowfall activity till the end of this month, it added.In Uttar Pradesh, a blanket of very dense fog enveloped isolated places.According to the weather office in Lucknow, there was no major change in the night temperatures across the divisions of the state.The night temperature was appreciably below normal in Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Moradabad divisions, below normal in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Kanpur divisions and normal in the rest, it said.The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded in Muzaffarnagar at 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Jhansi, with 26.1 degrees Celsius, recorded the highest temperature.The Met forecast said the weather would most likely remain dry in the state and dense fog was very likely at isolated places on Friday morning. Most parts of Rajasthan too reeled under intense cold conditionsand Churu was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 4.9 degrees Celsius. The weather conditions would remain the same during the next 24 hours, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bitter-cold-persists-in-north-india-light-snowfall-likely-in-kashmir-over-weekend/story-2FZmT2K6KQqewBXGaGCKGJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee announces agro-industrial-park in Singur||With an eye on the crucial 2021 West Bengal assembly polls, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the state government is coming up with an agro-industrial park at Singur in Hooghly district. “The West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation will develop the park on 11 acres of land. The work of putting up a boundary wall has already been started,” she said while speaking to media persons at the state secretariat on Thursday. Industrialists and entrepreneurs would be given plots varying from 10 to 30 cottahs in size depending on their business proposal. Banerjee had led an agitation at Singur against alleged forcible land acquisition for a car factory project, which ultimately contributed to ending the Left parties’ sway over Bengal in the 2011 assembly elections. The TMC faced its first setback in Singur when the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got a lead in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Banerjee, on Thursday, also announced that the state government is ready with the Expression-of-Interest for the state’s first deep-sea port. “We are ready with the Expression of Interest for the deep-sea port which is being developed by the state government at Tajpur in East Midnapore district. The EoI would be floated on December 28. We would request all big names in the port building industry in the world to participate. No land would be acquisitioned in this Rs 4200 crore project,” she said. She said that the port is expected to attract an investment of Rs 15,000 crore and generate at least 25,000 jobs and if need arises the state would think of coming up with an export centre in the district. “This would be a huge boost for trade in the two districts of East Midnapore and West Midnapore. At present, West Bengal accounts for 13% of the export of iron and steel. This would get a major boost. The iron and steel export from around five districts including East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Puruli, Bankura and Burdwan would get a boost. The sea food export from Midnpaore to Japan and south-east Asia would also increase,” she added. East Midnapore is considered to be the home-turf of former TMC heavyweight and former state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, who recently defected to the BJP. Banerjee is expected to hold a rally in the district in the first week of January. The state is also planning to come up with another industrial park at Hashimara in north Bengal, the details of which are being chalked out, she added. The state has also received an investment proposal of Rs 400 crore at the Panagarh industrial park and land is being provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-announces-agro-industrial-park-in-singur/story-ydyCIZtSsmpvYIAK17fbBN.html
24-12-2020||India||Farm law protests: Govt invites farmers for talks, Rahul Gandhi meets President Kovind | 10 points||Protests against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws continued for the 29th straight day on Thursday. As the deadlock continued, the government reached out to the farm unions, once again inviting them for talks at a date and time of their choice. Earlier in the day, a three-member Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek his intervention to repeal the farm laws.Here are key developments from day 29 of anti-farm law protests:1. Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union agriculture ministry wrote to farm unions, again requesting them to hold the sixth round of talks as per a date and time convenient to them. The farmers had on Wednesday rejected the government’s initial proposal in this regard, which it sent on Sunday.2. In the letter, Aggarwal stressed that it was “crucial” for the government to keep negotiations open with various farm unions. He also reiterated the government’s commitment to arrive at “logical solutions” for issues raised by the farm unions.3. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met two groups of farmers, both of whom, he claimed, were in support of the reforms. 60 members of the Kisaan Majdoor Sangh and 21 from the Kisan Sena met Tomar separately, and expressed their support. He also showed a letter of support from the Kisan Majdoor Sangh.4. Tomar lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for meeting President Kovind and submitting a memorandum seeking a repeal of the laws. Remarking that even the Congress doesn’t take Gandhi seriously, Tomar said that the farmers told him that no one from the party came to get their signatures.5. The minister was referring to claims made by the Congress that its memorandum to the President had signatures of two crore people against the laws. “If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, he could’ve done something when his government was in power. Congress has always been anti-farmer,” Tomar said.6. 11 Opposition parties, including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Samajwadi Party (SP), issued a joint statement, condemning prime minister Narendra Modi for his “baseless allegations” that the Opposition was lying to farmers about the new laws. “PM’s accusations are a “complete travesty of truth,” the statement said.7. The parties further demanded a repeal of the three laws and that of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The government should hold discussions with the farmers and all stakeholders, the statement said.8. Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi, interacting with the media after meeting President Kovind, called PM Modi “incompetent.” Targeting the government, he said that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, too, would be called a “terrorist” if he too “stood up” against the PM.9. The Delhi Police detained several Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, for trying to march to the Rashtarapati Bhavan, despite not being given permission to take out a march. Only Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had an appointment with the President, the police said.10. Continuing his outreach, PM Modi will on Friday transfer Rs 18,000 crore to the bank accounts of nine crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-govt-invites-farmers-for-talks-rahul-gandhi-meets-president-kovind-10-points/story-u3mf7w1pf5L4hpdNSPvdHI.html
24-12-2020||India||India sends warship to deliver aid to Vietnam, conduct exercise in South China Sea||An Indian warship reached Ho Chi Minh City on Thursday with 15 tonnes of humanitarian relief supplies for people affected by floods in central Vietnam as part of New Delhi’s efforts to assist countries in the region amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The visit by the corvette INS Kiltan is also aimed at enhancing maritime cooperation between the two navies and contributing to regional security and stability. On its departure from Ho Chi Minh City, the warship will undertake a “passing exercise” with the Vietnam People’s Navy in South China Sea during December 26-27. INS Kiltan arrived at Nha Rong port under “Mission Sagar-III”, part of India’s humanitarian assistance and disaster relief assistance to friendly foreign countries during the pandemic, the defence ministry said. The relief materials will be handed over to Vietnam’s central steering committee for national disaster prevention and control. “This assistance is reflective of the deep people-to-people connect between the two friendly countries,” the ministry said. Mission Sagar-III was launched in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of SAGAR or security and growth for all in the region, and “reiterates India’s position as a dependable partner and the Indian Navy as the preferred security partner and first responder”, it added. On Monday, India and Vietnam signed seven agreements in areas ranging from defence to petrochemicals and unveiled a joint vision for enhanced security cooperation to ensure stability in the Indo-Pacific during a summit between Modi and his counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc. The developments came against the backdrop of concerns in both countries about China’s aggressive actions. India also handed over one of 12 patrol boats being made for Vietnam under a $100-million line of credit, and Modi described Vietnam as “an important pillar of India’s Act East policy and an important ally of our Indo-Pacific vision”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-warship-with-aid-for-flood-hit-in-vietnam-and-to-conduct-exercise-in-south-china-sea/story-2pJFzUdjbDcVmPtunaZKjK.html
24-12-2020||India||Pak activist Karima Baloch’s family seeks investigation into her death: MEA||The ministry of external affairs pointed out on Thursday that the family of Karima Baloch, a noted Pakistani human rights activist found dead in the Canadian city of Toronto, had sought an investigation into the circumstances surrounding her death. Karima, 37, was reported missing in Toronto’s waterfront area on December 20 and her body was found by police a day later. Local police said they have no reason to suspect foul play, but Karima’s husband Hammal Haidar and brother Sameer Mehrab pointed out she had been receiving death threats and sought an investigation. Asked about the Baloch activist’s death during a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have also seen the reports about the death of Ms Karima Baloch, a noted Baloch activist. Our condolences to the family. Also Watch | ‘Probe death of Karima Baloch’: Husband of Pakistan critic found dead in Canada “It is not for us to comment on this matter but I understand her family has sought an investigation,” he added. Amnesty International has described Karima’s death as “deeply shocking” and said it must be “immediately and effectively investigated” by Canadian authorities. Karima fled Pakistan in 2016, saying she feared for her life due to threats from the army and intelligence agencies, and sought refuge in Canada, where she was later granted asylum. She was included in BBC’s list of 100 inspirational and influential women for 2016, in which she was described as a campaigner “for independence for Balochistan from Pakistan”. The same year, she had recorded a video message on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, in which she called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a “brother” and asked him to become the voice of the Baloch movement. At an event held by Baloch Canadians in Toronto in 2018 to mark what they claimed to be the 70th anniversary of the illegal occupation of Balochistan by Pakistan, Karima said India had the reach to raise what she described as the “genocide” of Baloch people. Karima’s death came about eight months after Baloch journalist Sajid Hussain Baloch, who wrote about human rights abuses in Balochistan, was found dead in Sweden. His family and friends alleged he was murdered. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said his mysterious disappearance and death could have been organised by Pakistani intelligence agencies because of his work as a journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-activist-karima-baloch-s-family-seeks-investigation-into-her-death-mea/story-aXtSU8sUq6lXl5I7CwCu5I.html
24-12-2020||India||Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s 96th birth anniversary: Iconic poems penned by late former prime minister||December 25 marks the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart, who passed away in August 2018, besides being the country’s first BJP prime minister, was also known for his remarkable oratory and poetry skills. Born in Gwalior on December 25, 1924, Vajpayee had immense affection for his native language, Hindi, and became the first person to deliver a speech in the language at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), in 1977, as India’s external affairs minister.It is, therefore, hardly a matter of surprise that despite passing away more than two years ago, Vajpayee’s poems remain as popular as ever. Some of these have, in fact, achieved an iconic status. Here are some of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s most famous poems:1. ‘Geet naya gata hun’: The poem is the second of Vajpayee’s ‘Do Anubhutiyan.’ It contains two four-line stanzas and two couplets, in which a couplet follows a stanza. It is the last two lines of the second stanza, which have arguably become Vajpayee’s most iconic lines and also synonymous with him. ‘Haar nahi manunga, rar nahi thanunga’ (rough translation: I will not give up) have become almost as famous as Vajpayee himself.2. ‘Dudh main darar’: The poem, whose title literally translates to a ‘crack in the milk,’ was penned by Vajpayee during the raging Khalistan insurgency in Punjab. Alternatively, it is also known by its opening line of ‘khoon kyon safed ho gaya? (how did the blood turn white?)’.3. ‘Kadam milakar chalna hoga’: There are numerous obstacles in life, but these can be crossed if all of us come together - this is the central theme of this poem, whose title literally translates to ‘we will have to walk together.’Some other famous poems penned by Vajpayee, the country’s three-term prime minister and the first non-Congress prime minister to complete a full five-year term, include ‘Manali mat jaiyo,’ ‘Ek baras beet gaya,’ ‘Maut se than gayi, ’Aaj Sindhu main jwar utha hai’ etc. His poems have been collated in his book ‘Meri Iqyavan Kavitayein’ (My 51 Poems).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-vajpayee-s-96th-birth-anniversary-iconic-poems-penned-by-late-former-prime-minister/story-gGzmS2Ktzrswvn253P4FEM.html
24-12-2020||India||Former CEO of rating agency BARC arrested in TRP scam||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Thursday arrested a former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) from Pune district in the fake TRP scam, an official said.Partho Dasgupta, the accused, is the fifteenth person to be arrested in the case related to alleged rigging of Television Rating Points (TRP) by some TV channels.He was arrested by Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) from the jurisdiction of Rajgad Police Station in Pune district and will be produced before a court here on Friday, the official said. Earlier, the CIU had arrested former chief operating officer (COO) of BARC Ramil Ramgarhia in the case, among others.Mumbai police began the probe after the BARC, a rating agency, filed a complaint about rigging of TRP by some channels.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial as it helps TV channels attract advertisers.It was alleged that some of these households were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their TRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ceo-of-rating-agency-barc-arrested-in-trp-scam/story-6BwBqSaHgWEvgpzM4j9W4L.html
24-12-2020||India||Look forward to welcoming UK prime minister Boris Johnson, says India||India on Thursday said there has been no change with regard to the invitation to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations in the wake of the detection of a new and more infectious Covid-19 variant in the UK. UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab had announced the acceptance of India’s invitation to Johnson during a recent visit to New Delhi. Asked whether the spread of the new variant of coronavirus in the UK, which has already resulted in several countries restricting the entry of travellers from Britain, would affect the invitation to Johnson, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there had been no change. “We had invited the prime minister of the UK as chief guest of the Republic Day parade in 2021. And when UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab was here, he had publicly confirmed his acceptance,” Srivatava told a weekly news briefing. “So we look forward to welcoming the prime minister here,” he said. During Raab’s visit, India and the UK agreed on key elements of a 10-year roadmap to enhance the bilateral relationship and pledged to fast track talks on a free trade agreement. Raab also said Britain’s upcoming integrated strategic review, to be published in 2021, will contain an “Indo-Pacific tilt” that will be as much about managing the challenges arising from China’s assertive actions as it is about taking advantage of opportunities across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-forward-to-welcoming-uk-prime-minister-boris-johnson-says-india/story-QcIrrCI1jIo6QyOJdoOkvM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address farmers, release Rs 18,000 crore under PM-Kisan scheme on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually interact with farmers from six different states on the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.He will also release Rs 18,000 crore as next instalment under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to 80 million farmers. The money transfer will be done through the push of a button.“Tomorrow’s day is very important for the country’s annadatas. Will get the opportunity to release the next installment of PM-Kisan for more than 9 crores farmer families through video conferencing at 12 pm. Will also interact with farmers of many states on this occasion,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. कल का दिन देश के अन्नदाताओं के लिए बेहद अहम है। दोपहर 12 बजे वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के जरिए 9 करोड़ से अधिक किसान परिवारों को पीएम-किसान की अगली किस्त जारी करने का सौभाग्य मिलेगा। इस अवसर पर कई राज्यों के किसान भाई-बहनों के साथ बातचीत भी करूंगा। #PMKisan https://t.co/MFVWDc63XaMany Union ministers, MPs, MLAs and BJP office bearers are expected to be present in various parts of the country to listen to the Prime Minister’s address with the people.While home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh will listen to PM Modi’s speech in Delhi, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari will be in Assam, according to news agency PTI.Union minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution Piyush Goyal will be in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur, textiles minister Smriti Irani will be in her constituency Amethi while Union minister for petroleum, natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan will be in Jagatsinghpur in Odisha, PTI further reported.PM Modi released the first tranche of cash-transfer scheme under PM-Kisan in 2019. This year, he is doing so at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting three agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods. The government says the reforms will give farmers more market access and boost investment in the farm sector.Under PM-Kisan, the government provides income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 - one every four months. It was launched on February 24, 2019.Durign his interaction with farmers, the Prime Minister will most likely ask them impromptu questions on how they have benefited from the scheme and “take a briefing from them on what they are growing and what else they want to see done for them ahead of the budget”, an official said, requesting anonymity.The is the part of government outreach in the wake of ongoing farmer protest near national capital Delhi. PM Modi has been frequently explaining the benefits of farm reforms and often assured farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-farmers-release-rs-18-000-crore-under-pm-kisan-scheme-on-friday/story-MLrWavmuanbAXE6UrjutZI.html
24-12-2020||India||Nepal PM’s move to dissolve Parliament is ‘internal matter’, says India||India on Thursday reacted in a guarded manner to Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament and call snap elections, saying it was an internal matter that should be handled in keeping with the country’s democratic processes. Oli’s detractors have described the move as a “constitutional coup”, and media reports have pointed to the role played by the Chinese ambassador to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, in efforts to engineer a patch up between Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”, the premier’s main rival in the ruling Nepal Communist Party. Asked about India’s position on the dissolution of Parliament and political uncertainty in Nepal, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have noted the recent political developments in Nepal. These are internal matters for Nepal to decide as per its democratic processes.” He added, “As a neighbour and well-wisher, India will continue to support Nepal and its people in moving forward on the path of peace prosperity and development.” This was the first foreign reaction to the developments in Nepal. One of the fallouts of the political turmoil in Kathmandu was the cancellation of a planned visit to New Delhi this week by Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali to take forward the normalisation of bilateral relations after a border row earlier this year. Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Goel visited Kathmandu in recent weeks as part of efforts to put ties back on an even keel after Nepal published a new map that included Indian territories such as Kalapani. The map was issued in retaliation for India opening a new strategic road to the Kalapani region in May. On Sunday, Oli recommended that the president dissolve the House of Representatives and hold elections in April-May next year. Since then, Chinese envoy Hou Yanqi has held a string of meetings in an apparent bid to mend fences between Oli and Prachanda, who merged their parties in 2018 to form the Nepal Communist Party. Hou met Prachanda on Thursday, two days after she called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari, who dissolved the House of Representatives and announced fresh elections. Prachanda has claimed control over the Nepal Communist Party after removing Oli from the posts of party parliamentary leader and chair. This isn’t the first time Hou has intervened in Nepal’s politics amid a crisis. In May, she met with Bhandari, Oli and senior ruling party leaders, including Prachanda, when the prime minister was facing pressure to step down over poor governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-s-move-to-dissolve-parliament-is-internal-matter-says-india/story-0KAkpmLvLdNsutx9gcdEbN.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at China’s ports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at Chinese ports: MEAIndia on Thursday said foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with dozens of Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. Read more‘Will talk to airport authorities’: Delhi health minister on Covid-19 positive UK flyers slipping outDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in the national capital will speak to airport authorities amid reports that two Covid-19-infected flyers from the United Kingdom had fled from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘We need to start strongly and build pressure on Rahane’, Justin Langer reveals how Australia plan to take advantage of Kohli’s absenceAfter crushing the Indians in the Adelaide Test by 8 wickets, Australia are now looking to capitalize on the absence of Virat Kohli when they face India in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne. Read moreThe Midnight Sky movie review: There’s no dawn at the end of George Clooney’s disastrously dull Netflix filmFancy spending two hours wondering if George Clooney’s beard has grown longer before your eyes? Well, it’s your lucky day. The Midnight Sky is the movie for you. Read moreYou might control Apple’s next AirPods earbuds with your tongueUntil now Apple’s AirPods wireless earbuds came with a click gesture to control the music playback, incoming calls among other features. However, the company has now been granted a new patent that suggests future AirPods to feature new set of gestures, none of which include touching it directly. Read moreSara Ali Khan, Sonam Kapoor, Malaika Arora, Hina Khan: Your fashion guide for Christmas and New Year’s amid the pandemicIt seems this year has reduced our outings to grocery runs and our dressing up to putting on a jacket over our pyjamas, and with the number of coronavirus cases on the rise it seems Christmas and New Year’s will also be spent at home. Read moreJugalbandi of classical Instruments and Jingle Bells impresses Anand MahindraChristmas is just a few hours away. People across the world have already started celebrating the big day but in ways that ensure safety. There are certain things without which this holiday seems incomplete. Read moreRaghav Chadha alleges BJP workers vandalised his office; tweets videosAam Aadmi Party MLA and Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha alleged that his office was vandalised by goons from the BJP. The AAP leader also posted several videos of the attack on social media and said that the BJP goons warned him over his party’s support to protesting farmers. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-others-can-offload-cargo-but-not-indian-crewed-ships-at-china-s-ports-and-all-the-latest-news/story-axqUVuociopS8PTZl4u1jK.html
24-12-2020||India||Man, 23, lynched for sexually assaulting 4-year-old girl: Police||A 23-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a girl’s family for sexually assaulting a four-year-old, the police said on Thursday. The alleged sexual assault is said to have taken place at Kabar village under Bhabua police station area of Kaimur district on Wednesday nightA police case was filed by the lynched man’s sister against the girl’s family under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). One of the accused has also been arrested in this connection.In counter complaint, the girl’s mother has also filed a case against the deceased and his sister, superintendent of police (SP), Dilnawaz Ahmad said. The case was registered under Sections 376 (rape) of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act with woman police station at Bhabua.Police said the deceased allegedly lured the girl on the pretext of giving her money and took her to the village school where he assaulted her. Later, the injured girl informed her family about the incident, following which, the angry family members barged into the man’s house, brutally assaulted and killed him, police said.The 23-year-old’s body, which bore multiple signs of assault, has been sent for autopsy, said police. The girl victim was admitted to district hospital for medical test and treatment, SP Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-23-lynched-for-sexually-assaulting-4-year-old-girl-police/story-kgpNfeN8mE7l6xTgdwDbEK.html
24-12-2020||India||For total disengagement, India wants military commanders’ meet with China at ‘early date’||India on Thursday again called for the holding of the next meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders at an “early date” so that the two sides can work towards the complete disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides have been unable to make a breakthrough in the nearly eight-month standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, though external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said these discussions had resulted in better understanding of each other’s positions. He said a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held on December 18 and the two sides had agreed the next or ninth round of talks between senior military commanders “should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC”. The disengagement should be in line with existing bilateral agreements and protocols and “fully restore peace and tranquillity”, Srivastava said. He added that India and China continue to maintain communications through diplomatic and military channels. Tens of thousands of troops from both countries have dug in for the winter at key friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the two sides were unable to agree on modalities for disengagement and de-escalation. On Wednesday, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh, including sites on the south bank of Pangong Lake where Indian troops have occupied strategic heights, and reviewed the prepared of forces. Among the areas visited by Naravane was Rechin La, where Indian troops occupied strategic heights during August 29-30 to pre-empt moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said India has the strength for an appropriate response to any transgression or unilateral action on the borders but believes in finding a peaceful solution to conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-total-disengagement-india-wants-military-commanders-meet-with-china-at-early-date/story-MUfO0R4vSjNMzN2FfgeI4I.html
24-12-2020||India||Others can offload cargo, but not Indian-crewed ships at Chinese ports: MEA||India on Thursday said foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with dozens of Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. According to the ministry of external affairs, a total of 39 Indian crew members of two cargo vessels have been stranded in waters off the Chinese ports of Jingtang and Caofeidian for weeks as authorities haven’t allowed the ships to discharge their cargo. Other reports have said there are more Indian crew members on some 20 vessels stuck outside Chinese ports. The situation is believed to be the outcome of the China-Australia trade row as most of these vessels are carrying Australian coal. Reports have said some 400 seafarers and about two million tons of Australian coal are stuck on vessels outside Chinese ports. “We understand that some other ships, which arrived after the Indian ships arrived, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave. The reasons for this are not clear,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. He said there were 23 Indian crew members on the bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand, in anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13. Another 16 Indian crew members were on the MV Anastasia, in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. Both vessels are waiting to discharge cargo. Both Jag Anand and Anastasia are carrying Australian coal. Chinese customs haven’t cleared Jag Anand’s cargo and local authorities haven’t allowed the crew to leave the vessel, citing Covid-19-related restrictions. The vessel’s charterer has refused to allow it to sail to another port to relieve the crew. Anastasia’s second officer, Gaurav Singh, told Australia’s ABC News that mental health issues, lack of medical support and a decline in drinking water quality had compounded the problems of the crew. Srivastava said: “This unprecedented situation has caused a considerable amount of stress among the crew. Our embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China. They are requesting that the ships be allowed to discharge their cargos and the crew members be allowed to be changed.” The Chinese have said crew change is not permitted at Jintang and Caofeidian ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions imposed by local authorities, he added. China’s foreign ministry said on Wednesday necessary assistance is being provided to the Indian crew members. Srivastava said the Indian mission in Beijing will remain in touch with Chinese authorities to “seek their facilitation and assistance which can lead to an early resolution of the issue and help ameliorate the situation of the crew”. This development also comes against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector, which has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that local authorities are in communication with the Indian side and provided assistance “while meeting certain quarantine and epidemic prevention requirements”. However, there was no indication when the Indian seafarers will be allowed to leave their vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/others-can-offload-cargo-but-not-indian-crewed-ships-at-chinese-ports-mea/story-KNcghfD6TwJZwc58XEF5PM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to flag off India’s first-ever driverless train on Dec 28; launch NCMC for Airport Line||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to flag off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service which will be on the Magenta Line of Delhi Metro on December 28, the DMRC said on Thursday. The 37-km Magenta Line connects Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden metro stations.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be flagging off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service on the 37 km-Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and will also be launching the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) for travel on the 23-km Airport Express Line (New Delhi to Dwarka Sector 21) on December 28, 2020,” the DMRC said in a statement.Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the NCMC is an inter-operable transport card that allows holders to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including using metro and bus services across the country, toll, parking and even for retail shopping and withdrawing money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-india-s-first-ever-driverless-train-on-dec-28-launch-ncmc-for-airport-line/story-ntXUbEaGiC2h5TbyqYZ0TO.html
24-12-2020||India||Day after announcing night curfew, Karnataka govt withdraws order||In yet another U-turn, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the state has decided to withdraw the night curfew order it had announced just yesterday. On Tuesday, the CM had said that there was no curfew planned but a day later on Wednesday went ahead and announced the same only to reverse the decision on Thursday.The CM’s office said that the decision was taken after public feedback as well as taking into consideration the opinion of senior administration officials as well as cabinet colleagues. Yesterday the CM had announced night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am but later it was amended to 11 pm to 5 am after traders protested. Later, the implementation of the curfew was deferred from Wednesday to Thursday to enable travellers on the road to reach their destinations safely.After voices from the Christian community pointed out that on Christman eve they would require permission to offer prayers, the order was amended again. As bus, auto and taxi sector employees protested the night curfew order, they were permitted to ply at night too. On Thursday, after much confusion the government decided to do away with the night curfew.However, the CM appealed to people to limit their travel as well as take necessary precautions to ensure Covid-19 doesn’t spread. KPCC president DK Shivakumar mocked the flip-flops of the government saying, “What was the justification for night curfew? Do they mean to say that viruses travel only during the night and not during the day? Shows how hollow the entire decision-making process in the government has become.”JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy too criticised the government for its rapid reversals with the decision saying that there was no need for night curfew. Congress, however, reiterated its demand for the resignation of CM Yediyurappa following adverse remarks by the state High Court on Tuesday in an old corruption case. Leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah said that Yediyurappa should resign and allow a free and fair investigation in the land identification case.Siddaramaiah also criticised the flip-flops on curfew saying, “This is the decision of a mad government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-announcing-night-curfew-karnataka-govt-withdraws-order/story-UcLfOTWfRVv49DM0Io6LNI.html
24-12-2020||India||Rs 4,000 crore attached in Agri Gold scam that cheated 32 lakh in 3 states||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday announced attachment of properties worth Rs 4,109 crore and spread across three states in a money laundering case linked to an alleged ponzi scam involving Agri Gold group, a day after the arrest of its three promoters. The promoters of the Agri Gold group were accused of cheating 32 lakh investors to the extent of Rs 6,380 crore in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The accused – chairman Avva Venkata Rama Rao and directors Avva Venkata Seshu Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad - were produced before the ED special court, which granted their 10-day custody to the agency from December 27 to January 5 for questioning. The ED attached assets include 2,809 landed properties, Haailand Amusement Park in the name of Arka Leisure and Entertainments Private Limited near Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district spread over 48 acres and shares of various companies, plants and machinery. These attached properties are located in different districts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, besides Bengaluru, Kolar, Yadgir and Mandya in Karnataka, Khurda in Odisha and Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu. According to an official release from the ED, investigation has been taken up under PMLA based on multiple FIRs lodged in Andhra, Telangana and Karnataka. The scam was perpetrated by Avva Venkata Rama Rao through Agri Gold group of companies in collusion with his seven brothers and other associates. They set up more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from the public with a promise of providing developed plots and farm lands or returning money at a high rate of return on maturity or pre-term. Agri Gold had employed thousands of commission agents to lure people with various schemes for hefty commission and collected Rs 6380 crore from 32.02 lakh investor accounts. In the end, the gullible investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits. Investigation under PMLA further revealed that the promoters of Agri Gold group siphoned huge amounts of these deposits and invested them in myriad verticals and in private companies which were directly owned by their family. Investments were made in various sectors including power infrastructure, entertainment, food industry, travel agencies, chemicals, insurance, data processing, timber, software and other sectors. The names of Agri Gold promoters also figured in the Paradise Papers leaks, where global data on offshore holdings of various entities was revealed in 2017. They had incorporated companies with the help of the infamous Mossack Fonseca in Cayman Islands, the ED said. “Investigation conducted so far led to ED identifying assets worth Rs 4109 crore which have been provisionally attached under the PMLA. Further investigation is under process,” the ED release said. While the promoters are in jail, their lawyers could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-4-000-crore-attached-in-agri-gold-scam-that-cheated-32-lakh-in-3-states/story-iPXiC90gaXrhpvcbLzcbTL.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: List of terms people learnt during the pandemic||Covid-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus (nCov), has caused extensive damage to human life and strained the healthcare system across the world. Millions of people have been confined to their homes in an effort to avoid contracting the virus, which spreads rapidly. Google’s year in search 2020 shows that search terms related to Covid-19 were in the top spots in almost all categories mentioned. From the symptoms of the disease to steps to it, a wide range of information has been trending through the year.Governments around the world have been creating awareness about the disease and about safety and hygiene practices to reduce the infections. Here is a list of a few terms related to Covid-19 that have become more familiar in the recent past: CFRThe case fatality ratio (CFR) is an important measure of the severity of a disease among identified confirmed cases. The World Health Organization defines CFR as “the proportion of individuals diagnosed with a disease who die from that disease and is therefore a measure of severity among detected cases.” Also read: Timeline of a pandemic that disrupted lives across the worldContact Tracing For diseases that are highly communicable through physical contact, contact tracing is essential to curb the spread of the infections. The WHO says contact tracing is “the process of identifying, assessing, and managing people who have been exposed to a disease to prevent onward transmission” and calls it an essential public health tool.Flattening the curveIn terms of Covid-19, flattening the curve implies a gradual increase in the number of infections and a gradual decrease, rather than a steep increase or decrease. When represented as a graph, the number of cases over a period of time should remain under the healthcare system’s capacity of a region/country. Non pharmacological interventionsNon pharmacological refers to treatments and interventions that do not involve medicines, rather tools like travel restrictions, lockdowns and curfews by which the spread of the virus is reduced significantly. While some vaccines have been developed for Covid-19, availability is a concern for many governments and hence, measures to control the spread are vital in their efforts.PandemicA pandemic is a disease or an illness that has affected a large number of people usually across multiple countries by crossing international boundaries.Watch: 51 lakh people in priority list, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalPersonal protective equipmentMedical workers and health care workers are regularly exposed to the virus and hence use protective suits, gloves, masks, eye gear and face covers to protect themselves while on duty, collectively known as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Positivity rateThe ratio of the number of positive cases tested over a specific time period is called the positivity rate. High positivity rate is an indicator of a large outbreak of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/covid-19-list-of-terms-people-learnt-during-the-pandemic/story-QivlpNvQbuTxUBwfPUZUPM.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme for residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Dec 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a Ayushman Bharat scheme for all residents of Jammu and Kashmir on December 26 (Saturday). The Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana Sehat (PM-JAY SEHAT) will provide free insurance cover to all residents of the union territory (UT), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The PMO further said in the statement that the scheme would provide financial cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Ayushman Bharat ‘PM-JAY SEHAT’ to extend coverage to all the residents of the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir on 26th December, via video conferencing,” the PMO statement said. Union home minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will be participating in the virtual event.The statement added the scheme would operate on insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY). The PM-JAY, which was launched on September 23, 2018 is the world’s largest health insurance/ assurance scheme fully financed by the Centre. It provides a cover of Rs 5 lakh per family annually for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation for public and private enlisted hospitals in the country. More than 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable entitled families are eligible for benefits.‘PM-JAY SEHAT’ would also ensure universal health coverage along with focus on providing financial risk protection and ensuring quality and affordable essential health services to all individuals and communities.The benefits of the scheme would be portable across India and hospitals enlisted under PM-JAY would provide services under the new scheme as well, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ayushman-bharat-health-insurance-scheme-for-residents-of-j-k-on-dec-26/story-W5tvJBES6MqyldUP3o2pOO.html
24-12-2020||India||Congress seals alliance with Left for West Bengal assembly polls||The Congress on Thursday formally approved a tie-up with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal, the state’s Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told the media in Delhi. “Today the Congress high command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal,” he tweeted. West Bengal, along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, will go to polls in March-April next year. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress and the Left suffered badly while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The Left parties won nine while the Congress tally came down from four to two. “Now that the Congress leadership has given a formal approval to the tie-up, we have to discuss seat sharing with Left leaders in Bengal. This will be done at the state level. We will fight against both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. There will be no demarcation here,” Chowdhury said. Asked whether the alliance will project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate, Chowdhury said, “There has been no discussion on this issue. Contesting the polls as one is the only priority,” he said. Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the assembly, said, “We have to discuss our strategy for the polls now that the Congress has formally approved the proposed tie-up.” In October, the central committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the party’s highest decision-making body, approved the Bengal unit’s decision to have an electoral understanding with all secular parties, including the Congress. In the 2016 elections, the CPI(M) leadership did not give its approval to the Bengal unit’s move to share seats with the Congress. The Congress won 44 seats and the Left Front ended up with 32 but the strength of both parties has eroded since then because of defections to the TMC and the BJP. For example, Dipali Biswas, the CPI(M) candidate who won the Gazole seat in Malda in 2016, joined the TMC in 2018. On December 19, she joined the BJP along with the TMC’s former minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seals-alliance-with-left-for-west-bengal-assembly-polls/story-EIDCUDBLBfNBFovSYKbXRK.html
24-12-2020||India||Sonal Mansingh moves breach of privilege motion in Rajya Sabha against Arvind Kejriwal||Rajya Sabha member Sonal Mansingh on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion in the Upper House against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The motion comes in the wake of Kejriwal’s statement in the Delhi Assembly on December 17 where he said that the three farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha in September without voting. The motion, which was filed on Wednesday, will be taken up by the chairperson and sent to the Delhi Assembly for further action said a person aware of the details.The Rajya Sabha in September passed the essential commodities (amendment) bill; the Farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) Bill and the farmers’ (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services Bill through a voice vote. The proceedings of the House were conducted amid a din as opposition parties protested against the three bills.Expressing support for a section of farmers who are protesting against the farm laws, Kejriwal on December 17 had torn the farm laws on the floor of the assembly and said, “What was the hurry to get farm laws passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has perhaps happened for the first time that the three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha…”Mansingh, who is a nominated member of the Upper House in her letter to the Rajya Sabha chairperson has said, the Delhi chief minister’s statement that the three bills were passed without voting “is not only a serious breach of privilege but also a blatant contempt of the House, which was a mischievous attempt to denigrate the character of the chairman, Rajya Sabha and the prestige of the Upper House of the Parliament of India.”She further said the speech delivered on December 17, cast serious aspersions on the overall working of the Rajya Sabha and made “unwarranted and unsubstantiated allegations against the chairman”.In her complaint, Mansingh has said, “Since this criticism on the integrity of chairman, Rajya Sabha and the prudence of the Council of States is a reflection on the Members and the House itself, it is contempt of the House, and thus, constitutes a breach of privilege of the House.”The letter goes on to say, Arvind Kejriwal, a member of the legislative assembly of Delhi and the CM has “criticised Rajya Sabha in the legislative assembly of Delhi and questioned the sagacity of Rajya Sabha, in general, and the Chairman of Rajya Sabha in particular. His actions were thus, to obstruct and denigrate the Upper House of Parliament in the performance of its function.”According to a person aware of parliamentary procedure, a member of Parliament can move a breach of privilege motion against the Delhi CM. “In 1955 during a speaker’s conference it was decided that a motion of breach of privilege can be moved against another house,” the person quoted above said.To buttress her point Mansingh has cited portions from the Practice and Procedure of Parliament by Kaul and Shakdher that stipulates —“It is breach of privilege and contempt of the House to make speeches reflecting on the character or proceedings of the House or its committees or any member of the house or relating to his character or contact as member. Speeches or writings reflecting on the House or its committees or members are punished by the House as contempt on the privilege that such acts tend to obstruct the House in the performance of their functions by diminishing the respect due to them.”Constitutional expert PDT Achary, however, said merely tearing up a law that has been passed is not breach of privilege. “The questions arises is the act of tearing a law that has been passed in Parliament and received the President’s accent a breach of privilege. And if the chairperson finds it so, then it is not for the RS to take action; it has to be dealt with by the Delhi Assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonal-mansingh-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-in-rajya-sabha-against-arvind-kejriwal/story-A6Ni8RLqe8fge0tjGnhtNL.html
24-12-2020||India||Months after cancelling deal with China, India acquires heavy cranes for Chabahar port||India’s operations at Iran’s strategic Chabahar port are set to get a boost with the delivery in January of four heavy cranes, months after a deal with a Chinese state-run firm for the equipment was cancelled amid the border standoff. In September, India had cancelled a contract with Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries worth almost $30 million for four rail-mounted quay cranes, required for moving heavy cargo, citing delays by the Chinese company in supplying the equipment ordered in 2017. Following a fresh tender for cranes with 65-tonne capacity, the equipment was procured from a Western company and is now expected to reach Chabahar by next month, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. They declined to give further details in view of sensitivities linked to US sanctions on Iran, though Chabahar port has been granted a waiver. The people further said the Iranian side had made a request to the Indian government for railway equipment, including locomotives, signalling gear and equipment for railway stations, to bolster operations on both Chabahar-Zahedan and Khaf-Herat railway lines. The Iranian side has suggested this equipment can be provided by India under a $150 line of credit that was proposed some years ago, the people said. These developments come in the wake of the opening on December 10 of a major section of the 220-km Khaf-Herat railway link, which will ultimately connect Khaf in Iran and Roznak in Afghanistan’s Herat province, and a decision by Tehran in November to complete the 628-km Chabahar-Zahedan rail line, which runs from the port to near the Afghan border, with its own funds instead of waiting for the participation of the Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON). “Iran has decided to complete all the infrastructure on its side and India is welcome to join in all the projects. For example, they can supply the railway equipment and develop other facilities such as refineries and petro-chemical industries in the Chabahar free trade zone,” one of the people cited above said, adding the Chabahar-Zahedan rail link is expected to be completed by July 2021. The external affairs ministry said recently that IRCON had completed a feasibility study and was awaiting a decision from the Iranian side to name a nodal authority. However, it is believed that there was hesitation on the part of private firms to deal with a company linked to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Committee (IRGC), which has been sanctioned by the US. Amid reports that some quarters are calling for the Khaf-Herat rail link to be extended south towards the Pakistan border, the people noted that there is interest in taking the line northwards to Uzbekistan and suggested India could play a key role in such a venture. India, Iran and Uzbekistan held their first trilateral meeting focused on Chabahar port on December 14 and the people said this body is now expected to meet every three months to push forward the joint use of the strategic trade and transit facility on the Gulf of Oman to enhance regional connectivity. “Given its extensive presence in Afghanistan, India can play a role in helping to develop the Khaf-Herat rail route and extend it to Uzbekistan. Despite the sanctions and the Covid-19 pandemic, the Khaf-Herat line was opened and it will help boost landlocked Afghanistan,” the person cited above said. In May 2016, India Ports Global and Iran’s Aria Banader Iranian Port and Marine Services Company signed a deal to equip and operate the Shahid Beheshti terminal at Chabahar port, with a capital investment of $85.21 million and annual revenue expenditure of $22.95 million, on a 10-year lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/months-after-cancelling-deal-with-china-india-acquires-heavy-cranes-for-chabahar-port/story-sCYBVqiApRtqvqNWMu558O.html
24-12-2020||India||FASTag to be mandatory for vehicles from Jan 1, says Nitin Gadkari||FASTags will be mandatory for vehicles from January 1, 2021, Union minister Nitin Gakdari said on Thursday. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas as fee payment would be done electronically. Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari has announced that FASTag is being made mandatory for all vehicles in the country from the new year, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Addressing a virtual function on Thursday, he also said that FASTag will be useful for commuters as they will not have to stop at toll plazas for cash payments. Besides, it will also help save time and fuel, he added. FASTag was launched in 2016 and four banks together issued nearly a lakh of them. By 2017, their numbers went up to seven lakh and more than 34 lakh FASTags were issued in 2018. In November this year, the ministry issued a notification also making FASTag mandatory from January 1, 2021 for old vehicles or that were sold before December 1, 2017. As per the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, since December 1, 2017, FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheelers. It was also mandated that the renewal of fitness certificate of a transport vehicle will be done only after the vehicle concerned has a FASTag. For National Permit vehicles, the fitment of FASTag was mandated since October 1, 2019. A valid FASTag would be made compulsory for getting a new third party insurance. This would come into force from April 1, 2021. The ministry said that steps for ensuring availablity of FASTag through multiple channels are being taken. They would be available at physical locations as well as online, The National Toll Collection (NETC) programme has been implemented on a pan-India basis in order to remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless movement of traffic and collection of user fee as per the notified rates using passive Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-to-be-mandatory-for-vehicles-from-jan-1-says-nitin-gadkari/story-ur8xdwTuP1fhG9v4dR9WPK.html
24-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari’s show of strength day after Trinamool rally. And a boast||Suvendu Adhikari, BJP’s new acquisition from the Trinamool Congress, thundered on Thursday at a roadshow, reported to be several times bigger than his former party’s rally the day earlier, “is baar, do sau paar”, a reference to BJP crossing 200 seats in upcoming West Bengal state polls and ending Mamata Banerjee’s decadal rule in the state.Adhikari, who was welcomed into the BJP by Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19, was called a traitor at the Trinamool roadshow and rally at Kanthi at his hometown in Bengal’s East Midnapore district on Wednesday.So massive was the turnout at Adhikari’s roadshow a day later that the tableau carrying him and some state BJP leaders could move only a few inches a minute and the party’s workers said it might take hours to cover the five-kilometre route leading to the rally ground. “She [Mamata Banerjee] will come second in the race. Is baar, do sau paar (this time around we will score more than 200),” Adhikari told the local media on his way to the rally ground, repeating Amit Shah and the BJP’s declared goal. “The TMC need not hold rallies in my district to stop me from going elsewhere in Bengal. The more they attack me the more will be the losses they suffer in East and West Midnapore districts. I will address a rally in West Midnapore on Sunday. My home is Bengal. My country is India,” said Adhikari. Incidentally, chief minister Mamata Banerjee will soon address a rally at Nandigram, the constituency Adhikari represented till he resigned from the state assembly. Adhikari’s followers raised a unique slogan, “Hare Krishna Hare Hare, BJP ghare ghare,” implying that the BJP has entered every home with the chant Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, the 15th Century Hindu saint, introduced for disciples of Lord Krishna. “Sri Chaitanya spread the message of universal love, hence this slogan. We are paying homage to Purushottam Ram and Sri Chaitanya at the same time,” Adhikari quipped. The TMC’s rally on Wednesday, which was addressed by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and urban development minister Firhad Hakim, was the first the ruling party held in Kanthi town after Adhikari’s defection.That the TMC has targeted Adhikari as its prime political enemy became evident on Wednesday when clashes took place between BJP and TMC workers in the district’s Ramnagar area. The rally was organised by Akhil Giri, the TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar and a known detractor of Adhikari. On Tuesday, Adhikari addressed his first rally as a BJP leader alongside the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh in Burdwan district. Accusing the TMC of being involved in smuggling of cows, coal and sand, he said, “If the TMC returns to power it will start an illegal kidney trade as well.” The Triamool hit back at Adhikari on his home turf. “Suvendu is no strongman in Bengal politics. He lost the first assembly and Lok Sabha polls. He won his first assembly election from Kanthi South in 2006 but only after his father, the incumbent, vacated the seat. He was given two important portfolios in the cabinet. What more did he want? He is a traitor. Kanthi is not the kingdom of any family,” Saugata Roy had said at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-s-show-of-strength-day-after-trinamool-rally-and-a-boast/story-YWHfK7jy21OzNYznByttPK.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Even Congress doesn’t take him seriously’: Narendra Singh Tomar takes jibe at Rahul Gandhi||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday met a delegation of farmers from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat. Interacting with the media after the meeting, Tomar claimed that the delegation had submitted to him a letter supporting the three farm laws. He also lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who earlier in the day met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to repeal the three laws.“Farmers from Baghpat have given me a letter in support of Centre’s farm laws. They’ve told me the government shouldn’t buckle under any pressure to make amendments to farm bills,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying after he met a delegation of 60 farmers belonging to the Kisaan Mazdoor Sangh.As protests against the farm laws have gathered steam, Tomar has, over the past few days, met several delegations of “farm leaders,” who, he claims, are supportive of the reforms. “Whatever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn’t take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to get their signature,” Tomar was further quoted as saying. Whatever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn't take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to them to get their signature: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/V5fWXLGOec pic.twitter.com/rpWbA1XwRrThe agriculture minister was referring to a memorandum submitted by Gandhi to the President, which, the Congress claims, has two crore signatures against the farm laws. “If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, then he could have done something for farmers. Congress’ character has always been anti-farmer,” Tomar added. If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, then he could have done something for farmers, when his govt was in power. Congress' character has always been anti-farmer: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi meeting President today over Farm Laws https://t.co/v4ZT271Ycz pic.twitter.com/0co7sBvk0DGandhi had met Kovind along with fellow Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Several other Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police as they tried to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan. This, the police said, was done as only Gandhi, Azad and Chowdhury had permission to meet Kovind.The anti-farm law protests, taking place at several borders of Delhi, entered day 29 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-congress-doesn-t-take-him-seriously-narendra-singh-tomar-takes-jibe-at-rahul-gandhi/story-Y2leI43zsw2LyJDAOP2YnI.html
24-12-2020||India||Karnataka government withdraws night curfew order||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew the night curfew order, hours before it was scheduled to be implemented. In a statement, chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s office said that the decision has been taken after feedback from public.“In view of the public opinion that there was no need for night curfew, the decision was reviewed and after consulting with cabinet colleagues and senior officials it has been decided to withdraw the night curfew,” the statement from the CMO said.Yediyurappa appealed to the people to exercise self-restraint by wearing face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The night curfew was meant to be imposed in the state between 11 pm and 5 am, effective from December 24. It was supposed to be in place till January 2. The decision to impose it was taken on Wednesday and withdrawn today.The government decided to imposed the night curfew in the light of a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 virus detected in the United Kingdom. The government had even issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the night curfew.Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar had said earlier in the day that the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had advised the government about imposing a night curfew after which the decision was taken.On the possibility of a new variant of coronavirus coming to Karnataka, the minister said the lab test reports of about 300 to 400 people was likely to arrive on Thursday.Some other states are going ahead with their decision to impose a night curfew to check the spread of the disease. Maharashtra was one of the first states to do so after the news of the new strain of the virus surfaced.Iqbal Singh Chahal, the commissioner of Mumbai’s civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated”.Punjab, Manipur, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh are the other states where night curfew and other measures are being implemented to ensure the people of the state remain safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-withdraws-night-curfew-order/story-Gg93xB6hMsra1XYLXnTY9N.html
24-12-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat: Patna high court quashes case against 18 foreigners||The Patna high court has quashed the criminal prosecution against 18 foreign nationals associated with Tablighi congregation. It its decision on Tuesday, the court cited absence of any material that could prima facie suggest that these people were involved in religious work.The order came on a petition filed by 11 foreign nationals who came to West Bengal from Bangladesh by road on tourist visa. The petitioners said that they visited the ‘Nizamuddin Markaz’ in Delhi before the Tablighi event, reached Araria in Bihar on March 11 and were residing in ‘Rawahi markaz’ since March 15. Then, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 for 21 days, leaving them stranded, the petitioners said.Further, the local administration put them in quarantine post screening. Later, a local claimed that these foreigners were involved in the spread of religious ideologies, and did not report their stay to the local administration which led to the registering of an FIR, the court was told.The bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad in its observation said that the government of India is aware of the fact that the foreign nationals from some of the countries in course of their stay in India are being accommodated in mosque or markaz.The court further said that the allegations in this case of not reporting their stay to the local police station is “misconceived”.The court concluded by saying, “so far as the foreign nationals (petitioner nos. 1 to 9 of Cr.W.J.C. No. 367 of 2020 and petitioner nos. 2 to 10 of Cr.W.J.C. No. 369 of 20200) are concerned, their prosecution for the offences alleged under Section 14 and 14-C of the Act of 1946 has no basis to proceed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-patna-high-court-quashes-case-against-18-foreigners/story-wUQNZRzPxDnHX5meq4e8dI.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:Office attacked by BJP workers over AAP’s stand against agriculture reforms, says Raghav Chadha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Office attacked by BJP workers over AAP’s stand against farm laws’: Raghav ChadhaAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha said that the attack carried out by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at Delhi Jal Board (DJB) office was meant to threaten the party and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.  Read moreWest Bengal Assembly Election 2021: Congress to ally with Left partiesThe Congress on Thursday formally announced its tie-up with the Left parties for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tweeted the announcement. Read moreNo postal ballot pilot planned for non-Gulf NRIs: Election CommissionClarifying its position on the introduction of postal ballots in non-Gulf countries, the Election Commission of India said that it has made no such proposal. Read moreGovt writes to farmers’ unions, again invites them for talks as per their ‘convenience’The Union agriculture ministry on Thursday wrote to farmers’ unions, once again inviting them for the sixth round of talks at a “date and time of your choosing,” news agency ANI reported. Read moreCriminal Justice Behind Closed Doors review: Kirti Kulhari, Pankaj Tripathi deliver another Thappad on the face of misogyny with superlative showCan a perfect father to a teenage daughterrape his wife behind closed doors? Can a professional and powerful woman fall prey to misogyny in the confines of her home? Read moreBCCI approves 10-team IPL from 2022 edition, board to back ICC bid for cricket’s inclusion in 2028 OlympicsIn a big decision that would see the world’s most popular T20 league expand, the Board of Control for Cricket in India’ general body on Thursday approved a 10-team IPL from the 2022 edition at its Annual General Meeting in Ahmedabad. Read moreChristmas 2020: History, significance and celebrationsAfter the rough year that 2020 has been, we are all looking forward to the most wonderful time of the year when people across the world come together to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ on December 25. Read more Dad-daughter duo dishes out dhamakedar dance on Ghungroo from War, Esha Gupta hearts Insta videoA dad-daughter duo from Washington has left people thoroughly entertained with their smashing performance on the song Ghungroo from the film War. Read moreWatch: ‘Incompetent man’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over farmer protests||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-office-attacked-by-bjp-workers-over-aap-s-stand-against-agriculture-reforms-says-raghav-chadha-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2pRbEmsP7i9GFgI9jqjtLK.html
24-12-2020||India||3 men kidnapped by militants in Tripura freed after 2 weeks||Almost a fortnight after three border fencing workers were abducted nearly 100 metres away from the India-Bangladesh international border by banned militant group National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT-BM) ultras, the men were released on Wednesday, said police. Assistant Inspector General of Tripura police Subrata Chakraborty told the reporters on Thursday that the abducted persons were released due to police and security forces’ continuous operations on the overground members of the militant outfit in the state.Though some sources claimed that family members of the victims paid ransom to the militants to get them released, the police said these reports were not verified. The three workers are: Subhash Bhowmik (48), Subal Debnath (37) and Gana Mohan Tripura (37). They were abducted on December 7 from Malda Kumar Para and Hariamoni Para in Ambassa sub division of Dhalai district. The location is nearly 100 metres away from the Indo-Bangla international border.Two days after their abduction, police arrested three facilitators of the insurgent outfit who belonged to Malda Para, the place where the incident took place. The police earlier informed that extensive coordinated operations were conducted on both sides of the Indo-Bangla border to trace the three kidnapped persons.Four days after the abduction, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that his government would not compromise with extremists.The NLFT was formed on March 12 in 1989 keeping an agenda of sovereign Tripura. It was banned in 1997 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and then under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA).According to the Union ministry of home affairs, the NLFT was responsible for violent activities including 317 insurgency incidents in which 28 security forces and 62 civilians lost their lives during the period 2005-2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-men-kidnapped-by-militants-in-tripura-freed-after-2-weeks/story-IAoL08ieBMHJ77lWEuU03L.html
24-12-2020||India||CRPF jawan comes home, found dead days later; father blames wife||A Central Reserve Police Force jawan, on leave from work, allegedly died by suicide on Thursday, days after his return to his home in Bihar’s Aurangabad district. He was 31. The police have not found any suicide note in the house. The jawan, Kshatramani alias Gunjan, was posted in Odisha and had come home on leave for a month on December 19.According to the police, the jawan had dinner with his family on Wednesday. When his wife woke-up around 5.30 am the following day, said police, she found the door of the room was locked from outside. She tried to call Gunjan, but there was no response. Following this, she raised an alarm, said SHO Arvind Kumar Gautam of Daudnagar police station. A neighbour rushed to the jawan’s home on hearing the wife’s cry for help. When he broke the front door, he found Gunjan’s lifeless body. He rushed the jawan to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. The jawan’s father, Ashok Singh, has told the police that his son took the extreme step because of constant quarrel and torture by his wife, Anita Devi. In a written statement, Singh alleged that a quarrel between wife and husband at around 12.30 pm (Wednesday) led to the suicide. “Prima facie, it seems Gunjan took his life. While the police are investigating the allegation made by the deceased’s father,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-comes-home-found-dead-days-later-father-blames-wife/story-soZ4d8htWr8YszArCPaVgK.html
24-12-2020||India||Trinamool pick holes in PM’s Tagore comments at Visva-Bharati; BJP hits back||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressing Bengal’s Visva-Bharati University on its centenary day on Thursday, said its founder and Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s vision was the essence of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” or a self reliant India. The PM spoke at length on the pivotal role Visva-Bharati played in India’s freedom movement and how it spread the message of universal brotherhood encapsulated in Tagore’s philosophy and works. “Gurudev’s vision for Visva-Bharati is the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the path to India’s development for the development of the world. It’s a campaign for India’s empowerment and prosperity, and through it, the prosperity of the word,” he told the gathering through video conferencing from New Delhi.From the “Vedas to Vivekananda”, the PM continued, Tagore’s thoughts reflected the collective thought of India, which was never introverted or exclusive.“His vision was that what is best in India the world should benefit from it, and India should learn from the good things they have. Now look at the very name of your university, Visva-Bharati....coordination and cooperation of India with the world,” he said.Visva-Bharati was declared a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament in 1951. Tagore founded it in 1921.Praising the institution for its remarkable achievements in numerous fields ranging from art and literature to science and innovation, PM Modi urged the students to reach out to the artisans in the region and explore ways to find national and international markets for their produce. “That will make them self-reliant. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the initiative for India’s prosperity which will aid in global prosperity,” said Modi. Recalling India’s freedom struggle, Modi said, “Long before our great freedom fighters took up the cause in the 19th and 20th century, the Bhakti Movement united us. The movement for learning gave us intellectual strength and the movement of karma exemplified by the likes of Shivaji, Maharana Pratap and Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi gave us the courage to fight for our rights.” Visva-Bharati, he said, is the embodiment of philosophy, vision and hard work of Tagore. The PM’s comments come right in the middle of a heated political campaign for next year’s polls that has seen the ruling Trinamool and the BJP, its main challenger, fighting over the state’s icons and its legacy.Shortly after PM Modi delivered his speech, the Trinamool Congress hit back, saying the PM mentioned all universities in the country for their contribution to the freedom movement but left out Calcutta University, the nation’s first university set up in 1857 and to which all colleges were affiliated to at that time. Accusing Modi and the BJP of showing Bengal and Bengalis in poor light, the TMC also alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee was not even invited to the programme. Minister Bratya Basu and TMC’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, held a press conference at the party’s headquarters in Kolkata. When it was pointed out that the Visva Bharati authorities had claimed that an invitation was sent on Wednesday night, Basu said, “Is that how a chief minister is invited?” “I could not understand why there were repeated references to Gujarat when he (Modi) was talking about Tagore. And, some of the things he said were factually wrong. For example, Satyendranath Tagore was not the poet’s eldest brother. Also, it was not from Gujarati women alone that Satyendranath’s wife Gyanadanandini Devi learnt to wear the traditional saree in a different way. She was inspired by Parsi women as well but the Prime Minister will not name Parsees for the same reasons that stops him from mentioning Dalits,” said Basu. Reading out from Tagore’s writings against communal violence, Basu said, “The migratory politicians should have a deep understanding of Tagore and his philosophy before talking about him.”Addressing a press conference in the afternoon, Mamata Banerjee said, “Who invited me and when? I did not receive any invitation or phone call as far as the centenary celebration is concerned.” She also sounded a veiled warning to the vice-chancellor without taking names. “I congratulate those who are associated with this century-old institution. The legacy of Visva-Bharati is not bound by time. Those who are running it now will be here for a few days only. Their days are numbered.” Earlier, the chief minister called upon the people to preserve the vision and philosophy of Tagore. “Visva Bharati University turns 100. This temple of learning was Rabindranath Tagore’s greatest experiment on creating the ideal human being. We must preserve the vision and philosophy of this great visionary,” tweeted CM Banerjee. The BJP Bengal unit and its leaders targeted Banerjee on Twitter, alleging that she insulted the legacy of Tagore by not attending the ceremony. The party even circulated the image of an invitation letter dated December 4. It was signed by Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor. “Dirty politics everywhere, @MamataOfficial? She has insulted the legacy of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, by not attending the Visva-Bharati celebrations even after receiving the invitation! She is slowly strangulating everything “Sonar Bangla” stood for!” tweeted the Bengal BJP. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell, posted an image of the December 4 letter. “Visva Bharati had sent invite to WB CM on 4 Dec 2020. But for Pishi, politics is more important than the legacy of Gurudev Tagore! Never ever has a CM insulted Tagore’s Visva-Bharati like this! Pishi is impersonation of narrow mindedness that is pushing Bengal to utter darkness!” tweeted Malvilya, who always refers to the chief minister as pishi (aunt in Bengali) and refers to her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee as bhaipo (nephew). Asked about the letter, minister Bratya Basu said, “You have the letter but was it sent and received by the government? Do you have a copy which is stamped ‘received’? The vice-chancellor wrote a letter to himself thinking he is the chief minister and received it too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-pick-holes-in-pm-s-tagore-comments-at-visva-bharati-bjp-hits-back/story-IKxtYSiQkGZ6FBFcE2Ko6J.html
24-12-2020||India||Govt writes to farmers’ unions, again invites them for talks as per their ‘convenience’||The Union agriculture ministry on Thursday wrote to farmers’ unions, once again inviting them for the sixth round of talks at a “date and time of your choosing,” news agency ANI reported. The ministry’s letter came a day after the protesting farmers rejected its earlier proposal in this regard, saying that no negotiations will take place till the government “draws up a new agenda.” Govt writes to agitating farmers, asking them to decide the date and time for the next round of talks. "Govt is committed to reaching logical solutions of the issues raised by you," it reads. pic.twitter.com/tBglPwi8fsThe letter, signed by Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the agriculture ministry, referred to the letter sent by the farmers’ unions to the government on Wednesday, rejecting its earlier proposal. The letter reiterated the government’s commitment to reach “logical solutions” to all the issues raised by the protesting farmers. adding that it was crucial for the government to keep negotiations open with various farmers’ organisations of the country. “The government has, respectfully and with open mind, held several rounds of talks and has also proposed to hold the next round of talks at your convenience,” the letter further stated.It also talked about various objections raised by the farmers’ unions, including on the Minimum Support Price (MSP), and the points discussed between the two sides in five rounds of meetings thus far, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5. “I would once again like to stress that the government has spoken to you with open mind on the issues raised by you and is ready to do so in future as well. Please let us know the date and time, as convenient to you, for the next round. The discussion will take place at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi, with a ministerial-level committee,” the letter concluded, quoting Aggarwal as saying.The government had earlier written to the farmers’ unions on Sunday, inviting them for the sixth round of talks as per their convenience. The anti-farm law protests entered day 29 on Thursday.Earlier in the day, a delegation of three Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to repeal the three laws. Several other Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were detained by the Delhi Police as they tried to march to the Rashtrapati Bhavan despite permission being granted to only three party leaders to meet the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-writes-to-farmers-unions-again-invites-them-for-talks-as-per-their-convenience/story-WRhl8cLisqE4zKXHXoVCCL.html
24-12-2020||India||IMA Manipur warns against large gatherings after night curfew relaxed for Christmas, New Year||Close on the heels of Manipur government’s move to relax night curfew for a couple of hours to allow Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Manipur chapter, has said that a surge in Covid-19 cases cannot be ruled out following the festive season.Urging against large gatherings at all cost apart from avoidance of crowded places, IMA Manipur president Dr Shyamkumar Laishram and state secretary Dr Ng Arunkumar Singh, said, “Individuals over 60 yrs in age and with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 should stay at home. Social distancing protocol should be followed strictly.” The officials also advised frequent hand washing and use of hand sanitizer. Regional IMA branch also broadcast a Facebook live program in collaboration with SHIJA Foundation on “Emerging Trend of COVID-19 and Precautions for Christmas and New Year”.On Tuesday, the state authorities relaxed the night curfew, imposed since November 27, for a few hours on the twin occasions of Christmas and New Year. The night curfew shall be imposed from 10pm to 4am on all days except the intervening nights of 23rd and 24th December, 24th and 25th December and 31st December and 1st January, when curfew hours would begin from 12 midnight and last till 4am, the government order said.Also Read: 133 new recoveries in Manipur, no fresh deaths recordedAs per the government order, issued on December 22, the gatherings have been restricted to 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons in closed spaces with strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. It also said that community feasting shall be avoided.As on Wednesday, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 26,030 with 102 new recoveries, officials said. Manipur’s Covid-19 recovery rate has risen to 93.54%. The cumulative number of positive cases in the state stands at 27,827, including 1,459 active cases, they added. The cumulative number of Covid-19 deaths stands at 338.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-manipur-warns-against-large-gatherings-after-night-curfew-relaxed-for-christmas-new-year/story-6UW15ZFNe5Lqc8Lfo6x4iN.html
24-12-2020||India||No postal ballot pilot planned for non-Gulf NRIs: Election Commission||Clarifying its position on the introduction of postal ballots in non-Gulf countries, the Election Commission of India said that it has made no such proposal. In its reply to a Member of Parliament’s query, dated December 23, the commission has unequivocally denied reports that postal ballot facilities will be extended to select non-Gulf countries first. “At the outset it is made clear that the commission has not made any pilot proposal,” the EC said in its reply, a copy of which has been seen by the Hindustan Times. “The current proposal to extend the ETPBS voting option in favour of overseas electors is an extension of the continuing efforts of the commission to facilitate voting to the overseas electors, notwithstanding the amendment in the Act in 2011, which is yet to be materialised in the true sense.”Also Read: Govt for wider consultations before allowing postal ballots for NRIsThe commission added that the logistics of the same are being worked out in consultation with the ministry of external affairs. “The proposal, which is still to be approved by the law ministry, will be implemented across the globe, not launched selectively,” said a person familiar with the matter. The EC wrote to the law ministry on November 27 to expedite the amendment of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, to extend the postal ballot facility to overseas electors. Of the 12.6 million Indians residing overseas, only little over a hundred thousand are registered as voters with the Election Commission of India, people familiar with the matter said. According to official estimates, at least 60-65% of the 12.6 million people residing overseas are likely to be eligible to vote in the Indian elections.It has proposed that voting be done via Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS), which was tested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections for service voters. “One needs to understand how the ETPBS works,” said a person familiar with the matter. “A designated officer is appointed in the regiment of the service voter to whom postal ballots are sent electronically. The officer gives this to the voter and then posts the ballot to the Returning Officer (RO).” The commission, in its letter to the Law Ministry, has similarly proposed the appointment of a designated officer by the diplomatic or consular representative of India. The modalities for how the postal ballot process will be conducted, however, are yet to be finalised. The commission has asked that the facility be extended before the upcoming polls next year in the states of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. The proposed amendment faced backlash from political parties that alleged that they had not been consulted in the process. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had said that the amendment may be open to large-scale manipulation, with ballots being sold for profits. Countering Yechury’s claim that political parties had not been consulted, the commission on December 19 wrote to veteran political leader, stating that the postal ballot facility was only an “extension of the continuing efforts of the Commission to facilitate voting for overseas electors”. The commission added that detailed consultations were held with various stakeholders in 2015, including political parties, wherein a committee was set up by the EC to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-postal-ballot-pilot-planned-for-non-gulf-nris-election-commission/story-ILEsxoaoqYsHwfDp3OIILL.html
24-12-2020||India||Woman dodges Delhi officials, reaches Andhra after testing +ve on arrival from UK||A 47-year old Anglo-Indian woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 after landing in New Delhi from the United Kingdom on Monday, gave a slip to the authorities to reach Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district by train, in the wee hours of Thursday. According to an official bulletin from the Andhra health department, Mary Winfred Ann Parrie, a private school teacher at Rajahmundry, tested Covid-19 positive at the Delhi airport health centre after landing from the UK on Monday night. The airport authorities handed her over to Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday for treatment. Since she was asymptomatic, she was asked to be in quarantine for seven days. After getting her out-patient card, she quietly left the place without informing the authorities, who could not find out her whereabouts. On Wednesday evening, East Godavari district authorities received a communication from the additional district magistrate of Delhi (North-East) Shubhankar Ghosh, stating that Parrie, along with her 22 year old son Riyan, who received her at the airport, might be travelling to her home town Rajahmundry aboard Andhra Pradesh Express train. “Since she is Corona positive, there is an apprehension of transmission of the infection to other persons from her. As per the protocol, she has to be isolated in institutional quarantine,” Ghosh said in the letter, requesting the East Godavari district authorities to get her admitted to any institutional quarantine facility. The state health authorities sounded a high alert and informed both the railway police and the local police authorities. “As soon as the train arrived in Rajahmundry railway station in the early hours of Thursday, they managed to locate Parrie and her son getting down from a first class compartment. The authorities made the duo wear PPE kits and drove them straight to the Rajahmundry government hospital,” the bulletin said. In the morning, both Parrie and Riyan were subject to different Covid-19 tests again. “The mother was found positive and Riyan negative in the Rapid Antigen Test. The hospital authorities have also conducted RT-PCR and VLM (Viral Lysis Medium) tests on both of them and the results are awaited,” the health department said. Also Read: Stalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra PradeshParrie, a resident of Ramakrishna Nagar in Rajahmundry, has been working as a teacher in a local school. She, along with her husband and daughter, had gone to London a few months ago after the lifting of travel restrictions. She returned to India to see her son. State minister for health, Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani, said the Anglo-Indian woman and her son were in the isolation ward of the Rajahmundry hospital, where all precautions were being taken. “The test samples are also being sent to the National Institute of Virology to find out if she had been infected with the new strain of Coronavirus,” the minister said. He said two separate isolation wards had been created in the hospital for admission of any fresh Covid-19 cases arriving from Europe and to conduct special tests on them. “We shall not take chances with the woman who came from the UK. There is nothing for the people to panic, as the government is on high alert,” Nani said. The minister said authorities have been asked to trace the passengers and railway crew who might have come in contact with Parrie and her son during their travel from New Delhi to Rajahmundry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dodges-delhi-officials-reaches-andhra-after-testing-ve-on-arrival-from-uk/story-c1ablNfsW83MSWNXNeBSbJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi HC asks Libgen, Sci-Hub to stop uploading articles as they face copyright infringement charges||The Delhi high court on Thursday restrained Sci-Hub and Libgen from uploading, publishing, and making available any article till January 6 when it will next hear a plea by publishing houses Elsevier Ltd, Wiley India Pvt Ltd, and American Chemical Society against the online repositories over alleged copyright infringement. The publishing houses have sought to block Sci-Hub, which has published nearly 84 million articles and papers, and Libgen that claims to host nearly 80 million research pieces. The repositories provide free access to paywalled research material.Elsevier publishes The Lancet and Cell journals among 2,500 others. Wiley publishes 1,700 journals. The American Chemical Society is one of the world’s largest scientific societies and publishes the prestigious Journal of the American Chemical Society.Also Read: Petition in Delhi HC to block Libgen, Sci-HubSci-Hub’s lawyer, Nilesh Jain, said they would not put out anything new and sought time to file a response to the petitioners. He said they need time to go through the suit which runs into 2,169 pages. No representative of Libgen attended the hearing on Thursday.“...given the stand of the counsel for Defendant no 1 (Sci-Hub), no new articles will be uploaded or made available... statement of Nilesh Jain is taken on record,” the court said.It sought the reply of the defendants and sought their physical addresses after senior advocate Amit Sibal, who represented the publishing houses, told the court that they do not even know the addresses of the defendants.Sibal said the defence has no case as it involved open infringing of copyright. He sought a direction to internet service providers, the department of telecom and the ministry of electronics and information technology for blocking Sci-Hub and Libgen. Sibal said he would give the links which have to be removed.The court said the defendants have been around since 2011. “Where were your clients for so many years? These sites are known by everyone.”Sibal said litigation in the other countries took time and the publishing houses have been able to move the court in India now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-libgen-sci-hub-to-stop-uploading-articles-as-they-face-copyright-infringement-charges/story-cRWCB1sGs1yMqR3TCpuvmL.html
24-12-2020||India||NGT directs Power, Coal ministries to undertake safety audit of thermal power stations||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed secretaries of ministries of Power and Coal to undertake safety audit of thermal power stations throughout the country expeditiously, preferably within six months, to avoid recurrence of incidents like Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast in future.The NGT bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed remedial measures to be adopted for future.“We also direct the Secretaries, ministries of Power and Coal, Government of India, in coordination with such other Departments/Institutions as may be necessary, to undertake safety audit of similarly placed thermal power stations, throughout the country expeditiously, preferably within six months, to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future,” the NGT said.The Tribunal remark came after observing a report filed before it where it was stated that the cause of the incident in Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast was the failure of the staff handling the situation who did not have the knowledge of the 28 SOPs and of the process and the staff was not given due training and requisite work permits.The NGT was also informed that the compensation has been paid to the victims as per direction. However, the NGT refrained from directing retirement of the unit but said that all safety measures may be duly adopted which may be regularly monitored and audited by teams of experts on the subject and also by the Regulators.Proceedings in the matter were initiated on the basis of a news report relating to Tamil Nadu Neyveli boiler blast, which killed 6 people and 17 injured in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-power-coal-ministries-to-undertake-safety-audit-of-thermal-power-stations/story-m9tIdRyGaX48ONeULpQTQO.html
24-12-2020||India||How Delhi will vaccinate 51 lakh people against Covid-19. All you need to know||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Capital which was reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 in November is now fully prepared to start the vaccination drive. The Covid-19 situation of the Capital is also under control, the CM said. “All eyes are on vaccine now that when it will come and people will get rid of Covid-19,” Kejriwal said adding the Delhi is completely prepared to start the vaccination drive — to receive from the Centre, to store and to administer people with doses.Here is all you need to know about the drive:> The vaccination will proceed on the lines mandated by the Centre. Three groups of people will receive the doses in the first phase. > The first group comprises healthcare workers which in Delhi will cover 3 lakh people.> The second group will be 6 lakh frontline workers, which includes police, municipal workers, civil defence volunteers etc.> The third group of 42 lakh people will be of people above 50 years and below 50 years with co-morbidities. In total, Delhi will vaccinate 51 lakh people> All these people have been identified. Some work is left which will be wrapped up in the next week, Kejriwal said.> Every vaccination consists of two doses. One crore two lakh doses are required to vaccinate 51 lakh people.> Delhi has the capacity to store 74 lakh doses at present. But work is being done to ramp up the capacity to store one crore 15 lakh vaccine doses.> Registration of these people is being done. These people will get a notification through SMS or any other medium about the date, time, place of their vaccination.> There are sufficient locations in Delhi which will be turned into vaccine booths. All training has also been done. Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital is arranging for addition freezers to store Covid-19 vaccines. The hospital authorities have said infrastructure is ready for two cold chain equipment and 90 freezers in the hospital. Delhi airport, too, has completed preparation for vaccine distribution. The mission has been named ‘Project Sanjivani’. The airport has a storage capacity of 2.7 million vials of Covid-19 vaccine at any given point of time. It also has two cargo terminals with cool chambers where temperature can be set anywhere between -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius. The Delhi airport has also made arrangements for dry ice supply so that the vaccine can be kept stable for a longer period. A separate entrance for trucks carrying vaccines has been made. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-will-vaccinate-51-lakh-people-against-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-vrQM4aNvKhSbRs9Y9RWSAN.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi govt all set for Covid-19 vaccination: CM Kejriwal||Delhi is prepared for vaccination, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday after chairing a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harash Vardhan. There are around 51 lakh people including healthcare and frontline workers who will be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination drive, he also said. “The process of identification of all such people is almost complete,” Kejriwal “There are a total of 51 lakh priority category persons in Delhi -- three lakh health workers, six lakh frontline workers, and 42 lakh of those aged above 50 and those below 50 but having co-morbidities,” the chief minister said at a virtual press briefing.In the first phase, each person will be given two doses. A total of 1.02 crore doses will be required in the first phase of vaccination in Delhi, he also informed. Currently, there is storage capacity for 74 lakh doses. It will be scaled up to 1.15 crore within a week, he also said.Each person in priority categories is being registered to receive the vaccine. They will be informed through SMS and other means whenever their turn for vaccination arrives, the chief minister said.This comes as state governments across the country are gearing up to inoculate people once the vaccines for Covid-19 gets due approval from the regulatory body. So far, Pfizer vaccine developed by the US company and its German partner BioNTech and another candidate developed by Moderna have sought emergency authorisation approval form the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).The Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, has also submitted its application for an emergency use licence.As of Wednesday evening, the city has 6,19,618 total cases of Covid-19 infections. The total recoveries are 6,01,268. While the death toll due to the virus is 10,347.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-completed-all-preparations-ready-for-covid-19-vaccination-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-O07CBPhSaM0Gc0Zl0ATDIM.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati University essence of self-reliant India,’ says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati University essence of self-reliant India’: PM Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Rabindranath Tagore’s vision for the Visva-Bharati University is the basis for the call for a self reliant India, adding that the call was made for the world’s benefit too. Read moreDelhi CM to chair meeting with health minister to review Covid-19 vaccination preparednessDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a meeting to review preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Read more Covid-19 and resultant lockdown majorly impacted senior citizens: SurveyThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the resultant lockdown had a major impact on seniors, with one in three of the seniors spoken to fearing they would contract the disease, shows a survey. Read more New Covid-19 mutant found in South Africa: What we know so farAmid concerns over new Coronavirus mutant found in the UK and the rest of the world subsequently rushing to shut their doors to Britain, another variant has now been found, which has links to South Africa. Read more MCG pitch will suit Indian batsmen more: Darren Lehmann feels India can turn things around against AustraliaAgreeing that it will be hard task after lows of Adelaide, former Australia batsman and head coach Darren Lehmann backed India to turn things around in the remaining three Test of the four-match Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Read more Paralympic medalist Blake Leeper cheers on 2-year-old kid learning to walk with prosthetic leg. WatchAn incredibly special moment between a toddler and Paralympic medalist Blake Leeper has now tugged at the heartstrings of many. Read more Wonder Woman 1984 movie review: Gal Gadot’s goddess-like charm barely saves a wonderless sequelJudging from the title, there are two things that should have been the focus of Wonder Woman 1984: the Amazonian goddess and the ‘80’s nostalgia that the film most likely wanted to cash on. Read more Watch: ‘Mamata Banerjee welcomed BJP to Bengal’: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tagore-s-vision-for-visva-bharati-university-essence-of-self-reliant-india-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MoXtozN7b59jkXz1pMhknK.html
24-12-2020||India||No possibility of dialogue with India in prevailing situation, says Pakistan foreign minister||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said that there is no possibility of a diplomatic dialogue with India in the prevailing situation, according to a media report on Thursday.New Delhi has already been maintaining its stand that “talks and terror” cannot go together as it continues to ask Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India.“There is no possibility of a backdoor or diplomatic dialogue with India in the prevailing situation...The circumstances are not suitable for any dialogue at the moment,” Qureshi was quoted as saying by Dawn newspaper.Qureshi made the comments while talking to reporters in his hometown Multan on Wednesday, the paper said.Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship further dipped after India’s war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terorrist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26 last year in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.Withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special powers and bifurcating the state into two union territories in August last year also evoked a strong reaction from Pakistan, which has been unsuccessfully trying to rally international support against India on the Kashmir issue.India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-possibility-of-dialogue-with-india-in-prevailing-situation-says-pakistan-foreign-minister/story-GXOIoUartP51oMJugPk0LI.html
24-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi meets Prez over farm laws, says India an ‘imaginary democracy’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that India is now an “imaginary democracy” as he attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying anyone “trying to take power from him will be dubbed as terrorist and anti-national” even if it is Rashrtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat. Leading a Congress delegation to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Rahul Gandhi demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the three “anti-farmers, anti-agriculture, anti-poor and black” laws. “Democracy…. which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India. It is in your imagination but not in reality,” he told reporters after handing over to the President a memorandum signed by 20 million farmers seeking withdrawal of the three legislations. However, the government dismissed the remark and recalled the emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “The country hasn’t forgotten what happened during emergency days. Democracy has flourished in Prime Minister Modi’s term,” union minister Kailash Choudhary said. Also Read: Congress march to President stopped, Priyanka Gandhi taken into custodyBut launching his fiercest attack yet on Modi on the farm laws, Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister will ensure that wealth of people is transferred to crony capitalists. “Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even if (RSS chief) Mohan Bhagwat stands against him, he too will be called a terrorist. Anyone trying to take power from him will be dubbed anti-national,” he said. Apart from him, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury were the other two members of the delegation that met the President.  India is now an imaginary democracy. pic.twitter.com/4WZJiJ9XelSoon after the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 were enacted, the Congress launched a three-month-long “mass movement” against the government. Rahul Gandhi also undertook a ‘tractor yatra’ across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign. “You have an incompetent man who does not understand anything and is running a system on behalf of three or four other people who understand everything,” he said. The former Congress president said if the Prime Minister does not repeal these laws, the country will suffer. “We told the President that these laws are anti-farmer and anti-farm labourers. The government claims the laws are in favour of farmers, but they are standing up against these,” he added. “I want to tell the Prime Minister that farmers are not going back home until the laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal them,” he said. The former Congress chief said all opposition parties are standing with farmers. “The way these laws were passed in Parliament without any discussion and consultations, they need to be withdrawn,” he said. “The farmers are in pain and dying, the Prime Minister will have to listen to them,” Rahul Gandhi added. Earlier, Delhi police detained Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders and took them to Mandir Marg police station for violating prohibitory orders after they held a sit-in protest outside the party office at 24, Akbar Road. “It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office. PM needs to realise that there is limit to this,” Rahul Gandhi said. “China is sitting at the border and has snatched thousands of kilometres our land. But why does the PM not speak up on it? Why is he silent? He is making the country weak and outside forces are seeing it as an opportunity. The country is moving on a dangerous path and it will suffer,” he claimed. In the memorandum, the Congress claimed that 44 of them have so far lost their lives in the ongoing protests at various Delhi borders. For her part, Priyanka Gandhi said the government was not ready to listen to farmers. “It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If the government is terming farmers protest as sedition, it is a sin,” she told reporters. “Any dissent against this government is classified as terror. The government is arrogant and has no respect for farmers or jawans, who are the sons of farmers,” she alleged. But union minister Choudhary maintained that the new agri-laws are good for farmers. “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t want the agitation to stop. Congress cadre won’t stop agitating but farmers will. We are interacting with farmers while Congress and other political parties are inciting them,” he said. On Priyanka Gandhi’s remark that it is a “sin” to label farmers as terrorists, Choudhary said some elements are trying to vitiate the atmosphere. “This can’t be overlooked,” he said. “We saw which flags were hoisted there. Even Maoists and communists and likes of Rahul Gandhi are trying to hijack the protest but they won’t be successful,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-QZ5KmTdQXfrE2pfqaWA7RL.html
24-12-2020||India||Congress march to President stopped, Priyanka Gandhi taken into custody||Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other senior party leaders were taken into preventive custody by the Delhi Police after they tried to march to the Rashtrapati Bhawan to meet President Ram Nath Kovind. The detained leaders were part of a delegation, led by former party president Rahul Gandhi comprising Congress Working Committee (CWC) members and Members of Parliament, that was going to meet the President with 20 million signatures collected in the past three months against the three new farm laws enacted in September this year. “We are living in a democracy and these are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is the problem with that? The government is not ready to listen to the voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” Priyanka Gandhi told reporters. Also Read: Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms“Any dissent against this government is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” she added. Apart from Priyanka Gandhi, the other leaders detained at Mandir Marg police station are party general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, CWC member Kuldeep Bishnoi and Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil. “Sometimes they say we (Congress) are so weak that we don’t qualify to be the opposition and sometimes they say that we are so powerful that we have forced lakhs of farmers to camp at Delhi borders for a month. They should first decide what we are,” Priyanka Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-march-to-president-stopped-priyanka-gandhi-taken-into-custody/story-cZmGWAKVkcPpP4p0gB0YAI.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Even Mohan Bhagwat would be called terrorist...’: Rahul Gandhi targets PM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday slammed the Modi government and said anyone can be labelled as a terrorist by if they come in the way of the crony capitalists. Farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat can be bracketed in the same term, Rahul Gandhi said after submitting a memorandum containing 20 million signatures against the farm laws to the President Ram Nath Kovind. “I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” Rahul Gandhi said on the ongoing farmers’ protest. The farmers on Wednesday took objection to the way the government is dealing them like a “political rival”. In their letter to the Centre, they denounced the government’s attempt to link the protest with “Maoists and anti-social elements”.“I told the President that these farm laws are anti-farmer. The country has seen that farmers have stood up against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said.“There is no democracy in India. It can be in your imagination, but not in reality. PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists. Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat,” he said.“You have an incompetent man who is controlled by certain other people. This is what India has to understand. This is what all youngsters have to understand. You have an incompetent man who does not understand anything and running a system on the behalf of 3 or 4 other people who understand everything. And their aim is to take huge amount of money from the poor people of India and put it in their pockets. And that’s what we are fighting. Frankly, it doesn’t matter what you think right now. Because all of you will face this. There is not going to be a single person who will not face it. If you are a farmer, you are going to face it. If you are a small businessman, you will face it. You are a journalist, you will face it,” Rahul Gandhi said.As the government sticks to its ground that the laws are pro-farmer and will not be repealed but can be amended to accommodate the demand of the protesting farmers after consultation, Congress collected signatures of two crore farmers, labourers and other stakeholders who are against the farm laws from across the country.The meeting on Thursday comes a day before the ongoing protest of the farmers to march towards Delhi completes a month on December 25. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers from six states and will release Rs 18,000 crore as part of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme. While Thursday’s march was only by Congress, opposition leaders met President before seeking his intervention to resolve the deadlock.Though both the Centre and farmers are ready to proceed with further talks, the situation is far from any solution as the farmers in their latest move have refused to fix the next date for talks unless the Centre modifies its proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-tell-pm-farmers-won-t-go-back-unless-laws-are-repealed-says-rahul-gandhi/story-LzVKPf4wIPJG5GJC2wusmO.html
24-12-2020||India||PM Modi on Tagore’s Gujarat link, Srimati Hutteesingh and Jnanadanandini Devi||Addressing the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University through video conferencing on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Tagore family had a long-cherished connection with Gujarat which shows how states can learn from each other and prosper.“When I speak about Gurudev, I can’t stop. When I came here last time, I talked about this. This time too, I will remind you of the connection between Gurudev and Gujarat,” PM Modi said.“We need to remember this because this enshrines the idea of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’. This connection shows despite being fragmented by difference in language, food, clothes, our country is united in soul. This shows India’s culture of unity in diversity,” PM Modi added.Satyendranath Tagore, who was in Indian Civil Service, was posted in Ahmedabad, PM Modi said. “Rabindranath Tagore used to visit Gujarat frequently. He stayed in Ahmedabad for a long time. During such a period, he wrote his two popular poems. He wrote a portion of Khudito Pashan (Kshudhita Pashan) in Gujarat,” he said.“Not only this, Gujarat’s daughter Srimati Hutteesingh was married to the Tagore family. When Satyendranath Tagore’s wife Jnanadanandini Devi was in Gujarat, she saw women draping the pallu of saree on their right shoulders, which she felt cumbersome and improvised the style bringing the pallu on the left shoulder. Women empowerment organisations can do some more research on this,” PM Modi said.Srimati Hutteesingh, belonging to the Hutheesingh family of Ahmedabad, was married to Saumyendranath Ragore, grand-nephew of Rabindranath Tagore. She had studied in Visva Bharati and remained associated with the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-tagore-s-gujarat-link-srimati-hutteesingh-and-jnanadanandini-devi/story-zPxAoTVdkAIunTAbHbwyRL.html
24-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi, on her way to meet President with 20mn signatures against farm laws, detained||The Delhi Police on Friday took Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders into custody while they were on their way to meet President Ram Nath Kovind with 20 million signatures against the farm laws. The leaders have been taken to Mandir Marg Police Station, according to news agency ANI.Deepak Yadav, additional DCP (New Delhi), said that some Congress leaders marching towards Rashtrapati Bhavan were detained and confirmed that Priyanka Gandhi was among them. However, it would take some time to ascertain the identities of the other detained leaders, he said.“We are living in a democracy and these are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is the problem with that? The government is not ready to listen to the voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” Priyanka Gandhi said. “Any dissent against this government is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” she added.After the demonstration, that started at 10:45 am from Vijay Chowk, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders met President Kovind and submitted the memorandum containing 2 million signatures.“I told the President that these farm laws are anti-farmer. The country has seen that farmers have stood up against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said after the meeting.“I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” he added.According to a letter written by Congress MP KC Venugopal to the personal secretary to the President, only three leaders, Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary were permitted to meet President Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-other-cong-leaders-on-their-way-to-meet-president-with-20mn-signatures-against-farm-laws-taken-into-police-custody/story-ft73UWvO3CI5ShzB5XmKmK.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi CM to chair meeting with health minister to review Covid-19 vaccination preparedness||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a meeting to review preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and health secretary will also participate in the meeting, ANI also reported.The meeting comes as state governments across the country are gearing up to inoculate people once the vaccines for Covid-19 gets due approval from the regulatory body. So far, Pfizer vaccine developed by the US company and its German partner BioNTech and another candidate developed by Moderna have sought emergency authorisation approval form the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, has also submitted its application for an emergency use licence.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister on Wednesday asserted that the Covid-19 situation in the city was under control with the positivity rate plummeting to below one per cent.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted on Wednesday that the number of Covid-19 deaths has come down a lot which is “quite satisfactory”. “This is the result of hardwork of people of Delhi. Congratulations to all the people of Delhi, but don’t lower guard, maintain caution,” the CM said.As of Wednesday evening, the city has 6,19,618 total cases of Covid-19 infections. The total recoveries are 6,01,268. While the death toll due to the virus is 10,347.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-to-chair-meeting-with-health-minister-to-review-covid-19-vaccination-preparedness/story-YvQ5qhu2SnaVirRSBPblbI.html
24-12-2020||India||UK returned man tests positive in Odisha, being tested for new Covid strain||Amid the rising scare over the more contagious strain of Coronavirus found in the United Kingdom, a 34-year-old man from Bhubaneswar, who had recently flown in from the UK, has been admitted to a hospital here after testing positive for the virus.Bhubaneswar municipal corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Choudhury said the man had returned from the UK on December 18. “The man has been kept in a Covid hospital as per central guidelines for institutional isolation. His family members too would be tested,” said the commissioner.Officials said the sample of UK-returned man will be subjected to sequencing of the S gene or whole genome at Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar. ILS has been chosen among the 5 institutions in the country for genome sequencing.Last week, the new SARS-CoV-2 variant was found to be the reason behind the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in South and East England. Referred to as VUI (Variant Under Investigation) year 2020, month 12, variant 01, or the B.1.1.7 lineage, the variant is the result of multiple mutations in the spike protein of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, as well as mutations in other genomic regions of the RNA virus.Initial analysis indicates that the variant may spread more readily between people. Investigations are ongoing to determine if this variant is associated with any changes in the severity of symptoms, antibody response or vaccine efficacy.Also Read: Odisha minor’s murder case: Plea in court for lie-detector test of SIT chief, doctorMeanwhile, the Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar has issued standard operating procedure (SoP) for all the airlines. The carriers have been asked to inform the airport authorities about the passengers returning from the UK. A help desk and a Rapid Antigen Test camp are already functioning for the passengers. As per the new guidelines, passengers having a travel history of the UK, within 14 days, need to go for a RT PCR test if not having a negative RT PCR test report after arriving India, in any other domestic airport. So from tomorrow, RT PCR Test facility will be made available along with the RAT facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-returned-man-tests-positive-in-odisha-being-tested-for-new-covid-strain/story-81qXbsFfSa2xMUosSx85vJ.html
24-12-2020||India||‘To avoid such tragedy,’ Rahul Gandhi tweets in support of farmers’ protest, will meet President today||Quoting a news report that claims that a Delhi-based company has refused to buy paddy from Madhya Pradesh farmers under the agreement of contract farming, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said this is the reason why the protest is going on. “Farmers of India are agitating against the anti-agricultural laws to avoid such a tragedy. In this satyagraha, all of us will give to support our annadatas,” he said. भारत के किसान ऐसी त्रासदी से बचने के लिए कृषि-विरोधी क़ानूनों के ख़िलाफ़ आंदोलन कर रहे हैं।इस सत्याग्रह में हम सबको देश के अन्नदाता का साथ देना होगा।https://t.co/iZ6HgnunzwAddressing the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has recently said contract farming will benefit farmers. The contracts will be only on the produce, not on land. Under the agriculture reforms, farmers can approach the administration if contract provisions are not kept. Farmers have also been empowered in the new laws to opt out of contracts at any time they want.However, the report the Congress leader shared claimed that the contract did not have any sign or seal of the company.The ongoing protests of the farmers will complete a month on December 25, coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi releasing Rs 18,000 crore aid for farmers.Rahul Gandhi on Thursday will lead a protest march of Congress MPs from Vijay Chowk to Rashtrapati Bhavan and will submit a memorandum containing two crore signatures to President Ram Nath Kovind. Farmers’ protest at Delhi borders demanding an immediate withdrawal of the three agriculture laws entered the 29th day on Thursday — with no solution at sight. The agriculture ministry had invited the farmers for further talks which did not proceed after 5th round. But no date has been decided yet. Farmers have sought a new proposal from the ministry as fresh talks can’t happen on proposals which they already nixed. In their reply, they have demanded higher MSPs from the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-avoid-such-tragedy-rahul-gandhi-tweets-in-support-of-farmers-protest-will-meet-president-today/story-LFiG0Fjha6tkFwTGLP9RjP.html
24-12-2020||India||Aurobindo Pharma to make COVAXX’s potential Covid-19 vaccine for India, UNICEF||Aurobindo Pharma Ltd said on Thursday it would make and sell US-based COVAXX’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate for supply in India and to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) under a licensing deal.The Indian drugmaker also has non-exclusive rights to sell the shot — which is currently undergoing an early-stage trial — in certain other emerging markets, the Hyderabad-based company said in an exchange filing.COVAXX, a unit of privately-owned United Biomedical Inc, plans to pursue mid- and late-stage trials for the vaccine candidate from early 2021 in Asia, Latin America and the United States.The companies said the shot uses normal refrigeration as opposed to the freezing temperatures required for some vaccines, seen as beneficial for developing countries.Shares of Aurobindo Pharma rose as much as 2.3% and were trading up 1.4% as of 0403 GMT in an upbeat Mumbai market. Aurobindo said it could currently produce 220 million doses, but is ramping up its facilities to reach a capacity of nearly 480 million by June 2021.Its licensing deal comes as Covid-19 infections in India continue to rise after crossing 10 million last week. It’s the second worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the United States.Reuters reported on Tuesday that the country is likely to approve Oxford/AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine for emergency use by next week. India, the world’s biggest vaccine producing country, is also considering emergency use authorization applications for vaccines made by Pfizer and local company Bharat Biotech.Last month, COVAXX said it had received purchase commitments totaling $2.8 billion to deliver more than 140 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to developing countries, including Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurobindo-pharma-to-make-covaxx-s-potential-covid-19-vaccine-for-india-unicef/story-8aiwmjAIolrZNMInI0ZxjM.html
24-12-2020||India||Why no function on 100 years of Nagpur session, ask Congress leaders as party plans ‘selfie with Tiranga’ on its foundation day||The Congress will organise Tiranga (tricolour) yatras and a “selfie with the tricolour” campaign on social media to mark the party’s foundation day on Monday to showcase its version of nationalism. But a section of the leaders, particularly from Maharashta, is upset that no programme has been planned to celebrate the 100 years of the party’s Nagpur session that was held from December 26 to 30, 1920.The Congress at the session debated and adopted a resolution steered by Mahatma Gandhi for Poorna Swaraj (complete independence) from the British through non-violence and non-cooperation.“No programme has so far been planned to mark the historic event [Nagpur session]. Even the Maharashtra unit appears to have completely forgotten the session that changed the course of our freedom struggle and culminated in India gaining independence in 1947,” said a Congress leader from Nagpur, who did not wish to be named.Also Read: Final decision on forming non-BJP DDC in J&K to be taken by high command: CongressAnother functionary lamented that Congress general secretary K C Venugopal’s circular on the events for the party’s foundation day made no mention of the completion of 100 years of the Nagpur session. “It is strange. Have we forgotten our history?”In a circular on celebration related to Congress’s 136th foundation day on December 28, Venugopal asked state units and leaders to organise and participate in Tiranga yatras across the country besides joining the party’s social media campaign by taking a “selfie with Tiranga”.The Nagpur session, chaired by the then Congress president C Vijayaraghavachariar, also gave the go-ahead to the changes in the party constitution to open the organisation for the common people by reducing its membership fee. A resolution was passed at the session to promote Hindi and the formation of linguistic provinces was also discussed.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s first chief Keshav Baliram Hedgewar also attended the session. A group of volunteers known as Bharat Swayamsevak Mandal Hedgewar formed helped the Congress workers in managing the event.Hedgewar’s proposed resolution that said the “goal of the Congress is to establish a republic in India and free the countries of the world from exploitation by capitalist countries” was rejected. He went on to found the RSS in September 1925.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-function-on-100-years-of-nagpur-session-ask-congress-leaders-as-party-plans-selfie-with-tiranga-on-its-foundation-day/story-UpIaimxCcydazwgQtzkGkI.html
24-12-2020||India||Magnitude 3.0 earthquake hits Assam||A low-intensity earthquake of 3.0 magnitude on the Richter scale hits Nagaon in Assam on Thursday morning.As per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the tremors were felt around 6:56 am at a depth of 5 kilometres.“Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.0, Occurred on 24-12-2020, 06:56:06 IST, Lat: 26.10 and Long: 93.01, Depth: 5 Km, Location: 65km SSE of Tezpur, Assam, India,: NCS tweeted.No damage or casualty has been reported yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-0-earthquake-hits-assam/story-RwgDOK3YwM3lTRSvQN4QSP.html
24-12-2020||India||3 decades of legal battle: 2 men sentenced to imprisonment for failing to hand over house to landlord||The Supreme Court has sentenced two men to three months in jail last week for failing to hand over a rented house to its owner despite an undertaking before the court. Holding them guilty for contempt, the bench, headed by justice Sanjay K Kaul, has also ordered the local police in Sultan Bazar, Hyderabad, to break open any lock and hand over possession of the premises to its owner. The legal battle spanning almost three decades began in 1992 when the owner of the house in Hyderabad, Saraswati P Singh, asked tenant Abdul Rehman to vacate the property. Rehman paid no heed to the request and stopped paying rent. Singh went to the principal rent controller, who passed a decree in favour of the landlord in April 1998, and directed Rehman to move out of the house. But Rehman chose to file an appeal against this order before the rent tribunal. The tribunal also directed Rehman to vacate in 2003. Also Read: Stalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra PradeshHowever, Rehman’s next move paid off. The Andhra Pradesh high court decided in Rehman’s favour on the ground that the relationship of landlord and tenant could not be proved since Singh himself was in Canada and someone with a power of attorney was fighting this case for him. Singh then moved the Supreme Court, which found the high court order completely fallacious in raising a new dispute when Rehman had admitted paying rent to the holder of the power of attorney, apart from signing a lease deed in 1983. While the matter was pending before the apex court, Rehman passed away and two of his sons continued the legal wrangle from 2017. In February, the top court affirmed the eviction orders of the rent controller and the tribunal. This prompted Rehman’s sons to give an undertaking that they would hand over the possession of the house peacefully to Singh’s representatives. They, however, pleaded for some time to make alternative arrangements. Accepting their request, the bench gave the duo time till June 30 to vacate the premises and also ordered for clearing the dues towards rent immediately. But the sons not only breached their promise to pay but also let out the house to a third party. This compelled Singh to approach the court yet again, seeking contempt proceedings. The duo’s conduct infuriated the bench. It said: “There is thus, undoubtedly a wilful and deliberate disobedience of the orders of the court and there is no doubt that the conduct of the respondents is contumacious.” On December 16, the court held the sons guilty of contempt of court and gave them 24 hours to comply with the orders of moving out as well as making the payment. “That can be the only redeeming feature for consideration of sentence,” it added. When the bench took up the matter on December 18, it learned that the premises were yet to be handed over to the owner. “We thus consider it appropriate to sentence the two contemnors to three months’ simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs2,000 each, and on failing to pay the fine, a further sentence of 15 days,” ordered the bench on Friday last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-decades-of-legal-battle-2-men-sentenced-to-imprisonment-for-failing-to-hand-over-house-to-landlord/story-8fleFCWaH23Us1bH9iVEaP.html
24-12-2020||India||With 24,712 new infections in 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10.12 million||India reported 24,712 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 29,791 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 2,83,849, which accounts for only 2.86 per cent of the total tally. The total tally on Thursday reached to 10,123,778. The number of today’s fresh infections register 3 per cent rise from Wednesday’s figure of 23,950.A total of 312 people died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 1,46,756 with a mortality rate of 1.45 per cent.Kerala is still reporting the highest number of fresh daily infections. On Wednesday, Kerala reported 6,169 new cases taking the total tally of the state to 7,21,510. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 3,913 fresh cases, taking the tally to 19,06,371.In a sharp improvement of the situation, Delhi’s fresh cases have dropped below 1,000 in the last few days. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 871 fresh Covid-19 cases and 18 new fatalities.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said people who have arrived here from the UK are being rigorously traced and those showing even the slightest of Covid-19 symptoms are being tested.“We are alert and watchful at our end. People who have arrived here from the UK in the last several days are being rigorously traced, and tested if anyone is showing slightest of Covid-like symptoms. A team had been made and house-to-house tracing is being done, and they are being advised self-isolation too,” the minister said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday reviewed the status of passengers coming from the UK to India and found positive in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Goa, Punjab, Gujarat and Kerala. All the states have been asked to access the details of passengers from the UK to India from he online portal AIR-SUVIDHA and Bureau of Immigration. States have also been asked to send the samples of those found positive to the laboratories identified for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-24-712-new-infections-in-24-hours-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10-12-million/story-7hsMbkl3Zxk6QgXWGWx57J.html
24-12-2020||India||Top 10 coldest places in India right now||India is commonly known to the world as a country with high temperatures all year round. Despite that being true for some places, India’s weather cycle has proper seasons all around the calender, and during winters in some places, especially towards the north of the country, it becomes unbearably cold, so much so that the place is sometimes devoid of people during that time. Here are the top 10 coldest places in India at the moment:1. Leh: The largest town and the joint capital of the newly formed Union Territory Ladakh reported the lowest minimum temperature in the country at - 13 degrees Celsius. Ladakh was made a UT in 2019 after the Centre scrapped Article 370 which had given special status to the former state of Jammu and Kashmir. 2. Keylong: Keylong, or Kyelang, is located in the northern part of state of Himachal Pradesh and is located along the Manali-Leh highway close to the intersection of the Chandra Valley, the Bhaga Valley, and the Chenab Valley. The town reported a minimum temperature of -7.7 degrees Celsius. 3. Pahalgam: Located in the Anantnag district of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Pahalgam is one of the most popular tourist destinations of the country and also one of the coldest cities. It is currently reporting a minimum temperature of -6.6 degrees Celsius.4. Gulmarg: Another popular tourist destination located in Jammu and Kashmir, and one of the coldest places in the country all year round, Gulmarg is enveloped by snow covered mountains during the winters with temperatures dropping below zero on a regular basis. The city reported a minimum temperature of -6 degrees Celsius. 5. Srinagar: The summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, home to the iconic Dal Lake, and a tourist hub, Srinagar has also made its name as one of those cities that stays chilly throughout the year. The city reported a minimum temperature of -5 degrees Celsius.  6. Kupwara: The remote town of Kupwara is located in the west of Jammu and Kashmir, close to the country’s border. It recorded a minimum temperature of -4.5 degrees Celsius.7. Kokernag: Kokernag is a sub district town located in Jammu and Kashmir in the Breng valley of the Anantnag district. The town reported a minimum temperature of -4 degrees Celsius.8. Qazigund: Qazigund, also located in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district, stands at an elevation of 1670 metres above the mean sea level. The town also reported a minimum temperature of -4 degrees Celsius.9. Kalpa: The village of Kalpa, located in the Sutlej river valley in Himachal Pradesh, recorded a minimum temperature of -0.6 degrees Celsius. The village is also a popular tourist destination in the state. 10. Banihal: Located 35 km away from Qazigund in Jammu and Kashmir, Banihal is a rural area which reported a minimum temperature of -0.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-coldest-places-in-india-right-now/story-KmVGDZEXPUQm56B5XUEJ6H.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19 and resultant lockdown majorly impacted senior citizens: Survey||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the resultant lockdown had a major impact on seniors, with one in three of the seniors spoken to fearing they would contract the disease, and 29% impacted by social isolation due to imposed restrictions, shows a survey among senior citizens from the north, south and west of India on challenges they had to face.The survey was conducted by Antara, an integrated service provider for senior care needs.“However, over 20.3% of the respondents noted that they were not overly worried about the pandemic or getting infected,” according to the survey. At least half of those surveyed applauded the government’s pandemic response. Also Read: New Coronavirus mutant found in South Africa: What we know so farAs high as 55% of the seniors praised the government of India’s efforts to contain the pandemic on all or some aspects, despite the widespread disruptions it caused in India and around the world. However, 24% of seniors still expressed concern, stating that India had failed to manage the healthcare crisis. Close to 80% seniors preferred living independently. As Covid-19 continues to spread, seniors remain the most vulnerable and high-risk demographic segment who might need regular support for their daily activities. The survey found 77% of seniors across the three survey regions lived independently either in their own or rented houses. Only 16% seniors said that they lived with their children or grandchildren.“The ‘State of Seniors’ survey is highly relevant for a country like India that is expected to witness major demographic shifts. Over the next few years, the senior population will constitute a significantly important consumer segment and will need specialised services and products for a hassle-free ageing experience,” said Rajit Mehta, MD and CEO, Antara, about the survey findings.“Through this survey, we aim to highlight the mindsets, attitudes, social preferences and purchasing behaviours of seniors in India so that we are able to cater to their age-specific needs with the right products and services. This, I believe, will be a major step towards unlocking the economic and social potential of this segment,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-and-resultant-lockdown-majorly-impacted-senior-citizens-survey/story-0tkjykPcgujl2J3wN7qEhJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Odisha minor’s murder case: Plea in court for lie-detector test of SIT chief, doctor||A social organisation on Wednesday filed a petition in the Orissa high court requesting the Odisha government be directed to conduct polygraph tests of special investigation team (SIT) chief Arun Bothra and doctors who conducted the post-mortem of the 5-year-old girl, allegedly killed by a teenager in July this year.On Tuesday, SIT chief Arun Bothra had claimed that an 18-year-old youth of Nayagarh district had strangulated the 5-year-old after failing to sexually assault her. Bothra claimed that the youth even tried to have sex with the body.In his petition, Surendra Panigrahi of Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, prayed for an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder case and sought lie-detection tests on the doctors, who initially found no signs of rape on the minor girl during post-mortem. The SIT later claimed that the girl was sexually assaulted and semen stains were found on the frock of the deceased girl.“SIT chief Arun Bothra should undergo polygraph test in order to ascertain whether some evidence is being concealed or there are loopholes in his version. Doctors should also undergo polygraph tests so that it is known if proper examinations have been carried out during the post-mortem,” Panigrahi said in his plea.The petition says Bothra has not said why the body of the minor girl was not found within 10 days after she went missing even as local police personnel and dog squad had been pressed into service.Also Read: Odisha makes 14-day home quarantine mandatory for people arriving from UKOpposition BJP also raised serious questions on the probe by the SIT and accused Bothra of shielding BJD minister Arun Sahoo by arresting the youth as a scapegoat.“When home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra had admitted in the Assembly that there was no evidence of the minor girl being raped, Arun Bothra’s statements contradicting Mishra’s admittance made us doubt SIT’s integrity. We do not know whom to believe now. The government and the SIT’s statements do not match, making us believe that the government, police and now Arun Bothra, all are trying to shield minister Sahoo, who has been named many times by the family of the minor girl as an accomplice in the case,” said Golak Mohapatra, BJP spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-minor-s-murder-case-plea-in-court-for-lie-detector-test-of-sit-chief-doctor/story-KB2Km5mEkSVfS6hEJmexuK.html
24-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mercury in Delhi to drop further, air quality in ‘severe’ category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality stays ‘severe’, IMD forecasts further drop in temperature this weekAir quality in the national capital continued to remain in the ‘severe’ zone for the second consecutive day on Wednesday as low winds and falling temperatures kept pollution levels high. Read more‘Virtual summits’: PM Modi set the template, then nudged the world | AnalysisPrime Minister Narendra Modi is known to have a busy calendar of engagements with global leaders, both at home and abroad. Read morePrice cap on Covid tests could be affecting diagnosis, skewing dataCapping the price of coronavirus tests at Rs 800 has forced some private labs to use inexpensive and less sensitive kits with lower limit of detection to keep the cost of testing low, which raises the risk of false negatives and compromises data coming out of India, say experts. Read moreIndian sailors stuck in ships getting necessary aid: ChinaChina on Wednesday said it was in touch with Indian authorities on the circumstances of the 23 Indian sailors stranded on a ship anchored off a northern Chinese port since June, but did not specify when they will be allowed to leave the vessel. Read moreIndia’s women cricketers have nothing to play forNine months and counting, that’s how long India’s women team has not played international cricket. Read moreiPhone 12 user? You may get better internet speed on 4G LTE than 5GApple’s iPhone recently became one of the most sold 5G smartphones in the world in 2020, as per Counterpoint. Although being touted as the first 5G smartphone by Apple, it looks like the iPhone 12 model is delivering faster speeds in 4G LTE network as compared to 5G. Read moreAre you ready to ‘unwrap’ NASA’s latest present? It has a melodious twistNASA’s Instagram profile is nothing short of a treasure trove for those who enjoy the videos and images that give a peek of the world outside our Blue Planet. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mercury-in-delhi-to-drop-further-air-quality-in-severe-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oruziPcqnXAg0TdxDr8KcM.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Severe’ air and ‘cold wave’ over many parts of northwest India||Many towns and cities in northwest India continued to record "severe" air quality on Thursday, including Delhi Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida and Greater Noida in the national capital region.They recorded an air quality index (AQI) reading between 400 to 500. Severe air “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases,” according to Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality early warning system for Delhi under the ministry of earth sciences said surface winds are likely to remain light and ventilation will be poor, resulting in deterioration in air quality for the next two days. Scientists said the drop in air quality was mainly due to a drop in wind speed over northwest India.Also Read: Noida, Ghaziabad among 5 UP cities with worst air quality in country "Cold wave" to "severe cold wave" conditions are likely in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Thursday and Friday according to India Meteorological Department. "Cold wave" conditions are also likely over several pockets of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on Christmas day. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains. IMD released a geospatial map on Tuesday for people to track cold wave and severe cold wave conditions over the entire country.Minimum temperature over northwest India is likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius on December 26 and 27 due to an approaching western disturbance, IMD scientists said. Dense to very dense fog in the morning hours is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next three days. Dense fog is also likely in the northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next two days. Ground frost conditions are likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next two days, IMD said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-air-and-cold-wave-over-many-parts-of-northwest-india/story-2MFqtCcLNiHThk2uOu3d0L.html
24-12-2020||India||J&K Congress has a plan to checkmate BJP, deny it power in 15 district councils||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress says it will do everything possible to checkmate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and keep it away from power in district development councils by possibly aligning with anti-BJP parties and independents in around 15 districts of the Union Territory where the saffron party doesn’t have a clear majority. JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said the BJP had clear majority only in five out of the 20 districts and Congress could keep BJP at bay in the remaining 15 DDCs with an anti-BJP coalition. However, he added that the party leadership had not taken any formal position on the issue.“Other non BJP parties and independents, opposed to BJP’s policies, have to work simultaneously in that direction, to prevent any horse trading or use of party and government machinery by the ruling party,” said JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. The Congress contested the recently concluded DDC elections in the UT on its own symbol, although, it had a tacit seat sharing arrangement on the majority of seats with the National Conference led Gupkar alliance. “In several places we were (fighting) against each other too, but there existed an arrangement between the parties against BJP,” Sharma clarified. Trying to dispel the dominant narrative of BJP performing strongly in the first electoral exercise in J&K after revocation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories, Sharma said the BJP lost many DDCs in several assembly segments, which were earlier with the saffron party since 2014. He added that some of the saffron party stalwarts, including those in contention for the DDC chairmanship, lost, which, he claims, showed significant disenchantment with the party. “Since these elections were held for the first time, a large number of independent aspirants joined the fray, leading to a division of votes of dissent against the ruling party, working to its advantage,” he said, and claimed that the BJP’s vote share had decreased to a great extent. Also Read: The Number Theory: Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and KashmirHitting out further, he said the BJP had deployed a heavy contingent of its central leaders to campaign for the local elections. These leaders, he says, did not mention a word about any developmental achievements but instead engaged in an emotional exploitation of voters on the issue of Gupkar alliance without even once explaining their continued alliance with them in Kargil hill council, he said. Out of the 278 DDC seats for which results have been declared by the J&K election commission so far, the Congress party bagged 26 seats. The BJP won 75, NC bagged 67 seats, Independents won on 50 seats, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won 27 seats, Apni Party bagged 12 seats, Peoples Conference won 8 seats, JKPM won 3 seats, CPI(M) gained 5 seats while JKNPP and PDF won 2 seats each and BSP bagged 1 seat.The results of two constituencies--one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts-- are still awaited as counting of votes has been deferred there till further orders, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-congress-has-a-plan-to-checkmate-bjp-deny-it-power-in-15-district-councils/story-se6tWgxwgP54eu53FIZ1FM.html
24-12-2020||India||Pro-Khalistan terrorist Nijjar is wanted in terror case in Punjab||Arrested by the national investigation agency (NIA) on his arrival from Cyprus, Khalistani terrorist Gurdeep Singh Nijjar is wanted in Punjab in a case of supply of weapons for terrorism in Fatehgarh Sahib district. After the NIA investigations are over, the Punjab Police is planning to take him on a production warrant as the police believe Nijjar is one of the key players involved in spreading venom against India among the Sikh youth and indoctrinating them into participating in pro-Khalistan activities. Punjab intelligence officials claim that Nijjar used to run many social media accounts and pages on Facebook and was actively involved in Referendum-2020 activities from Cyprus. Intelligence officials also claim to have strong leads signalling Nijjar’s closeness to Pakistan’s ISI officials handling Khalistan affairs. Nijjar’s name appeared in the arm supply case registered in Sirhind police station of Fatehgarh Sahib in 2018 with the busting of a pro-Khalistan module after the arrest of an accused, Mohiuddin Siddique alias Mohin Khan, a resident of Delhi. Khan was arrested from Railway Road in Humayunpur area of Sirhind following intelligence inputs that a person was going to visit Fatehgarh Sahib to supply weapons to someone in Sirhind. A 38mm pistol and five rounds were recovered from him after which he was booked under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 25/54/59 of the Arms Act. As per the FIR, Khan had come in contact with one Harpal Singh, another pro-Khalistan operative and a native of Mughal Majri village in Ropar district. He was arrested by Pune ATS with a pistol and five rounds from Bengaluru. Harpal introduced Khan to Nijjer on Facebook, police said. Nijjer asked Khan to work for Referendum 2020, claim police. After Khan became a member of ‘Khalistan Zindabad Khalistan’ social media group, he also came into contact with some Pakistan-based agents. “He came to Fatehgarh Sahib on the direction of Nijjer to supply weapons to contacts to execute terror activities in Punjab. On the instructions of Nijjer, Khan visited Bengaluru three times to meet Harpal. Khan has admitted that he has supplied weapons to some persons in the past on the instructions of Nijjer and has handed it over to some persons near a religious place in Fatehgarh Sahib city,” police said. Harpal too had admitted that he had received a gun from Khan in Fatehgarh Sahib in October. The NIA had registered a case in January last year against Harpal Singh under the Arms Act, the Maharashtra Police Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Also Read: NIA arrests Khalistani terrorist at Delhi airport upon his deportation from CyprusThe trio were also involved in posting videos and images in praise of militant Jagtar Singh Hawara, a convict in the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, the Operation Blue Star of 1984, besides pro-Khalistani posts related to the proscribed organisation, Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), with the sole intention to motivate like-minded Sikh youngsters and others to join the so-called Khalistan movement, the NIA official said.The agency arrested Nijjar, after he was deported from Cyprus, for allegedly hatching a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy in India for a separate state of Khalistan, an NIA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-terrorist-nijjar-is-wanted-in-terror-case-in-punjab/story-oOXzkE2evShXJM0UIWTTJL.html
24-12-2020||India||‘Virtual summits’: PM Modi set the template, then nudged the world | Analysis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is known to have a busy calendar of engagements with global leaders, both at home and abroad.Indeed, 2020 started out with PM Modi dialling a number of world leaders to extend new year greetings to them. He spoke to as many as 11 world leaders in the first two weeks of January 2020, including not only the leaders of neighbouring countries, but also those of Australia, the US, France and Russia.The visits of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro as the Chief Guest on Republic Day, and US President Donald Trump in February showed that 2020 might shape up to be yet another year of hectic global engagements for PM Modi. Then the Covid-19 pandemic struck the world . Also Watch | ‘India has a rich legacy in science & innovation’: PM Modi at IISF inaugurationNot only did the pandemic make it almost impossible for world leaders to travel, it also meant that most leaders shifted their focus to domestic efforts to contain the pandemic. Prime Minister Modi, however, had other ideas. Conscious of the important role India’s pharmaceutical industry could play during a global pandemic, PM Modi was keen to stay deeply engaged with the world. But how?India commercially supplied 560 million tablets of Hydroxychloroquine and 53.13 metric tonnes of active pharmaceutical ingredient of HCQ to 82 countries. It also commercially supplied 154 million units of paracetamol and 1605 metric tonnes of API to 96 countries to counter the coronavirus.Way back in 2016, PM Modi told his foreign policy team that he did not want Indian projects to be kept waiting for high profile inaugurations during VVIP visits. The solution PM Modi suggested was to use video conferences to engage with foreign leaders, without any foreign travel. Of course, this would help in keeping expenses down too. An initially sceptical South Block came around after some of these video inaugurations caught the public’s imagination and eased the pressure on leaders to travel. A number of such video conferencing events were done by PM Modi in the years that followed.Even in 2020, before the pandemic hit, PM Modi participated in a virtual event with Prime Minister of Nepal K P Sharma Oli on 21 January. So, PM Modi was not only comfortable, but also very keen for Indian diplomacy to switch gears and go digital.The first such virtual summit in the pandemic era took place with SAARC leaders on 15 March. Some behind-the-scenes contacts with the Saudi leadership and suggestions in all the right capitals around the world ensured that a G-20 Virtual Summit soon followed on 26 March.That opened the flood gates.NAM, SCO, ASEAN, East Asia Summit, BRICS and G-20 were all held in virtual formats during the year.PM Modi himself held a total of 17 such Virtual Summits, with leaders of Australia, European Union, Sri Lanka, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, and most recently, Vietnam. These bilateral Virtual Summits were in addition to all the multilateral engagements of the Prime Minister.PM Modi also made extensive use of phone calls to keep in touch with world leaders – expressing condolences to some, assuring medical supplies to many, and congratulating those who assumed office in the middle of the pandemic. He made and fielded more than 90 phone calls from world leaders.A year that saw only five incoming visits of Heads of State and Government – all before the pandemic – is still ending as one in which India’s international engagement and international profile has been elevated multi-fold.Whether the vaccines make the world safer or not in 2021, one thing is for sure – PM Modi is likely to stay deeply immersed and engaged in the world of geopolitics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-summits-pm-modi-set-the-template-then-nudged-the-world-analysis/story-pUCusfoAyksoy6y9WAFkaI.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest day 29: ‘Will take two steps if Centre takes one,’ say protesters, demand higher MSP | 10 points||The Centre had invited the protesting farmers for the sixth round of talks and asked them to fix a date according to their convenience. The farmers, in their meeting on Wednesday, decided that they won’t fix a date as they didn’t agree with the proposals that the agriculture minister sent. With this, the ongoing protest enters its 29th day on Thursday with no immediate solution at sight. However, for the first time, the farmers have raised the demand for a higher minimum support price than the existing one as the Centre has been reiterating its commitment to the system of MSP.Here are the latest updates of the protest1. No date for further talks has been decided, but the farmers have said that they are not averse to talks. They are waiting for the government to the table with an open mind. “If the Centre takes one step, farmers will take two,” they said.2. The protesters have raised the demand of higher MSP in their letter to the Centre. “We request the government that instead of repeating your proposals and amendments, you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” the letter stated.Also Read: Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms3. The issue of MSP is at the heart of the present crisis. The new agriculture laws do not mention the MSP system in which the government buys farmers’ produce at a minimum price which provides a cushion to farmers. The Centre reiterated that the system is not being done away with. The ministry also agreed to amend the laws to clarify on MSP. But the farmers have said they don’t want amendments, they want a complete withdrawal of the laws.4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent virtual address to Madhya Pradesh farmers said how the government increased the MSP from what it was before 2014. However, protesting farmers are not agreeing to the government’s MSP claim. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had earlier said farmers are not getting their prices which is leading to the incidents of suicide. Senior farmer leader Darshan Pal on Tuesday said though the government sets MSP for 23 commodities, it mainly buys wheat and rice at these prices. 5. The farmers, in its letter, has also mentioned that they don’t deserve to be treated like political rivals. Several Union ministers claimed that the protest has been hijacked by Maoists. Farmers will have to intensify their agitation if the government continues to treat them in that manner, the letter said.6. As far as the ongoing protests are concerned, more and more farmers are likely to join the protest sites on the Delhi border in the coming days. Farmer union Kisan Sena said thousands of its members from western Uttar Pradesh will march to Delhi on Thursday.7. The social media cell of the farmers’ collective earlier announced that they would hold a webinar on Thursday where veteran farmers will answer to queries related to the ongoing protest.8. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on December 25. The PM will also interact with farmers from six states.9. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said solution can be reached only through dialogue. “History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only,” he said.10. Meanwhile, Haryana Police has registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy was allegedly blocked and attacked on Tuesday in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-day-29-will-take-two-steps-if-centre-takes-one-say-protesters-demand-higher-msp-10-points/story-pinnHUTi9TV2E6899HvBpK.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE: Changes need to be made in farm laws, says Dushyant Chautala||The farmers protest entered day 29 on Thursday as a stalemate between the government and the farmers continued. On Wednesday, a meeting was held with nearly 100 farm leaders, during which they decided to continue their protests until the government repeals the contentious farm laws that aim to liberalise the agricultural economy. They also decided to not resume the negotiations until the Centre draws up a new agenda.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said farm unions should come for talks and that thousands of farmers sleeping out in the bitter cold was a “matter of deep concern” for the government.The farm unions also sent a letter to the agriculture ministry in which they asked the government to come up with “something concrete in writing” instead of “just repeating proposals and amendments.” “you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” it stated.Experts said this pretty much squashes hopes of negotiations restarting anytime soon.The standoff between the Union government and farmers continues over the passage of new legislation to open up the country’s agricultural sector to private investment, a move the government says will enable farmers better incomes and modernise the farm sector. Farmers say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of private corporations.Follow all live updates here:Changes need to be made in farm laws: Dushyant Chautala“Changes need to be made in the agriculture laws and in this regard, written suggestions have been made to the central government and the Centre has also agreed to the same,” says Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.Agriculture minister meets Kisan Sena, thanks them for supporting farm laws21-member delegation of Kisan Sena meets Union agriculture minister Tomar. “I want to thank you all for supporting three farm laws and coming here for a direct dialogue with us. I got to know that Kisan Sena farmers were coming to Delhi to protest in support of farm Laws, but then upon intervention, you decided to come here and talk to us,” says Tomar.Demand repeal of agricultural laws: OppositionWe demand that the present Agri Laws be repealed along with the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. Following this, discussions on agrarian reforms must be held by the Central government with the farmers and all stakeholders: Opposition partiesIn joint statement, Opposition lashes out at PM ModiOpposition parties issue joint statement on farm law protests. “We register our strong protest against baseless allegations being made by PM accusing opposition parties of “repeatedly lying” to farmers about new farm laws and “using them for their politics”. PM’s accusations are a complete travesty of truth,” the statement says.Even Congress doesn’t take Rahul Gandhi seriously: Narendra Singh Tomar“Watever Rahul Gandhi says, even Congress doesn’t take it seriously. Today when he went to register his protest with President with signatures, these farmers told me that no one from Congress came to them to get their signature,” says Tomar.Farmers from Baghpat have given letter supporting farm laws, says agriculture minister Tomar“Farmers from Baghpat have given me a letter in support of Centre’s farm laws. They’ve told me that government shouldn’t buckle under any pressure to make amendments to farm bills,” says agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delegation of 60 farmers from Kisan Mazdoor Sangh meet agriculture ministerA delegation of 60 farmers belonging to Kisaan Majdoor Sangh, Baghpat meets Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan. Delhi: A delegation of 60 farmers belonging to Kisaan Majdoor Sangh, Baghpat meets Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan pic.twitter.com/v1KWxShAKZGovt again urges farmers to decide date of next round of talksGovernment writes to protesting farmers again, urges them to decide date and time for next round of talks. Govt writes to agitating farmers, asking them to decide the date and time for the next round of talks. "Govt is committed to reaching logical solutions of the issues raised by you," it reads. pic.twitter.com/tBglPwi8fs‘There is no democracy in India’: Rahul Gandhi“There is no democracy in India. It can be in your imagination, but not in reality,” says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after Delhi Police detains party leaders during their march to Rashtrapati Bhavan.PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists: Rahul Gandhi“PM Modi is making money for the crony capitalists. Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even Mohan Bhagwat,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Farmers won’t go back until govt repeals farm laws: Rahul Gandhi“I want to tell the PM that these farmers are not going to go back home until these farm laws are repealed. Govt should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back these laws. Opposition parties stand with farmers and labourers,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Police take Priyanka Gandhi and other party leaders to Mandir Marg Police StationSin to use the kind of names BJP leaders used for farmers: Priyanka Gandhi“It is a sin to use the kind of names they (BJP leaders and supporters) used for farmers. If government is calling them anti-nationals, then the government is a sinner,” said Priyanka Gandhi.In democracy, we have right to meet the President: Priyanka Gandhi“We’re living in democracy and they are elected MPs. They have the right to meet the President and they should be allowed. What is problem with that? Government is not ready to listen to voices of lakhs of farmers camping at borders,” says Priyanka Gandhi after being stopped by police.Police detain Congress leadersDelhi Police take Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders into custody. They were taking out a march to Rashtrapati Bhavan to submit to the President a memorandum containing 2 crore signatures seeking his intervention in farm laws issue.Police stop Congress leaders as they march to Rashtrapati BhavanPoloce stopped Congress leaders as they were marching towards Rashtrapati Bhavan. “Any dissent against this govt is classified as having elements of terror. We are undertaking this march to voice our support for the farmers,” says Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi.Rahul Gandhi meets party leaders ahead of marchCongress leader Rahul Gandhi met senior party leaders ahead of his scheduled march from Vijay Chowk to Rashtrapati Bhavan to submit to the President a memorandum containing 2 crore signatures seeking his intervention in farm laws issues.Delhi’s Chilla, Gazipur borders are closed for traffic comingDelhi’s Chilla and Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders: Delhi traffic police advisoryHaryana police register case against farmers Haryana police register cases against farmers for allegedly blocking CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy in Ambala . “We have registered cases against 13 farmers under various sections of Indian Penal Code & have initiated a probe into the matter,” news agency ANI reported quoting DSP Ambala Madan Lal.Sikh body donates 700 geysers to protesting farmersThe Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) donates 700 water geysers to the farmers. “We are doing everything to help the farmers in their struggle. In view of the severe cold, DSGMC distributed 700 geysers among the protesting farmers at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.Vice President urge farmers to resume dialogueInteracting with a group of progressive farmers on the occasion of Kisan Diwas at his residence in Hyderabad, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said that any issue could be resolved through talks and added that the government has already declared that they are always ready to hold a dialogue with the farmers’ organizations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-24-2020/story-1kvicVlZr8Qx8PDu2lA79M.html
24-12-2020||India||Final decision on forming non-BJP DDC in J&K to be taken by high command: Congress||The Congress party on Wednesday said that the final decision on forming the non-BJP DDC (district development council) in Jammu and Kashmir, at places where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is not in majority, will be taken by the party’s high command.Out of the 278 seats for which results have been declared by the J&K Election Commission so far, the Congress party bagged 26 seats in DDC polls, which were held in eight phases on 280 seats across Jammu and Kashmir.Post the results of DDC polls, Ravinder Sharma, Spokesperson, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee told ANI, “We contested DDC elections with National Conference (NC)-led alliance on seat sharing basis. We can consider forming a non-BJP district council, at places where BJP is not in majority. The final decision will be taken by Congress High Command.” “Only five out of twenty districts, BJP got majority, while in rest it is either Congress or other non-BJP parties. We will think of supporting non-BJP parties where BJP is not in majority but the final decision will be taken by High Command,” he added.Jammu and Kashmir Election Commissioner KK Sharma declared the result for DDC Elections on Wednesday, according to which BJP won 75, NC bagged 67 seats Independent registered victory on 50 seats, PDP won 27 seats, Congress got 26 seats, JKAP bagged 12 seats, JKPC won 8 seats, JKPM won 3 seats, CPI(M) gained 5 seats while JKNPP and PDF won 2 seats each and BSP bagged 1 seat.The results of two constituencies--one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts-- are still awaited as counting of votes has been deferred there till further orders, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-decision-on-forming-non-bjp-ddc-in-j-k-to-be-taken-by-high-command-congress/story-9iI8ufR5pIRtXwczjAE2WP.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Jolly’s yummy X-mas cake||One way to salvage this cursed year from becoming a complete annus horribilis is to make Jolly Sabherwal’s super yummy Christmas cake for Christmas Eve. “I have already made it 4-5 times since the last week for friends,” she says, beaming, on the WhatsApp video chat from her first floor flat in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj.At 70, the Kerala native is a familiar figure in the city for having been a long-time manager of a much-loved bookstore. She would be always in one of her gorgeous saris (she has 100 saris!).This year too Ms Sabherwal is determined to dress in one of her “christmassy saris” for the midnight mass, though it will be held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. She will attend it with her husband, Anil. They have a love story going back to Bombay in 1974, when Anil, a lieutenant in the Indian Navy, broke his right leg and was admitted to INHS Asvini, the naval hospital, where he was looked after by a “sister-in-charge”, a lieutenant in the Indian Army, who was Jolly (then Thomas), a fresh graduate from the College of Nursing at Armed Forces Medical College in Pune.“It was as a nursing student that I learnt how to bake this cake in the hostel mess with other girls.” The next decade was spent perfecting the recipe. It’s now here for you to bake.Recipe — For 2.5kg cakeIngredients Plain flour – 500gmButter – 500gmSugar – 500gmEggs – 1 dozenCurrants – 250gmSultanas, raisins, figs, cherries, orange peel – 100gm each (cleaned and chopped finely; ideally soaked for a month in rum/sherry)Candied ginger – 50gmAlmonds, cashews – 100gm eachChopped mixed spices (cloves, cardamom, cinnamon, nutmeg) and shahjeera – 2 teaspoons eachGrated orange and lemon rinds – 1 teaspoon eachCaramel syrup of 250gm sugarVanilla essence – 2 teaspoonsBaking powder – 2 teaspoonsMethodSieve flour with mixed spices and baking powder. Whisk butter and sugar till creamy. Add eggs one at a time, beat well. Add flour and mix well. Stir in the caramel and all the other ingredients. Line the baking tin with butter paper. Bake at 180 degrees Celsius for one hour. Then reduce to 150 degrees and bake for another half hour. Cake’s ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-jolly-s-yummy-x-mas-cake/story-onCcbEM4PJjPtmle89Pm4K.html
24-12-2020||India||Indian sailors stuck in ships getting necessary aid: China||China on Wednesday said it was in touch with Indian authorities on the circumstances of the 23 Indian sailors stranded on a ship anchored off a northern Chinese port since June, but did not specify when they will be allowed to leave the vessel.The sailors are stuck on bulk carrier MV Jag Anand, which has been anchored off the Jingtang port on the Bohai Sea in China’s Hebei province.In a separate instance, at least 16 more Indian seafarers have not been allowed to leave their ship MV Anastasia, stranded off the Caofeidian port in the same province. Beijing has not allowed the 23 sailors to get off the vessel in the backdrop of an increasing number of imported Covid-19 cases in the country, putting the physical and mental health of the sailors at risk.There’s been no report of any positive Covid-19 case on the ship in the past six months on Jag Anand. But that hasn’t stopped the Chinese port authorities from implementing strict anti-epidemic protocols, preventing the sailors from disembarking. “China has explicit stipulations on the epidemic control measures and quarantine of seafarers at ports,” Zhao Lijian, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson. “The local authorities of China have been in close communication with Indian side and replied to their requests in a timely manner. We also provide necessary facilitation and assistance while meeting certain quarantine and epidemic prevention requirements,” Zhao said. The ship sailed from the port of Gladstone in Australia on May 26 – carrying coal – and reached Jingtang port on June 13. Since then, the ship has been anchored 2-3 km away from the port. HT reported in November that while the local port authorities have not allowed the “crew change” – whereby a ship’s crew can disembark and head back to their country of origin – it has been communicated to them that anyone needing treatment could be allowed to come ashore temporarily. However, at least 16 more Indians are stuck on MV Anastasia off the Caofeidian port in Hebei. “Onboard the Anastasia are 18 seafarers - 16 of them Indian, one Russian and one Filipino - forced to work at sea for far longer than their current anchorage, with crew clocking up to 20 months as ports refuse to let them disembark for fear of spreading contagion,” a report in The Sydney Morning Herald said Tuesday, adding that at least four them were on “suicide watch”.On December 17, an MEA spokesperson told a briefing: “The Chinese authorities have conveyed that on account of various Covid-19 related restrictions imposed by local authorities, crew change is not being permitted from these ports. The government continues to be in regular touch with the Chinese authorities to seek a resolution of these issues,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-sailors-stuck-in-ships-getting-necessary-aid-china/story-G2UFpBhI14JRJ8nblxKGIO.html
24-12-2020||India||Price cap on Covid tests could be affecting diagnosis, skewing data||Capping the price of coronavirus tests at ₹800 has forced some private labs to use inexpensive and less sensitive kits with lower limit of detection to keep the cost of testing low, which raises the risk of false negatives and compromises data coming out of India, say experts. The issue has come into focus now because it has emerged that RT-PCR tests of one kind can be used as a proxy for identifying the new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which is raging though the UK, and has panicked the rest of the world. The ORF-1a, RdRp, E, N, and S genes are most frequently targeted for Sars-CoV-2 detection by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing, which is the standard test for Covid-19 diagnosis in India. The test that can successfully identify the variant is a three-gene test, where one of the genes doesn’t show up in the result because of a mutation in the virus.  “The four coronavirus-specific genes include a screening gene for (E) protein, which is found in all bat coronaviruses, and four confirmatory genes specific to Sars-CoV2, which include ORF-1a, RdRp, nucleocapsid (N), and spike (S) proteins. Various test kits approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) test for the E protein, along with one or more confirmatory genes to confirm Covid-19 diagnosis. While we use three-gene PCR test kits, a few labs use two-gene kits,” said Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dang’s Labsin New Delhi. The new UK variant Sars-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01 has a mutation in the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein (S) at position 501, where amino acid asparagine (N) has been replaced with tyrosine (Y). This variant carries many other mutations, including a double deletion at positions 69 and 70. “With standard kits, testing for two genes is usually enough. Sequencing, however, is most conclusive,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative BioIogy (CSIR-IGIB). His reference is to the fact that sequencing the viral genome is the surest way to identify the variant. “Most labs use three gene test in India that test for E, RdRp and N gene, but with mutations found in the S protein in Sars-CoV2 in the UK, RT-PCR tests that rely on the S gene alone for confirmatory diagnosis can fail. All kits testing for other confirmatory genes will still give accurate results, but kits that test only for E and S genes will need to be reconfirmed against a kit testing for other confirmatory genes,” said Dr Vidur Mahajan, head of research at the Delhi-based Centre for Advanced Research in Imaging, Neurosciences and Genomics (Caring), which collaborated with CSIR-IGIB for the world’s first successful run of Covid-Seq, a sequencing-based test for Covid-19 in India that can also diagnose the UK strain. Beyond RT-PCR testingA positive RT-PCR test for Covid-19 has more weight than a negative test because of the test’s high specificity but moderate sensitivity of around 70%.“Unfortunately, with the price capping, some very substandard kits that cost as little as ₹100 are available, which can give misleading results,” said Dang.And, of course, many of these tests do not check for three genes. On March 21, 2020, ministry of health and family welfare capped for RT-PCR Covid-19 tests at ₹4,500 per test, which Delhi government lowered to ₹2,400 per test on June 18 for samples collected by government, on November 11, lowered it further to ₹800 per test. Karnataka, which allow differential pricing depending on the type test being used, began using the Abbott ID Now express RT-PCR method, which gives positive in less than five minutes and negative within 13 minutes at Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The RT-PCR Express test will cost ₹2,400, compared to the commonly used open-system RT-PCR test that cost ₹800 and gives results in around six hours. Karnataka also has differential pricing for samples collected by Government and sent to private labs and those collected by private labs themselves at their collection centres. In Delhi, prices for home collection are ₹1,200 at home collection compared to ₹800 at labs. Scaling up sequencing“While there is obvious concern over a mutated strain that spreads faster at a time when things are looking better, there is no reason to be afraid. As far as we know, it (the infection caused by the new strain) is not more severe. In some ways, the situation is similar to when D 614G mutation first spread. Right now, with high community spread followed by recovery, the only thing to be concerned about is whether it will escape immunity. At this point, there is no reason to believe that, so I would advise caution but not worry,” said Dr Agrawal. What we need is more sequencing, he said. “We need to sequence at scale to truly know that it (the new strain) has not entered India. In any case, it may appear on its own as well. IGIB had identified this site earlier for likely mutation,” said Agrawal. Tony Cox, CEO, UK’s National Biosample Centre and Milton Keynes “Lighthouse” Coronavirus Testing Mega-Lab tweeted recently: “MK LHL testing data showing increasing prevalence of H69/V70 variant in positive test data -- which is detected incidentally by the commonly used 3-gene PCR test. Numerous other mutations are circulating but are invisible to this PCR test. So genome sequencing of viral samples is very important.”India has sequenced around 5,000 Sars-CoV2 genomes since March, according to Agrawal, and shared at least 4,338 in the public domain for analysis. India has also stepped up sequencing following the possibility of the faster-spreading UK variant reaching India. Over the past 24 hours, the government has stepped up surveillance and reached out to public and private labs for samples of extracted RNA of patients who tested positive for Covid-19 and have a travel history to the UK, for sequencing to identify if the UK variant was already present in India.Delhi government has asked all labs to store and not discard all positive samples collected since November 25. “The government has stepped up analysis of past positive cases who have had a history of travel to UK for genomic sequencing since December 18. Today, we have collected 70 samples for people who have arrived from the UK on Wednesday,” said Dr Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-cap-on-covid-tests-could-be-affecting-diagnosis-skewing-data/story-ItTR0ynFpasIVj1pBn5UrJ.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Learning to beat a virus||On January 11, 2020, authorities in China announced the first death due to a new coronavirus. At the time, the virus had only infected 59 people, spreading out, it was suspected, from a seafood market in the city of Wuhan. The same day, Chinese researchers made public the genetic sequence of the virus, then called the novel coronavirus nCov-2019. Running into roughly 30,000 characters, this code would allow scientists to design within three days one of the leading vaccine candidates against the infection.In some ways then, January 11 — the day the world heard of the death of Mr Zhang from Wuhan (the man is identified only by his last name) — also marked the arrival of a small but significant breakthrough that would ultimately lead to the beginning of the end of the pandemic. Within two months, a 76-year-old man from Karnataka with multiple co-morbidities became the first Indian to die of the virus, and five days later, on March 15, India declared the outbreak a disaster.Scientists, doctors, public health officials and pharmaceutical companies around the world have since embarked on a race against time, redirecting their collective focus and energies in a manner that has paralleled some of history’s greatest collaborative efforts such as the Manhattan Project or the Apollo programme.This race has largely been centered on trying to understand the virus and the disease it causes, and to find ways in which lives can be saved and the virus stopped. In the past year, PubMed Central, the largest database for free, open-access research literature in biomedical sciences, has carried 89,000 submissions on Covid-19. THE FIRST SIGNSIt would not be until January 20 that the world would find out that the virus spread between humans, and January 26, that it could also spread among and by asymptomatic individuals. By this time, the number of confirmed infections in China had reached 2,000, and these two crucial facts were the first indicators of the coronavirus’s potential to cause a pandemic.As the world entered the spring of 2020, the virus took hold in more Asian regions — Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong — and its first cases emerged in Europe and the United States. By now, researchers were able to determine that the Sars-CoV-2, as it officially came to be called starting February 11, had a basic reproduction number (R0, or R naught) of 2.4 to 2.6. This meant that, on average, two infected people would pass on the virus to five more, and those five to at least 31 more people. These figures projected an exponential explosion in cases. On March 16, five days after World Health Organization (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic, researchers from Imperial College London predicted that if nothing was done to control the epidemic, at least 510,000 people would die in the United Kingdom and 2.2 million in the United States. The need was clear: lock down to flatten the curve of infections so that hospitals could be spared a surge of cases.Over the rest of the year, the need to flatten the curve would drive countries around the world to turn to lock down in a reluctant game of cat and mouse to contain the spread of the virus. Among populous nations, India was one of the few that locked down at the beginning of the outbreak, an approach criticised for having caused widespread economic damage, but one that may have also bought the nation time to improve its capacities to test and treat.COURSE CORRECTIONThe need for locking down cities has been one of the approaches government, public health authorities and experts have largely agreed upon through the course of the pandemic. The early stage of the pandemic was marked by conflicting evidence and recommendations, most notably on whether people should wear masks. After initially saying that masks did not help the uninfected, WHO on June 6 — almost three months after declaring the pandemic — updated its guidance to advise people to wear masks in regions with community transmission. By this time, total global infections were at 6.6 million, and fatalities close to 400,000. At this point, it also became clear that sharing the same air posed the biggest risk, but painstaking contact tracing would later show that not everyone in an enclosed space would contract the virus: how the air flowed in such spaces played a role, but so did the duration of contact. Some activities, such as singing or speaking loudly, shoe-leather epidemiologists discovered, heightened the likelihood of infections.The understanding of how to treat Covid-19 patients too evolved. As the virus tore through the elderly populations of Italy, Spain and France in April, clinicians began using re-purposed drugs, including those that showed promise in treating HIV/Aids, broad-spectrum antivirals such as remdesivir, and plasma-rich antibodies from recovered patients. Over the course of the year, there have been hardly any major breakthroughs in treatment. Remdesivir and favipiravir have shown mixed outcomes, anti-HIV drugs lopinavir and ritonavir were proven to be ineffective; even benefits of convalescent plasma therapy have been unclear. One drug appeared to have clear benefits in saving lives: dexamethasone.WORRYING DISCOVERIESThat dexamethasone worked was linked to a worrying new facet of the Sars-CoV-2: it did not only cause respiratory disease. People who developed severe symptoms or succumbed to the virus showed signs of widespread organ damage. Blood tests and autopsies revealed the disease would often put the body on a warpath with itself, confusing people’s immune systems into going into an overdrive. This led to damage to organs such as lungs, kidneys and the heart, scans and autopsies revealed. Some people also developed blood clots that could trigger strokes, while a worryingly large number suffered from persistent “long Covid” symptoms, often unable to regain energy, concentration or their sense of smell for months after an infection.In December, virologists and geneticists in the UK discovered a new strain of the virus, with more genetic tweaks than seen in the 12 months since it began spreading. The strain appeared to be more infectious, steadily becoming more prevalent than other strains. Already, countries around the world have begun to respond to this: London declared a complete lockdown barely days before the Christmas holidays and several Latin American and European countries have imposed flight bans to the UK. So has India. More research will be required to determine whether the new strain poses a threat to current efforts to contain the disease, which in themselves have struggled to slow down the march of the pandemic. It is also an unknown if the mutation, or any that might yet take place, could render current vaccine candidates ineffective. Vaccines are usually broad-spectrum — they target multiple viral proteins to avoid an eventuality such as this — but there is always a possibility that a virus could mutate enough to dodge them. UNRELENTING EFFORTSThe sheer volume of research now out in open-source repositories like PubMed Central represents a relentless mission by scientists around the world to not just uncover the secrets of the virus, but also the millions of factors that are at play in its spread.This mission has brought together not just biomedical researchers, but also mathematicians, computer modelers and artificial intelligence experts. Their frenetic efforts capitalised on decades of advances in medical sciences. Scientists are now able to inspect its structural secrets. They have even been able to visualise how its protruding spike proteins— the component that it uses to latch on to and infect cells — combines in groups of three and can swivel as if mounted on a hinge, enhancing its ability to infect targets. Frontline biotechnology, such as gene editing, have been repurposed to add to the arsenal of tools the world has deployed against Covid-19. Pharmaceutical companies have created lab-grown antibodies, which are akin to building your own army of specialised coronavirus hunters. Even the bleeding edge of computation promises to bolster the human race’s ability to fight such threats. Take, for instance, the breakthrough in November by artificial intelligence company DeepMind, which was able to accurately determine the shape of proteins. Such technology can help take a closer look at the Sars-Cov-2, helping tailor therapies and drugs. But the most watched among these breakthroughs is the rapid development of a vaccine — the candidate mentioned at the beginning of this essay, for example, was approved a little over 11 months later, while normally, the process (development, testing, and approvals of vaccines) can typically take close to a decade. MILESTONE MOMENTSThis vaccine was developed by Moderna, in collaboration with the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and used a platform that in itself has been hailed as groundbreaking. Another American company, with a German partner, uses the same platform and both have shown high efficacy. Several other vaccine makers are racing against time to complete the testing process. These include old platforms, such as the many candidates that use a weakened or an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response and new ones, like Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Trojan horse-like strategy known as a viral vector.To be sure, many unknowns still remain: can vaccines leave lasting immunity? Will the virus mutate to beat it (and our immune systems)? Are there more long-term effects we have not yet identified? It is uncertain when these mysteries will be unravelled by modern science. But if the year 2020 is any indication, chances are scientists and doctors will find a way for the world to live with the virus, if not eradicate it completely.It is also certain that the world, scientifically and technologically, has never been better prepared to deal with a virus of its nature than it is right now. The scientific legacy of battling this virus is likely to further this preparedness and help achieve what experts have always sought: more focus and funding on health and science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learning-to-beat-a-virus/story-GCSzKLATGtI7TSDvcn1QKL.html
24-12-2020||India||Six more UK returnees test positive, 50 quarantined||Six more passengers who returned to India from the UK, late on Tuesday night, tested positive for Covid-19 after more than 500 underwent testing at Delhi airport on Wednesday. Officials said 50 of over 950 passengers tested at the airport on Tuesday and Wednesday have also been quarantined for coming in direct contact with those who tested positive.On Tuesday, two flights landed at the Delhi airport from the UK, one at 11.30pm with 240 passengers and another with 274 at 11.55 pm. All the 514 passengers were subject to RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport as mandated by the central government in order to stop the spread of a new strain of the Sars-Cov-2 that emerged in the UK and is believed to spread faster.Since Monday, after India suspended all flights to and from the UK between December 23 and December 31, four flights have landed in Delhi from UK. While on Tuesday, five passengers were tested positive out of more than 470 who took the test, six more were found to be infected out of 514 passengers tested on Wednesday.Dr. Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings diagnostics that is conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, on Wednesday, said, “Since Monday night, close to 1,000 passengers who arrived in Delhi, 11 passengers were found positive. These 11 samples are duly stored in cold storage and sent to National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi for genome sequencing. We do not know yet if any of those found positive are infected with the new UK strain,” Agarwal said.Flyers complain of mismanagement at IGIAA number of passengers, who arrived from the UK at the Delhi airport close to midnight on Tuesday, said they had to spend more than 15 hours to be able to exit the airport.Kamini Saraswat, 28, an IT professional working in London, said she deboarded the aircraft around 12.15am on Wednesday but her RT-PCR test could only be conducted after more than nine hours at 9.30am. “Before our immigration clearance, we were made to sit in a room and our details were noted down. For hours, there was no proper communication. The seating arrangements were very poor. We spent 4-5 hours sitting on the floor. After immigration clearance at 6.30am, we waited for our turn to get the test done. We again waited for at least four hours with no tea or refreshment. After the test that was conducted at 9.30 am, we were told to wait again for five hours for the report,” said Saraswat.Many passengers also complained of missing their connecting flights due to the “unexpected delay”. Haze Souza, 25, who had to take a connecting flight to Goa, said she landed in Delhi at 11.55pm on Tuesday but her test was conducted only by 10 am on Wednesday. “That is 10 hours of delay. I missed my flight to Goa. At the airport, the management was very poor. There was no communication, lack of basic services like refreshments, drinking water and even place to sit. Many of us sat on the floors near the conveyor belts as the lounge was full and there was no place to sit,” said Souza, who was travelling home for Christmas.Another tweeted, “Where is social distancing? No one is telling these people to maintain.” Videos of passengers sitting on the floor and near baggage collection area also were widely shared on social media on Wednesday.When asked about the allegations over poor arrangements, Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) did not offer a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-50-quarantined/story-cpC6FPbplXrCe1BxIanbBN.html
24-12-2020||India||UK avoids nomination of Khalistan supporter to the House of Lords||A potentially major diplomatic row between India and the UK was averted on Tuesday when the nomination of a Khalistan supporter as a member of the House of Lords by Labour was either put on hold or withdrawn by the party leader Keir Starmer.Dabinderjit Singh Sidhu, who is a principal adviser to the Sikh Federation UK, was proposed as one of the nominees by the Labour party for peerage for life to the House of Lords Appointments Commission, but when the list of ‘Political Peerages’ was released by Downing Street, his name was missing.Indian quarters were watching the developments closely, but the list eventually included seven names recommended by the Conservative party, five by Labour and four individuals appointed as cross-bench (independent) members of the House.Had Singh Sidhu’s nomination gone through, security officials insist it would have damaged relations just when PM Boris Johnson is due to travel to India on a defining visit to chart the next decade of bilateral ties and be the chief guest at Republic Day celebrations on January 26.A senior official said on condition of anonymity: “If Starmer had not acted, the appointment would have not only damaged India-UK relationship and soured the visit of Prime Minister Johnson, but also raised questions over the new Labour leader seeking to make amends with the Indian community in UK after the downturn (in relationship) under (former leader) Jeremy Corbyn.”“It would have undermined the foundations of India-UK cooperation, especially on its commitment to not allow its soil to be used against India and its integrity, and shaken the framework of cooperation on the matters of terrorism, which includes not legitimising the political faces of terrorism directed against each other,” another official added.Singh Sidhu, a former member of the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), which is banned in India but whose ban in the UK was lifted in 2016, is an official of the UK’s National Audit Office. He is not considered a civil servant since the body is independent of the UK government. He and the Sikh Federation have been in the forefront in articulating pro-Khalistan claims. The group had campaigned for lifting the ban on ISYF in the UK, which was de-proscribed in 2016. The Officials quoted above believe the group includes several former members of ISYF.The appointments commission says on its website it “plays no part in assessing the suitability of those nominated by the political parties, which is a matter for the parties themselves. Its role is to advise the Prime Minister if it has any concerns about the propriety of a nominee”. “The Commission takes the view that in this context, propriety means: i) the individual should be in good standing in the community in general and with the public regulatory authorities in particular; and ii) the past conduct of the nominee would not reasonably be regarded as bringing the House of Lords into disrepute”, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-avoids-nomination-of-khalistan-supporter-to-the-house-of-lords/story-wj2aKhlBGETvkttrV30VMI.html
24-12-2020||India||Green Light: TN govt allows Jallikattu with Covid restrictions||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday decided to let Jallikattu, the traditional bull taming sport and a symbol of Tamil culture, albeit one denounced as barbaric by animal rights activists, go ahead during the harvest festival of Pongal in January provided participants adhere to restrictions imposed to curtail the spread of Covid-19.All participants must undergo a Covid-19 test at a government laboratory and produce a negative certificate, said a statement by the government. The number of participants, or bull tamers, will be limited to 150 at an event. Spectators cannot exceed 50% of the capacity of the venue so that social distancing norms are followed and all of them will have to wear masks. All entrants will be screened using a thermal scanner to check their body temperature, the statement said. Jallikattu has been controversial and been banned temporarily several times in the past. In 2014, the Supreme Court banned the sport on a plea filed by the Animal Welfare Board of India and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. The ban was lifted in 2017 with an amendment to the law after protests across the state. Animal welfare groups have called the sport barbaric. Tamil Nadu’s political parties and supporters of the sport say it is a part of the state’s tradition.The decision to allow the sport even amid the pandemic comes ahead of assembly elections due to take place in Tamil Nadu in early 2021 and some see political overtones to the move by the state’s All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government. “We are disappointed. It is a political decision with elections around the corner,” said Chennai-based Dr Chinni Krishna, former vice-chairman, Animal Welfare Board of India. “We want a total ban on Jallikattu from the point of view of humans and animals involved.” Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai, a body representing the participants in the sport, welcomed the decision“Every year during December we get our bulls and trainers ready, but we were doubtful if Jallikattu will happen this year due to the pandemic so we are happy that the government has taken a good decision,” said PR Rajasekaran, president of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai. “A fitness test with doctors is usually done for bull tamers about three days before the event; this year we will put them through a Covid-19 test as well.” Jallikattu is particularly popular in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Thanjavur and Perambalur districts.In 2017, protests erupted across the state for the ban against Jallikattu to be lifted. But the Tamil Nadu government unanimously enacted a legislation to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 to preserve the state’s cultural heritage and ensure survival of native breeds of bulls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-light-tn-govt-allows-jallikattu-with-covid-restrictions/story-Ssk3CsjqhTAFkvgfLAiDGK.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||At the end of a year that’s been defined by the coronavirus disease pandemic, it is strange that governments around the world need to be reminded of this: the coronavirus does not follow their rules. For instance, it has no working hours, geographical boundaries, or preferred venues. I say this because of the rush by countries, including India, to bar flights to and from the UK, parts of which (including London) are being ravaged by a new strain of the coronavirus believed to be far more infective (how much more? 70%, if UK authorities are to be believed). It might have helped if this travel ban had been enforced back in September, when the new strain was first sequenced in the UK; it is likely too late now.In Dispatch 231 (on Wednesday), I bemoaned the fact that India does not sequence enough viral genomes. After all, the UK discovery was the result of one of the world’s largest and most comprehensive viral genome sequencing efforts (Covid-19 Genomics UK; I wrote about it in Dispatch 230). But India isn’t the only laggard. The world may have seen over 70 million cases of the coronavirus disease but only around 275,000 of the cases have been genetically sequenced (according to sequencing data available publicly). Of this, the UK alone accounts for around 125,000. Since December 1, for instance, according to the New York Times, the UK has sequenced 3,700 viral genomes, and the US “fewer than 40”. According to a note on the new variant put out by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the US has sequenced the viral genome in “about 51,000 of the 17 million” cases.India hasn’t put out in the public domain details of the number of viral genomes it has sequenced from Covid patients, but this writer learns that this number is just around a few thousand, and also that the number of cases sequenced since October is next to nothing. And while the one kind of RT-PCR test that serves as an easy proxy to identify the mutant strain (as compared to more complex and time-consuming genome sequencing; Dispatch 231 explained how this particular RT-PCR test helped) is approved for use in India, it costs more than other molecular tests, and the cap on test pricing has meant that almost no laboratory here uses it.Partly over concern about the new strain, and partly to prevent large-scale celebrations and partying of the sort seen around this time of the year, many Indian states have imposed a night curfew, which is a very good move because the Sars-CoV-2 virus has clearly defined working hours. Other states have restricted some activities, but allowed others to continue – also an equally good move because the virus is selective about whom it targets and where it attacks. In truth, there’s as much risk of the farm protest outside Delhi becoming a superspreader event as there is of political rallies in West Bengal.So, what should India do?For one, it should assume that the new strain is already here and tighten social distancing protocols, enforce the wearing of masks, and completely ban public gatherings for the next few weeks – irrespective of whether these are religious, cultural, or political in nature. It should also tighten screening in airports (the instant it did so on Monday, only for travellers from the UK, it uncovered a handful of cases). For another, it should simply do what the US plans to. The US recently announced a surveillance programme (details of this are also in the CDC note) that will sequence 10 samples from each state every two weeks to check for the new variant. The Indian Council of Medical Research should, on a war footing, sequence viral genomes from every district that has new cases – and do this at a regular frequency, say, every week. It wouldn’t need to sequence too many from each district – a sample of even five or six would do. Sars-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01, as the variant has been named (some are also calling it B.1.1.7 because the alternative is a mouthful), is probably already here (the CDC note admits that “given the small fraction of US infections that have been sequenced, the variant could already be in the US without having been detected”, and the same applies to India). It is time to accept that and move on to doing what needs doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-UfTygx5XMWq7M5f6NoE6KL.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmer unions say no date for talks until govt redraws terms||Farm unions protesting against three recent laws that aim to liberalise the agricultural economy said on Wednesday that they will not restart negotiations until the Centre draws up a new agenda, presenting an increasingly difficult challenge to a Union government trying to find a way to end a month-long agitation on the Capital’s borders. After a large meeting of nearly 100 farm leaders, the protesters also reiterated that they would remain at the protest sites, where thousands have gathered over 29 days, until their demand — a repeal of the laws — was met. A senior farm leader, who wrote to the government on Tuesday informing it of the farmers’ decision not to set a date for resuming talks, for the first time spelt out a demand for an expansive system of guaranteed prices, rather than the government’s mere assurance on continuing the current system of minimum support prices (MSPs). Farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said farm unions should come for talks and that thousands of farmers sleeping out in the bitter cold was a “matter of deep concern” for the government. While the farm minister has been at pains to explain the benefits of the reforms, the farmers say they won’t budge until they are scrapped. On Wednesday, a farm union leader representing the unions responded to the government’s December 9 letter that offered to restart dialogue on a set of proposals and concessions it had sent out to the farmers. In it, the government asked the unions to suggest a date to meet again. Darshan Pal, a senior leader representing the farm unions, told HT that the unions were not averse to talking but they could not “set a fresh date” for the talks because the proposals the government had presented to them were “not acceptable”. “The government has to revise them because we had rejected these proposals on December 5 during our meeting,” he said. The farm unions also sent a letter to the agriculture ministry on Wednesday, signed by Pal. “We request the government that instead of repeating your proposals and amendments, you should offer something concrete in writing so that we can make that the basis of our agenda to resume the dialogue process,” it stated. Experts said this pretty much squashes hopes of negotiations restarting anytime soon. The standoff between the Union government and farmers continues over the passage of new legislation to open up the country’s agricultural sector to private investment, a move the government says will enable farmers better incomes and modernise the farm sector. Farmers say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of private corporations. The government earlier this month sent a set of written proposals to amend several provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfer. The government also promised to give a written assurance to continue its mechanism of setting minimum crop prices and procuring food produce, mainly staples, but did not offer to write it in law. Farmers have spurned these proposals, which the government is banking on to find a solution. On Wednesday, Pal spelt out why, according to the unions, the assurance on minimum prices was not enough. The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of farming that takes into account all expenses of farming a particular crop plus the value of family labour. Pal said the farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called ‘C2’ in economic parlance. Farmers also want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill hugely. Farmers have demanded that government continue its policy of continuing power subsidy to farmers, rather than switch to providing cash instead. “Your proposal on continuing the subsidy is vague. Unless you say that you will shelve all plans to switch from subsidy to cash, we cannot reply to your proposal on this,” the letter said. By rejecting the proposals made by the government, the farmers have sought to put the onus on the government to draw up a revised agenda that is geared towards what the farmers are still adamant on — a roll-back of the reforms. Analysts say expanding the threshold of crop quantities procured by the government at MSP could help reassure farmers. “Instead of MSP as a price guarantee that farmers are demanding, the government could insert a quantity guarantee clause for a minimum period of five years,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser of SBI, the largest state-owned lender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-say-no-date-for-talks-until-govt-redraws-terms/story-ltxhq5TrRfdrrRw2c8EkDP.html
24-12-2020||India||In a first, Uttarakhand govt, IIRS to study urban flooding in Dehradun||The Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) is planning to undertake the first of its kind study of urban flood patterns in the state capital. Riddhim Aggarwal, additional chief executive officer USDMA said that it is the first time such a study is being undertaken in any city of Uttarakhand. “Under this study, maps with high-resolution of around 1 cm, of the flood-prone areas will be developed by using high tech drones. Based on these maps which also capture land undulations on a very high resolution, we will understand the drainage and passageways for rainwater and flooding patters around Rispana (a tributary of the Song River that drains central Dehradun) and Bindal (which also flows through Dehradun and is fed by a number of springs at the base of Mussoorie ridge) rivers in Dehradun,” she said Aggarwal said USDMA has been in negotiations with the experts from IIRS in this regard for quite sometime “We held a meeting with the experts from IIRS on Wednesday in which we discussed various technicalities and modalities for this survey,” she said The USDMA additional CEO said soon they will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with IIRS in this regard. “The high-resolution maps of the city will give us a fair idea about the areas where severe flooding is possible due to severe rainfall and blockages (in the form of encroachments and debris) in the drainage and nullahs. The high-resolution maps will also help us in identifying those low-lying areas around rivers where flooding is possible,” she said Aggarwal said they have a lot of data from existing snow and rain gauges. “IIRS also has good data. But this data has never been integrated with regard to understanding the pattern of urban flooding. Integrating these data and having high-resolution maps will help us in saving lives and properties due to flooding and severe water-logging in the urban landscape. After undertaking this study in Dehradun, and based on the results, we have plans to take up such studies in other cities of the state in the future,” she said. Last year a PIL had been filed in Uttarakhand high court alleging that a large number of trees had been cut and encroachments had been made around the nullahs/storm water drains in Dehradun that flow into Rispana and Bindal rivers. The state government through an affidavit by the district magistrate Dehradun had informed the court that around 270 acres of land had been encroached on riverbeds, nullahs and seasonal streams across Doon Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-uttarakhand-govt-iirs-to-study-urban-flooding-in-dehradun/story-P61VA0DuFlvDXnP3uIBHEK.html
24-12-2020||India||The Number Theory: Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and Kashmir||The District Development Council (DDC) polls were the first major elections held in the Union territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir after the Narendra Modi government last year scrapped the erstwhile state’s semi-autonomous status and divided it into two separate UTs: J&K and Ladakh.After the results for 278 of the 280 segments were declared (counting has halted in the remaining two), both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven political parties that came together with a common objective of restoring the state’s special constitutional provisions, have claimed victory. While the BJP is celebrating the fact that it is the single largest party with 75 wins, the PAGD has finished as the largest pre-poll alliance with 110 wins. Independents have won 50. Here are five charts that explain what the DDC results mean for Jammu and Kashmir’s politics.BJP’s high seat share needs to be read with its poor strike rate While the BJP has ended up with the largest seat share in these elections, this needs to be read along with the fact that it also contested the maximum number of seats. This is because the two major regional parties in Kashmir, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) joined the PAGD with five other smaller parties in the state. A comparison of strike rates (seats won as a share of seats contested) shows that the BJP is behind four constituents of the PAGD.  This explains why PAGD has ended up with more seats than the BJP. The NC contested 168 seats, which is much more than the 68 seats contested by the PDP, but their strikes rates are largely similar. The Congress, which used to be a major political force in the state, is behind the BJP in terms of strike rate.But the BJP does have a higher contested vote share than the NC-PDP The BJP is ahead of the NC-PDP even in terms of the vote share in contested seats. While its contested vote share is marginally higher than the NC’s, it is significantly higher than that of the PDP. This picture changes when one looks at the Kashmir and Jammu divisions separately.  The BJP has the highest contested vote share in the Jammu region and the lowest among big parties in the Kashmir region. This statistic is crucial for understanding the fault lines in Jammu and Kashmir’s politics.The religious divide between Jammu and Kashmir persists Among all states and Union territories, Jammu and Kashmir is the only one where the Muslim population comprises a majority. However, the Muslim population in the territory is not equally distributed across its regions. Muslims comprised 96.4% of the population in 10 districts of the Kashmir region, according to the 2011 Census, while Hindus comprise 62.6% of Jammu’s population. The 20 districts can largely be divided into three groups – 11 entirely Muslim districts (where Muslims comprise more than 90% population), four entirely Hindu districts (where Hindus comprise more than 90% population) and five mixed districts (where Muslims comprise 50% to 70% of the population). The DDC poll results have once again highlighted the communal polarisation in Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP has won 86% of the 56 seats in the entirely Hindu districts while it has won only 2% of the 152 seats in the entirely Muslim districts. The PAGD has won 57% seats in the entirely Muslim districts compared to just 4% in the entirely Hindu districts.Has the BJP made gains in the Kashmir region after the nullification of Article 370? That Jammu and Kashmir’s politics has been polarised around its religious geography is known. With the NC-PDP and other smaller parties coming together against the BJP, the overall outcome in these elections was not surprising. The only question worth asking is: has the BJP been able to gain political ground in the Kashmir region by championing the Union government’s decision to take away the erstwhile state’s autonomy and making it into a UT, which it has said will lead to more development? While the BJP is highlighting the fact that it has won three seats in these elections in the Kashmir region, this cannot be compared to a win in assembly or Lok Sabha elections because DDC segments are much smaller. Because the DDC polls have been held for the first time, no comparisons can be made with previous elections.  A vote-share comparison with the 2014 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections shows that the BJP continues to be an insignificant player in the Kashmir region. Because local body elections are fought in a very different manner compared to national or even state elections, not much should be read into small variations in vote share.Voter turnout still a cause for concern One important factor in every election in Jammu and Kashmir has been voter turnout. Voter participation dropped significantly in the erstwhile state, particularly in the Kashmir region, after militancy erupted in the late 1980s. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the voter turnout in Kashmir was its lowest in two decades. The Union territory saw 51% voter turnout in the DDC elections this year but this was skewed towards the Jammu region. About 68% registered electors voted in the Jammu regions, while only 34% voted in the Kashmir region.  The turnout in the Kashmir region this time was 15 percentage points more than it was in the 2019 Lok Sabha election but 22.5 percentage points less than that in the 2014 assembly election. This means only a third of the registered electors in Kashmir voted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-number-theory-understanding-the-ddc-election-results-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-JjJ6fMjzP2DXcn0LTMpM6H.html
24-12-2020||India||Army veterans, activists embark on ‘Ganga Parikrama’ to map pollution||A group of 11 people, including retired army officers, a farmer, an adventurist and Ganga activists, have embarked on ‘Atuylya Ganga Parikrama’ for pollution mapping of Ganga from Gomukh to Gangasagar. They will also ensure afforestation on either side of the river and sensitise locals about the role they can play in keeping Ganga clean. The group members are Major General (retd) Vinod Bhatt, Lt Col (retd) Hem Lohumi, Col (Retd) Manoj Keshwar, Military Engineer (Retd) Gopal Sharma, farmer Hiren Patel, adventurer Indu (goes by her first name), lensman Rohit Umrao, Rohit Jat, Shagun Tyagi, and Kirti Kumar. They started from Prayagraj on December 16 and aim to complete the process in the next 250 days. The group members walk along Ganga from dawn to dusk and stay along it during the night. Col Manoj Keshwar, member of the group, said, “We walk along Ganga, planting saplings of indigenous species like Peepal, Banyan, Pakar, Neem, and Indigo along the river and appeal to the locals to take care of the plants and move forward.” Also read: Jaw-dropping video shows driver reversing bus on narrow roadHiren Patel, a farmer from Gujarat, drops seed of mangoes, mahua, and indigo on the river bank as part of the group’s plan to promote green cover on either side of the river. The group members are also doing pollution mapping of the river by recording details of the untreated drains vacating in the river. Major General Bhatt, with the help of group members, collects samples of Ganga water from its stretches which are being polluted by the untreated drains. Equipped with a portable pollution testing kit, the group members test the samples and record the level of Biological oxygen demand (BOD) and Dissolved Oxygen (DO), Ph, among other pollutants. The group also records complete details of every drain discharging in the river by collecting information about it from the locals. Col Manoj Keshwar said, “The group will walk to the Bay of Bengal where Ganga meets the sea. The team will walk back to Gomukh, the place of the origin of Ganga in Uttarakhand, and will return to Prayagraj where they have planned to conclude the journey.” The Col said it would take around 250 days in their journey. Team will walk around 6,000 kilometres to complete the Parikrama of Ganga. Col Manoj said, “Along with the pollution mapping of the river Ganga, we are also planning to create an Atulya Ganga App which will have the complete information about the drains polluting river Ganga.” He said that the union ministry of water resources and tourism ministry are supporting the circumambulation. He said that along with pollution mapping, efforts are being made for the geo-mapping of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-veterans-activists-embark-on-ganga-parikrama-to-map-pollution/story-nMwjtgg4QakegxUZoNjuBN.html
24-12-2020||India||Gupkar sees Jammu and Kashmir’s verdict against 370; BJP says for it||The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) both declared victory in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s District Development Council (DDC) elections on Wednesday, interpreting differently what the verdict meant in the backdrop of the Centre’s controversial decision to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status last year.As a high-octane war of words played out, PAGD partners said the people rejected the Union government’s decision to scrap Article 370, which accorded special status to J&K, while the BJP contended that the results showed voters said no to “terrorism and separatism” and took the path of nationalism.In the eight-phase DDC elections — the first such exercise in J&K and also the first major voting in the region since Article 370 was scrapped on August 5, 2019 — the PAGD, a two-month-old bloc featuring regional powerhouses National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), took the pole position by winning an impressive 110 seats of the total 280 on offer across the Union Territory’s 20 districts (14 seats each). The BJP grabbed 75 seats and emerged as the single-largest party on the back of its performance in the Hindu-dominated Jammu region, where it won 72 of the 140 seats.NC leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah praised the performance of the PAGD, which won 84 seats in Kashmir and 26 in Jammu, and attacked the Centre’s ruling BJP. “If you really say that democracy has won, then you will have to listen to the voices of the people. And the people of Jammu and Kashmir have said it with a huge majority that they do not accept (the decisions of) August 5, 2019,” he said, addressing party workers at the NC headquarters, Nawa-i-Subah, in Srinagar.At the victory celebrations, Abdullah said there might not be any assembly elections in the Union territory anytime soon. “The next elections in J&K are very far because of the defeat of the BJP in this election...If they believed in democracy, they would have sounded the bugle of the assembly elections,” he said.“We could have many more seats had we not contested in the alliance. But for achieving a bigger goal, small or big sacrifices have to be made… It was our duty to keep aside our differences and to come on a single platform for our identity,” he added, referring to the alliance that took shape in October 2020 to demand the restoration of J&K’s special status.Farooq Abdullah, his farther and another former chief minister, said NC workers proved again that “anti-Kashmir forces cannot wipe out our party”, which won the most seats (67) among the seven coalition partners. “It was the BJP that made the DDC elections look like a referendum (on the Article 370 move)...now the people of J&K have made their aversion to the August 5 measures known,” he said.Former chief minister and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, too, hit out at the BJP. “People have voted en masse for the alliance...Article 370 still lives in our hearts and minds and we will fight for it until our last breath,” she told NDTV news channel. Mufti also said she would not contest elections until the decision to nullify of Article 370 was reversed.On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370 and bifurcated J&K into two Union Territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests. The BJP and the Centre maintain that the decision will eventually help the region, deal a blow to terrorism and usher in development. Facing a volley of criticism, the BJP fielded a host of its top leaders to counter the PAGD’s narrative. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad rejected the contention that the results were a win for the alliance, stressing that it was the BJP that emerged as the single-largest party. “This is a victory for India, democracy, hope, development and people of Jammu and Kashmir. This is a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s larger narrative...,” he told a press conference.On Twitter, Union home minister Amit Shah thanked “sisters and brothers” of J&K and said the BJP will continue to “work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the region” under the leadership of PM Modi.“Modi government is doing everything possible to restore the grass root democracy in Jammu & Kashmir. The recently held DDC polls for the first time in the history of J&K is the testimony of the same. The mass participation in these elections reflects people’s faith in democracy,” he added.His colleague, Anurag Thakur, countered the PAGD’s contention that people voted against the nullification of Article 370, and asserted the BJP and Independents together got over 52% votes.“This shows J&K people have rejected the Gupkar Gang,” he told reporters in Jammu. The people have spoken out against “terrorism and separatism” and voted in favour of democracy and nationalism, added Thakur, who was actively involved in the campaign.The BJP’s vote share in the DDC elections stood at 24.5%. This number was 27.9% for Independents, who won a total of 50 seats and could play kingmakers in at least two districts. The combined vote share of the PAGD camp — also comprising the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India-Marxist, the Peoples Movement, the Awami National Conference, and the Jammu and Kashmir People Democratic Front — stood at 22.9%.In terms of strike rate, the BJP won 75 of the total 230 seats it contested (32.6%). The strike rate for the NC and the PDP, two major constituents of the PAGD, stood at 40.9% (67 seats of the 164 contested) and 39.7% (27 seats of the 68 contested).Overall, the PAGD had a clear majority in six districts (all in Kashmir) while it was close to majority in three others. The BJP had a clear majority in five districts (all in Jammu) and was close to majority in one other district. In the remaining five districts, no single party had a majority.Held under the shadow of Covid-19, the elections witnessed a turnout of 51.76% over the eight phases from November 29 to December 19.The BJP says the results showed that the party is acceptable to both the regions of the Union Territory, underscoring that three of its candidates won from the Kashmir Valley (Khanmoh-II in Srinagar district, Kakapora-II in Pulwama district and Tulail in Bandipora district), apart from the 72 wins in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-sees-j-k-s-verdict-against-370-bjp-says-for-it/story-inr91zmF1ZCi469ElL9pxM.html
24-12-2020||India||Sugathakumari: Activist whose poems gave voice to the weak dies after Covid at 86||Malayalam poet and activist Sugathakumari, who devoted her life to espousing the cause of the environment and upholding the rights of women and the deprived, died on Wednesday of post-Covid-19 complications at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, her family members said. She was 86.One of the pioneers of green activism in Kerala, Sugathakumari’s poetry championed the causes she believed in. She warned people against exploiting nature and counselled them to think about future generations. Her poems also gave a voice to the weak and suffering. Sugathakumari was at the vanguard of a campaign against the Silent Valley hydel power project in the late 1980s that forced Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to form a panel of scientists to decide if the dam should be built. The panel submitted a report against the construction of the project, which was eventually scrapped.The last habitat of the lion-tailed macaque, the Silent Valley National Park on the picturesque Nilgiri hills is one of the richest biospheres in the southern part of the Western Ghats.The poet-activist was born in a family of freedom fighters and social reformers. Her father Bodeswaran was a Gandhian and mother Karthuyani a Sanskrit scholar. She started writing poetry at a young age under a pseudonym before she became an established poet and writer. Her sisters Hridayakumari and Sujatha were also writers. Sugathakumari died on the day a court in the Kerala capital awarded a life term in prison to a priest and a nun for murdering 19-year-old Sister Abhaya and dumping her body into a well in a case that dated back 22 years. . Whether it was the Abhaya murder or the Suryanelli scandal, which involved the exploitation of a minor girl enticed into the sex trade, she was always at the forefront demanding justice for the victims. Her activist friends said Teacher, as she was fondly known, would have been the happiest to hear the verdict. Two years ago, when a sit-in was organised before the state secretariat in a gesture of solidarity with five nuns who were protesting in Kochi for against former bishop Franco Mullakal, who allegedly raped a nun multiple times, she was at the venue on a wheel chair. “Poems were her favourite weapon to enlighten people. Her ‘Marathinu Stuti” (Hymn to a Tree) and other poems tell all,” said famous writer M T Vasudevan Nair in a condolence message. “A born fighter she interacted with people through her literary works and actions,” said poet and move director Sreekumaran Thampi. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote in a message: “Deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of poet Sugathakumari. As a doyenne of Malayalam literature and with a career that spans decades, she has left an indelible mark on Kerala’s cultural life. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and join them in sorrow.”“Don’t bring flowers to me when I am dead. If you want to remember me, plant a banyan tree,” she said once when asked how she wanted to be remembered. She set aside space for people to plant saplings on the lawns of Abhaya, a home she set up for destitute and mentally challenged women in 1992. After she was cremated in the evening on Wednesday, many of her friends planted sapling in the space to fulfil her wish. A recipient of many honours, Sugathakumari was conferred the Padma Shri in 2006, and received the Saraswati Samman 2012, instituted by the KK Birla Foundation, for her collection of 27 poems Manalezhuthu (writings on the sand). She leaves behind her daughter Lakshmi, who manages the Abhaya home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sugathakumariactivist-whose-poems-gave-voice-to-the-weak-dies-after-covid-at-86/story-DcI8NDG5MorFGE63SOvAzH.html
24-12-2020||India||Amid protests, Tomar stresses need for more reforms in farm sector||Farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said he hoped a solution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation would only come from dialogue and more reforms were needed in the agriculture sector.Though Tomar did not elaborate, his stand signals the Modi government’s intent for a full spectrum of reforms in the country’s farm sector, despite a pushback from farmers to three farm-reform laws.“In the last six years, efforts have been made to initiate reforms in the farm sector. There are still areas where reforms are due and can benefit our farmer brothers, who are the backbone of our country,” Tomar told members of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI), an outfit that has pledged support to the three recent laws farmers say will hurt their livelihoods.“There are two situations. A majority of the country has supported the three laws. The media have also seen this and (there are) some who are opposing the laws. We have received 300,000 signatures of farmers who have welcomed the laws,” he said.The government’s intention to undertake more reforms in future comes against a massive agitation of farmers against its move to ease restrictions in farm trade.Separately, Tomar told reporters that the government was open to discussing and solving “each and every problems” of protesting farmers.“I’m hopeful that farmers’ unions will discuss our proposals. Whatever they want to add and subtract from the government’s proposal, they should tell us. We’re ready for a discussion at the time and date of their convenience. I’m hopeful for a solution,” the minister said.The minister’s statements came on a day farm unions said they were not inclined to hold further talks with the government until the government draws up a fresh agenda, deepening a stalemate.“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure that they get the right price. We have made reforms like the scheme to have 10,000 farmer producer organisations at a cost of Rs 6500 crore and offered an agri infrastructure fund of Rs 1 lakh crore so that farmers get the right price,” the minister said.Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting the passage of new legislation to open up the agricultural sector to private buyers and enable farmers to sell directly to big corporations in deregulated markets instead of just government marketplace. Farmers say they will lose business to big buyers and face exploitation.Analysts say more reforms may lead to more resistance. “Reforms in mass-employment sectors that involve livelihoods are more difficult to pull off than those in industrial or financial sectors,” said KK Kailash of the University of Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-tomar-stresses-need-for-more-reforms-in-farm-sector/story-LCR0H50WVOq9DEJ2TBNsJL.html
24-12-2020||India||CIC alters view on electoral bond buyers||The Central Information Commission (CIC), India’s transparency watchdog, has said no public interest is involved in disclosing the names of buyers of electoral bonds while reiterating the argument that such information cannot be shared under the Right to Information (RTI) Act as it is held in a “fiduciary” capacity -- a move that reflects a change in position from an order it issued in January. “There appears to be no larger public interest overriding the right to privacy of the donors and donees (recipients) concerned,” information commissioner Suresh Chandra said in an order issued on December 21.In January, another bench of the CIC said in an unrelated case that the electoral bonds process should be more transparent and the names of those buying them should be declared.Maharashtra-based RTI applicant Vihar Durve had sought details from State Bank of India (SBI) of those who bought electoral bonds from the bank and donated them to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Left parties, from domestic branches of the bank between 2017 and 2018.The electoral bond scheme allows citizens and corporate entities to buy monetary instruments from SBI and donate them to political parties, which can redeem them for money. Citizen groups have for long argued that in the interest of transparency, the identity of such donors must be disclosed.After being dissatisfied with the reply of SBI’s public information officer, who refused to provide the names of the donors on grounds that it was third-party information that cannot be shared, Durve filed an appeal with the bank’s First Appellate Authority (FAA).FAA also ruled that the information related to electoral bonds issued to political parties was held by SBI in a fiduciary capacity and that the names of the donors could not be disclosed because they fell in the bracket of “third party information”.Section 8 of the RTI Act prohibits sharing of third-party information without written consent of the third party. However, the section also says that the information can be shared if the information officer is convinced that it would serve “larger public interest”.Durve, in his petition, contended that declaring the names of the donors will serve the larger public interest of ensuring transparency in the funding of political parties. He also said that electoral bonds were an opaque way of funding with citizens not knowing who, especially e corporate entities, were donating money to the parties.“Citizens need to know which companies are funding which party to infer whether they (corporate) are influencing policy making,” Durve said.The applicant filed an appeal with the CIC in September 2018. On December 21, 2020, CIC upheld SBI’s stand, holding that “disclosure of names of donors and the donees may be in contravention of provisions contained in section 8 (1) (e) (j) of the RTI Act.”The section exempts a public authority from giving citizens’ information available with it in fiduciary relationship, if a competent authority is satisfied it would not serve larger public interest. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), political parties have received a total of 12,452 electoral bonds worth Rs 6,210.39 crore until January this year, from January 2017. The BJP received about 60% of the total funding through electoral bonds and Congress about 31.5%.ADR also said the funding received through electoral bonds was more than the money generated through the sale of coupons, vouchers or cash donations for the BJP. ADR in October filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking an early hearing of its petition demanding scrapping of the electoral bonds. saying it was in violation of various transparency regulations.Anjali Bhardwaj of National Campaign for People’s Right to Information said the CIC order was a setback for bringing in transparency in the issue of electoral bonds. “We did not expect this from transparency watchdog to issue such an order. It is a setback,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cic-alters-view-on-electoral-bond-buyers/story-kMfgGLzMkjrDGFaI2v3lfK.html
24-12-2020||India||Approving Pfizer based on global study may impact Indian vaccine makers: Kang||Giving Pfizer approval based on their global data, without a bridging study in India, could disadvantage the national vaccine developers and manufacturers, said clinical scientist and vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang. “So far, we haven’t licensed any vaccine without data from India. However, the new clinical trial rules that came into force last year allows licensure without such data, meaning Pfizer could be given an approval. This could disadvantage our manufacturers,” said Dr Kang during a discussion on race for developing a vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the India International Science Festival. So far, three companies have applied for emergency use authorisation with the country’s apex drug regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). This includes Pfizer, which has already been given emergency approval in the United States and the United Kingdom. However, no bridging study on the immune response of Indians has been done so far. Only 4.3% of the participants in the global trial of the vaccine were Asians. The other two companies to have applied for emergency use authorisation are Serum Institute of India that will be manufacturing 1 billion doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University along with pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. A bridging study to gauge the immune response produced by Indians to the vaccine in 1,600 participants is being carried out. Others, such as the Russian Sputnik V is also conducting a phase III trial in India. “I think the bridging studies being conducted should not be termed as Phase III as they are just looking for immune response in the participants. They are not looking at finding the efficacy of the vaccine,” said Kang. The safety of the vaccine is determined in a small phase I trial, the immune response generated is studied in a slightly bigger phase II trial, and the protecting provided by a vaccine in field is gauged in a phase III trial. The third company to apply for the emergency license is Bharat Biotech that is currently conducting a phase III trial of 26,000 people across 25 sites in the country. Over 13,000 participants have already been recruited. The vaccine candidate was developed by the Indian company along with the Indian Council of Medical Research. “We will have real phase III data from Bharat Biotech and ZyCovD which is about to start phase III trial,” she said. She added, Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and one of the lead investigators for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, said that people who have already been exposed to the natural infection should be excluded from the initial vaccine drives. “We know that the people who have had the infection are not susceptible to it for some time and thus can be excluded from the vaccine drives at the moment. The limited number of vaccines can initially be given to the most vulnerable – those in the high risk groups but haven’t had the infection. There are studies going on to look at how long does this natural immunity last; if we find out it doesn’t last long, they can be given the vaccine later on,” he said. As for the new UK variant, Dr Priya Abraham, director of National Institute of Virology – Pune said, “Even in the UK strain, the RBD protein is 99% identical to the Wuhan strain hence the vaccines are likely to be effective,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approving-pfizer-based-on-global-study-may-impact-indian-vaccine-makers-kang/story-wIMhM2qttARHUCo9t8nWlK.html
24-12-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes FIR over UP ‘jungle raj’ comment||The Allahabad high court has quashed a First Information Report (FIR) filed against a Twitter user who allegedly remarked that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had transformed the administration of the state into “jungle Raj.”“Expressing dissent on law and order situation in the state is a hallmark of a constitutional liberal democracy like ours and the same is constitutionally protected under Article 19 of the Constitution (right of freedom of speech and expression),” the court said in its order, which was passed on November 23. A division bench comprising justice Pankaj Naqvi and justice Vivek Agarwal allowed a writ petition filed by Yashwant Singh, who allegedly made the remarks against UP CM on his Twitter handle. It quashed an FIR dated August 2, registered against the petitioner under Section 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66-D (offence of cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act, 2008 at Bhognipur police station in Rama Bai Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh.The FIR alleged that Singh used his Twitter handle to remark that the chief minister of the state had transformed the state into a “jungle raj”. It also referred to abductions, demands for ransom and murders, the FIR said.The petitioner challenged the FIR, contending that he had been well within his constitutional right to freedom of speech under Article 19. Mere dissent does not amount to criminality and the FIR has been lodged only to coerce him to stop expressing dissent against the state government, the petitioner argued.Quashing the FIR and the consequential proceedings against the petitioner, the court said: “We, after analysing the above provisions regarding allegations made in the FIR, do not find even remotely a commission of offence under Section 66-D, as the said provision relates to cheating by personation. It is not the case of prosecution that while committing the overt act, the petitioner either tweeted using other’s Twitter handle...No offence under Section 66-D of IT Act is made out. Insofar as Section 500 IPC (defamation) is concerned, the same is also not made out, as the alleged tweet cannot be said to fall within the mischief of defamation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-quashes-fir-over-up-jungle-raj-comment/story-BFlOagcbVwwHHFu27AhIRK.html
24-12-2020||India||China’s offer for disengagement in East Ladakh is a trap. Rejected||India will not accept the proposal of Chinese military commanders to turn the eight mountainous spurs jutting out of the Sirijap range into a no-troop area, people familiar with the matter said.Chinese commanders are understood to have proposed that Indian and Chinese troops move back to either side of the eight spurs that overlook the north bank of Pangong lake - named Finger 1 to 8 - and convert the area in between to a no-activity buffer zone, or a no-man’s land.This proposal doesn’t serve India’s interests since half of the eight spurs were under Indian control before the Chinese troops violated 30 years of written agreements to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC on May 5, 2020. And Indian troops patrolled up to the last one. The Chinese commanders are suggesting in the name of peace that Indian troops move back and make the area between first and last spur as a no troops area.ALSO WATCH | Army Chief Gen Naravane visits Ladakh; reviews situation along LAC As of now, both the Indian Army and the PLA are facing each other on Finger 4 with China ramping up infrastructure to Finger 8. The Indian Army and the PLA are deployed in proximity in the Gogra-Hot Springs area with up-gradation of military capabilities in the occupied Aksai Chin area.  Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in Delhi“This proposal has been rejected. We cannot reward China for its transgressions. We want China to restore status quo ante and PLA to go back to its position as of April 2020,” a military commander said in New Delhi as Army Chief General MM Naravane wrapped up his visit to forward areas of the East Ladakh sector where tens of thousands of soldiers are deployed in sub-polar temperatures to match the PLA’s strength.One of the areas that General Naravane visited on Wednesday was the strategic heights of Rezang La and Rechin La on Kailash Ranges that was occupied by Indian troops in an overnight operation on August 29, a preemptive move designed to outclass the PLA that was trying to expand its footprint and reach the 1959 line on the south banks of the now nearly frozen lake. The Indian Army chief went to the south banks of Pangong Tso to ensure that the deployed troops are comfortable in sub-zero temperatures and the armor is fighting fit. The senior army officer said accepting the Chinese proposal would have amounted to ceding control over territory patrolled by Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police before Chinese troops started transgressions across the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).This aggressive approach of the PLA was the backdrop for the clash between Indian and Chinese patrols on the northern bank of Pangong lake on the night of May 5. Over the next few days and weeks, the face-off spread to some other parts of the East Ladakh sector including Galwan valley and Gogra-Hot Springs area near Kongka La area.Chinese forces have refused to back down over the past seven months and often try to suggest that Indian and Chinese troops should carry out a simultaneous withdrawal of troops. India, however, wants the PLA to take the first step back because it was the first to cross the red line and trigger the face-off.The bloody confrontation in Galwan valley in mid-June that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers has already eroded the semblance of trust on the Indian side. The PLA had provoked the violent scrap 10 days after its top generals had reached a broad understanding after three rounds of talks with Indian commanders on initiating disengagement at the standoff points.A senior army officer said there have been multiple proposals from PLA commanders since then but mostly appeared to be aimed at incentivising the Chinese troops for its transgressions. The Indian side has been firm on its demand that any disengagement and de-escalation must result in restoring the 20 April status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-offer-for-disengagement-in-east-ladakh-is-a-trap-rejected/story-FvW3GFnmLULlelWKlQRigI.html
24-12-2020||India||Covid-19 rules: List of states that have restricted New Year celebration||With the fresh threat of a new Covid strain detected in the UK and many countries isolating the United Kingdom in the last week of December, New Year celebration will be dim this time. Though the Covid-19 situation in India is looking up and the health ministry has confirmed that the new strain has not yet been detected in India, state governments are taking measures to avoid year end gathering. The first case in India was detected in January 2020. In the last 11 months, the Covid-19 curve took several unpredictable turns, shifting its epicentre from Kerala to Maharashtra to Delhi from time to time. But what remained constant is that the number of cases saw an uptick after festivals.Hence, states are on vigil as the festive week begins.MaharashtraMaharashtra has announced a seven-hour night curfew across the state from December 22 to January 5. As New Year celebration begins at 12 at night, effectively, there will be no midnight celebration in Mumbai, Goa this year.> On Christmas eve, Mumbai churches will not hold open-air masses and the number of visitors in churches will be monitored. The masses have to be conducted by 8pm.> No more than 200 people will be allowed in each mass.> There will be no change in the Standard Operating Procedures for restaurants in Mumbai.Tamil NaduPublic celebrations in restaurant, clubs, pubs, resorts, beach resorts, beaches have been banned across Tamil Nadu on both December 31 and January 1, 2021. So, Marina Beach which is a popular New Year party destination will remain out of bounds. However, there is no curfew in Tamil Nadu. Restaurants, pub, clubs and resorts will remain open and function normally adhering to Covid-19 guidelines.KarnatakaKarnataka has banned planned mass gatherings without social distancing in clubs, pubs, restaurants or in similar places from December 30 to January 2. Clubs, pubs and restaurants can’t host parties but will function normally abiding by Covid-19 guidelines. Starting from Wednesday, there will be night curfew between 10pm and 6am till January 2.RajasthanOn the lines of restrictions imposed during Diwali, the Rajasthan government has banned year end celebrations, public gathering. “People should celebrate New Year with family in their house, avoid overcrowding and do not burst fire crackers. It is necessary for the health of oneself and others. Rajasthan will strictly follow the directions issued by Supreme Court for all the states regarding corona,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted earlier.In Dehradun, the district administration has banned collective celebrations like parties at hotels, bars, restaurants and other public places on Christmas, New Year’s Eve and New Year to stop the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-restrictions-list-of-states-that-have-banned-new-year-celebration/story-He3KvYXEe1RpBib2Hv6LKP.html
24-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: Govt should keep farm laws in abeyance, tweets P Chidambaram||As the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws enters day 28 on Wednesday, there still appears to be an impasse between them and the Centre. As per Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met him and extended their support to the farm laws. He also said that these leaders did not even ask for amendments. There was a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister at Krishi Bhawan on Tuesday. Farmers intensified their agitation against the laws as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was witness to a demonstration on black flags in Ambala city.The protesting farmers have said that they were prepared to celebrate the Republic Day with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders as no end seems to be in sight as the Centre and the farmers remain locked in a stalemate. Follow all live updates here:The govt has effectively aborted talks: Congress leader P Chidambaram“By taking an inflexible position that the farm laws will not be repealed, the government has effectively aborted the talks before they can be resumed. Government should heed the suggestion of the Supreme Court and keep the farm laws in abeyance during the period of the talks,” tweets senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. By taking an inflexible position that the farm laws will not be repealed, the government has effectively aborted the talks before they can be resumed.Government should heed the suggestion of the Supreme Court and keep the farm laws in abeyance during the period of the talks.Warn govt to take cognisance and find a solution soon, says BKU’s Yudhvir SinghBharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Yudhvir Singh accuses government of trying to delay the issue and break farmers’ morale. “Government is taking our issues lightly, I’m warning them to take cognisance of this matter and find a solution soon,” says Singh.Want govt to take discussion forward with “open mind,” says YadavWe want to assure Centre that protesting farmers and unions are ready for a discussion with government. We’re waiting for government to take the discussion forward with an open mind & neat intention: Yogendra YadavGovt attempting to break our movement: Yogendra YadavGovt is constantly holding talks with so-called Farmers’ leaders and organisations, who’re not associated with our movement at all. This is an attempt to break our movement. Govt is dealing with protesting farmers, the way it deals with its opposition: Yogendra YadavGovt should come up with concrete proposal in writing, says Yadav“We urge the government not to repeat those meaningless amendments which we have rejected but come up with a concrete proposal in writing so that it can be made an agenda, and the process of negotiation can be started as soon as possible,” says Yogendra Yadav. We urge the govt not to repeat those meaningless amendments which we have rejected but come up with a concrete proposal in writing so that it can be made an agenda, and the process of negotiation can be started as soon as possible: Yogendra Yadav at Singhu border https://t.co/oAWu3hO97fGovt’s new letter “fresh attempt to defame”: Yogendra YadavSwaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav calls the government’s new letter “fresh attempt to defame farmers’ associations.” He further says, “United Farmers Front today has written a letter to govt. It states that govt shouldn’t question the letter written by United Farmers’ Front previously as it was a unanimous decision.”On 9th November, farmers will receive Rs 18,000 crores in their accounts: TomarOn 25th December, 9 crore farmers will receive Rs 18000 crores in their accounts as part of PM Kisan Saman Nidhi Yojna. PM will be the Chief Guest. By last evening, 2 crores farmers have registered themselves for this online event: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh TomarConfederation of NGOs of Rural India submit signatures in support of farms lawsRepresentatives of Confederation of NGOs of Rural India meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and MoS Agriculture Kailash Choudhary, submit 3,13,363 signatures taken across 1 lakh villages in support of Centre’s three farm laws.Will bring more farm reforms in future, says Tomar“I would also like to thank banks, as they brought more than 1 crore farmers under Kisan Credit Card cover during pandemic and gave farmers Rs 1 lakh crores in last 8 months. We’ve undertaken some reforms and will bring more in future,” says Tomar.Will ensure farmers get the right price, says agriculture minister Tomar“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure they get the right price...Even during Covid-19 pandemic, we saw that work related to farming and agriculture wasn’t affected,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.5 TMC MPs meet farmers at Singhu borderTMC MPs Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque interact with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike at Singhu border. Delhi: On TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s direction, 5 party MPs comprising Derek O'Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal & Md Nadimul Haque today met & interacted with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike at Singhu border. pic.twitter.com/wdt0oDkU28If food scarcity hits the country, Kerala would be worst affected: CM VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the reason Kerala stood by the agitating farmers was that being a consumer state, Kerala was heavily dependent on farmers for food, and if a food scarcity crisis ever arose in the country, Kerala would be worst affected. Kerala stands in solidarity with agitating farmers: CM VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan extended his wishes to farmers on Farmers’ Day and ensured that Kerala stood with the agitating farmers. Vijayan said that the Centre should listen to the farmers’ demands and scrap the farm laws. ‘Tukde-tukde’ gang misleading farmers: MP minister Narottam Mishra Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra said that he could not understand what was ‘black’ in the farm laws and that nobody has been able to explain it as of yet. Mishra accused the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang for instigating and misleading farmers Farmers perform ‘havan’ at Ghazipur borderProtesting farmers performed ‘havan’ on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh which is recognised as Farmers’ Day.  #WATCH पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री चौधरी चरण सिंह की जयंती के अवसर पर गाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर पर किसान 'हवन' करते हुए। #farmersdayगाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर पर कृषि कानूनों के खिलाफ विरोध प्रदर्शन करते हुए किसानों को आज 26 दिन हो गए हैं। pic.twitter.com/3poaMJvthcModi govt should withdraw farm laws as gift on Farmers’ day, says farmerAs protests against the Centre’s farm laws continued, one of the protestors was quoted by ANI saying, “On Farmers Day, I want to say the same thing to the Modi government that we should give these gifts to us today by withdrawing the agricultural laws because today’s farmers are educated and they know about these laws.”We are ready to talk 24 hours but the govt does not want to talk because they have a problem: ProtestorFarmers are continuing to protest at the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border. One of the protestors said that the Centre’s letter proposing talks between the two aprties would be answered today. He also said that farmers were ready to talk 24 hours but it was the government that had a problem. DMK chief slams PM over not meeting farmersDMK chief MK Stalin slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not meeting farmers who have been protesting for almost a month around Delhi in the freezing cold. He also accused Tamil Nadu chief minister Palaniswami of ‘dancing to the PM’s tune’.Rajnath Singh wishes farmers on Farmers’ day, hopes they will end agitationDefence Minister Rajnath Singh wished farmers on Farmers’ Day and thanked them for providing the country with food security. Singh said that the government was holding talks with some of the protesting farmers with full sensitivity and hoped that the agitations would soon come to an end. Farmer union leaders to meet and decide next round of talks with CentreAbout 32 farmer union leaders will meet today to decide the next course of action, pertaining to further talks with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmer-union-leaders-to-meet-and-decide-next-round-of-talks-with-centre/story-yBy8ryiy85i9gsjTItuZaK.html
24-12-2020||India||Delhi, UP governments spar over Covid testing, education||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were locked in a tussle on Wednesday over Covid-19 management and school education with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hitting out at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, Yogi Adityanath, over the quality of testing in India’s most populous state.The war-of-words came a day after Kejriwal announced that AAP will contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, prompting criticism from UP’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi over the state of government schools. On Wednesday, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sought an open debate on education with top UP political leaders.“It seems like the good governance of the AAP in Delhi haunts Yogi Adityanath. The great work we have done on covid-19 management in Delhi is now being discussed by people across Uttar Pradesh. Unlike you, we did not have to resort to fake Covid-19 tests,” Kejriwal tweeted, sharing a news report alleging irregularities in Covid-19 testing in Uttar Pradesh. “Anyway, Manish (Sisodia) has accepted the invitation by your minister and he shall be in Lucknow on December 22 for a debate,” Kejriwal added.The UP government hit back.“As far as the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi is concerned, why did the central government have to intervene? Because they (AAP government) had failed… Mr Kejriwal is day dreaming,” said state minister Sidharth Nath Singh, referring to a raft of measures announced by the Centre in June and November to ramp up testing and curb the surge in infections in the Capital.Sisodia and Dwivedi publicly argued about the quality of education in the two states.On Tuesday, Dwivedi had invited Kejriwal and Sisodia for a visit to Uttar Pradesh and take a tour of government schools. In his UP polls announcement, Kejriwal had highlighted the conditions of healthcare facilities, schools, governance and law and order in Uttar Pradesh.In response, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said on Wednesday that he was ready for a public debate.“BJP leaders asked for a debate on school models. They challenged me for a visit and also an open debate. I accept both the challenges. Next Tuesday (Dec 22), I will be in Lucknow. Please let me know where to come for the debate and who to argue with – the chief minister, deputy CM or education minister of UP. Let’s have an open debate on government schools in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh… I have one request, please do not back down now,” he said, in a video briefing.The Delhi government is the first and the only one to spend 25% of its budget on schools… The plight of UP government schools is well-known widely… I urge Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to improve the condition of schools in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.But Dwivedi dismissed the suggestion and called it childish.“I only reacted to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announcement that the party would contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. And that there was no question of debating with him (Sisodia). I have several other commitments on that day and there’s no time to debate with him,” he added. “It is an attempt to gain some limelight.”“We have 1.59 lakh government primary and upper primary schools across Uttar Pradesh where 1.8 crore students are enrolled. It is almost Delhi’s total population. Whereas Delhi has 1,024 government schools,” the minister added.Singh also hit out at the AAP’s flagship mohalla, or neighbourhood, clinic initiative.“Mr Kejriwal keeps talking about Mohalla clinics. The BJP’s tele-consultation scheme is a far better one…As far as schools are concerned, they should go to the villages (in UP) and see. The people will tell them about what has changed in the last few years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-covid-management-schools-in-up/story-AfJZiDv4rOEBa5lnGTDtOK.html
