25-12-2020||India||Nadda asks farmers not to fall for ‘propaganda’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Friday appealed to the protesting farmers not to fall into the “trap of falsehood and malicious propaganda” of those who ruled India for decades but did nothing for the betterment and welfare of our farmers and their families.Nadda said farmers should remain vigilant against such “divisive and destructive forces who are playing dirty politics just for their petty political gains”.In a statement released by the BJP, Nadda thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for kick-starting the massive monetary relief distribution programme worth Rs.18,000 crores to 9 crore farmers across India under the Prime Minister Kisan Nidhi Yojna.Nadda congratulated the 9 crore farmers for getting the second installment under the scheme directly in their bank accounts.“He requested protesting farmers not to fall into the vicious trap of the opposition’s false propaganda and petty politics,” the statement said quoting Nadda. He said the Narendra Modi government was highly committed towards the growth and development of the agriculture and farm sector, and for the welfare, prosperity and wellbeing of farmers.In a series of tweets on Friday, Nadda said under the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna a total of Rs. 18,089 crores is being transferred to 9.4 crore farmers directly into their bank accounts. It is a major step towards good governance, he added. Nadda said a total of 8 crore farmers from across India who had registered to connect with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his address today directly listened to his speech, which is unprecedented and historical.Nadda also said the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre under the leadership of the Prime Minister is constantly working towards the modernization of the agriculture sector and for making agriculture more profitable for the farmers of India, which is an agriculture-centric nation.In his tweets which were addressed to the farmers, the Bharatiya Janata Party chief said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address once again warned against the conspiracies surroundings the farm sector reforms laws. Modi also clarified all the misconceptions of farmers regarding the laws and told them about the good intentions and work his government has been doing for farmers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-asks-farmers-not-to-fall-for-propaganda/story-PlZMjo7d35fgPah1pc15vK.html
25-12-2020||India||‘FASTag fee collection reaches Rs 80 crore per day’: NHAI||Electronic toll collection through FASTags has crossed Rs 80 crore a day with record 50 lakh transactions per day and more than 2.20 crore FASTags issued so far, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Friday. Centre has made FASTags mandatory for all vehicles from January 1, 2021.“With FASTag being mandatory for vehicles from 1st January 2021, the NHAI has made all necessary arrangements to provide seamless movement of vehicles at Fee Plazas. Adoption of FASTag has helped highway users save time and fuel at the toll plazas. The digital transaction has got necessary push through the recent amendment in Central Motor Vehicle Rules,” the NHAI said.Also read: ‘Second innings’ - 64-yr-old retired bank official in Odisha enrols in MBBSFASTag, a radio frequency identification (RFID) sticker, typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen, lets toll booths wirelessly and automatically deduct the fee, thereby not requiring a vehicle to stop. The tags were made mandatory for all new cars sold after December 1, 2017, as a measure to encourage digital payments and free up congestion at toll booths.In a move aimed to give a major fillip to enhance digital payments and reduce bottlenecks at national highways, the Centre had mandated that all lanes of national highways toll plazas to be declared as “FASTag lanes” by December 2019.“As social distancing has become the new norm, commuters are increasingly looking at FASTag as a toll payment option as it nullifies the chances of any human contact between the drivers and the toll operators. Being an inclusive technological tool for toll collection on highways, FASTag is a more practical and beneficial option,” the NHAI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-fee-collection-reaches-rs-80-crore-per-day-nhai/story-ODOkZFdRicec145bUdFidN.html
25-12-2020||India||Defying police deployment, Uttarakhand farmers march towards Delhi||Despite heavy deployment of police force along the Uttar Pradesh border to stop farmers from marching to Delhi on Friday, hundreds of farmers marched to the national capital after clashing with police personnel on the highways. Clashes took place in Kashipur, Bazpur and Nanakmatta between the police and furious farmers. Some police personnel including a station officer of Nanakmatta sustained injuries while stopping the farmers. The police carried out videography of the clashes and are planning to lodge an FIR after identification of farmers who broke law and order in the district. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar, said, “Some of our personnel have been injured by farmers in some places. We have conducted videography of the march and will lodge FIRs against such farmers.” Farmers of the district had decided to march towards Delhi following the Delhi March call given by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday. On the contrary, the police of the district had appealed to them to drop the programme in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and to protect law and order. When the farmers didn’t drop their programme and decided to hold a march, more police force was deployed along the UP border. Despite the elaborate arrangements, farmers crossed the border and left for Delhi. Altercations took place in Kashipur, Bazpur and Nanakmatta between police and farmers. In Kashipur barricades were erected near IGL factory and Parmnandpur village. Some police personnel received injuries while stopping farmers there. VD Joshi, in-charge, ITI police station in Kashipur had a narrow escape from a tractor while sitting on the road to stop the tractors. In Bazpur, farmers broke the barricades with tractors at Doraha. Police tried to push the tractors but failed to stop them. Farmers entered UP by pushing the police force aside. In Nanakmatta, barricades were erected at Sisaikhera village on Kichha highway. Some police personnel including senior sub-inspector Sitarganj Sudakar Joshi and station officer Jhankaiya Dinesh Fartiyal received injuries while stopping the farmers. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, farmers’ leader from Bazpur said, “Police tried to stop us illegally from marching to Delhi. We want to raise our voice in Delhi to save the farm sector from the capitalists. Come what may, we will proceed to Delhi. We are not afraid of police action.” Raju Chhina, another farmer leader from Kashipur said, “Police are stopping us illegally from going to Delhi. No one can stop farmers in such a manner. Supreme Court must take suo motto cognizance of police’s illegal action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defying-police-deployment-uttarakhand-farmers-march-towards-delhi/story-QzKWP93oh8YkSZZgCg2cfI.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Withdraw farm bills, wake up from slumber’: Jharkhand CM slams Centre over farmers’ stir||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren blasted Modi-government in the Centre over ongoing farmers strike saying that PM Narendra Modi would wake up from slumber after death of farmers.Soren was speaking to media after paying respect to martyr Nirmal Mahato, a stalwart of Jharkhand separate state movement, on his 70th birth anniversary in Jamshedpur on Friday.“The way farmers’ strike is continuing, it seems PM Modi would wake up after the death of the farmers as his government appears to be hell-bent on taking the lives of the protesting farmers. The Union government should solve the problems of the farmers and withdraw the anti-people laws immediately. India has a distinguished image at international forums but the PM is diminishing it by his government’s adamant attitude,” said Soren after garlanding the life-size statue of Mahato at his memorial in Uliyan under Kadma police station (PS) this afternoon.The CM also said his government had completed a year in office and would present its account of performance and achievements on December 29 along with the roadmap for the next four years.Also read: From BJP to Mamata Banerjee, a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in Kolkata“Our government will not allow any illegal activity and ensure rule of law at any cost. There have been cases of illegal mining and we have taken action by stalking them. Most of the iron ore mines are now closed and penalty have also been levied on them for illegal mining. The past one year in office has been challenging. The old system has still been in effect in many spheres and we are trying to change the system. The previous state government had completely derailed the state. Once we accomplish the job of getting the system on track, the state will progress with double speed,” asserted Soren.He said it was an occasion of double joy as it was Christmas and also Mahato’s birth anniversary.“Nirmal Mahato was one of the pioneering and leading leaders of Jharkhand separate state movement. The crowd of people here shows the people’s love for him and JMM. It is such occasions when JMM’s bonding with the people gets further strengthened,” Soren said before leaving for Ranchi via Bokaro.Late Nirmal Mahato’s sister-in-law Ichagarh MLA Sabita Mahato, former state minister Sudhir Manato’s widow, her daughters, state ministers Champai Soren, Banna Gupta, MLAs Ramdas Soren, Mangal Kalindi, Samir Mohanty, Sanjiv Sardar and other JMM leaders were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-farm-bills-wake-up-from-slumber-jharkhand-cm-slams-centre-over-farmers-stir/story-Ao27ew6xem7lW5eLRu1HvK.html
25-12-2020||India||Admin, police facilitating horse-trading after DDC poll results: Omar||National Conference president Omar Abdullah on Friday accused the police and the administration in Jammu and Kashmir of facilitating horse-trading and defections following the announcement of DDC election results and alleged that some parties were using money, muscle and government coercion to make up the numbers. Omar’s remarks came after Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party led by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari announced that Yasmeena Jan -- the District Development Council (DDC) member from Imam Sahib-I, in south Kashmir’s Shopian district -- has joined the party here earlier in the day. Jan had contested the polls on the National Conference (NC) mandate. “This explains why our leaders in Shopian district are being put under “preventive arrest” by the police. J&K police & the administration are facilitating horse trading & defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested & won elections on an NC mandate,” Omar said on Twitter. The NC vice president said it was shameful for the administration to play “partisan politics”. “Shame on this administration for playing partisan politics to curry favour with the ruling party & their stooges. These parties couldn’t win seats so now they are using money/muscle/threats & government coercion to make up the numbers. So much for “democracy has won”!” He said in another tweet. The results of the DDC elections were announced on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/admin-police-facilitating-horse-trading-after-ddc-poll-results-omar/story-OTYhFq20QrjjmYeGMX1Y7M.html
25-12-2020||India||Amit Shah to start 2-day visit to Assam, Manipur tomorrow||Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to visit Assam and Manipur from Saturday and inaugurate a slew of new projects in both the northeastern states. Shah’s programmes in Guwahati on Saturday includes distribution of financial grants to 8,000 traditional Vaisnavite monasteries of the state under the Assam Darshan programme. He will also lay foundation stones for the development of Batadrava Than as a cultural and tourist destination, new medical college in Guwahati and nine law colleges to be established across Assam.Shah is scheduled to hold a meeting with party leaders and review the election preparation ahead of the assembly polls scheduled to be held next year in Assam. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) vice president and Assam in-charge Baijayant Panda has said many opposition leaders from Assam are in touch with the party. “A large number of MLAs in West Bengal have joined us. This is happening all over the country and in other states also. In Assam too, several elected representative at the local level in recent few weeks have joined us. This is because all over the country undeniable popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that is exceptional,” Panda said, according to ANI.“So in Assam, many leaders are contacting us on a daily basis from those parties which are opposing us so we will take that into consideration and surely you will see many people joining the BJP very soon. As assembly polls in Assam are nearing a large number of Congress leaders are making a bid to join ruling BJP in Assam,” Panda added.Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in Assam in April 2021.The Union home minister will on Sunday lay the foundation stones of the Churachandpur Medical College, the state government guest house at Imphal, the Manipur Bhawan in New Delhi’s Dwarka, an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Muongkhong, the state police headquarters at Imphal and the Integrated Command and Control Centre City in Imphal. Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh’s government plans to honour Shah for his role in introducing the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system in the northeastern state when he visits on Sunday. “We’re also appealing to the people to attend the programme which is being planned as an appreciation to Union home minister Amit Shahji’s role in introducing the ILP (Inner Line Permit) system in the state,” Biren Singh said on Saturday.ILP is issued to grant inward travel permission to an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It was formally introduced in the state on January 1, 2020, making Manipur the fourth state in the northeast after Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram where the ILP regime is applicable.The chief minister also said his government is planning the inauguration of completed projects such as Thoubal multipurpose project and foundation stone laying ceremonies for new projects, such as the construction of state police headquarters etc, during Shah’s visit. A meeting of the civil society organisations’ representatives in the state with the visiting home minister is also being arranged, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-start-2-day-visit-to-assam-manipur-tomorrow/story-fdvXJ85u1wISony4HYaDwM.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Second innings’: 64-year-old retired bank official in Odisha enrols in MBBS||At an age when people reminisce about their unfinished dreams, a retired bank official of Odisha has gone ahead and tried to achieve his ambition of becoming a doctor.Jay Kishore Pradhan, a 64-year-old retired bank official from Atabira in Bargarh district of Odisha, enrolled into the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), a government-run medical college for MBBS course after clearing the NEET exam.Pradhan, who retired as a deputy manager at the State Bank of India, said he wrote the NEET exam to achieve his unfinished dream of becoming a doctor.“I had appeared in the medical entrance examination after my intermediate exam, but I failed to crack it. later I pursued my bachelors in science. However, I always wanted to give another shot at medical entrance and started preparing for in 2016 after my retirement from the bank,” said Pradhan, who got admission into MBBS course under physically challenged students quota.Though 25 years is the upper age limit for NEET exam, a writ petition in this regard filed before SC in 2018 helped Pradhan take another shot at the medical entrance exam. As the case is sub-judice, NEET has allowed all candidates above the age of 25 to take admission subject to the outcome of the case.Also read: What’s in Centre’s trial run ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rolloutVIMSAR director professor Lalit Meher said Pradhan is the oldest student to take admission into the medical college. “It is one of the rare events in the history of medical education. He has certainly set an example by getting admission as a medical student at such an age,” said Meher.After he started his job, Pradhan wanted to take another shot at the MBBS entrance exam by quitting his job. “But we were five brothers and my family responsibilities didn’t allow me to quit the job at that time,” said Pradhan.Father to twin daughters and a son, Pradhan wanted to take another shot at the exam when his daughter was preparing for her medical entrance exam in 2016. “I was helping her out in her preparation and asked myself if I can teach her why can’t I write the exam again. My wife Pratibha, who is a pharmacist, also encouraged me,” said Pradhan. One of his daughters is now a student of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) while the other, also a BDS student, passed away on November 20. Pradhan’s son is now studying in Std 10.Pradhan is not bothered about the high cost of medical education over the next decade. “I have deposited Rs 30,000. Though I know that I can’t get a job, I would try to help people by offering free treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-innings-64-year-old-retired-bank-official-in-odisha-enrols-in-mbbs/story-eh5uabHyuFBHtuz8SEgLxI.html
25-12-2020||India||MNS workers vandalise Amazon godowns in Pune, Mumbai over non-inclusion of Marathi on app, site||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers resorted to vandalism at the godowns of Amazon, the e-commerce portal, in Mumbai and Pune demanding inclusion of Marathi as a preferred language on their apps and website. The workers resorted to ransacking after the Dindoshi Court directed MNS chief Raj Thackeray to be present in court following Amazon’s complaint that their posters were torn by MNS workers.MNS leader Nitin Sardesai said: “The Amazon is anti- Marathi as it gives choice of other languages to its buyers but not Marathi. This provoked the Maharashtrians and hence they indulged in violence.”The MNS had demanded that e-commerce companies Amazon and Flipkart should include Marathi as other regional languages like Tamil, Telugu and Kannada are included as preferred languages on their apps. Flipkart responded to the diktat and included Marathi while Amazon refused to do so. On Friday, MNS workers ransacked Amazon godowns in Kondhwa in Pune and Chandivali in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mns-workers-vandalise-amazon-godowns-in-pune-mumbai-over-non-inclusion-of-marathi-on-app-site/story-eQLZLpoIdHJ35UqAL2PKnK.html
25-12-2020||India||Delhi sees 758 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since August 16||A day after Delhi reported more than 1,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), new infections in the national capital registered a sharp fall on Friday. The city recorded 758 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in more than four months, the government’s latest health bulletin showed. Delhi had recorded 787 cases on August 17 and 652 infections on August 16. With the latest rise, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reached 621,439, the bulletin showed. 🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 25th December 2020🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/lIzqPMiA5fData showed 1,370 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries in Delhi to 603,758 or 97.15% of total cases. During the same period, the disease claimed 30 more lives, taking the death toll to 10,414 or 1.67% of total cases. Active cases, meanwhile, fell further to 7,267 or 1.17% of the caseload. The data also showed that 3,762 people were in home isolation, their number falling by 176, while that of those currently in hospitals also fell, and is currently at 2,747, down by 161.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi’s latest number of positive cases were from 85,749 tests in the last 24 hours, the data showed. This is 4,171 less than the previous test mark of 89,920 from which a total of 1,063 positive cases were reported on Thursday.The pandemic situation in the city, which had emerged as the epicentre of the country’s surge of Covid-19 cases during the festive season last month, has improved considerably. Addressing a press conference last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi “seems to have overcome the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Kejriwal had said during his virtual conference that from a peak of 8,600 cases a day in November, the capital’s Covid-19 situation seems to have “significantly improved.”Also Read | Covid-19: Delhi has overcome third wave, says KejriwalOn Thursday, the chief minister said that around 5.1 million people will be the first in line for vaccination in Delhi, as and when one begins. Kejriwal added that Delhi’s current storage capacity was for 7.4 million doses, which, he claimed, would be expanded to 11.5 million in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-758-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-august-16/story-CvdjBwp19zbKb96R90y5jO.html
25-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP challenges Mamata Banerjee to organise a 10,000-farmer rally in Kolkata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.From BJP to Mamata Banerjee, a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in KolkataBJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh has thrown a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in Kolkata to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee. Read moreMumbai’s Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 case for the first time since AprilDharavi, once a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot in Mumbai, did not report a single infection in the last 24 hours for the first time since April when the first patient was detected in the area. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘No one apart from India’ - Gautam Gambhir explains why this Indian team looks ‘so unsettled’Former opening batsman Gautam Gambhir believes the reason India are in a mess is due to the constant chopping and changing that’s been done to their Playing XI. Read moreWe Can Be Heroes movie review: Priyanka Chopra hams her way through Robert Rodriguez’s silly superhero filmWith virtually nothing in it for the people who actually pay for Netflix subscriptions, We Can Be Heroes is the sort of kids movie that is pretty much inaccessible to anyone over the age of 13. Read moreWHO has finally released its Covid-19 app on Google Play StoreThe World Health Organisation has released its Covid-19 Updates app on Google’s Play Store nearly eight months after taking it down from the platform.Read moreDisha Patani to Soha Ali Khan: Take style cues from divas for your virtual Christmas party lookWhenever you are feeling low, getting into your favourite outfit releases the much-needed endorphins and that is why you should do that on Christmas as well. Read moreMan transforms old discarded TV sets into ‘tiny houses’ for stray dogsHave you ever heard the proverb “Where there’s a will, there’s a way,”? This tale of a man hailing from Assam and his out-of-the-box thinking involving old discarded TV sets perfectly exemplifies the saying. Read more‘Try farm laws for a year or two…’: Rajnath Singh to farmers amid protestDefence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws for a year or two, adding that in case they are found not beneficial, the government will do all necessary amendments. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-challenges-mamata-banerjee-to-organise-a-10-000-farmer-rally-in-kolkata-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ka2tJjIv0pqMutSNCCx8lM.html
25-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth hospitalised for blood pressure fluctuations in Hyderabad||Actor and aspiring politician Rajinikanth was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad on Friday morning due to ‘severe fluctuations’ in his blood pressure, according to a statement from the hospital. Rajinikanth had been shooting in Hyderabad for almost ten days for his upcoming film ‘Annathe’ but it was suspended on December 23 after four crew members tested positive for Covid-19 during a routine test on the film sets. Rajinikanth took a Covid-19 test on December 22 and it was negative and has since isolated himself, a press release from the hospital said. “Though he did not have any symptoms of Covid-19, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations and needed further evaluation,” the hospital said. “He will be investigated and monitored closely in the hospital till his blood pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion he does not have any other symptoms and is hemodynamically stable.”Earlier Rajinikanth had said that on December 31 he would announce the launch date of his political party which he is expected to float in January 2021, ahead of the assembly elections slated for April or May in Tamil Nadu. He first announced his entry into politics on New Year’s Eve in 2017 but his party work remained in limbo. With the Covid-19 pandemic, his political foray remained doubtful as doctors had advised the 70-year-old against it since he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016. But the actor sprung a surprise earlier this month saying that though there were health concerns, he was ready to sacrifice his life for the people of Tamil Nadu and made two appointments for his yet to be launched party. At that time, Rajinikanth had also said that he had 40% shooting left to be completed for ‘Annathe’ which is being produced by late DMK leader M Karunanidhi’s grand-nephew Kalanidhi Maran’s Sun Pictures. Several political leaders wished Rajinikanth a speedy recovery including Telangana governor and former Tamil Nadu BJP’s state president Tamilisai Soundararajan, opposition leader of Andhra Pradesh, Chandrababu Naidu and Jana Sena party founder, Pawan Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-hospitalised-for-blood-pressure-fluctuations-in-hyderabad/story-gZNkrEMFdWZ9HkLm4Ku2hI.html
25-12-2020||India||2020: The year that gave glimpse of how life in India could be without trains||The year 2020 showed India a glimpse of how life would be without trains.As the coronavirus lockdown was announced on March 24, the Railways for the first time in its 167-year-old history shut down all its services.People stranded across the country and who usually looked to the Railways to ferry them home, were left without their lifeline. Some, like the thousands of migrant workers, took to the streets choosing to walk to their destinations. As the Railways directed its resources towards carrying essentials across the country, lakhs of tickets were cancelled during the summer holidays -- something unheard of in rail history.It was on May 1 that the wheels of trains started chugging again. This time, to ferry migrant workers home. Between May 1 and August 30, the Railways ferried 63.15 such workers home across 23 states in over 4,000 Shramik Special trains, not only bringing huge relief to the stranded migrants, but also hope for the others that their lifeline was down, but not out. It was, however, the Shramik Special trains which saw the Railways being criticised by the Opposition parties over the fares being charged from the migrant workers. While the Railways said that it did not charge a penny from the workers and spent more than Rs 2,000 crore on their transportation, the politics over the issue continued.“What do trains mean for me? They mean hope, joy and also a sense of routine. For 25 years, I have taken the same route home to Bihar to be with my family after months of being away from them. That’s what they mean to me, they get me to my family. “Every year, I would book tickets around the same time to go home. This year it did not happen and I feel a sense of loss that something that was part of life could very easily be taken away,” said Jitender Kumar, a security guard working in Noida.Currently, the Railways is operating 1,089 special train services, while Kolkata Metro was running 60 per cent of its services, Mumbai suburban was running on 88 per cent and 50 per cent of Chennai suburban services were in operation.Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav agreed that it was a tough year for the national transporter, but also highlighted how it innovated and used the crisis as an opportunity. “This year has been of grit and victories for Indian Railways. Faced with daunting and unprecedented COVID-related challenges, Indian Railways has not only been able to keep the national supply chain running and move millions of people back home in most adverse circumstances, but has also been able to realise the potential of its workforce, which driven to the wall has come out with innovative solutions,” Yadav told PTI. While passenger movement dipped resulting in an estimated loss of 87 per cent as compared to last year, the Railways’ made drastic changes in their freight movement, introducing parcel services, carrying essentials like milk, medicines and even ventilators.The innovation was to realise that if the Railways could not move passengers freely, it could move freight instead. Business Development Units (BDUs) were set up at Railway Board, Zonal Railway and Divisional levels. Multi-disciplinary teams from BDUs have been reaching out to customers to attract new business. It also introduced time-tabled parcel services to provide reliable services to courier services, e-commerce companies. The Railways also launched eight Kisan Rail Services to enable farmers to send their produce across the nation with enhanced speed and reduced cost.With all its focus on freight movement, the Railways’ freight staged a recovery in September by registering a record loading of 102 Million Tonnes (MT), which is the highest ever loading for the month of September in any year. The momentum in freight loading continued and growth of 15 per cent and 9 per cent has been obtained in the subsequent months of October and November respectively.With passenger trains off the tracks, the Railways doubled the speed of freight trains from 24 kmph a year ago to 46 kmph which means half the time taken for sending products. It also completed over 350 critical and long pending major bridge and track works.While the year saw no major accidents, the Railways family bore the pain of 30,000 employees infected with coronavirus and saw more than 700 frontline workers breathe their last.While it did not carry passengers across the country on holidays, it sent lakhs of migrant workers home to their loved ones. While it did not manufacture state-of-the-art Train 18s, the Railways produced more than 5000 COVID care coaches. Its production units supplemented the government’s efforts by producing masks, sanitisers and even overalls for use by railway employees.“The Railways used COVID as a challenge and has been able usher in an unprecedented growth in development of infrastructure, innovation, capacity expansion of network, freight diversification and transparency matters. Railways has this crisis as an opportunity to lay the foundation for future development and next level of travelling experience for passengers,” said Yadav.Looking forward, he said plans have been made to meet both infrastructure and traffic requirements till the year 2050. A National Rail Plan (NRP) 2030 has been developed with a view to develop infrastructure by 2030 to cater to the traffic requirements up to 2050. Based on the NRP, a Vision 2024 document has been prepared to develop infrastructure by 2024 to enhance modal share of Railways in freight transportation to more than 40 per cent and to cater to the traffic requirements up to 2030. However, there are two key issues on which the Railways is at loggerheads not only with its own officers and unions, but also political parties. While in 2020 the size of the Railway Board was reduced and it has been reoriented on functional lines, the decision to unify the eight organised Group ‘A’ services into one service under the Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) has drawn a lot of flak. The modalities for recruitment of officers into IRMS and unification of the existing services are being worked out.Another issue on the Railways’ decision to introduce 151 modern passenger trains operated by private players over 109 routes has resulted in both unions and Opposition parties accusing the national transporter of selling national assets.While Kumar does not understand the implications of either the reorganisation of cadres or running of private trains, he does, however, know that a glimpse of a life without trains meant moments away from loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-the-year-that-gave-glimpse-of-how-life-in-india-could-be-without-trains/story-g8AvacB2K4d0di5vlMKUPL.html
25-12-2020||India||From BJP to Mamata Banerjee, a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in Kolkata||BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh has thrown a 10,000 farmer rally challenge in Kolkata to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee. The BJP leader promised to showcase five times that number at their own rally, underlining that the farmers are with the party. “I am challenging Mamata Banerjee and her leaders to gather 10,000 farmers and organise a rally in Kolkata if they can. We would organise 50,000 farmers and show them. The farmers are with Narendra Modi,” said Dilip Ghosh launching a mega booth-level outreach program ahead of the crucial assembly polls.Ghosh also said that farmers in the state are not in favour of the Trinamool government in West Bengal. He alleged that Mamata Banerjee prefers to send her emissaries to meet agitating farmers stationed at Delhi borders but does not allow any protest rally in the state. On Wednesday, Banerjee had sent five of her parliamentarians to meet the farmers at Singhu border to support their protest against the new farm laws. CM Banerjee also spoke to the farmers over phone and assured them of her support. Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused Mamata Banerjee’s government of “destroying” the state and depriving its over 70 lakh farmers of benefits from the Centre’s flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 per year is given to each farmer.Defending her government, CM Banerjee accused the PM of trying to mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts. Meanwhile, the BJP in Bengal launched a massive door-to-door outreach program titled ‘Amar Booth Sobcheye Mazboot (My booth is the strongest)’ in all 78,000 polling booths across the state with the party’s booth-level workers. “We have been able to reach nearly every booth and set up booth committees. Booth level workers would be visiting every house till December 28. On December 27, they would urge people to listen to the Prime Minister’s Mann ki Baat program. Large screens would be set up in every booth,” said Ghosh. In November, the BJP had drawn up a draft blueprint of the campaign strategy the party would adopt in the run-up to the 2021 elections. Plans were made up to the booth level, so that each and every ground level worker could be involved during the campaign period and the party could cover the maximum area before the elections come calling. “This outreach program is a part of that and efforts are being made so that no booth level worker is left out. They are being given responsibilities,” said a senior BJP leader. Each booth president would be given a kit comprising a facemask, sanitiser and a diary to mark details of the campaign. It would also have various leaflets containing details of the outreach program, a 23-point guide on the duties of a booth president and a letter from the PM. The booth president would be given a name plate for his house, a BJP flag, to be hoisted at his house, and stickers to distribute to every house he visits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-bjp-to-mamata-banerjee-a-10-000-farmer-rally-challenge-in-kolkata/story-2MjRhWyAx8DV8Jx0BjrmyJ.html
25-12-2020||India||In MP, alert sounded for calls asking ‘book Covid vaccine for Rs 500’||Cautioning people, the Madhya Pradesh police cyber cell issued an alert after complaints surfaced that calls are being made to citizens asking them to pay Rs 500 and get themselves registered to receive the coronavirus vaccine in the first phase. The caller claimed to be calling from the ministry of health and urged people to sign up by downloading an app or through a shared OTP, said an officer of MP cyber cell. “Fraudsters from Haryana, Hyderabad and Telangana are targeting people on the pretext of registration for Covid-19 vaccine. We are creating awareness among people and asking them not to share any OTP and download any app for registration,” said MP cyber cell additional superintendent of police Rajat Sakhlecha. A complaint was filed in Bhopal in this regard. “Hello sir, I am calling from the ministry of Health. The registration for Covid 19 vaccine has started and it will be provided as a first-come, first-served basis. We are sending you an OTP just book your vaccine for Rs 500 so that you can get vaccination in the first phase,” read a complaint detailing the modus operandi by the fraudsters. The person who received the call informed the police, said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police. “We are trying to track down the numbers which are being used to commit fraud. We also issued an alert,” said the DIG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-alert-sounded-for-calls-asking-book-covid-vaccine-for-rs-500/story-0HNpS087lch8lEQ1KIFbUP.html
25-12-2020||India||Cold storage testing to managing crowd: Centre’s trial run ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout||Eight districts in four states of Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat have been chosen by the Centre to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The two-day dry run will be held on December 28 and 29, officials have said.“The dry run is being conducted to mobilise all elements involved in Covid-19 vaccination drive that is planned for next year to test the vaccine delivery machinery. All elements except for the vaccine will be mobilised,” a senior official in the Union ministry of health and family welfare said requesting anonymity.According to officials, five sites in each of the two districts in a state are likely to be established for the purpose of vaccinating beneficiaries. “Two districts each from all these four states have been identified where this dry run will be conducted simultaneously on these two days,” another health ministry official, who too did not want to be named, said.Also read | Antibodies target different part of coronavirus in severe Covid-19 cases: StudyThe health ministry has prepared a detailed checklist and shared it with the four states to guide them in the dry run. “The central government is gearing up for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine across the country. As the vaccine administrators will play an important role in the immunisation process, training of trainers and those who shall administer the vaccine has been taken up across various states,” the ministry said.Here is what you need to know about the dry run:1. The exercise will include necessary data entry in Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring of vaccine delivery, testing receipt and allocation, deployment of team members, mock drill of session sites with test beneficiaries, a well as reporting and evening meeting, according to the Union health ministry.Also read | South Africa rejects UK claims over new coronavirus variant2. The health ministry has said it will also include testing of cold storage and transportation arrangements for Covid-19 vaccine, management of crowd at session sites with proper physical distancing.3. Each state will plan it in two districts and preferably in five different session-type settings -- district hospital, community health centre (CHC) or primary health care centre (PHC), urban site, private health facility and rural outreach.4. “This exercise will enable end-to-end mobilisation and testing of Covid-19 vaccination process (except the vaccine) and check the usage of Co-WIN in a field environment, linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms, identify challenges and guide the way forward prior to actual implementation including improvements that may be required in the envisaged process,” the health ministry said.5. Special focus will be to check how possible adverse events following immunisation will be dealt with as each session site will have a designated health care facility linked to it to treat people who may develop any discomfort or uneasiness post-vaccination. It will also focus on how infection control practices will be adhered to during vaccination at the session site so that it doesn’t become ground for disease transmission.Also read | India records 23,067 fresh Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, 6.6% lower than yesterday6. This will also provide a hands-on experience to programme managers at various levels. An important focus of the dry run will be on the management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) as well as on adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission.7. The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and review at block and district levels, and preparation of feedback to be shared with the state and the Centre.8. Specific training modules have been drafted for medical officers, vaccinators, alternate vaccinators, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers, ASHA coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels.9. The training includes all operational aspects like the organisation of vaccination sessions, use of Co-WIN IT platform for the management of the entire vaccination process, deployment of HR cold chain preparedness, management of adverse events,  communications and intersectoral coordination, biomedical waste management, infection prevention protocols among others.Also read | Indian vaccine Covaxin has drawn global attention: ICMR10. As many as 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level training of trainers, which comprised state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, information, education and communication officials and development partners. Training has been completed at all states and Union territories with the participation of more than 7,000 district level trainees, except Lakshadweep which will conduct it on December 29. Also, 681 districts have completed the training of medical officers on operational guidelines, the ministry said. 11. To facilitate redressal of queries on Covid-19 vaccination and Co-WIN portal, national and state helpline capacity has also been strengthened. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three prioritised population groups including, healthcare workers, frontline workers, and prioritised age group.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-storage-testing-to-managing-crowd-centre-s-trial-run-ahead-of-covid-19-vaccine-rollout/story-lGUeYcsjMEiWsrH9CPhxlI.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Count me as your sister’: Mamata Banerjee reaches out to Amartya Sen amid ‘land grab’ charges||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Amartya Sen, expressing solidarity with the Nobel laureate after his name cropped up among those allegedly occupying land belonging to the prestigious Visva-Bharati University, news agency ANI reported. In an apparent reference to the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Banerjee wrote that some “nouveau invaders” in Visva-Bharati “have now started raising surprising and completely baseless allegations.” WB CM Mamata Banerjee writes to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen;says,"Some nouveau invaders in Visva Bharati have started raising surprising&baseless allegations about your familial properties...I want to express my solidarity with you in your battles against bigotry of majoritarians" pic.twitter.com/NXspA4VLgC“I write this letter to express my surprise and anguish over some recent developments, as I read about them in media, alluding to your ancestral links in Santiniketan,” Banerjee said in her letter to Sen. Banerjee also mentioned the Sen family’s links with Santiniketan, the location of Visva-Bharati University, stating that it’s a family “weaved in the culture and fabric of Santiniketan, inalienably.”Taking a veiled dig at the BJP, Banerjee also noted how “pained” she is at these “surprising and baseless” allegations about Sen’s familial properties. She added that she wanted to express her solidarity with him in his battles against the “bigotry of the majoritarians” in the country. The West Bengal CM then urged Sen to count her as his “sister and friend,” adding that he shouldn’t be daunted by these accusations. “We shall overcome,” she said in her letter.Banerjee’s letter to Sen comes a day after she was accused by the BJP of “skipping” the centenary year celebrations of the university, which were addressed by prime minister Narendra Modi. The chief minister’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) responded, claiming that she “wasn’t invited” for the ceremony.The episode has emerged as the latest flashpoint between the two parties as the BJP aims to defeat the TMC in next year’s assembly polls to end Banerjee’s 10-year term as the chief minister, and, in the process, form its maiden government in West Bengal.The Visva-Bharati University was established on December 23, 1924, by India’s first Nobel laureate, Rabindranath Tagore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/count-me-as-your-sister-mamata-banerjee-reaches-out-to-amartya-sen-amid-land-grab-charges/story-w7AdCIp4eKmdPAncRtrbHI.html
25-12-2020||India||Union ministers say govt is committed to farmers’ welfare amid protests against farm laws||No corporate can snatch away any farmer’s land as long as Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday as he attacked the opposition over agriculture reforms. Shah insisted the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will continue and mandis will not be shut down.Addressing a gathering in New Delhi to mark late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Shah accused the opposition of spreading lies about the three farm laws enacted in September. He maintained the laws, which have triggered protests, would benefit farmers. Shah said farmers were lauding agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar as they knew the laws are in their interest. He added if farmer organisations feel some provisions of the laws are not in their interest, the government is ready to discuss them with an open mind.Also Read: Protesting Haryana farmers throw open toll plaza gates on national and state highways“In 2014 and 2019, ending an era of coalition governments, farmers gave a clear mandate to Modi. And the top priority of the Modi government is the welfare of farmers,” said Shah. He added the Modi government implemented the long-standing demand of farmers to ensure MSP is at least equal to the cost of growing a crop.Shah said the Modi government has hugely raised welfare funds for farmers. He added when Modi introduced the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi direct cash-transfer scheme for the farmers, opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi demanded farm loan waivers.“In 10 years, the [previous Congress-led] UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government waived loans worth Rs60,000 crore. In just two and a half years, Modi provided Rs95,000 crore to 10 crore [100 million] farmers,” Shah said.“...when Sharad Pawar was the agriculture minister, in 2013-14, the budget for farmers was Rs21,900 crore. Now, under Modi, it has reached Rs134,000 crore. It is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. Those who talk about the welfare of the farmers, what did you do when they were in power?”Shah attended Modi’s virtual interaction with farmers along with other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders at a Gaushala in Delhi’s Kishangarh village. Other central ministers addressed similar events across the country.In New Delhi’s Dwarka, defence minister Rajnath Singh suggested that farmers should see how the farm laws work for a year or two. He added that in case they are not found to be beneficial, the government will bring necessary amendments. Singh called the protesting farmers his own people. “Those who are staging a sit-in [against the laws] are farmers...We have a lot of respect for them.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws.Singh called himself a farmer’s son and said the government will never do anything against the farmers’ interests. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws. I am the son of a farmer and have worked on farms. I want to assure you there is not a single provision in these laws that is against farmers.”Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who addressed a farmers’ gathering in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur, said the government is committed to the “protection and promotion” of farmers’ welfare. Naqvi said political parties, which know nothing about agriculture, were hurting farmers’ interests.The BJP had drawn an elaborate plan to defend the three laws and union ministers like Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Thaawar Chand Gehlot, Ramesh Pokhriyal are scheduled to travel across the country to counter “misinformation” about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-say-govt-is-committed-to-farmers-welfare-amid-protests-against-farm-laws/story-WqCRd9apZsM3pPwV5IglrK.html
25-12-2020||India||As La Nina peaks, longer, harsher winter likely||Winter may be relatively harsher and longer in north India this year as La Niña, a global weather pattern that has a cooling effect on global weather conditions, has matured and nearly peaked. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) said that various meteorological parameters indicate that La Niña, which began in September, is approaching its peak and may return to neutral conditions only late next summer.Scientists said this could mean a long, harsh winter in north India and could have an impact on the coming monsoon depending on the status of La Niña in May, June and July.La Niña is only one of a range of climatic drivers which affect weather globally. Other drivers include the Indian Ocean Dipole and Madden-Julian Oscillation. Forecasting the expected impacts of La Niña can therefore be complex, WMO, said adding that it has started mobilising preparations for impacts of La Niña. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has estimated that there is 95% probability of La Niña continuing through March 2021.Also Read: Bitter cold persists in north India, light snowfall likely in Kashmir over weekendWMO on Wednesday said South East Asia is expected to see a typical La Niña weather response over the next three months, with wetter than average conditions affecting most parts, particularly the Philippines, with an increased risk of flooding and landslides.“We have already said that below normal temperatures are expected over northwest India through the winter. Generally, La Niña helps the Indian monsoon which means above normal rains are expected but its too early to give a specific forecast for monsoon. We know that cold westerlies tend to enter inland during La Niña years which is also why winter is more pronounced,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at India Meteorological Department, Pune.“It appears that until February, winter conditions will be harsh and this may be an extended winter. La Niña years are associated with longer winters. The peak of winter chill is likely to be felt in the first week of January as a couple of western disturbances are likely to bring widespread snowfall to the western Himalayan region. If La Niña conditions immediately don’t switch over to El Niño when sea surface temperatures are very warm then monsoon in the coming year is also likely to be above normal,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.“Both October and November have been colder than normal over northwest India which may be linked to La Niña. Another spell of very low temperatures may set in by month end and January beginning,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centreEl Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Niña is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters. IMD, in its seasonal outlook for winter, had said nights and early mornings are likely to be chilly, recording below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north, northwest, central and some parts of east India while day temperatures are likely to be above normal over the same regions. The diurnal temperature variation (difference between day and night temperatures) is likely to be high in most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and a few subdivisions of east India.WMO on Thursday also said in a statement that this decade (2011-2020) is the warmest and this year remains on track to be one of the three warmest on record, despite a cooling La Niña event, which is now mature and impacting weather patterns in many parts of the world.“Record warm years have usually coincided with a strong El Niño event, as was the case in 2016. We are now experiencing a La Niña, which has a cooling effect on global temperatures, but has not been sufficient to put a brake on this year’s heat. Despite the current La Niña conditions, this year has already shown near record heat comparable to the previous record of 2016,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-la-nina-peaks-longer-harsher-winter-likely-says-meteorological-organisation/story-acCtDSonREHn34lYuhv0vM.html
25-12-2020||India||Arya Rajendran, 21, chosen country’s youngest Mayor from Thiruvananthapuram||Initially she thought it was a prank played by some of her college friends but a call from the Communist Party of India’s (CPI–M) district secretariat made things clear for the second year B.Sc Mathematics student of the All Saints College-- Arya Rajendran (21). The party has entrusted her with a coveted post. She will be the new Mayor of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.The state capital has pulled off a mayoral first-- she is the youngest Mayor of the country. “I was into politics at a young age. If the party asks me to take to take up any role, I will be the happiest to accept it,” said Arya Rajendran, daughter of an electrician K Rajendran and LIC agent Sreelatha Rajendran. Hailing from a lower middle-class family, her single storey house doesn’t have a motorable road.Basking in the glory of recent local body elections, in which it won the majority of corporations, panchayats and block bodies, the ruling party sprang a surprise by giving the mantle of the prestigious corporation to a first-time councillor. Senior party leader Jameela Sreedharan and two others were also in the running, but the party chose a young leader over them.Call it an election stunt or not, this time the party had experimented with many young faces like Rajendran to take on the might of the Bharatiya Janata Party and incumbency factor and many emerged victorious. In the 100-member corporation council, the ruling Left Democratic Front has 52 seats and the BJP is in opposition with 35 seats.In the council also she is the baby (usually the mayor is called the mother of the city) but politics is nothing new to Arya Rajendran. She became a member of Bala Sangam, a children’s outfit affiliated to the party, at the tender age of six. Now she is its state president and also an office-bearer of the Students Federation of India, the party’s youth wing.The mayor-designate has quite a few priorities. “A heritage city Thiruvananthapuram is already beautiful. I will make it more clean ensuring proper waste disposal. I will also ensure medical care for all,” she said adding many leaders have inspired her and prominent among them were Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K K Shailaja.She said along with her new role she would like to continue her studies. “People in my ward gave me a thumping margin because I was young and a student. I will pursue my studies along with my public service,” she said. Her elder brother works in a West Asian country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arya-rajendran-21-chosen-country-s-youngest-mayor-from-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram/story-iF24YHQ7cvQDvM2nmOFAPL.html
25-12-2020||India||Covid-19 negative certificate must for Sabarimala pilgrims from tomorrow||Devotees planning to visit the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala of Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district will have to carry a certificate declaring them free of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which manages the temple, has said.TDB president N Vasu said the Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test certificate, taken not more than 48 hours before their visit to the temple, is must for pilgrims from Saturday, December 26. “In view of the Makaravilakku festival season from December 31 to January 19, 2021, devotees who do not have an RT-PCR-negative certificate will not be allowed to climb the hill,” the board president has said.The temple will remain closed after the Mandala puja on December 26 and reopen for the Makaravilakku puja on December 31. Also read | Devotees can avail Sabarimala Prasadam at their doorstep via Speed PostHere is what you need to know:1. The decision was taken in the backdrop of a recent directive by Kerala High Court, which has raised the number of pilgrims permissible daily to 5,000 from 2,000.2. Pilgrims will have to register online before visiting the temple as usual. The online booking will be done on a first-come-first-served basis.3. All pilgrims will have to adhere to the Covid-19 protocol mandatorily. Authorities will keep strict vigil that social distancing of at least six feet is being maintained and masks are being properly worn.4. TDB authorities have limited to 100 the number of people taking part in the three-day procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam to be adorned on the idol of Lord Ayyappa during the Makaravilakku ceremony.5. The receptions to the procession at various points en route to Sabarimala have been cancelled, TDB said.6. All officials on duty at Sabarimala should also undergo the RT-PCR tests according to the revised guidelines issued on December 15.7. The state’s health department has intensified the antigen testing in Sabarimala and its base camps to check the possible spread of the viral infection in view of the increase in the number of permitted pilgrims at the hill shrine.8.The temple would be closed on January 20 after the Makaravilakku ritual on January 14, marking the end of the season. It is the first annual pilgrimage season at the hill temple after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-negative-certificate-must-for-sabarimala-pilgrims-from-tomorrow/story-LdwbYylOdMeYgxLb9Q18vM.html
25-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: China denies links between stranded Indian sailors and standoff, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian sailors stranded due to Covid measures, not standoff, says ChinaChina on Friday said there was no link between the situation of the Indian sailors on two cargo ships carrying Australian coal stranded at Chinese ports and the current state of ties between the countries. The Chinese foreign ministry said the two vessels were stuck at the ports because of quarantine measures in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more2.1 million residents, Rs 5 lakh benefit: PM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. It will provide benefits to 2.1 million eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011. According to officials, eligible beneficiaries will get the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC) as per the SECC 2011 database. Read moreProtesting Haryana farmers throw open toll plaza gates on national and state highwaysIntensifying their ongoing agitation against the three agriculture laws, members of the farmers’ unions took over several toll plazas in Haryana allowing free movement of vehicles on Friday morning. Read more‘Act of terrorism’: BJP after party worker assaulted by PDP leaderA First Information Report has been filed against Peoples Democratic Party leader and former MLC Surinder Choudhary and his supporters for allegedly assaulting a BJP worker, said police on Thursday. The BJP has called the attack an “act of terrorism”. Read moreRajinikanth admitted to hospital in Hyderabad after complaining of fluctuations in blood pressureVeteran actor Rajinikanth had been admitted to hospital in Hyderabad. ‘Severe fluctuations’ in his blood pressure have been reported. A statement from the Apollo Hospitals read: “Mr Rajnikanth has been admitted in the hospital today in the morning. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘I went up to Virat Kohli and said sorry’ - Ajinkya Rahane reveals dressing room talks after Adelaide run outAjinkya Rahane revealed that he had apologised to Virat Kohli after his terrible mix-up with him resulted in the Indian captain’s run out in the first day-night Test in Adelaide. India were in a strong position at 188 for 3 when an unfortunate mix-up between Rahane and Kohli turned the match towards Australia. Read moreKareena Kapoor Khan, Malaika Arora, Ayushmann Khurrana: Inside B-town’s Christmas celebrations with their familiesAfter the year the entire world has had on account of the coronavirus pandemic, all of us are definitely looking for any excuse to celebrate and find positivity in this new normal. Christmas and New Year’s is usually a time of giving, sharing, celebrating, partying and expressing gratitude, and while curfews and restrictions may have dampened everyone’s plans to party, one can still celebrate with their near and dear ones, which is exactly what B-town celebrities are up to. Read moreSantas hold huge mask to spread awareness in Sudarsan Pattnaik’s sand art. WatchInternationally acclaimed award-winning sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik recently attempted a record by creating an artwork that shows two Santa Clauses holding a huge mask with a message of awareness written on it. He took to Twitter to share images and videos of his amazing creation. Watch‘Mamata government blocking central aid to farmers of Bengal’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi launched a scathing attack on the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal and accused it of blocking the aid provided by the Centre to farmers of the state. PM Modi said that the West Bengal government has deprived farmers of the benefits of the ‘Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi’ under which a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal installments of Rs 2,000 each. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-china-denies-links-between-stranded-indian-sailors-and-standoff-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0YxtdTZFBGrX2WTrACjEeJ.html
25-12-2020||India||Mentioned same reforms during 2019 election: Sitharaman reminds Rahul Gandhi of Cong’s manifesto||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the three farm bills, which were passed during the monsoon session in Parliament earlier this year. Sitharaman questioned the Wayanad Lok Sabha MP the reason behind his lack of support to the same reforms which were promised by his party during the parliamentary elections last year.“I want to ask Rahul Gandhi (that) were these pro-farmers policies not mentioned in the 2019 election manifesto of Congress? They are protesting just because those reforms are being implemented by PM Modi, and not them,” the finance minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In its plan for reforms in the agricultural sector, Congress’ election manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had said that if the party forms the government it would “repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.” The party manifesto had also said it maintains that the “Essential Commodities Act, 1955 belongs to the age of controls. Congress promises to replace the Act by an enabling law that can be invoked only in the case of emergencies.”Also Watch l ‘Incompetent man’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over farmer protests The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has previously targeted Congress over its stand on the APMC act. Government sources told PTI earlier this month that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was also keen on amending the APMC act.Despite its promise to repeal the Essential Commodities Act, after it was passed in September, Congress leader and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had said that his government will challenge the laws in the Supreme Court.The BJP has said earlier that the previous governments in the Centre did not have the willpower to go ahead with tough reforms. Speaking exclusively to Hindustan Times earlier this month Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar had said, “Those who believe in status quo cannot create history. Even the UPA wanted to make these reforms but they couldn’t.”PM Modi on Saturday once again assured the farmers protesting against the three laws and requested them to resume discussions. “We have not claimed that we have all the knowledge. There should be a debate. That is how democracy works. We are ready to address all issues in an open mind,” he said.Farmers have been protesting since nearly a month now at the borders of Delhi against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mentioned-same-reforms-during-2019-election-sitharaman-reminds-rahul-gandhi-of-cong-s-manifesto/story-2pjoiejsuRABd9Kgf7Cz4I.html
25-12-2020||India||Probe on jail event glorifying Asaram to be completed in 2-3 days: Official||The investigation into allegations that followers of self-styled godman Asaram, who is serving a sentence for rape, visited the district jail here and distributed blankets will be completed in two to three days, Deputy Inspector General (Jails) R N Pandey has said. Pandey visited the Shahjahanpur district jail in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and investigated the matter in detail for over seven hours, besides recording statements of jail officials. “Statements of Jail Superintendent Rakesh Kumar, Jailor Rajesh Kumar and others were recorded. Documentary evidence such as books and pamphlets distributed by the followers of Asaram were also collected,” Pandey said on Friday. The jail gatekeeper, warden and some inmates were also questioned, he said, adding that he would complete the probe in two to three days and hand over the report to the Director General (Jails). According to reports, Asaram’s two followers had come from Lucknow, distributed blankets and held a prayer meeting in which Asaram’s photograph was placed on Monday. The probe was ordered after photos of the programme went viral on social media. Asaram was convicted in April 2018 of raping a Shahjahanpur girl at his ashram near Jodhpur in 2013. He was arrested by the Jodhpur Police on August 31 that year and has been in jail since then. The girl’s father alleged on Tuesday that Asaram was “glorified” at a “satsang” (prayer meeting) held in the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-on-jail-event-glorifying-asaram-to-be-completed-in-2-3-days-official/story-McrgLXH51cTO9Ro7Vcgq2O.html
25-12-2020||India||UP Police provide security to Aligarh man receiving threats after conversion||Uttar Pradesh Police has provided security to a man who was allegedly receiving threats after he converted to Hinduism. Karamveer, a resident of Aligarh, who had recently converted to Hinduism and was earlier known as Qasim, has alleged that he is being threatened.“After I converted, I and my family are being threatened. I need police protection,” Karamveer said. On his complaint, the Aligarh police have given him protection. “We have registered a case based on the complaint filed by the man. He has alleged that he is being threatened by some people so we have deployed security at his residence,” said Aligarh Superintendent of Police (SP) Crime, Arvind Kumar.Karamveer adopted Sanatan Dharma with his children on December 20. The case has been registered at the Delhi Gate Police station. Karamveer and his wife Anita got married a few years ago according to Hindu rituals and also registered their marriage in court. “Even after several years of marriage we both were following our own religion,” he added.Alleging threat to the life of Karamveer, his wife Anita stated that some people are trying to pressurise him to renounce his new faith. “My husband is receiving repeated threats. Some people are asking him to renounce his recently-acquired religion. We are getting life threats and have not gone home for 5 days,” Anita added. Further investigation in the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-provide-security-to-aligarh-man-receiving-threats-after-conversion/story-EKYUqITuWSBKJ6YCPNueZO.html
25-12-2020||India||2.1 million residents, Rs 5 lakh benefit: PM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. It will provide benefits to 2.1 million eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011. According to officials, eligible beneficiaries will get the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC) as per the SECC 2011 database. AB-PMJAY is a flagship health scheme of the central government, which was launched in 2018, and provides a cover of up to Rs 500,000 per family every year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation.A senior government official said all residents of Jammu and Kashmir will be covered under the scheme irrespective of their socio-economic status will be covered under the scheme with the launch of AB-PMJAY SEHAT. “The government is collecting details of beneficiary families who may be missing from the SECC 2011 database. This will ensure that all beneficiaries are enrolled at the earliest so that they can avail free healthcare services,” the official told ANI.The official said, according to ANI, National Health Authority’s (NHA) information technology platform like beneficiary identification system has been customised to implement the scheme. AB-PMJAY has empanelled at least 219 hospitals, including 34 private hospitals, for providing health services to residents of Jammu and Kashmir under the scheme. Medical procedures such as oncology, cardiology, nephrology etc are included in the scheme the official said. Beneficiaries can avail services from any of the 24,148 emplaned hospitals across the country under AB-PMJAY’s portability feature.Here are the key features of PMJAY:1. The government says PM-JAY is the world’s largest health insurance/assurance scheme which is fully financed by it. It provides a cover of Rs 500,000 per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation across public and private empanelled hospitals in India.2. The benefit of Rs 5,00,000 is on a family floater basis, which means that it can be used by one or all members of the family. The RSBY had a family cap of five members. However, based on learnings from those schemes, PM-JAY has been designed in such a way that there is no cap on family size or age of members.3. More than 107.4 million poor and vulnerable entitled families (approximately 500 million beneficiaries) are eligible for these benefits.4. PM-JAY provides cashless access to health care services for the beneficiary at the point of service, that is, the hospital. PM-JAY envisions to help mitigate catastrophic expenditure on medical treatment which pushes nearly 6 crore Indians into poverty each year.5. It covers up to three days of pre-hospitalisation and 15 days post-hospitalisation expenses such as diagnostics and medicines.6. There is no restriction on the family size, age or gender.7. All pre-existing conditions are covered from day one.8. Benefits of the scheme are portable across the country i.e. a beneficiary can visit any empanelled public or private hospital in India to avail cashless treatment.9. Services include approximately 1,393 procedures covering all the costs related to treatment, including but not limited to drugs, supplies, diagnostic services, physician’s fees, room charges, surgeon charges, OT and ICU charges etc.10. Public hospitals are reimbursed for the healthcare services at par with the private hospitals.Here are the benefits under PM-JAY:1. Medical examination, treatment and consultation2. Pre-hospitalisation3. Medicine and medical consumables4. Non-intensive and intensive care services5. Diagnostic and laboratory investigations6. Medical implantation services (where necessary)7. Accommodation benefits8. Food services9. Complications arising during treatment10. Post-hospitalisation follow-up care up to 15 days(Source: Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-1-million-residents-rs-5-lakh-benefit-pm-modi-to-launch-ab-pmjay-sehat-scheme-for-j-k-tomorrow/story-4TSx4nnmq4pHGR09ZIlJtL.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Act of terrorism’: BJP after party worker assaulted by PDP leader||A First Information Report has been filed against Peoples Democratic Party leader and former MLC Surinder Choudhary and his supporters for allegedly assaulting a BJP worker, said police on Thursday. The BJP has called the attack an “act of terrorism”.The CCTV footage of the incident has gone viral on social media.The victim has been identified as Ripu Daman Kohli. The former MLC and PDP general secretary had taken out a victory procession to celebrate the victory of the party candidate from Nowshera. Kohli was at his shop in Nowshera when the PDP leader, along with his supporters, barged in and started beating him on Thursday afternoon. Kohli was later hospitalised at sub district hospital in Nowshera.However, the PDP leader, in his complaint, claimed that Kohli had abused some women activists of the party during the victory procession. His remarks angered party workers who then slapped Kohli.“Barbaric assault on BJP leader Ripu Daman by PDP leader Surinder Choudhary is surely to be seen as act of terrorism by PDP leader at the behest of PDP top leadership,” said Vibodh Gupta, J&K BJP general secretary and former MLC. Gupta strongly condemned the act and said that PDP leadership has lost the mental balance out of frustration. The leader said the PDP was showing its true colours of hooliganism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-of-terrorism-bjp-after-party-worker-assaulted-by-pdp-leader/story-ReduMvNsLE8ybrKgnDTWaP.html
25-12-2020||India||Railways to enhance IRCTC’s e-ticketing website||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said that the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) e-ticketing website will have all the features for ease of booking by the passengers.The Indian Railways is working to enhance user personalisation and facilitation of their e-ticketing website, along with enhanced features and simple design, the official press release said.The Union Minister of Railways Industry and Commerce reviewed the upgradation work for the e-ticketing system. IRCTC ticketing website of Indian Railways provides the facility of online passenger reservation in the trains being run over IR touching the lives of most citizens for their rail travel needs.The release further reads, since 2014 a new emphasis is being given on improving the public experience in the booking of tickets as well as travelling conveniences. The Minister felt that the IRCTC website remains the first contact point of traveling citizens with the railways and that experience must be friendly and convenient.“Under the new digital India, more and more people are now moving towards booking the tickets online rather than going to the reservation counters and therefore IRCTC website needs to really double its efforts to constantly upgrade itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-enhance-irctc-s-e-ticketing-website/story-KXfnTyTi0PZ5YyS30aK1rK.html
25-12-2020||India||PM-KISAN: All you need to know about Centre’s income transfer scheme for farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released Rs 18,000 crore as the next instalment under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme to more than 90 million farmers. The Prime Minister’s outreach comes amid the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.A financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmers, payable in three equal four-monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each through direct benefit transfer under the PM-KISAN Scheme. Also read | BJP ups ante against TMC as PM Modi releases financial benefits to farmersHere is all you need to know about PM-KISAN, the Modi government’s income transfer scheme for farmers:1. The PM-KISAN scheme was launched on February 24, 2019, with an aim to augment the income of the farmers by providing support to all landholding farmers’ families across the country, to enable them to take care of expenses related to agriculture and allied activities as well as domestic needs. 2. Under the scheme, an amount of Rs 6,000 per year is transferred in three four-monthly instalments of Rs 2000 directly into the bank accounts of the farmers, subject to certain exclusion criteria relating to higher-income status.3. The scheme became effective from December 1, 2018, and the cut-off date for identification of beneficiaries with regard to their eligibility was February 1, 2019. Also read | ‘Ready to talk to those who are against us ’: PM Modi’s top quotes4. The responsibility of identification of beneficiaries under PM-KISAN scheme rests with the governments and administrations of state and Union territories. An exclusive web-portal www.pmkisan.gov.in has been launched for the scheme. The financial benefits are released to the beneficiaries on the basis of the data of farmers prepared and uploaded by them on the PM-Kisan web-portal.5. The scheme initially provided income support to all small and marginal Farmers’ families across the country, holding cultivable land up to 2 hectares. Its ambit was later expanded from June 1, 2019, to cover all farmer families in the country irrespective of the size of their landholdings. 6. Affluent farmers have been excluded from the scheme such as income taxpayers in last assessment year, professionals like doctors, engineers, lawyers, chartered accountants etc and pensioners drawing at least Rs 10,000 per month (excluding MTS/Class IV/Group D employees). Also read | If not found beneficial, we will amend the farm laws: Rajnath Singh7. Special provisions have been made for the North-Eastern States where land ownership rights are community based, Forest dwellers and Jharkhand, which does not have updated land records and restrictions on the transfer of land.8. For enrollment, the farmer is required to approach the local patwari/revenue officer/nodal officer (PM-Kisan) nominated by the state government. Farmers can also do their self-registration through the Farmers Corner on the portal. Farmers can also edit their names in PM-KISAN database as per their Aadhaar database/card through the Farmers Corner. Farmers can also know the status of their payment through the Farmers Corner in the portal. Village-wise details of beneficiaries are also available on the Farmers Corner.9. The Common Service Centres (CSCs) have also been authorised to register farmers for the scheme upon payment of fees. These facilities on Farmers Corner are also available through CSCs. Also read | What agriculture needs: Risk mitigation10. The total number of beneficiaries expected to be covered under the scheme is 140 million on the basis of the agriculture census, 2015-16. Beneficiaries are entitled to their benefit from the four-monthly period in which their name is registered by the state nodal officer (SNO) in the PM-Kisan Portal. 11. The Union agriculture ministry has also launched a 24x7 automated IVRS based helpline for status verification. Farmers can dial 1800-11-5526 or 155261 to know the status of their application. Besides, farmers can now reach out to the PM KISAN team on email pmkisan-ict@gov.in.(Source: Press Information Bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-kisan-all-you-need-to-know-about-centre-s-income-transfer-scheme-for-farmers/story-segqjAHIpV27PUQZ9Ah48J.html
25-12-2020||India||JD(U) suffers setback in Arunachal, six MLAs join BJP||The Janata Dal United received a major jolt in Arunachal Pradesh, with six of its seven MLAs shifting allegiance to the ruling BJP, a bulletin issued by the state legislative assembly said.The lone MLA from the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA), Kardo Nyigyor from Likabali constituency, has also joined the saffron party.The development comes a day ahead of the announcement of the panchayat and municipal poll results.The JD(U) MLAs who switched sides are Talem Taboh from Rumgong Assembly Constituency, Hayeng Mangfi (Chayang Tajo), Jikke Tako (Tali), Dorjee Wangdi Kharma (Kalaktang), Dongru Siongju (Bomdila) and Kanggong Taku from Mariyang-Geku constituency, the bulletin said.On November 26, the JD(U) had issued show-cause notices to Siongju, Kharma and Taku for “anti-party” activities, and suspended them.The six JD(U) MLAs had earlier elected Talem Taboh as the new Legislature Party leader allegedly without the knowledge of senior party members.The PPA MLA was also suspended by the regional outfit earlier this month.“We have accepted their letters conveying the intention to join the party,” BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh president B R Waghe said.The JD(U), led by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, won seven of the 15 seats it contested in the 2019 assembly elections, and emerged as the second largest party after the BJP, which had bagged 41 seats.Following the switchover, the BJP now has 48 MLAs in the 60-member House, while the JD(U) is left with only one.Congress and the National People’s Party (NPP) have four members each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-suffers-setback-in-arunachal-six-mlas-join-bjp/story-g82mGr3Ft32VsAQrw9CI1H.html
25-12-2020||India||Vajpayee played transformational role in shaping India’s foreign policy: Jaishankar||Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee played a transformational role in shaping India’s foreign policy that led to a new beginning in relations with the US, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In his opening remarks at the maiden Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture, Jaishankar said the late premier “introduced corrections, some bold and others more nuanced,” in a range of national security and foreign policy issues. “Atalji’s vision of India-US cooperation has been advanced, particularly in recent years, by the leadership and commitment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Overcoming the hesitations of history, we are today focused on addressing contemporary challenges and emerging opportunities,” he said. Describing Vajpayee as a “titan of his times who left an indelible stamp on many of our national policies”, Jaishankar said he had an “intuitive understanding that the post-Cold War world required India to drastically rework its relationships and interests”. Also Read: Yogi Adityanath pays tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on birth anniversary“This vision led to a new beginning with the United States that has since been developed by successive governments on both sides. It required us, as a nation, to overcome difficult moments and continuing concerns. Only someone with Atalji’s enormous self-assurance could, in the early days, have visualised how natural this partnership would become,” he said. At the same time, India’s relationship with Russia has remained steady partly due to Vajpayee’s endeavours, Jaishankar said. India’s principled approach of engaging China on the “basis of mutual respect and mutual sensitivity” too reflects Vajpayee’s thinking, he added. In India’s neighbourhood, Vajpayee “radiated goodwill and friendship, while being clear that terrorism and trust could not coexist”, Jaishankar said. Vajpayee could “finesse difficult issues” while warmly reaching out across regions and continents, he said, pointing to the country’s relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) and with countries in Europe, Africa and Latin America. “And most notably, he embraced the Indian diaspora in a way that had no parallel till then,” Jaishankar said. Nisha Desai Biswal, president of the US-India Business Council and former assistant secretary for South Asia in the US state department, delivered the address focused on India-US relations. India marked the 96th birth anniversary of Vajpayee, who died in 2018, on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vajpayee-played-transformational-role-in-shaping-india-s-foreign-policy-jaishankar/story-eWihkQhRIlAJmCYHRgbrmI.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Only farmers of Bengal deprived of central benefits’: PM Modi’s sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a sharp attack on Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal and said the state was deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes because its leaders were busy in furthering their own political ideology in name of farmers’ protest.“Today, more than Rs18,000 crores have been directly deposited in the accounts of farmers; no middlemen, no commissions. But the 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have been deprived of the benefits of the Centre’s schemes. Bengal is the only state which is not allowing benefits of the schemes to reach the farmers,” PM said after releasing the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers.Those who have ruled West Bengal for over three decades have destroyed the state, the PM further said, asking why the Opposition does not raise objections when the same people who stand against central schemes in Bengal go to Punjab and change colours.“Mamata Banerjee’s ideology has destroyed Bengal. Her actions against the farmers have hurt me a lot. Why is the Opposition quiet on this?” he said.“Many farmers from Bengal have written to the Centre, seeking benefits that haven’t reached them because of their state leaders, but the to no avail. The state government does not give importance to their appeals. I am astonished and in pain,” the PM said.PM’s latest outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-farmers-of-bengal-deprived-of-central-benefits-pm-modi-s-sharp-attack-on-mamata-banerjee/story-aGr7Zgex1SUAndkQKmh8IO.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Ready to talk to those who are against us on farm issues’: PM Modi’s top quotes||Training his gun at the opposition parties for misleading farmers who are protesting against the new three farm laws for the past four weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he has no problem with parties doing politics. But don’t mislead farmers, he urged. This was BJP’s latest outreach programme amid the ongoing farmers’ protest which is far from the thaw. What PM Modi and other Union ministers have been saying for the past few days were echoed in PM Modi’s speech on Friday. But there was more as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government is ready to talk to those who are against the government. Here are the top quotes from PM Modi’s speech:‘Talks must be based on issues,facts and logic’“There are parties which supported these farm laws before. We have their written statement. But now they have changed their stance. One political leader is misleading people. He doesn’t even believe in democracy. He has connections abroad as well. Can’t even say things he has been saying. But despite all this, I am saying this with humility that the we are ready to discuss the issue of farmers with those who are against us too but the discussion has to be based on issues, facts and logic,” PM Modi said.‘We have open mind’“We have not claimed that we have all the knowledge. There should be debate. That is how democracy works. We are ready to address all issues in an open mind,” PM Modi said.‘Direct benefit transfer’ Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary, PM Modi on Friday said the farm laws are in a way inspired by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “Once Vajpayee ji criticised his previous government on how government’s money used to get lost in the way before reaching the beneficiaries. I am glad that we are being able to ensure direct benefit transfer. There is no middleman between the government and the beneficiaries,” PM Modi said.‘West Bengal depriving farmers’ “Over 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal are deprived of this scheme. This is my regret. The West Bengal government is blocking the scheme for its political interest. If you listen Mamata Banerjee’s speech dating 15 years back, then everything becomes clear,” PM Modi said.‘Farmers have replied through ballot box’“The political party which has deprived its own farmers is instigating farmers in Punjab. They have lost political relevance. They have lost the recent elections in placed where they are supporting the farmers’ protest,” PM Modi said.‘Why does Kerala have no mandi system?’“Those ruling Kerala for years are joining Punjab farmers for selfies, but not doing anything for mandi system in own state. If mandi and APMC are so good, then why Kerala does not have these?” PM Modi said.‘Demand has changed’“Farmers had some apprehensions about new laws, but people with political agenda came in between and introduced new unrelated demands. Initially, the demand was MSP,. which is justified as they are farmers. But now there are demands of releasing some people from the prison. There are demands to make highways toll free,” PM Modi said.‘Sell your products anywhere in the country’“Farmers will be able to sell their products anywhere in the country, listen to me carefully. If you want to sell at MSP, you can sell. If you want to sell at mandis, you can do that. If you want to sell online, the new laws empower farmers to do that too,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-politics-but-don-t-mislead-our-farmers-pm-modi-s-top-quotes/story-m287CwWOQxnJbEaKybmruL.html
25-12-2020||India||Let farm laws be implemented for a year; if not found beneficial, we will amend them: Rajnath Singh||Addressing a rally in Delhi, senior BJP leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh made an appeal to “let the farm laws be implemented for a year or so”, adding that the government will be ready to amend the laws if they are not beneficial to farmers.“Let the farm laws be implemented for year or so. If they are found to be not beneficial for farmers, we will be ready for necessary amendments,” Singh said. He made these comments at a rally in Delhi which is a part of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) efforts to combat the ongoing protest against the three contentious farms laws. The ruling party is conducting a nationwide outreach to the farmers on December 25, the birthday of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Addressing a rally at Dwarka in the national capital, Singh said he himself is a farmers’ son and assured that the Modi government “will never do anything which is not in the interest of the farmers”.Describing the protesting farmers as his own people, Singh said, “Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers’ families. We have lot of respect for them.”Underlining that all problems can be resolved through dialogue, Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants talks with farmers to continue, and therefore, the government has extended an invitation to them. Singh also said that the government is taking every step in the interest of the farmers. “Our government will never do anything which is not in interest of farmers. Those who are on dharna are farmers, born to farmers’ families; we have lot of respect for them.”Talking about minimum support price, Singh said, “There has been misconception that minimum support price will end. Prime Minister has said & I’ll also give my word that MSP won’t end.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi also virtually addressed farmers across states on Friday and released the next batch of financial aid Rs 18,000 crore from the PM-Kisan scheme. Farmers are protesting on the borders of Delhi against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-farm-laws-be-implemented-for-a-year-if-not-found-beneficial-we-will-amend-them-rajnath-singh/story-0o534UEFLeqI1qGz7zEBTI.html
25-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Filming at centrally protected monuments free until August 15, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.75 years of Independence: Filming at centrally protected monuments free until August 15The Centre has waived the fees for shootings linked to the country’s heritage and freedom struggle at centrally-protected monuments under Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) beginning with late former Prime Minister Atal Bihar Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on Friday. Read moreApologise, Afghanistan tells China after busting its espionage cell in KabulAfghanistan has busted a 10-member Chinese module operating a terror cell in the capital city of Kabul, according to diplomats and security officials in the West Asian country. The crackdown has come as a huge embarrassment for Beijing, which has been trying to persuade the Ashraf Ghani government to hush up the case, people familiar with the matter in Kabul and New Delhi said. Read moreInstant loan app scam: Don’t fall prey to unauthorised mobile apps, cautions RBIThe Reserve Bank of India has cautioned against loans being offered by unauthorised digital platforms, mobile applications promising a quick and hassle-free process. The note of caution comes amid a major instant loan app scam being surfaced in the country with its multi-city network. Read moreGoDaddy’s ‘holiday bonus’ phishing test on employees gets backfiredIf your company says that you will get a holiday bonus this year, it will be one of the best things to hear in 2020. A popular service provider firm, GoDaddy did the same recently, except that it was a deaf phishing test and got backfired on social media. Read morePriyanka Chopra spreads Christmas spirit and braves London cold in Rs 70k jacket with Nick JonasThere is something about the cold and the Christmas that just goes together. The two make for a great pair just like Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas. The couple is spending Christmas together in London and even the extreme cold can not damper their spirits. How do we know this? Take one look at the Baywatch actor’s Instagram and you will know too. Read moreCoolie No 1 movie review: Varun Dhawan, Sara Ali Khan’s film is limp spoof of the originalDavid Dhawan at his peak is a hard act to follow. The master of madcap cinema, whose favourite playing field remained farce and the ridiculous, Dhawan had the uncanny ability to make every scene a rib tickler. Read moreIndia announce playing XI for Boxing Day Test, Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj to make debutsShubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj will make their Test debuts as India announced their playing XI for the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne, which begins from Saturday. India made four changes - two of them forced - to their playing XI which lost in Adelaide. Gill replaced an out-of-form Prithvi Shaw and will open the batting with Mayank Agarwal. Read moreCop resuscitates monkey knocked out by electric shock in Firozabad, Uttar PradeshIn today’s edition of stories showcasing empathy, kindness, and humanity, here’s a tale of how a cop saved the life of a monkey. The cop turned life-saving hero after spending 30 minutes resuscitating the monkey that suffered an electric shock in Firozabad. Watch here‘A new stability & certainty’: Johnson after EU, UK seal post-Brexit trade dealBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that the trade deal between the EU & the UK will bring new stability & certainty in their ties. ‘We will be your friend, your ally, your supporter, and indeed never let it be forgotten, your number one market, because although we have left the EU, this country will remain culturally, emotionally, historically, strategically, geologically, attached to Europe,’ Johnson said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-filming-at-centrally-protected-monuments-free-until-august-15-and-all-the-latest-news/story-g2N30dbj9p9EU0QCIMys4N.html
25-12-2020||India||Kerala scribe Kappan’s case shifted to Mathura’s districts and sessions’ court||The additional district and sessions judge-I of Mathura will now hear the case of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan and three others after an Agra court held that the chief judicial magistrate was not competent to hear the matter and to order the remand of the accused. Madhuban Dutt Chaturvedi, the counsel for three of the accused, confirmed the orders passed by the district and sessions judge earlier this week. “This transfer is the outcome of an application moved by the Special Task Force, heard and disposed of by the district and sessions judge. Interestingly, we too were challenging the jurisdiction of the chief judicial magistrate but our plea was rejected, earlier,” said Chaturvedi. The transfer of the case took place in the light of the apex court judgement that no court except that of the sessions’ judge was authorised to hear a case of this nature. Now, all the records and remand papers are to be transferred from the court of the chief judicial magistrate to the court of additional district and sessions judge. Kappan and three others-- Atiqur Rahman, Aalam and Masood-- were arrested on the way to a village in Hathras to meet the family of a Dalit woman who was brutalised, gang raped and killed. They were arrested for alleged links with the notorious radical Muslim organisation, the Popular Front of India, and initially booked for breach of peace and later under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Also Read: Hathras conspiracy: UP govt links Kerala journalist to SIMIThe case is being probed by the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) after it was handed over by the crime branch of Mathura. The STF had moved the application on which the transfer of the case took place. Kappan is the secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists –KUWJ, which approached the Supreme Court seeking Kappan’s immediate release.KUWJ claims Kappan’s arrest was illegal and an attempt to silence the media. However, the UP government alleges Kappan’s association with the now-banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and the PFI and has submitted to the apex court that the Delhi unit of KUWJ was itself facing a vigilance inquiry over embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds following a Kerala high court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-scribe-kappan-s-case-shifted-to-mathura-s-districts-and-sessions-court/story-OnKDSJMa7tuclFgEonwY4M.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Do they take your land too?’ PM Modi asks Arunachal farmer; Tomar appeals to end stir||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with farmers from six states, he asked a farmer from Arunachal Pradesh who has been doing contract farming whether the company that he has entered into a contract with also takes away his land or the contract is only for the produce. The farmer who cultivates organic ginger said the contract is only for the produce, not the land. “See, you are in Arunachal Pradesh but still are aware that your land will not be taken away. But there are a few farmers here who have been misled to think otherwise,” PM Modi said in a veiled reference to the ongoing protest of the farmers against the three agriculture laws.The government, in its attempts to dispel fears over contract farming, has been reiterating that contract farming will benefit farmers as it is not binding upon farmers and they are free to terminate the contract. However, apprehension over contract farming persists as reports have emerged that a Delhi-based company refused to buy the crops from Madhya Pradesh farmers even after agreement.PM Modi’s interaction with farmers amid the ongoing standoff with farmers on the occasion of the released of Rs 18,000 crore under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme is significant as the message is clear: the government will not repeal the laws, MSP will continue, protesting farmers have been misled by opposition parties. While PM Modi was addressing farmers through video-conferencing, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh addressed farmers in Delhi. Inaugurating the main event, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a few farmers of Punjab are protesting against the laws. Urging them to withdraw their protest, the minister said, “I hope they will understand the importance of the new farm laws, and the issue will be resolved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-they-take-your-land-too-pm-modi-asks-arunachal-farmer-tomar-appeals-to-end-stir/story-cPJ4J4xwdedcssEuZaqzyM.html
25-12-2020||India||75 years of Independence: Filming at centrally protected monuments free until August 15||The Centre has waived the fees for shootings linked to the country’s heritage and freedom struggle at centrally-protected monuments under Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) beginning with late former Prime Minister Atal Bihar Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on Friday. The exemption is part of celebrations of 75 years of Indian independence. It will continue until August 15 next year when India will celebrate the 75th Independence Day.The exemption will not be applicable at 27 sites, including the Taj Mahal, Ajanta and Ellora caves, Humayun’s Tomb and Hampi.India has over 500,000 heritage sites and monuments and ASI protects 3,691 of them.Also Read: In Odisha, 22 rare idols stolen from 13th century Shiva temple“As a part of the commemoration ceremony of 75th-year of India’s Independence, people or agencies working on projects involving the heritage, national language promotion, Indian tradition and culture, freedom fighters, freedom struggle, folk music and language and tourism will be exempted from paying fees for shooting photographs or videos at the monuments maintained by the ASI,” the Union culture ministry said in a statement on Thursday. “The exemption commences from the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Late Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee on 25th December 2020 [Friday] to next Independence Day 15th August 2021.”The statement said online permission is needed to carry out such shootings. It added the waiver is being provided to promote the lesser popular monuments. “...the process of issuing permission for shooting at ASI sites has already been fast-tracked. ...This waiver will, however, not be applicable at the iconic sites that include world heritage sites under ASI’s management.”Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel first made the announcement for the waiver last month. In a tweet, he said the decision has been taken to promote tradition, culture and local folklore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-years-of-independence-filming-at-centrally-protected-monuments-free-until-august-15/story-WiGVXs96Xf1V8p0jSxuiHP.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi releases Rs18,000 crore as part of PM-Kisan scheme, addresses farmers across states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the next instalment of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, worth Rs18,000 crore into bank accounts of 9 crore farmers. The outreach comes amid ongoing farmers’ protests against the three laws passed by the Parliament in September to reform the farm sector.“It was the initiative of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government to ensure farmers get loan on low interest rates. Today is his birthday and we have marked the day by releasing an instalment of the PM-KISAN scheme. These initiatives of the government should help farmers in undertaking crop diversification,” PM Modi said while interacting with a beneficiary of the scheme from Odisha.On Thursday, the PM had tweeted that he was going to interact with farmers after releasing the next instalment of PM-Kisan, and said that the day is very important for the country’s ‘annadatas’. “Tomorrow’s day (Friday) is very important for the country’s Annadatas. Will get the opportunity to release the next installment of PM-Kisan for more than 9 crores farmer families through video conferencing at 12pm. Will also interact with farmers of many states on this occasion,” the PM had tweeted.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Arun Singh wrote a letter to party functionaries and listed a series of steps to ensure that the prime minister’s speech gets a wide viewership. The party made arrangements for farmers’ participation in more than 19,000 venues across the country.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union minister Smriti Irani, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were among the senior party leaders who attended the event. BJP chief JP Nadda had instructed all party MPs, MLAs and other leaders to tune in to the programme.The first instalment of the PM-Kisan scheme was released by the PM in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-rs18-000-crore-as-part-of-pm-kisan-scheme-addresses-farmers-across-states/story-EvRDGUGQH7U6gAvMsreLmN.html
25-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine in India: Training complete, dry run to begin in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat next week||Though no vaccine in India against Covid-19 has yet received emergency use authorisation, the Centre is at the last stage of the preparation for vaccine administration. Dry run for vaccine administration will be conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab starting from next week, the government said. The dry run exercise will enable the government to understand if there is any gap in the entire process. “This will exercise enable end-to-end mobilisation and testing of Covid-19 vaccination process (except the vaccine) and check the usage of Co-WIN,” the government said. Co-WIN is the mobile application through the entire process will be monitored online. In Punjab, the dry run will be conducted in the districts of Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. The Drugs Controller General of India is currently reviewing the applications of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institue and Pfizer — the three vaccine-makers that have sought the nod for emergency use. The nod is likely to come by December. Vaccination is likely to start from January.Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary, the Union Health Ministry has said though it will be advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine. In the first phase, healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 and people below 50 but with co-morbidities will be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-in-india-training-complete-dry-run-to-begin-in-punjab-andhra-pradesh-assam-gujarat-next-week/story-eq0FYAyqVQMhI1R0Px87VM.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Complete travesty of truth’: Opposition rejects PM’s remark on farm laws||Opposition leaders on Thursday termed as “baseless” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark that the parties are lying to the farmers, saying such accusations are a “complete travesty of truth”. In a joint statement, the opposition leaders expressed solidarity with the farmers who are protesting at various Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. “PM must stop baseless accusations, repeal farm laws. We register our strong protest against the baseless allegations being made by Prime Minister Modi, accusing the opposition parties of ‘repeatedly lying’ to the farmers about the new farm laws and using them for their politics. The Prime Minister’s accusations are a complete travesty of truth,” read the statement. The joint statement was signed by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Sitaram Yechury of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D Raja, Farooq Abdullah of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav, TR Baalu of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, Manoj Bhattacharya of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Debabrata Biswas of the All India Forward Bloc (AIFB) and Dipankar Bhattacharya of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist). “We have expressed our solidarity with the protesting farmers. The call for this ongoing historic struggle was given by more than 500 kisan organisations from all over the country under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Many of us had opposed these agri laws when they were being enacted in Parliament without discussions or proper consideration. MPs who sought a vote were suspended,” it added. In an address to farmers of Madhya Pradesh on December 18, the Prime Minister had reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers and explained his government’s view of the three farm laws being a step towards making their lives better. Modi had also attacked the opposition for “misleading” the farmers on agri laws and compared his government’s agriculture ‘report card’ with that of the previous government. But the opposition parties dismissed the accusations. “Among the many unsubstantiated accusations made, one of them is that those who spoke of agrarian reforms in election manifestos earlier are now opposing (the farm laws). Yes, we are for reforms, but what sort of reforms? Opposition parties seek reforms to strengthen Indian agriculture; enhance the prosperity of our farmers; and ensure continued food security for our people and the country. The present farm laws undermine these very objectives,” the opposition leaders said. “Among the ‘big lies’ that the opposition is supposedly spreading, one is on the MSP. The PM claims (the government is for) implementing the Swaminathan Commission Report in this regard. This report had recommended an MSP of C2+50%, while this government, at best, implements A2+50%. In fact, this government told the Supreme Court its inability to implement C2+50% MSP. Who is spreading untruths?” they asked. Also Read: While PM holds Kisan Samvad, SP stages bonfire meetings with farmers The opposition leaders also denied the accusation that they are shooting from the shoulders of the farmers in order to regain lost political ground. Despite tall claims of implementing a higher MSP, farmers’ distress due to indebtedness is growing, leaving a record number of them with no other recourse than committing suicide, they claimed. The opposition parties also demanded repeal of the three farm laws and withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “We demand that the present agri laws be repealed along with the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Following this, discussions on agrarian reforms must be held by the central government with the farmers and all stakeholders. On the basis of these consultations, new enactments may be considered by Parliament, if necessary, by convening a special or a joint session,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-travesty-of-truth-opposition-rejects-pm-s-remark-on-farm-laws/story-oUwKOwN4kL62Degz5EWnLP.html
25-12-2020||India||Farm law protests: Terai farmers to march to Delhi on Friday to join stir | 10 points||Terai farmers from Uttarakhand will undertake a march towards Delhi to protest against the farm laws on Friday, on what will be day 30 of the protests. On Thursday, day 29 of the protests, the government reached out to the farm unions, once again inviting them for talks at a date and time of their choice. Earlier in the day, a three-member Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek his intervention to repeal the farm laws.Here are key developments from day 29 of anti-farm law protests:1. Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union agriculture ministry wrote to farm unions, again requesting them to hold the sixth round of talks as a date and time convenient to them. The farmers had on Wednesday rejected the government’s initial proposal in this regard, which it sent on Sunday.2. In the letter, Aggarwal stressed that it was “crucial” for the government to keep negotiations open with various farm unions. He also reiterated the government’s commitment to arrive at “logical solutions” for issues raised by the farm unions.3. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met two groups of farmers, both of whom, he claimed, were in support of the reforms. 60 members of the Kisaan Majdoor Sangh and 21 from the Kisan Sena met Tomar separately, and expressed their support. He also showed a letter of support from the Kisan Majdoor Sangh.Read more| Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply today4. Tomar lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for meeting President Kovind and submitting a memorandum seeking a repeal of the laws. Remarking that even the Congress doesn’t take Gandhi seriously, Tomar said that the farmers told him that no one from the party came to get their signatures.5. The minister was referring to claims made by the Congress that its memorandum to the President had signatures of two crore people against the laws. “If Rahul Gandhi was so worried, he could’ve done something when his government was in power. Congress has always been anti-farmer,” Tomar said.6. 11 Opposition parties, including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Samajwadi Party (SP), issued a joint statement, condemning prime minister Narendra Modi for his “baseless allegations” that the Opposition was lying to farmers about the new laws. “PM’s accusations are a “complete travesty of truth,” the statement said.7. The parties further demanded a repeal of the three laws and that of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The government should hold discussions with the farmers and all stakeholders, the statement said.Read more| Farmers’ protest: Chilla, Ghazipur borders closed, traffic diverted from GT Karnal Road8. Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi, interacting with the media after meeting President Kovind, called PM Modi “incompetent.” Targeting the government, he said that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, too, would be called a “terrorist” if he too “stood up” against the PM.9. The Delhi Police detained several Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, for trying to march to the Rashtarapati Bhavan, despite not being given permission to take out a march. Only Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had an appointment with the President, the police said.10. Continuing his outreach, PM Modi will on Friday transfer Rs 18,000 crore to the bank accounts of nine crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-terai-farmers-to-march-to-delhi-on-friday-to-join-stir-10-points/story-y96WQfJMdVX8DF9s77imRJ.html
25-12-2020||India||While PM holds Kisan Samvad, SP stages bonfire meetings with farmers||In a day-long state-wide campaign, Samajwadi Party leaders and workers are reaching out to farmers on Friday to express the party’s solidarity with their ongoing protests against the three Central laws. SP workers plan to engage farmers in villages around bonfires to discuss their concerns.The event day coincides with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Kisan Samvad’ or a dialogue with farmers, seeking to dispel their apprehensions with the farm laws that have led to a prolonged farmers’ protest at borders of the national capital of Delhi.SP president Akhilesh Yadav has asked party’s sitting MPs, MLAs, MLCs, former legislators and office bearers to go to villages to participate in the Kisan Ghera programme and explain that the SP has “always stood by” their cause.The name of the outreach programme, Kisan Ghera, means to convey the small farmer gatherings, party workers hope to organise around bonfires. The party has released a list of 132 prominent leaders, who would hold dialogues with farmers in as many villages across the state.On the eve of the event, on Thursday, Akhilesh Yadav said that never before were the farmers treated so unfairly and faced such injustice as under the present BJP government at the Centre. He claimed that the BJP government ‘did not fulfil’ even a single promise it had made to farmers and introduced three anti-farmer laws to make matters worse.Also Read: Baba Ramdev says Centre should come midway for honourable solution to farmers’ protestAkhilesh even called PM Modi’s Kisan Samvad and Kisan Samman Nidhi distribution programme scheduled for Friday an ‘insult’ to farmers.“The BJP government is insulting the farmers, who are protesting on the roads for their rights with nominal ‘Kisan Samman’ money. The government wants the farmers to incur huge losses due to the black laws (farm laws). In its arrogance of power, the BJP is also insulting the food farmers put on the plates of every citizen of the country,” he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/while-pm-holds-kisan-samvad-sp-stages-bonfire-meetings-with-farmers/story-s6sdNsj5NBqWgUv0C0dFoL.html
25-12-2020||India||India records 23,067 fresh Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, 6.6% lower than yesterday||India on Friday reported 23,067 new Covid-19 infections taking the total tally to 10,146,845. For the last 12 days, India has been recording less than 30,000 daily new cases. On Thursday, India reported 24,712 new infections. On Thursday, 24,661 people have bee discharged, according to the data released by the Union health ministry. A total of 336 people died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 1,47,091. Kerala on Thursday reported 5,177 new infections, taking the infection caseload past the 7.26 lakh mark in the state. Maharashtra on Thursday reported 3,580 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 19,09,951.The new strain of Covid-19 detected in the United Kingdom has become a cause of concern for the states. As many as 1,206 passengers landed at the Mumbai international airport from Europe and the Middle- East on Thursday and 788 of them were quarantined in the city.The Ghaziabad administration has established a dedicated wing inside the integrated Covid-19 control room to treat people who have returned from the UK and Europe.At least 12 passengers returning from the UK tested positive in Goa and Maharashtra, officials said. In Meghalaya, entry of individuals from the UK into the state has been barred. The state government has also urged people who have recently returned from Britain or transited through the country to stay in isolation and inform it about their travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-23-067-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours/story-S6HxONmH2q2WuNtFOJQHqL.html
25-12-2020||India||President, PM Modi, ministers pay tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on 96th birth anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee at Sadaiv Atal on his 96th birth anniversary on Friday. Union ministers including Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman and Piyush Goyal were also present Sadaiv Atal — a memorial built near Rashtriya Smriti Sthal.Prime minister Narendra Modi will also be releasing a book titled ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Parliament: A Commemorative Volume’ in the Parliament on Friday to honour him on his 96th birth anniversary. Published by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, the book focuses on the life and works including notable speeches of the former Prime minister. The book also has some rare photographs of the parliamentarian from his public life.Also Read | PM Modi to release book on Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversaryThe book is scheduled to be released at a function in the Central Hall of the Parliament on December 25, that is also observed as Good Governance Day in honour of the Bharat Ratna awardee. He was also conferred with Pt. Govind Ballabh Pant Award for Best Parliamentarian in 1994. “As a parliamentarian and particularly as Prime Minister, Atalji made innumerable contributions which paved the way for a stronger economy through bold reforms and rapid development of infrastructure. Atalji also distinguished himself as a fine statesman and a world leader,” a Lok Sabha release said, reported ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-modi-ministers-pay-tribute-to-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-96th-birth-anniversary/story-6rd5EKR4Zu0p659OZWhDbK.html
25-12-2020||India||Baba Ramdev says Centre should come midway for honourable solution to farmers’ protest||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev has said that the Union government should find a midway and amicable solution to end the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders. He added that a prolonged protest would not be in favour of the country. Ramdev made the comments on Thursday in Saharanpur.Ramdev added that the issues raised by the farmers are very sensitive and the protests should not be prolonged. Government and farmers should find an amicable solution which keeps the honour of farmers intact while ensuring the growth of the agriculture sector in the country. “Government should work to increase farmers’ produce and the price of crops,” he said.Protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that three laws passed by the Centre to purportedly reform the sector would instead pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporations. They insist that the three laws passed by the Parliament are repealed.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Also Read: Farmer protests: Panjab University students set up book stall at Singhu borderPrime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with farmers on Friday during a money transfer event, while the Centre is hoping for a breakthrough after it invited protesting farmer unions for resumption of the talks.The farmer unions, however, alleged that the government’s latest offer for talks is nothing but ‘a propaganda’ against the peasants to create an impression they are not interested in dialogue, and asked it to put the scrapping of the new farm laws in the agenda to resume discussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-ramdev-says-centre-should-come-midway-for-honourable-solution-to-farmers-protest/story-gujGR5yX0lI0EWnDsMbRmK.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal among others tweet Christmas greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday posted his Christmas greetings on Twitter and said that the life and principles of Christ have given strength to millions across the world. “Merry Christmas! The life and principles of Lord Christ gives strength to millions across the world. May his path keep showing the way in building a just and inclusive society. May everybody be happy and healthy,” he tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on the occasion too. “Merry Christmas! May this festival bring peace & harmony to your homes and hearts,” he tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wished everyone a merry Christmas and hoped for happiness, peace, prosperity and health in everyone’s life. “Merry Christmas to all. May this Christmas bring happiness, peace, prosperity and health in your life,” he tweeted.In his tweet wishing everyone a merry Christmas, Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal urged everyone to follow coronavirus-appropriate behaviour while participating in festivities. “Warm greetings to all on the joyous occasion of Christmas. May this festival bring happiness, peace, prosperity and health in every one’s life. I appeal to each one of you to strictly adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing while participating in the festivities ,” he tweeted.Christmas or the ‘Feast of Nativity’ is celebrated annually on December 25 in commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ. The festival has great religious and cultural significance to billions of Christians. The festival marks the time of the year when families get together and spend a time of joy and warmth.Since the early 20th Century, the celebration of Christmas has become more secular and family-oriented than religious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-arvind-kejriwal-among-others-tweet-christmas-greetings/story-SQmbU8Q905ZXuTCWMeq03N.html
25-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address farmers today as BJP plans to scale up outreach and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address farmers today as BJP plans to scale up outreachAs protesting farmers mount pressure on the government to scrap a set of contentious farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address farmers across states on Friday and release the next batch of financial aid ₹18,000 crore from the PM-Kisan scheme. Read more ISRO releases Chandrayaan-2 orbiter data: All you need to knowThe Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has released the first set of data from the eight instruments aboard India’s second lunar mission Chandrayaan-2. Read more Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply todayThe ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest against three agriculture laws called by several thousand farmers on November 26 enters the 30th day on Friday. Read moreReading the clues from Covaxin early trial dataBharat Biotech, which is among the frontrunners in the race to develop a coronavirus vaccine in India, released new data from phase 1/2 clinical trials. Read more Give vaccine priority to elite athletes: Parliamentary panelOn Thursday, an Indian parliamentary panel recommended that “athletes, coaches and support staff going for the Tokyo Olympics should be put in the priority group for the Covid-19 vaccination.” Read more Gauahar Khan twins with husband-to-be Zaid Darbar in teal for pre-wedding festivities. SEE PICSGauahar Khan’s wedding festivities are going on in full swing, and according to the model and actor’s social media posts, she and fiance Zaid Darbar seem to be having a blast at the pre-wedding festivities before they get hitched on the weekend. Read moreBest actors of 2020: Taapsee Pannu, Nawazuddin, Jaideep Ahlawat proved less is more; Tripti, Pratik emerge as breakout starsWith the year coming to a close, it is time to list out some of the most favourite performances of the year in the Hindi entertainment space. Read moreThese budget Samsung smartphones to soon get the newest Android OS updateSamsung, so far, has rolled out Android 11-based OneUI 3.0 only to its premium budget smartphones such as the Galaxy Z Flip 5G foldable phone. Read more Woman pranks husband with fake ‘snake’, his reaction will leave you in splitsVideos of people playing pranks on each other often make us laugh out loud. And the Internet is full of such funny clips. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-farmers-today-as-bjp-plans-to-scale-up-outreach-and-all-the-latest-news/story-y7rNjzCvYosYQJi04NpSSO.html
25-12-2020||India||Northwestern India records cold wave, very poor air||North-western India, including Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad, mostly recorded “very poor” to “severe” air quality on Friday amid a drop in wind speed that has slowed down the dispersal of pollutants. In Delhi, the air quality was likely to remain in the “very poor” or “severe” category. The ventilation index, which defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants, over Delhi was expected to be 5,000 m2/s. A ventilation index below 2,350 is considered poor.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) separately said a cold wave persisted over several parts of India including Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab and Haryana. No significant change in minimum and maximum temperatures was likely during the next two days. They are likely to rise by 2-5°C in minimum temperatures briefly and fall by 2-5°C in maximum temperatures over north-western India during subsequent three days, IMD said.Also Read: Noida, Ghaziabad suffer ‘severe’ air for the third dayCold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and Himachal Pradesh on Friday.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two days. It is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains.Dense to very dense fog was also likely over Punjab, northern Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on Friday and Saturday.“An active Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan Region from tomorrow [Saturday] which is likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad; isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and light rain/thundershowers over adjoining plains of northwest India on December 27 and 28,” an IMD bulletin said.Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the approaching Western Disturbance may cause light rain in Delhi on December 27 following which temperatures are likely to fall again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwestern-india-records-cold-wave-very-poor-air/story-uWepu1UsHWG9NtGPkjRwgO.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Unprecedented heights of development’: PM Modi remembers Vajpayee on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tribute to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary and said India will always remember his efforts. “His visionary leadership took the country to unprecedented heights of development,” PM Modi tweeted.  पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री आदरणीय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। अपने दूरदर्शी नेतृत्व में उन्होंने देश को विकास की अभूतपूर्व ऊंचाइयों पर पहुंचाया। एक सशक्त और समृद्ध भारत के निर्माण के लिए उनके प्रयासों को सदैव स्मरण किया जाएगा।PM Modi also paid his tribute to Madan Mohan Malviya whose birth anniversary too falls on December 25. “He devoted his entire life to social reform and service to the nation. His contribution for the country will continue to inspire generations,” he wrote remembering his contribution. काशी हिंदू विश्वविद्यालय के प्रणेता और बहुआयामी प्रतिभा के धनी महामना पंडित मदन मोहन मालवीय जी को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। उन्होंने अपना संपूर्ण जीवन समाज सुधार और राष्ट्र सेवा में समर्पित कर दिया। देश के लिए उनका योगदान पीढ़ी-दर-पीढ़ी को प्रेरित करता रहेगा।Also Read: Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversaryThe BJP government celebrates December 25 as “good governance day” in the memory of Vajpayee. PM Modi will release a book ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Parliament: A Commemorative Volume’ to mark this year’s birth anniversary. The book, published by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, highlights the life and works of the former Prime Minister and contains his notable speeches delivered in Parliament. The book also contains some rare photographs from his public life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-heights-of-development-pm-modi-remembers-vajpayee-on-birth-anniversary/story-W6MKvijZRUQxPWd93uLBEP.html
25-12-2020||India||Karnataka to mark Vajpayee’s birth anniversary with event on technology, innovation, higher education||Karnataka government will hold a day-long programme, focusing on technology, global competence, innovation, higher education, and entrepreneurship, on former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on Thursday.The event will be a part of “Good Governance Day”, which will be observed on the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25. The event will be inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwatha Narayana at Vidhana Soudha in Bangaluru.The Departments of Electronics Information Technology Biotechnology and Science & Technology, and Skill Development will hold a five-panel discussion of 45 minutes each on five different topics.The themes of the panel discussions include “Technology for Global Readiness”, “Leveraging Innovation Ecosystem of Bengaluru”, “Beyond Bengaluru”, “Governance and Leadership for Quality Higher Education”, and “Industry Ready and Entrepreneurial Skills”.Vice-chancellors, entrepreneurs, academicians, and visionaries will be present in these discussions and share their thoughts on related topics, the release said.December 25 is celebrated as Good Governance Day in honour of Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-mark-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary-with-event-on-technology-innovation-higher-education/story-weRl6zb2WOYZkbNQ1IBfoK.html
25-12-2020||India||Manipur to honour Amit Shah for Inner Line Permit regime on December 27||Manipur chief minister N Biren’s government plans to honour Union home minister Amit Shah for his role in introducing the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system in the northeastern state when he visits on December 27. A slew of new projects will also be kicked off during Shah’s visit apart from unveiling of the Thoubal multipurpose project.Biren Singh was speaking on the side line of Directorate of Information & Public Relations (DIPR)’s annual dairy and wall calendar event at the CM’s bungalow lawn in Imphal. “We’re also appealing to the people to attend the programme which is being planned as an appreciation to Union home minister Amit Shahji’s role in introducing the ILP (Inner Line Permit) system in the state,” Biren Singh said.ILP is issued to grant inward travel permission to an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period and it was formally introduced in the state on January 1, 2020, making Manipur the 4th state in the northeast after Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram where the ILP regime is applicable.Biren Singh also said the State government is planning the inauguration of completed projects such as Thoubal multipurpose project and foundation stone laying ceremonies for new projects, such as construction of State police headquarters etc, during Shah’s visit.At the same time, a meeting of the civil society organisations representatives in the state with the visiting home minister is also being arranged, he added.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply today Greeting the people of Manipur on the occasion of Christmas and New Year 2021, Biren asked residents to avoid organising picnics and other celebratory gatherings considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation.He also called upon the public to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and frequently wash hands even though the number of Covid 19 cases is declining in the last few days in the state.Works minister Th Biswajit, who also holds the IPR portfolio and director (DIPR) Balkrishna Heisnam were also present during the day’s event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-to-honour-amit-shah-for-inner-line-permit-regime-on-december-27/story-UkXL8IyfBq7kKe9MqkQk7M.html
25-12-2020||India||Earthquake of magnitude 2.3 hits Delhi’s Nangloi||A low-intensity earthquake of 2.3 magnitude on the Richter scale struck Nangloi in Delhi on Friday morning.As per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the tremors were felt around 5.02 am.“Earthquake of magnitude 2.3 on the Richter scale hit Nangloi in Delhi at 5:02 am today, NCS tweeted.No damage or casualty has been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-2-3-hits-delhi-s-nangloi/story-8m6xM6lUTp0rABEDpSRWRP.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi to release book on Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release a book ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Parliament: A Commemorative Volume’ to mark the birth anniversary of the former prime minister on Friday. The book, published by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, highlights the life and works of the former Prime Minister and contains his notable speeches delivered in Parliament. The book also contains some rare photographs from his public life.PM Modi will pay floral tributes to the former Prime Minister at his portrait, which was unveiled on February 12, 2019 in the Central Hall of the Parliament. The day is also observed as Good Governance Day. The book will be released at a function in the Central Hall of Parliament. A Lok Sabha release said that Atal Bihari Vajpayee, elected ten times to the Lok Sabha and twice to the Rajya Sabha, “was a parliamentarian par excellence, who had the trust, affection and belief of the people in his leadership”.“As a parliamentarian and particularly as Prime Minister, Atalji made innumerable contributions which paved the way for a stronger economy through bold reforms and rapid development of infrastructure. Atalji also distinguished himself as a fine statesman and a world leader,” the release said.The late leader was conferred Bharat Ratna in 2015. He had also been awarded Pt. Govind Ballabh Pant Award for Best Parliamentarian in 1994. It will be Atal Bihari Vajpayee’ 96th birth anniversary this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-book-on-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-0pMcYKpcaSQsufhstJSnnN.html
25-12-2020||India||Vaikunta Ekadasi Festival at Tirumala begins today amid Covid-19 restrictions. All you need to know||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams begins a 10-day Vaikunta dwara darshan for devotees from today. Amid concerns over the new strain of Covid-19 virus, social-distancing guidelines will be maintained strictly, the authorities have said. The festival will continue till January 3.Here is all you need to know:1. Only 35,000 devotees will be allowed per day.2. The authorities have issued two lakh tickers of Rs 300 special entry darshan.3. Only those who have booked tickets in advance are allowed during the festival.4. For locals, there will be 10,000 offline sarva darshan tokens being issued every day till January 3.5. The authorities have repeatedly appealed to visitors from other places to not come in case they don’t have advanced tickets. Some pilgrims, who were not allowed darshan as they didn’t have tickets, have been protesting at various places in Tirupati6. After lockdown, the temple opened its doors for daily Srivari Darshan from June 8 allowing only 5,000 devotees. Now, the number has gone up to 35,000 in a staggered manner.7. Devotees today were allowed from 7am after darshan for VIPs and Srivani trust donors from 4am following weekly Abhishekam.8. Locals will have to bring Aadhaar cards to get sarva darshan tokens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaikunta-ekadasi-festival-at-tirumala-begins-from-today-amid-covid-19-restrictions-all-you-need-to-know/story-6w4Not1Hcd75Nv4JVd9aQL.html
25-12-2020||India||Apologise, Afghanistan tells China after busting its espionage cell in Kabul||Afghanistan has busted a 10-member Chinese module operating a terror cell in the capital city of Kabul, according to diplomats and security officials in the West Asian country. The crackdown has come as a huge embarrassment for Beijing, which has been trying to persuade the Ashraf Ghani government to hush up the case, people familiar with the matter in Kabul and New Delhi said.The 10 Chinese citizens, detained recently in this connection by Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security (NDS) on charges of espionage and running a terror cell, are believed to be linked to China’s spy agency, Ministry of State Security. The crackdown by the NDS started on 10 December.Also Read: Months after cancelling deal with China, India acquires heavy cranes for Chabahar portThis is the first time in years that Chinese nationals have been caught spying in Afghanistan where the country was looking at rapidly expanding its influence even as the US withdraws its troops. At least two of the 10 Chinese nationals were in contact with the Haqqani Network, the terrorist group that doubles as the sword arm of the Taliban, a senior diplomat in Kabul said.President Ashraf Ghani has been briefed about the detentions and has authorised First Vice President Amrullah Saleh, a former chief of the Afghan intelligence agency, to oversee the investigation and engage the Chinese in view of the sensitivities involved, the people cited in the first instance added.Amrullah Saleh has held a meeting with the Chinese envoy to Kabul, Wang Yu to brief him about the detention. Saleh is learnt to have indicated that the Afghan government could consider a pardon for the Chinese spies if Beijing submits a formal apology that admits to the violation of international norms and a betrayal of Kabul’s trust.Otherwise, Amrullah Saleh is believed to have told the Chinese ambassador, the Afghan government would go ahead with criminal proceedings. One of those detained, Li Yangyang, according to a counter-terror official in Kabul, has been operating for the Chinese Intelligence since July-August . He was arrested by the Afghan NDS on 10 December from his house in western Kabul neighbourhood of Kart-e-Char.Also Read: For total disengagement, India wants military commanders’ meet with China at ‘early date’The NDS team seized arms, ammunition and Ketamine powder, a recreational drug , from his residence when the first round of raids were carried out on 10 December. NDS officials who have questioned Li have reported that he had been gathering information about al Qaeda, Taliban and Uyghurs in Kunar and Badakhshan provinces, according to this counter-terror official. A Chinese woman was the second person to be arrested. Sha Hung, who runs a restaurant in Kabul’s Shirpur was also arrested the same day.“From her place, NDS recovered explosive material and other incriminating items,” the counter-terror official said.He added that Li and Sha have been in contact with the Haqqani NetworkEight more Chinese nationals were subsequently arrested.Investigators, a diplomat in New Delhi said, were still trying to ascertain the precise activities of the espionage ring and any possible linkage to Pakistan’s deep state. One view within the Afghan security establishment is that the detainees were creating a fake East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) module in Afghanistan to entrap ETIM operatives in Afghanistan. ETIM is a small Islamic separatist group alleged to be active in Xinjiang province, home to China’s ethnic minority Uighur Muslims. Its founder Hasan Mahsum, an Uyghur from Xinjiang’s Kashgar region, was shot dead by Pakistani soldiers in 2003. Rights groups say China uses the ETIM threat as an excuse to impose restrictions on Uyghurs and discredit human rights activists outside China. The United States last month revoked the terror tag slapped on ETIM although the group continues to be designated by the UN Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-espionage-ring-in-afghanistan-busted-10-spies-detained/story-qyPsZY1wUoD2flp9UIYMrK.html
25-12-2020||India||ISRO releases Chandrayaan-2 orbiter data: All you need to know||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has released the first set of data from the eight instruments aboard India’s second lunar mission Chandrayaan-2. The orbiter, which has completed sixteen months around the moon in lunar orbit, was launched on July 22, 2019 and inserted into the lunar orbit on August 20.On completion of one year of the orbiter being in space, Isro had said that the spacecraft was ‘healthy’, performance of subsystems were normal, and there was adequate onboard fuel to remain operational for about seven years.Here is all you need to know about the orbiter:- Chandrayaan-2, described as the most complex mission ever undertaken by Isro, cost less than half the budget of Hollywood blockbuster ‘Avengers Endgame’. The total cost of the mission is estimated at 124 million US dollars, while the movie has an estimated budget of close to 356 million US dollars.- The mission made India the fourth nation after the United States, Russia and China to land a spacecraft on the Moon.- Chandrayaan-2 consisted of three missions clubbed together – the orbiter that would circle around the moon, the Vikram lander that was to make a soft landing near the south pole of the moon, and the Pragyan rover that was to explore the lunar surface and observe water ice. The lander and rover were destroyed during the attempted landing in September, 2019. - The lander of Chandrayaan 2, ‘Vikram’, was named after the pioneer of India’s space programme, physicist Dr Vikram Sarabhai.- The data from seven out of the eight instruments was collected by the Indian Space Science Data Centre at Karnataka’s Byalalu, where it was prepared in the Planetary Data System 4 (PDS4) format for public release before being peer-reviewed scientifically. It was then released through the PRADAN portal hosted by ISSDC at https://pradan.issdc.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-releases-chandrayaan-2-orbiter-data-all-you-need-to-know/story-OQVOE3NrUklc6kyOtQTiAL.html
25-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply today||The ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest against three agriculture laws called by several thousand farmers on November 26 enters the 30th day on Friday. Protesters, according to their announced programme, will picket toll plazas today while the standoff with the Centre over the laws continues, though the Centre on Thursday sent a fresh invitation to the protesters urging them to resume talks and fix a date.Here are the latest updates of the four-week-long protest:1. The Centre’s fresh invitation comes after the unions wrote to them that the agenda should be revised as they had already rejected the proposals after the 5th meeting.2. The Centre said it would not be logical to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price as it was out of the purview of the new farm laws. “Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions,” the three-page letter written by agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal said.3. With regard to the Electricity Amendment bill and laws related to stubble burning, the government said it is ready to discuss if farmers’ unions have other issues apart from the draft proposal given based on the December 3 discussion.4. Reacting to the fresh invitation, farmers on Thursday said the MSP cannot be separated from the demand of repealing the contentious laws, asserting the issue of a legal guarantee for it is a key part of their agitation.5. The unions are likely to hold a meeting today to discuss the Centre’s letter and what to write in the formal response to the ministry.6. Farmers have alleged that Centre’s repeated invitation without changing the agenda is a propaganda against the protesters to create an impression that they (farmers) are not interested in dialogue.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with farmers from six states at 12 noon via video conferencing as he will release a fund of Rs 18,000 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. The event coincides with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary which the BJP observes every year as “good governance day”.8. PM Modi’s today’s interaction amid the ongoing standoff will be celebrated as a “festival” across the country with BJP ministers, MPs, MLAs attending the programme from various locations. One crore farmers will directly participate while over five crore will hear Modi’s speech. Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the programme in Mehrauli, while defence Minister Rajnath Singh will be in Sector 15 in Dwarka. 9. Reiterating that he will tender his resignation the day he is unable to ensure MSP, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the new central farm laws need many amendments and urged protesting farmers to give “concrete suggestions”.10. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum containing signatures of two crore farmers against the laws. He said the government should convene a joint session of Parliament to repeal these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-centre-says-not-logical-to-include-msp-in-talks-unions-likely-to-reply-today/story-KUcGTr2nPYiE1IQnthPIDJ.html
25-12-2020||India||India vs Australia: India announce playing XI for Boxing Day Test in Melbourne, Subman Gill, Mohammad Siraj make debuts||India announced their playing XI on the eve of the Boxing Day Test against Australia. Shubman Gill and Mohammad Siraj will play their maiden Test.  ALERT🚨: #TeamIndia for 2nd Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy against Australia to be played in MCG from tomorrow announced. #AUSvIND pic.twitter.com/4g1q3DJmm7The second Test is slated to begin on Saturday, with India trailing the four-match series 1-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/web-dec25-india-playing-xi-2nd-test/story-tywET9Yg8re5iIrp8C5OrN.html
25-12-2020||India||Indian vaccine Covaxin has drawn global attention: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that the Indian vaccine against Covid-19, Covaxin, has drawn global attention.In a tweet, the ICMR said, “India’s indigenous vaccine against #Covid19 Covaxin-a product of ICMR-Bharat Biotech collaboration, achieves remarkable feat. Data generated from within India underlines impressive safety and immunogenicity profile of Covaxin and sparks Lancet’s interest in publishing them.”The ICMR said, “Encouraging Phase I and Phase II COVAXIN trial results have paved the path for Phase III Clinical Trial in India, which is currently ongoing at 22 sites.”The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) based in New Delhi on Thursday invited volunteers for the Phase III clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate ‘Covaxin’ for which it is one of the sites.“AIIMS, New Delhi is a site for COVAXIN Phase III clinical trial. This is a whole-virion inactivated vaccine co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech,” AIIMS said in an advertisement.AIIMS Centre for Community Medicine, Dr Sanjay K Rai informed through the advertisement that Phase I/II trials (safety and immunogenicity) have already been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-vaccine-covaxin-has-drawn-global-attention-icmr/story-eq2WMqSlyzlOtjLeNNPyxI.html
25-12-2020||India||2020 - The year of the pandemic: From lockdown to slow release||As the country went into a state of lockdown on March 25, our lives were disrupted in a manner unlike anything we have encountered before. For a city that is always industrious, hard at work, assiduously getting through the tasks of the day, Delhi had to adapt, and adapt fast, to a change in rhythm. Schools shut down, and the children had to start attending classes online. Our offices asked us to work from home, and we stayed in — as instructed — for days on end, barely stepping out if we could help it. Many lost their livelihoods; almost everyone began to do a lot more domestic work than they had done previously. Mayank Austen Soofi captured this Delhi through his camera and phone, looking for new ways of telling the stories of our lives as we battled the coronavirus pandemic.How we worked 1. Hair stylists Wakeel and Bali, both in their 40s, on the job in their white PPE kits in Khan Market’s Bharat Hair Dresser, late November. “It’s to protect ourselves and our customers from the virus,” said Wakeel. Their daily attendance in the salon, which opened on June 1 after more than two months of staying shut, emphasises the fact that while many professionals might still be working from home, there are others who are obliged to perform their duties in person, at work sites. They wear their new uniform throughout the day except during lunch hours, and switch to a another washed set the next day.2. The legendary Old Famous Jalebi Wala shop in Chandni Chowk is screened off with a plastic curtain on an early December morning. A special poster cane up three weeks ago asking customers to maintain social distancing. The masked cook, Vicky, has just finished deep-frying the day’s first batch of jalebis. The shop stayed closed for two months during the lockdown and reopened in early June. The owner says that the “business is as cold as the weatherHow we coped 1. Janakpuri resident Radhika Singh, 52, irons her newspaper before any family member living in the three-floor residence touches it. In the early days of the pandemic, many discontinued the delivery of newspapers to their homes fearing that the paper might carry the Sars-CoV-2 virus within its folds. But Singh’s household didn’t. The fear was soon proved to be false given the sanitization procedures followed during the printing process. Even so, Singh believes that applying heat kills the virus. She said she got the idea of ironing from popular English series, Downton Abbey. Singh still doesn’t meet anyone except she did visit her parents in Dwarka twice, on Raksha Bandhan and Diwali. She agreed, late November, to meet on WhatsApp video— a poignant reminder of how people are reaching out to each other. 2. A hand sanitiser bottle occupies a place of decorative reverence in the Sufi shrine of Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya during the saint’s 806th birthday celebrations in October. Closed for more than five months, the shrine re-opened to visitors in September, and this was the first major event held there. The dargah was decked with flowers, balloons and buntings, with the hand-sanitiser bottles were installed attractively in various places so that visitors would be encouraged to use them. A team of volunteers were assigned to make sure that devotees didn’t linger for more than a few minutes. The saint’s grave continues to be surrounded by a plastic screen so that nobody tries to kiss it, as was the tradition in the BC era.How we studied 1. Fourth-year engineering student Muskan Singh, 21, prepares for her ongoing final exams at her Ghaziabad home, December. Singh hasn’t been to her college’s campus in Delhi’s Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women since the lockdown began in March.Even though her parents have resumed going to office in the past few months, Singh spends all her time in front of her laptop and on her mobile phone. “Soon we’ll complete two semesters without meeting our professors in person... can they recognise us as their students if we happen to pass by them somewhere?” she said, adding that she missed the pleasure of sitting amid fellow students. She however does play badminton for two hours with friends in the outdoor court of her apartment complexHow we were governed 1. Masked customers at a small roadside tea shop in Seelampur on a cool November morning. A Delhi Government-issued poster on the wall reads: “Not wearing mask is not a heropanti...” But, of course, the customers were obliged to take off their mask to dunk down their chai. The government, through the district magistrates’ enforcement officers, continues to fine people who don’t wear masks — but roadside vendors and stall owners, at risk from customers with their masks down, don’t have a choiceHow we interacted 1. Designer Elena Tommaseo, a native of Venice, on a Zoom meet-up with friends and relatives in Italy from her apartment in East of Kailash in April. This picture was taken at a time when Italy was witnessing a great many deaths due to the pandemic and Tommaseo, a longtime Delhi resident, was anxious for her folks, especially her elderly parents. In her 50s now, it was an annual ritual to visit them during the summer, but this year she was forced to spend the months of May and June in Delhi due to the lockdownHow we played 1. Fitness trainer Muhammed Zaid, 30, exercises on an early December morning in a gym in Old Delhi’s Kucha Chelan. Before the lockdown, Zaid spent long hours in SolidCore gym — across the street from his home — where he trained 15 clients over a stretch of 10 hours. He’d also take out a couple of hours for his own set of exercises. While Zaid didn’t go to the gym during the lockdown, and even for a few weeks after it lifted, he didn’t miss exercising even for a single day. “I gathered many equipments on my roof where I would exercise without fail.” Zaid wears the mask as often as possible.Twice a week, he jogs for 12 kilometres at Rajghat, a ritual he is following for six years. Sometimes, he plays snooker in a lounge near Delite Cinema. “I was about to move to Dubai to work as a fitness trainer, I’d gained all the appropriate certificates necessary for having such a job in Dubai... and then the pandemic arrived and my plan fell through.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-the-year-of-the-pandemic-from-lockdown-to-slow-release/story-wpfBSaIREJFtswPtxJ5ygI.html
25-12-2020||India||Baghpat farm union meets Tomar, pledges support to laws||A delegation of the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, a farmer union from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday and pledged its support for the three new farm laws. “The Modi government is open to meeting all farmer organisations and committed to solving their issues. Nearly 3 lakh farmers have supported the laws. Their voices need to be heard to,” Tomar told reporters. In a tweet, he said the farmers told him that the laws were in the interest of farmers and should not be withdrawn. Farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi since November 26 against three farm laws enacted recently by the government. They have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghpat-farm-union-meets-tomar-pledges-support-to-laws/story-SkqypccefH8RllZiWRIHQM.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address farmers today as BJP plans to scale up outreach||As protesting farmers mount pressure on the government to scrap a set of contentious farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address farmers across states on Friday and release the next batch of financial aid Rs 18,000 crore from the PM-Kisan scheme. The PM’s session with farmers is a part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s nationwide outreach to the farmers on December 25, the birthday of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.“Tomorrow’s day (Friday) is very important for the country’s Annadatas. Will get the opportunity to release the next installment of PM-Kisan for more than 9 crores farmer families through video conferencing at 12 pm. Will also interact with farmers of many states on this occasion,” the PM tweeted on Thursday.The Centre is also expected to provide Rs 18,000 crore to 90 million farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme, an initiative of the Narendra Modi government to extend income support of Rs 6,000 per year to small and marginal farmers in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 every four months. In a letter to BJP functionaries across the country, a copy of which was accessed by HT, party general secretary Arun Singh listed a series of steps, including installation of large TV screens at the venues of farmers’ gatherings, so that the prime minister’s speech gets a wide viewership.Singh told reporters on Thursday that the party has made arrangements for farmers’ participation on December 25 in more than 19,000 venues across the country, and the party’s members will also be present. While one crore farmers will directly participate, over five crore of them will hear Modi’s speech, he added.At the block level events, the party is planning to explain to farmers how the contentious three new laws, aimed at opening up trade in agriculture, are in their interest.Party functionaries have been asked to detail measures put in place by the Centre to benefit farmers such as increases in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers’ produce, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana that insures their yields and the introduction of neem-coated ure to boost wheat and paddy production. Singh urged BJP workers to gather outside Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), or government controlled mandis, and offices of cooperative organisations for farmers’ events, which would also be attended by the party’s elected representatives.The new outreach to farmers will coincide with the completion of the first month of a sit-in protest by farmers who have massed at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of the three laws that they say will hurt their livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-address-farmers-today-as-bjp-plans-to-scale-up-outreach/story-c5WgDY05ddzicoq7g0ZCMM.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Will discuss with open mind’: Govt again writes to farmers||The Union government has invited farmers for talks again, a day after farm unions rejected the government’s request to a senior farm leader to suggest a date for the resumption of negotiations on three contentious farm laws. In a letter to farm unions, the government said it was ready to not only discuss existing proposals but also new demands the farmers may have. “If there are any new issues other than the proposals discussed on December 3, then the government is ready to discuss everything with an open mind,” joint secretary Vivek Agrawal of the agriculture ministry wrote in a letter to over 30 farm leaders. The bureaucrat, who wrote on behalf of farm minister Narendra Tomar, said the new farm laws were not related to minimum prices for agricultural produce in any way and the mechanism of minimum support prices would continue. The government reiterated its assurance on MSPs, continuance of agricultural power subsidy and a solution to stubble burning. Farm unions on protest against three recent laws said they were not inclined to restart negotiations with the government until it draws up a new agenda, presenting an increasingly difficult challenge to a government grappling to find a way to end the month-old agitation. A massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Thursday’s outreach is the third written invite the government has sent out to protesting farmers, following five rounds of formal negotiations that ended on December 8, when farmers decided to call off further negotiations after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The back-and-forth of letters from both sides has only made the deadlock appear intractable. Each official offer to carry on negotiations has been rejected by the farmers on the grounds that the government has avoided directly addressing their stand on scrapping the entire gamut of reforms approved by Parliament in September. While the government has made eight proposals, farmers’ union have said the government hasn’t made any concrete assurance. On December 20, the government responded to the farmers’ written rejection of proposals by saying that farmers should clarify in detail what their specific proposals. “The reply sent by you through your email to us is very brief. It is unclear whether the views expressed in that mail are your personal opinion or the collective view of all the farm organisations,” the government’s letter signed by joint secretary Vivek Agarwal to Darshan Pal, a senior leader representing the farm unions. Pal said the unions were not averse to talking but they could not “set a fresh date” for the talks because the proposals the government presented were “not acceptable”. “The government has to revise them because we rejected these proposals on December 5,” he said. “It’s clearly been a classic standoff. No one wants to blink first at least on the core issue of discussing a possible repeal or suspension of the laws, which the farmers want. I believe the talks can still be revived if the government can bring a model to compensate farmers for lower prices of produce, if not a law on MSP,” said RS Manu, a retired economist of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-with-open-mind-govt-again-writes-to-farmers/story-shoF7zyrmr73kJfVcZep0N.html
25-12-2020||India||Sivasankar assisted in gold smuggling, says ED charge sheet||Suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar “knowingly assisted” other key accused in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel in Kerala, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the money trail in the racket, alleged in a supplementary charge sheet filed in a special court here on Thursday.The agency said its investigation so far revealed Sivasankar, the fifth accused in the case, indulged in criminal activities and committed scheduled offences. Sivasankar was arrested by the ED on October 28 and is under judicial custody.The agency had in October filed an interim charge sheet against three key accused Sarith P S, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. In the supplementary charge sheet, the ED alleged that Sivasankar had knowingly assisted the three in smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sivasankar-assisted-in-gold-smuggling-says-ed-charge-sheet/story-I7YEA5kz7HSJMr85DTnKNM.html
25-12-2020||India||Shopian fake encounter: Army completes key inquiry step against two of its personnel||The army has completed the Summary of Evidence against two of its men involved in July’s Shopian fake encounter in which three civilians were killed and a possible court martial could take place after completion of formalities, officials familiar with the matter said.Confirming the development, Army spokesperson Rajesh Kalia said “The Summary of Evidence is being examined by the authorities in consultation with legal advisers for proceeding further. The Indian Army is committed to ethical conduct of operations. ”The army had ordered a Court of Inquiry earlier this year after reports appeared on social media that three youths, labelled as terrorists, had been gunned down by its personnel.The Court of Inquiry, which completed its probe earlier in September, had found “prima facie” evidence that troops had “exceeded” powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (Afspa) during the July 18 encounter in which three men were killed. Following this, the army had initiated disciplinary proceedings.Officials in know of the development said the two army personnel may face court martial proceedings for violating the powers vested under the Afspa and not following the Dos and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court.They also said the role of the three civilians as well as the person who had allegedly led the army to the men needs to be thoroughly examined by the police. The three civilians killed in Amshipura were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammed Ibrar, hailing from Rajouri district. Their identities were subsequently confirmed through a DNA test. The bodies were handed over to their families in October.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had met the families of the three men and assured them the UT government will ensure that justice is done in the case. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-fake-encounter-army-completes-key-inquiry-step-against-two-of-its-personnel/story-yow0pn18WUEvg0rj3cPa4H.html
25-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Here’s your meal on wheels||The black sky’s hazy moon is easily visible through the cold smoggy air. Perhaps because of the absence of street lighting. A few folks are passing along the lane.But now Pratikansh enters this central Delhi street: it’s around 8pm and he is on a bicycle. A huge bag is hanging from his back. He applies the breaks, gets off the seat and looks around, as if searching for an address. A carrier for a food delivery application, he has to hand over “South Indian thali” to a subscriber in the vicinity. He chats on the mobile and waits on the spot for the person to appear. Meanwhile, he has a spare moment to confirm that indeed, he is as young as he looks—even in his masked appearance.“I’m 18.”At this stage in life, many people are applying for colleges and thinking of a career, but Pratikansh has “problems at home.” Even so, he has enrolled himself in a “BA programming” course, while working on the side.And this is already the second half of his working day. Pratikansh works as a delivery man daily from 2pm to 10pm, and spends the day’s earlier part helping his mother with her “chhota mota (small-time)” job. “Papa is a plumber.” The family lives in nearby Paharganj and “my earnings help everyone survive the month,” he states.The young man often gets anxious about catching the coronavirus infection, since the nature of his job entails interactions with dozens of unknown people every day, “but I’m very careful, and then whatever is to happen will happen.”May be his dream will happen.“I want to be a representative in pharmacy... that job can change my life.”Pratikansh has other restaurant pickups and deliveries to manage before going back home. He pedals about 40km daily, he says. He starts his shift with lunch at home. “Today mummy had made aloo paratha... tonight she’s making shalgam (turnip) chukandar (beetroot) ki subzi.”And now the customer appears to claim her meal. Pratikansh urges her to give him a good rating. He now gets on his cycle, turns around, and suddenly looks up, exclaiming—“See the moon!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-here-s-your-meal-on-wheels/story-EtWuMxG4WQZUllSVhH2OFO.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Breach of privilege’ notice against Kejriwal||Rajya Sabha member Sonal Mansingh has filed notice for a breach of privilege motion against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for remarking in the state assembly on December 17 that the three farm bills had been passed in the Upper House of Parliament without the legislation being put to vote.The notice, filed on Wednesday, will be taken up by the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha and sent to the Delhi assembly for action, if the chairperson feels it warrants action, a person aware of the details said on condition of anonymity.The Rajya Sabha in September passed three farm bills with the proceedings of the House conducted amid uproar as Opposition parties protested against the legislation.Expressing support for farmers who are protesting against the farm laws, Kejriwal on December 17 tore up the farm laws on the floor of the assembly and said: “What was the hurry to get farm laws passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has perhaps happened for the first time that the three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha…”Mansingh, a classical dancer who is a nominated member of the Upper House wrote, in a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairperson that the Delhi chief minister’s statement “is not only a serious breach of privilege but also a blatant contempt of the House, which was a mischievous attempt to denigrate the character of the chairman, Rajya Sabha and the prestige of the upper house of Parliament of India”.HT contacted the CM’s office but they did not comment on the matter.According to a person aware of parliamentary procedure, a member of Parliament can move a breach of privilege motion against the Delhi CM. “In 1955 during a speaker’s conference it was decided that a motion of breach of privilege can be moved against another house,” the person said.Constitutional expert PDT Achary said tearing up laws that have been passed did not amount to breach of privilege. “The questions that arises is (whether) the act of tearing a law that has been passed in Parliament and received the President’s assent is a breach of privilege. And if the chairperson finds it so, then it is not for the RS to take action; it has to be dealt with by the Delhi Assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breach-of-privilege-notice-against-kejriwal/story-wNvW7tuKv1S5SPlIsmkibK.html
25-12-2020||India||Police raid Delhi lawyer Mahmood Pracha appearing for riots accused||Confusion and controversy surrounded a hours-long police search at the office of a lawyer representing some of the accused in the north-east Delhi riots case. Delhi Police’s special cell on Thursday conducted searches at the office of senior advocate Mahmood Pracha at Nizamuddin in connection with a case filed against him. Pracha, however, filed a police complaint that imposters posing as police personnel visited his office and took information from his computers in pen drives. The police denied this, and said the search was by them and that they had a court order. A person from Pracha’s office, who did not wish to be named, said late on Thursday evening that police teams were still inside Pracha’s office.During the day, a video of police personnel in plainclothes inside Pracha’s office at Nizamuddin was circulated on social media, which shows Pracha remonstrating with police personnel that he could not give the information that the police were seeking. Police personnel can be heard telling him in the video that they have a court order allowing them to search his office. In response, Pracha is heard citing attorney-client privilege that bars him from revealing information that was saved in one of the computer systems and that while the police are free to scan the computers in his office but he himself would not share any details with them. The video also shows Pracha and the police arguing about the validity of the warrant. Pracha represents several people accused of perpetrating violence or conspiring to cause the riots that ravaged north-east Delhi in February. His clients include Bhim Sena chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Gulfisha Fatima.Pracha could not be reached for comment despite repeated calls to him and to his office. The person from his office cited above said that the police have seized the lawyer’s phone too. HT could not independently verify this. Delhi Police said that they visited Pracha’s office in connection to a case. On August 22, police registered an FIR against Pracha after one of the riot victims told a court that the lawyer has asked him to fake a deposition and frame three people in riot cases. Police had then told the court that they had filed a case against Pracha for giving false information to the court, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.At the time itself, Pracha denied the police’s allegations and said that the case was meant to intimidate him. Pracha was also a prominent face of the protests against the citizenship amendment law . In response to Pracha’s allegation about imposters raiding his office posing as police personnel, the police issued a statement on Thursday evening. It read: “During the course of a bail matter pertaining to an accused of the NED riots, use of a forged notary stamp and creation of allegedly false/manipulated evidence at the hands of certain members of the bar was noticed. The learned special court had observed that the same required thorough investigation. Pursuant to this, a criminal case under appropriate sections of law was registered and investigation was taken up.” Police said that during investigation, search warrants were obtained from court to look for electronic and other evidence at two places and that they were executing the same on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-raid-delhi-lawyer-mahmood-pracha-appearing-for-riots-accused/story-Y5NftIwWyRzFctVfKI8JhM.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Anti-farmer’: Congress asks for withdrawal of laws||A delegation of senior Congress leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday to demand a special session of Parliament to repeal three agriculture reform laws, with former party president Rahul Gandhi attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the contentious legislation.Thousands of farmers, mainly from northern India, have camped on the borders of Delhi since November 26 to protest against the laws they say will weaken their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses.Eleven Opposition parties also released a statement and termed as “baseless” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark that Opposition leaders were lying to the farmers and misleading them. The statement also expressed solidarity with protesting farmers. The BJP rejected the charges and accused the Congress of using farmers for politicking. In the afternoon, Gandhi; leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad; and party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury; met Kovind and handed over a memorandum signed by 20 million farmers seeking withdrawal of the three laws.“We told the President that the new agri laws are anti-farmer. The farmers and labourers will suffer due to this,” Gandhi said after the meeting. “I want to tell the PM that farmers are not going back home until the laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal them,” he added. During the march to Rashtrapati Bhavan, Delhi Police detained Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders and took them to Mandir Marg police station for violating prohibitory orders after they held a sit-in protest outside the party office at 24, Akbar Road. Rahul Gandhi, Azad and Chowhury were allowed to proceed. Three Congress-ruled states -- Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh -- have passed bills bypassing the central laws that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Gandhi said all Opposition parties stood in solidarity with farmers and alleged that Modi wanted to transfer the wealth of ordinary people to crony capitalists. “Whoever will try to stand against him will be called terrorist - be it farmers, labourers and even if [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief] Mohan Bhagwat stands against him, he too will be called a terrorist. Anyone trying to take power from him will be dubbed anti-national,” he said. He also attacked the authorities for blocking a protest march by Congress leaders to Rashtrapati Bhavan. “Democracy…. which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India. It is in your imagination but not in reality,” he told reporters. In the memorandum, the Congress claimed 44 farmers lost their lives in the ongoing protests. The BJP hit back. “The country hasn’t forgotten what happened during Emergency days. Democracy has flourished in Prime Minister Modi’s term,” Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said. His party colleague and Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar accused the Congress of cheating farmers. “It is clear today that the Congress party is doing politics in the name of farmers,” he added. Javadekar also made light of Gandhi’s demands, saying Congress members obstruct Parliament when it is in session and do not take part in debates.The Opposition joint statement was signed by Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Sitaram Yechury of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D Raja, Farooq Abdullah of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav, TR Baalu of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, Manoj Bhattacharya of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Debabrata Biswas of the All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), and Dipankar Bhattacharya of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist). “We register our strong protest against the baseless allegations being made by Prime Minister Modi, accusing the opposition parties of ‘repeatedly lying’ to the farmers about the new farm laws and using them for their politics. The Prime Minister’s accusations are a complete travesty of truth,” read the statement. It referred to a speech by Modi to farmers of Madhya Pradesh on December 18, when the Prime Minister had alleged that Opposition parties were misleading the farmers on laws that would benefit agriculture. Gandhi condemned the detention of the other Congress leaders by the police. “It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office. PM needs to realise that there is a limit to this,” Gandhi said. “China is sitting at the border and has snatched thousands of kilometres our land. But why does the PM not speak up on it? Why is he silent? He is making the country weak and outside forces are seeing it as an opportunity. The country is moving on a dangerous path and it will suffer,” he claimed. Priyanka Gandhi said the government was not ready to listen to farmers. “It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If the government is terming farmers’ protest as sedition, it is a sin,” she told reporters. But Union minister of state Choudhary maintained that the new laws were good for farmers. “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t want the agitation to stop. Congress cadre won’t stop agitating but farmers will. We are interacting with farmers while Congress and other political parties are inciting them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-farmer-congress-asks-for-withdrawal-of-laws/story-moVx1SjvrqddBRxMFZBMjM.html
25-12-2020||India||Reading the clues from Covaxin early trial data||Bharat Biotech, which is among the frontrunners in the race to develop a coronavirus vaccine in India, released new data from phase 1/2 clinical trials. The vaccine is still being tested for efficacy – whether it can prevent Sars-Cov-2 infections – but the data shows it is progressing well. A look at the key indicators and how it might compare with some other candidates.Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine candidate, jointly developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), passed the two crucial tests in clinical trials – showing it was safe and triggered an immune response – according to early stage analysis released on Wednesday. The Phase 1/2 data showed that levels of neutralising antibodies in those who received the vaccine -- called Covaxin -- were similar to those who recovered from a natural infection. This level was at its peak at 42 days after the second dose, with a dip seen at 104 days. Among all participants in the early phase who received the vaccine, 98.3% “sero-converted” (that is, they developed an antibody response). But how do these numbers compare with other leading vaccine candidates whose data has been released? The comparison can be made in two ways: drawing parallels with other candidates that use the same method to train a person’s immunity, or by comparing some of the parameters with the leading candidates already approved.Bharat Biotech’s Coovaxin is based on an inactivated virus, and for the first method of comparison, there are four others in late-stage trials that it can be compared. All four of these are being developed by Chinese companies but only one, Sinovac’s Coronavac, has carried out an analysis that can be picked up for comparison.At the outset, it appears that the Indian candidate may be comparable or even slightly better than its rival on some parameters. When people were given both doses of Covaxin, 98.4% of them developed antibodies compared at day 56 to 100% at day 28 after the two-dose regimen in the Coronavac trial, according to phase 2 trial data released by both.  The difference was more stark when it came to how strong the level of antibody response was. In the case of Covaxin, volunteers showed levels similar to those who had a natural infection from Sars-Cov-2 and recovered. But in the case of Coronavac, this level was roughly a third of what was seen in recovered individuals.To be sure, there could still be some variations in test methods used by researchers and the studies were held separately, in different populations, that do not lend to like-for-like comparisons. But the proportion of people who develop an antibody response and the comparison of antibody levels with recovered (convalescent) people are relative parameters that can be used to loosely compare vaccine performance.Sinovac and Bharat Biotech both judged their vaccines on these parameters, while the three other inactivated virus platform candidates in late-stage trials (two of them are by Sinopharm and the third by Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences) have not compared antibody levels to convalescent patients.While the Indian and the Chinese candidates have a platform overlap and both use a two-dose regimen, they also have some differences. The Chinese Coronavac, for instance, requires a booster shot at 14 days while the Indian one was at day 28. The two vaccine candidates also use different adjuvants -- ingredients that are used to help create a stronger immune response. Coronavac uses aluminium, which is a commonly used adjuvant, while Covaxin incorporates a proprietary adjuvant called Algel-IMDG.  The second method of comparison is to take into account the number of antibodies developed after people were given the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. In Moderna’s case, 100% of the people developed antibodies and the levels were over twice as the levels seen in convalescent individuals. In case of the Pfizer and BioNTech inoculation too, 100% of individuals developed antibodies and this level was close to four times. Both these numbers are far ahead of Covaxin and Coronavac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reading-the-clues-from-covaxin-early-trial-data/story-IdDtQaiU0f6q1PH98sIpgL.html
25-12-2020||India||Delhi air toxic for third straight day||Delhi’s air quality remained in “severe” zone for the third consecutive day on Thursday as slow wind speed facilitated accumulation of pollutants, once gain putting under the scanner measures taken by authorities to mitigate the public health crisis that has become an annual occurrence every winter.The conditions led several experts to question what the newly formed Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR had achieved in mitigating the crisis, and what it was doing differently from the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or EPCA, that it effectively replaced.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of Delhi stood at 423 at 4pm on Thursday, marginally better than Wednesday’s 433 but worse than Tuesday’s 418. Before this, Delhi’s air quality last touched the “severe zone” on December 5, when the 24-hour average AQI was 404. In several air quality monitoring stations in Delhi, including those in RK Puram, Alipur, ITO, Rohini, Okhla Phase-II, Bawana, Mundka and Anand Vihar, the average AQI remained over 450 on Thursday. Neighbouring satellite towns such as Ghaziabad (440), Noida (441) and Faridabad (408), too, recorded severely polluted air during the day, while the air in Gurugram (361) was “very poor”. An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered “poor”. A reading of 301 to 400 is in “very poor” category and associated with respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. An AQI of 400-500 is considered “severe”. With the recent spike in pollution levels in Delhi-NCR, CAQM directed government agencies on Wednesday to ensure strict pollution control measures in the city were being followed. On the commission’s direction, CPCB has issued an order to keep hot mix plants and stone crushes shut till January 2.The body — constituted on November 5 under an ordinance promulgated in October — also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Board (DPCC) and the city’s municipalities to step up enforcement by increasing water sprinkling and mechanised sweeping in their respective jurisdictions.But experts said the formation of a commission will not help unless corrective measures are ensured. “First, we had EPCA, which had not done much to ensure a holistic solution for the perpetual problem of pollution the northern India belt. Now this new commission is doing nothing different. It has been three days since Delhi and NCR (National Capital Region) towns are reeling under severe pollution, but there has been no proactive step from the commission apart from tokenism. We can make a hundred bodies, but what is the use if we continue to breathe dangerous levels of pollution,” said Sushmita Banerjee, an air pollution management and policy researcher. CAQM chief MM Kutty did not respond to calls and messages till the filing of this report. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that after recording a minimum temperature of 4.5 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory on Thursday, the temperature is likely to increase by a few notches from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-toxic-for-third-straight-day/story-OEtLHxd81VVzAQPBuxLDvO.html
25-12-2020||India||In last 2 weeks, 43 people have returned to Odisha from UK||A day after a 34-year-old man from Bhubaneswar tested Covid-19 positive 5 days after returning from UK, the Odisha government on Thursday said 43 people of the state with travel history to United Kingdom have come back to Odisha in the last 17 days.Additional chief secretary of Health and Family Welfare department PK Mohapatra said of the 43 UK returnees, 21 went to Bhubaneswar, one to Khurda, five to Cuttack, three each to Koraput and Berhampur and two each to Nayagarh and Nabarangpur, one each to Jajpur, Rajgangpur, Sambalpur, Jagatsinghpur and Sakhigopal towns.“Please carry out intense surveillance, contact tracing, RT-PCR test of all the passengers from the UK and the people who came in contact with them to prevent the spread of the mutated Covid-19 virus in the state. The mutated strain of SARS-CoV-2 reported from the UK has higher transmission capacity as compared to the earlier strains,” said Mohapatra in his letter to district collectors and municipal authorities.Meanwhile, the sample of the 34-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 has been sent to NIV Pune for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-last-2-weeks-43-people-have-returned-to-odisha-from-uk/story-SDZAA71D7wmap2k7dE83JK.html
25-12-2020||India||Akhada Parishad to send list of ‘self-styled godmen’ to Uttarakhand CM to bar them from Mahakumbh||With less than a month left for next year’s Mahakumbh, Akhada Parishad has warned against the entry of fake shankaracharyas and self-styled godmen in Haridwar for the mega religious congregation beginning in January. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of the all the Akhadas, has decided to prepare a list of such fake saints and self-styled godmen and send it to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat so that they don’t get any recognition and facilities during the Kumbh through Kumbh Mela administration. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri Maharaj citing the recent demand of so called Gayatri Triveni Prayagpeeth pontiff Trikal Bhavanta Saraswati to get land allocation and other facilities for the Kumbh mela tenure said that no fake saints will be allowed to enter the Kumbh zone. Citing the centuries old tradition of Sanatan Dharma of having only four revered Shankaracharyas namely the ones for Jyotirmath, Badrinath, Dwarka,Jagganath and Puri, Narendra Giri said that the state government should keep in mind that only four Shankaracharyas of these holy seats be given so-called status, recognition, land allocation and other facilities during the four-month long Mahakumbh. Cautioning the Kumbh Mela administration to not get influenced by such fake saints, Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said that from their level they are apprising the state government and Mela administration officials about the real and fake saints. “We have sought names of such fake saints from across the country and as we get them, we will discuss and take a decision accordingly in our meeting. We have already urged CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat to ensure fake saints don’t get entry and privileges during Mahakumbh,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Mela administration additional Mela officer Harbeer Singh said that allocation of land to Akhadas for Mahakumbh has commenced and respective Akhadas are being handed documents in this regard with the whole process being done in consultation with Akhada Parishad. Notably, earlier in 2018 the Akhada Parishad had released in four phases list of more than two dozen “fake saints” ahead of Prayagraj Kumbh held last year to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. On the same lines, the Akhada Parishad is compiling the list of fake saints ahead of Haridwar Mahakumbh to be submitted to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. “In recent times a large number of incidents of self-appointed, fake or controversial godmen ,pontiffs, Jagadgurus and Shankaracharyas have come into light .Even in previous 2010 Mahakumbh fake Shankaracharyas issue had come to fore. So, it is good that Akhada Parishad is taking up this issue ahead of Mahakumbh 2021,” said Mahamandaleshwar Harichetnanand Maharaj of Shri Panchayati Akhada Bada Udasin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-to-send-list-of-self-styled-godmen-to-uttarakhand-cm-to-bar-them-from-mahakumbh/story-IWXrrOjr3FDYg6lXwsyHRO.html
25-12-2020||India||PM Modi to talk to Kerala church leaders to sort out issues, says Mizoram Governor||With differences between two Christian factions in Kerala, Orthodox and Jacobite, widening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will talk to both groups next week along with others to find a lasting solution to some issues, said Mizoram Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai in Kozhikode. The Governor, also hailing from Kerala, said he had briefed the PM about all issues and sought his intervention to help solve them. He said leaders of both factions will be met separately and later there will be a joint meeting. He said he will also discuss the issue with Home Minister Amit Shah. The growing friction between the two factions has invited enough embarrassment for the community and often created big law and order problems in the state. Earlier Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also tried to broker peace between two but failed to make much headway as both sides stuck to their stands. “There is a complaint that central funds for minority welfare are not distributed proportionately between different communities in the state. The Church has been raising its concern in this regard for quite some time. So the PM will hear their woes also,” Pillai said. All denominations of the Church have welcomed the latest development. “We hope the PM’s intervention will help us get justice,” said Jacobite church trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios. “We are ready to go by any agreement that is bound by law of the land and decision of the apex court,” said Orthodox Church secretary Biju Oommen. Recently, a tiff between the two spilled over to the streets inviting enough embarrassment for believers. Jacobites and Orthodox denominations of the Malankara Syrian Church have been fighting for the control of 2000- odd churches and their rich coffers for more than two decades. In 2017, the Supreme Court had upheld the 1934 constitution of Malankara church and gave the Orthodox group control over more than 1000 parishes and churches in Kerala but Jacobites, who were controlling majority of these shrines, were not ready to give up. Orthodox is an indigenous group but Jacobites have more followers. The Malankara Syrian church has two factions-- Orthodox, which is headquartered in Kottayam, and Jacobites, who consider the Patriarch of Antioch, based in Beirut, as their supreme leader. Both factions differ in their leadership but they share the same rites of worship and have a long-standing rivalry that goes back to 1912, when the Malankara church split into two, Orthodox and Jacobites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-talk-to-kerala-church-leaders-to-sort-out-issues-says-mizoram-governor/story-aDXm3n25LRlq4FseFxuCvK.html
25-12-2020||India||Zydus Cadila seeks Phase 3 clinical trials approval for its Covid-19 vaccine||Pharma major Zydus Cadila has approached the national drugs regulator, seeking approval to start phase 3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate against the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), that has proven to be safe for use. In a statement issued on Thursday, the company informed that it had submitted the phase II/II trials data of its plasmid DNA vaccine candidate, ZyCov-D, to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani. The vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic, claims the company. “…ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic in the Phase I/II clinical trials. The company is now planning to initiate Phase III clinical trial in around 30,000 volunteers upon receiving necessary approvals,” the company said in a statement. The Phase II study of the vaccine candidate had been conducted in over 1000 healthy adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose escalation, multi-centric, randomized, double-blind placebo controlled study. The trial has been reviewed by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), and reports have been submitted to Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) regularly for the update on safety outcome. “After establishing safety in Phase I clinical trial, ZyCoV-D has now completed Phase II clinical trials and the vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic. We are optimistic of Phase III clinical trial outcomes as well and that we would be able to start the production of the Novel Vaccine on its successful completion. I would like to thank all the volunteers who have participated in the study so far and helped us in evaluating the vaccine to fight COVID-19,” said Pankaj R. Patel, chairman of the Zydus Group, in a statement. With ZyCoV-D, the company has successfully established the DNA vaccine platform in the country. The platform is also known to show much improved vaccine stability thus requiring lower cold chain requirements. This makes the vaccine ideal for access in remotest regions of the country. Administered through the intradermal route, it also allows for the ease of administration. Further, the platform also provides ease of manufacturing the vaccine with minimal biosafety requirements (BSL-1). “…the platform can be rapidly used to modify the vaccine in couple of weeks in case the virus mutates to ensure that the vaccine still elicits protection. The plasmid DNA when introduced into the host cells would be translated into the viral protein and will elicit a strong immune response mediated by the cellular and humoral arms of the human immune system, which play a vital role in protection from disease as well as viral clearance,” the company statement further read. In its Covid-19 vaccine development initiative, Zydus has been supported by national biopharma mission, biotechnology industry research assistance council, department of biotechnology, Indian council of medical research, and national institute of virology, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-phase-3-clinical-trials-approval-for-its-covid-19-vaccine/story-cmKv9G4xmL8t1MtZgDQ4zL.html
25-12-2020||India||Filming of centrally-protected monuments will be free from Dec 25 to Aug 15||Filming of centrally-protected monuments to promote tourism and culture will not be chargeable from December 25 to August 15, 2021 to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and commemorate the celebrations of the 75th year of the country’s independence, according to an order of the Ministry of Culture.The order issued on Thursday states that the ministry “exempts the payment of fees/charges under rule 44(1) of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1959 for the filming of centrally protected monuments and sites from December 25, 2000 to August 15, 2021”.This, however, will not be applicable to the 27 world heritage sites.“On the occasion of Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji’s birth anniversary, from 25 December to 15 August 2021, the @ASIGoI will allow filming in monuments free of charge, except for the world heritage sites. It is an auspicious occasion to promote freedom, language, art, culture, tourism. This has been done under the Dekho Apna Desh initiative to encourage people to see their own country,” Culture Minister Prahlad Patel said in a tweet.However, the order states that the applicants or agencies have to apply for permission to carry out shooting activities as under Rule 43 of the AMASR Rules, 1959. It also states that the director general, if satisfied that the licence asked for should not be granted, may for reasons to be recorded refuse to grant the same.“The exemption will be provided to the applicants/agencies specifically working on the areas of the Indian independence movement, life of a freedom fighter, sacrifices in the freedom movement, Indian tradition and culture, promotion of national language, folk arts/folk language, heritage of Indian tourism development and promotion and other issues relating to national importance,” the order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) states.However, the applicants will have to pay a refundable security deposit, applicable for the filming of centrally-protected monuments and sites.“Except the 27 world heritage sites, at the other sites, filming will be free. This is to promote lesser known sites, encourage people to film at these sites and promote places within the country,” said Nitin Tripathi, Media Advisor, Ministry of Culture.The ASI has 3,692 centrally-protected monuments under it and the fee for filming at the these locations is Rs 50,000 per day per site, which is non-refundable, and Rs 10,000 as security deposit, which is refundable.Patel had earlier reduced the time taken to give permissions for filming at these monuments to 20 days, which earlier used to take months, and also brought down the filming fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filming-of-centrally-protected-monuments-will-be-free-from-dec-25-to-aug-15/story-AAavoDMzOYrRqtqzAgm4QM.html
25-12-2020||India||India questions China’s delay in releasing ships||India on Thursday said foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with dozens of Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. According to the external affairs ministry, a total of 39 Indian crew members of two cargo vessels have been stranded in waters off the Chinese ports of Jingtang and Caofeidian for weeks as the authorities haven’t allowed the ships to discharge their cargo. Other reports have said there are more Indian crew members on some 20 vessels stuck outside Chinese ports. The situation is believed to be the outcome of a China-Australia trade row as most of these vessels are carrying Australian coal. Reports have said some 400 seafarers and about two million tons of Australian coal are stuck on vessels outside Chinese ports. “We understand that some other ships, which arrived after the Indian ships arrived, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave. The reasons for this are not clear,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. He said there were 23 Indian crew members on the bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand, in anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13. Another 16 Indian crew members were on the MV Anastasia, in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. Both vessels are waiting to discharge cargo. Both Jag Anand and Anastasia are carrying Australian coal. Chinese customs haven’t cleared Jag Anand’s cargo and local authorities haven’t allowing the crew to leave the vessel, citing Covid-19-related restrictions. The vessel’s charterer has refused to allow it to sail to another port to relieve the crew. Anastasia’s second officer, Gaurav Singh, told Australia’s ABC News that mental health issues, lack of medical support and a decline in drinking water quality had compounded the problems of the crew. Srivastava said: “This unprecedented situation has caused a considerable amount of stress among the crew. Our embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China. They are requesting that the ships be allowed to discharge their cargos and the crew members be allowed to be changed.” Chinese authorities have said crew change is not permitted at Jintang and Caofeidian ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions imposed by local authorities, he added. China’s foreign ministry said on Wednesday necessary assistance was being provided to the Indian crew members. Srivastava said the Indian mission in Beijing will remain in touch with Chinese authorities to “seek their facilitation and assistance which can lead to an early resolution of the issue and help ameliorate the situation of the crew”. This development also comes against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, which has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that local authorities are in communication with the Indian side and provided assistance “while meeting certain quarantine and epidemic prevention requirements”. However, there was no indication when the Indian seafarers will be allowed to leave their vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-questions-china-s-delay-in-releasing-ships/story-c6qcoTc7aigBlYtMA9odkK.html
25-12-2020||India||Pak court sentences Hafiz Saeed to 15 yrs in jail in terror funding case||Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, blamed by India for masterminding the 2008 Mumbai attacks, was on Thursday given a jail term of fifteen-and-half years in a terror financing case by a Pakistani court, his fourth conviction this year on similar charges. This was the longest prison sentence awarded so far to the Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD) chief in the five cases that have been decided against him by the anti-terrorism court in Lahore. Though the prison terms in these cases cumulatively add up to 36 years, he will serve the sentences concurrently. The court also imposed a fine of Pakistani Rs 200,000 on Saeed, 70, who is being held in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat jail. However, reports have suggested he is being provided preferential treatment in the prison, including access to special facilities and visitors. Saeed’s latest conviction comes in the run-up to Pakistan’s efforts to counter terror financing being reassessed by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) early next year. In October, the multilateral watchdog retained Pakistan in its “grey list” for failing to fully deliver on an action plan to fight terror financing, giving it time till February to address what it said were “very serious deficiencies”. FATF president Marcus Pleyer cautioned that Pakistan wouldn’t be given a chance “forever” to address outstanding issues, and said repeated failure to deliver on the action plan would result in a country being put in the “black list”. A court official in Lahore was quoted by PTI as saying: “On Thursday, an anti-terrorism court of Lahore sentenced five leaders of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, including its chief Hafiz Saeed, in another terror financing case...for 15-and-half years.” The others convicted by the court were all close aides of Saeed – JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid, Zafar Iqbal, Hafiz Abdus Salam and Muhammad Ashraf. The court also gave a six-month prison term to Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rahman Makki and fined him Pakistani Rs 200,000, the court official said. Saeed and the others were brought to the court amid tight security and media wasn’t allowed into the courtroom. In November, Saeed was given two separate five-year prison terms under provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act for using and providing funds for acts of terrorism in two cases of terror financing. He was also given a six-month prison term for being a member of a banned group. Saeed was also given two sentences of five-and-a-half-years in February. It was earlier thought he would serve only about five years in jail as all the sentences were to run concurrently. However, Thursday’s verdict means he will serve up to 15-and-half years. A total of 41 cases were registered last year against JuD leaders by the Counter-Terrorism Department of Pakistan’s Punjab province, and 28 of them have been decided so far. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the action being taken against Saeed is largely because of pressure on Pakistan from Western powers and FATF to crack down on UN-designated terror groups and individuals as well as terror financing, including prosecution of those funnelling funds to terrorists. Saeed’s repeated conviction in five cases this year is also being seen as his diminishing utility to Pakistan’s powerful military establishment, which has for long had connections with LeT, JuD and other front organisations set up by him, such as the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-court-sentences-hafiz-saeed-to-15-yrs-in-jail-in-terror-funding-case/story-oeHN1ZbTPUJkMEMpjZ0ulI.html
25-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Vaccine may be available at pharmacies||Depending on the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines available by the second quarter of 2021, experts making vaccine-related decisions are considering making shots available for private use for those who can afford to pay even as inoculation of the vulnerable population is expected to begin early next year once a candidate is finalised. The prices may be subsidised in private markets, said an expert from the team, requesting anonymity. However, the move will be subject to grant of regulatory approvals to the Covid-19 vaccine candidates. “This is something that was also done for the influenza vaccine; those who can pay are allowed to access the vaccine in private (market) with certain riders,” another senior official in the government, who too spoke condition of anonymity, said. He is also a part of the vaccine delivery process. The government had earlier announced that India targets to vaccinate at least 300 million high-risk people by July next year. It is currently drafting a list of beneficiaries that includes about 30 million health care and frontline workers for the first phase. Currently, clinical trials data of two vaccine candidates — Pfizer-BioNTech and Oxford-AstraZeneca being manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India— are being examined by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The three vaccine candidates whose emergency use authorisation (EUA) applications are before the national drugs regulator are: Pfizer-BioNTech, Serum Institute of India’s Oxford-AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech-Indian Council of Medical Research. Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),Delhi, said that EUA is likely to be granted by the end of this year or early next year. “The way things appear right now, necessary regulatory approvals are likely to come either at the end of this year or by early next year,” said Dr Guleria in an interview to a television channel on Thursday. “For Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, there is not just Serum’s trial data from India, but also AstraZeneca’s UK trials data to go by,” he added. While Pfizer had not showed up to present its case in the last meeting of the subject expert committee (SEC) on December 9, experts had sought additional data from the other two companies that had applied for EUA- Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech. Serum submitted the data on Monday, and Pfizer is also ready to present its case and has sought a fresh date from the drugs regulator. The regulator is examining the data before it allocates a date for an SEC to convene. Bharat Biotech, however, is yet to come back to CDSCO with fresh data. Several Covid-19 vaccine candidates around the world are currently undergoing advanced phase 3 clinical trials to establish efficacy of the vaccine candidate. The emergency use authorisation is usually based on preliminary phase 3 data. For market use authorisation, regulators seek full trial data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-may-be-available-at-pharmacies/story-b7NoAjCmdqN43D5EEOH8AM.html
25-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Vaccination dry run to be held in 4 states next week||The Centre has chosen eight districts in four states to conduct a dry run of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination next week. The states that will witness the two-day dry run on December 28-29 are Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.“The dry run is being conducted to mobilise all elements involved in Covid-19 vaccination drive that is planned for next year to test the vaccine delivery machinery. All elements except for the vaccine will be mobilized,” said a senior official in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, requesting anonymity.Five sites in each of the two districts in a state are likely to be established for the purpose of vaccinating beneficiaries. “Two districts each from all these four states have been identified where this dry run will be conducted simultaneously on these two days,” confirmed another official in the health ministry who too did not want to be named.The dry run will include testing for cold storage and transportation arrangements for the vaccine, managing crowd at session sites with proper physical distancing, and role of vaccinators and other staff on vaccine related duty.Special focus will be to check how possible adverse events following immunisation will be dealt with as each session site will have a designated health care facility linked to it to treat people who may develop any discomfort or uneasiness post vaccination, and also how infection control practices will be adhered to during vaccination at the session site so that it doesn’t become ground for disease transmission.Preparations have been on in full swing for the past five months for Covid-19 vaccine delivery so that no time is wasted in managing logistics when a vaccine is available for use in the country.To supervise and assist in Covid-19 vaccine delivery process, a multi-level governance mechanism has been established across all states and Union Territories. There are three types of committees: two at the state level and one at the district level. All these committees have been meeting regularly to chalk out the vaccine delivery plan at the ground level.Specific training modules have been drafted for medical officers, vaccinators, alternate vaccinators, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers, ASHA coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels.As per current estimates, the Centre will be using 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41, 000 deep freezers, and 300 solar refrigerators across the country for storage and delivery of vaccines. All these equipment have already been provided to states based on their individual requirement.“This is going to be one of the largest vaccination drives, with a lot at stake. It is important to have all checks and balances in place before the actual process begins,” said the first official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-dry-run-to-be-held-in-4-states-next-week/story-Bq3Qvo4wDOjTZuurKUNeaO.html
25-12-2020||India||‘Till lotus blooms’: Suvendu Adhikari says won’t sleep till BJP wins Bengal||“I will not sleep till the lotus blooms,” Suvendu Adhikari, the newest Bengal strongman of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), vowed at a massive rally in Kanthi, his hometown in East Midnapore district, on Thursday evening, a day after he was branded a “traitor” at a Trinamool Congress (TMC) roadshow in the same town. Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed Adhikari, a former TMC heavyweight, into the BJP, of which lotus is the election symbol, on December 19 as the ruling party strives to extend its political base in West Bengal ahead of assembly elections next year. “They (TMC) claim Mamata Banerjee will contest the elections alone and she has put in place the next generation of leadership. If that is true, then why is she sending ministers to Midnapore? She, too, will address a rally at Nandigram on January 7. I know what she is going to say. I will hold a rally in Nandigram the very next day and give her a befitting reply,” said Adhikari. So massive was the turnout that the tableau carrying Adhikari and two state BJP leaders could move only a few inches a minute. It took the tableau more than three hours to cover the five-kilometre route leading to the rally ground. “The overwhelming response has convinced me that I took the right decision by joining the BJP. People of Bengal want change....democracy is for the people and of the people, not for the party and by the party,” said Adhikari, who referred to himself as bhoomiputra (son of the soil). Singling out TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and urban development minister Firhad Hakim, the two leaders who addressed Wednesday’s rally, Adhikari ridiculed them, even challenged the chief minister and took potshots at her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. He even accused state finance minister Amit Mitra of failing to generate employment and instead generating revenue by allowing the sale of licensed country liquor in cheaper plastic pouches. “She (Mamata Banerjee) will come second in the race. Is baar, do sau paar (this time around we will score more than 200),” Adhikari told the local media on his way to the rally ground, repeating Shah’s announcement that the BJP will win more than 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats in the polls due in about five months. “The TMC need not hold rallies in my district to stop me from going elsewhere in Bengal. The more they attack me the more will be the losses they suffer in East and West Midnapore districts. I will address a rally in West Midnapore on Sunday. My home is Bengal. My country is India,” said Adhikari. Adhikari’s followers raised a unique slogan, “Hare Krishna Hare Hare, BJP ghare ghare,” implying that the BJP has entered every home with the chant Shri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, the 15th Century Hindu saint, composed for disciples of Lord Krishna. “Sri Chaitanya spread the message of universal love, hence this slogan. We are paying homage to Purushottam Ram and Sri Chaitanya at the same time,” said Adhikari. That the TMC has targeted Adhikari as its prime political enemy became evident on Wednesday when clashes took place between BJP and TMC workers in the district’s Ramnagar area. The rally was organised by Akhil Giri, the TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar and a known detractor of Adhikari. On Tuesday, Adhikari addressed his first rally as a BJP leader alongside the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh in Burdwan district. The ruling party hit back on Wednesday on Adhikari’s own turf. “The crowd was much bigger at our roadshow. Kanthi was never a BJP bastion. The people always voted for the TMC. We will win the seat once again,” Saugata Roy, who led Wednesday’s roadshow, said on Thursday. Adhikari accused Roy of winning the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat in 1977 through rigging and then demanding Indira Gandhi’s arrest. “He changed his stance again and shifted his allegiance to Indira Gandhi,” he said. “I had political reasons to oppose Indira Gandhi and later realized that we need her. As far as the allegation about rigging is concerned, no court nullified the polls,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-won-t-sleep-till-bjp-wins-bengal/story-IU6NH6wQ0Ms48HqLXJIeLO.html
25-12-2020||India||India calls for holding early talks on LAC||India on Thursday again called for holding the next meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders at an “early date” so that the two sides can work towards complete disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides have been unable to make a breakthrough in the nearly eight-month standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, though external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said these discussions had resulted in better understanding of each other’s positions. He said a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held on December 18 and the two sides had agreed the next or ninth round of talks between senior military commanders “should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC”. The disengagement should be in line with existing bilateral agreements and protocols and “fully restore peace and tranquillity”, Srivastava said. He added that India and China continue to maintain communications through diplomatic and military channels. Tens of thousands of troops from both countries have dug in for the winter at key friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the two sides were unable to agree on modalities for disengagement and de-escalation. On Wednesday, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh, including sites on the south bank of Pangong Lake where Indian troops have occupied strategic heights, and reviewed the prepared of forces. Among the areas visited by Naravane was Rechin La, where Indian troops occupied strategic heights during August 29-30 to pre-empt moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said India has the strength to give an appropriate response to any transgression or unilateral action on the borders but believes in finding a peaceful solution to conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-for-holding-early-talks-on-lac/story-ZCps60AD8QG8JjraDDHVQP.html
25-12-2020||India||UP: Case lodged, ABVP apologises after ruckus over Jain idol||Jain community leaders have demanded the immediate arrest of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists who, they alleged, entered the Digambar Jain College in Baghpat district’s Baraut town on Tuesday and threatened to remove an idol of Shrutdevi, the Jain goddess of knowledge.The police did not register a case immediately against the activists although a complaint was lodged by college principal Virendra Singh the same day, they added. On Thursday, Baghpat superintendent of police Abhishek Singh said that the case was registered against those named in the complaint by college principal Dr Virendra Singh and some unidentified activists under Sections 147, 504, 506 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code. He attributed the delay in registering the case to police engagement in dealing with the ongoing farmers’ protest in Baraut.Apologising for the outfit’s action, ABVP’s Baghpat district coordinator Ankur Chaudhary said, “We tender our apology to the Digambar Jain community and what occurred was due to our ignorance. No protest would be held in the future regarding the idol of Goddess Shrutdevi.” Earlier, Ajay Kumar Sharma, the station house officer of Baraut police station said the ABVP activists were confused over the idol of the Jain goddess. They thought the Jains had modified an image of the Hindu goddess Saraswati he added.He also claimed the matter was “sorted out”. “The matter has been sorted out in a meeting between both sides.”Amit Rai Jain, a leader of Jain community, claimed that no meeting has happened between the two sides. He said the police were “spreading lies” because the matter concerned ABVP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), ideological mentor of the rulng Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).He said a meeting of the community’s elders in Baraut on Wednesday decided to demand the immediate arrest of the ABVP activists and safety of the Shrutdevi idol on the premises of Digambar Jain College as well as the safety of other Jain temples and statues in western Uttar Pradesh .The community organised a march in the town and handed over a list of their demands to the college principal and management committee. “Jain community is a minority and the incident has filled us with insecurity in the town and in other parts of western UP,” Amit Rai Jain, who was also a participant in the meeting, said.A group of ABVP activists allegedly entered the college premises on Tuesday and locked classrooms and the principal’s office. They then went to the temple of the goddess Shrutdevi, which was installed on the college premises in 2016. The activists demanded that statue be shifted, saying they would remove it themselves if the college didn’t.Amit Rai Jain said the incident had angered the Jain community in the entire region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/u-p-case-lodged-abvp-apologises-after-ruckus-over-jain-idol/story-YONevRciZQCpsX2VMJ5O7H.html
25-12-2020||India||No new articles on Sci Hub, Libgen till Jan 6 over copyright infringement: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday restrained Sci Hub and Libgen, two online repositories providing free access to paywalled research, from uploading, publishing or making available any article till January 6 on a plea by three global academic publishers, Elsevier Ltd., Wiley India Pvt. Ltd. and American Chemical Society, claiming copyright infringement. The case against Sci Hub and Libgen, which store 84 million and 80 million articles and papers, respectively is a significant case in India many experts say has the potential to shape intellectual property rights law in India. Elsevier publishes the Lancet and Cell journals among 2,500 others, Wiley publishes 1,700 journals, and the American Chemical Society is one of the world’s largest scientific societies that also publishes the prestigious Journal of the American Chemical Society. Elsevier successfully sued Sci Hub for the same reason in the US in 2015 and the American Chemical Society did so, again successfully, in 2017. Advocate Nilesh Jain, appearing for Sci Hub founder Alexandra Elbakyan, submitted that the defence received a copy of the 2,169-page petition on Wednesday night and would need at least two weeks to respond. He said he was instructed on Wednesday by Elbakyan, who is listed as one of the defendants in the petition.To this, justice Rajiv Shakdher said, “You will not publish articles which they (plaintiffs) have copyright”. Jain said that nothing new would be uploaded. There was no representation of Libgen in court on Thursday.Elbakyan, from Kazhakstan, founded Sci Hub in 2011 to get around the high cost of scientific research, most of which were behind paywalls. She has been in hiding since 2015, fearing possible extradition. “Given the stand of the counsel for Defendant no 1 (Sci-Hub), no new articles will be uploaded or make available. Statement of Nilesh Jain is taken on record,” the court said.Justice Shakdher sought the reply of the defendants and asked them to disclose their physical addresses after senior advocate Amit Sibal, representing the publishing houses, told the court that they did not even know the address of the defendants.Sibal told the court that the defence had no case because they were “openly infringing” on the copyright of the publishers. “Our business model is some free journals and majorly subscription-based ...we are here before this court for the subscription-based publications…..The defendants are related or we can say mirror and pirate websites. They collect donations in millions, buy paywalled publications and upload copy on LibGen as well as on Sci-Hub. PayPal has disabled their payment system but they come up with new ones...” Sibal said.The petition sought direction to various internet service providers, the department of telecom and the ministry of electronics and information technology to issue orders to block Sci Hub and Libgen.During the proceedings, Sibal also suggested that he would give links that have to be removed from Sci Hub and Libgen. To this, the judge remarked, “They (defendants) are there since 2011. Where were your client for so many years? These sites are known by everyone.”Sibal said litigation in the other countries was taking time.The next hearing in the case is on January 6.Several researchers in India say they use Sci Hub to get around the high cost of research -- especially because many institutions here do not have subscriptions to these journals. “As a researcher in an Indian university, I have been using both Sci-Hub and LibGen which are indispensable resources as the institutional subscriptions and access provided by my university is inadequate because of frequent budget cuts in the library funding. Many students use these websites to access academic books and research papers which would otherwise be paywalled. Shadow libraries like these ensure that students get the materials that they need for studying,” said Prateek Vijayavargia, a PhD student at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “The existence of Sci- ub is a symptom of a fundamentally broken scientific publishing system, rigged in favour of giant publishers. Publishers should take the hint and work to improve the system, not waste time on lawsuits that are so transparently against the public interest,” tweeted Mukund Thattai, a scientist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-articles-on-sci-hub-libgen-till-jan-6-over-copyright-infringement-delhi-hc/story-3j8he06wFMfmoARTpOGoKO.html
25-12-2020||India||Alagiri hints at launching a new party, says won’t work with DMK||MK Alagiri, elder son of the late M Karunanidhi, on Thursday said he will take a decision on launching a party after a discussion with his supporters on January 3, ruling out any possibility of a rapprochement between him and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) ahead of next year’s assembly elections. “There is no chance of working with the DMK,” said Alagiri, whose father expelled him from the party over discipline issues in 2014. “I have fixed a consultative meeting on January 3 with my supporters in Madurai and I will take a decision based on their advice,” the 69-year-old, a minister in the UPA’s second term, told reporters after visiting his ailing mother in Chennai. For decades, Tamil Nadu’s politics has been a witness to a sibling rivalry between Alagiri, who once oversaw the state’s southern districts for the party, and his younger brother MK Stalin, 67, who is now the DMK president and the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections slated for early 2021. On March 25, 2014, Karunanidhi, a five-time chief minister and one of the doyens of Dravidian politics, expelled Alagiri from the party in the middle of a succession battle, causing a split in the family. After Karunanidhi’s death in August 2018, Stalin became the party president. “The party is consolidated under one leadership. So there is no way of bringing him (Alagiri) back,” said a DMK member on condition of anonymity. “Even if he starts a party, it will not have any impact on the DMK. Party cadres know that the DMK is on the verge of taking the elections by storm. Nobody will think of jumping camp now; it could finish their political career,” the leader said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is aiming to make a mark in Tamil Nadu, dismissed that Alagiri was in talks with the party despite a buzz to this effect. “We are not in talks,” state BJP president L Murugan told reporters on Thursday in Chennai. “We have both clarified on this. (But) the Tamil Nadu BJP is ready to welcome Alagiri or anyone who is willing to join the party. Several important leaders will join us soon,” he said. In November, another expelled DMK leader and an Alagiri loyalist, KP Ramalingam, joined the BJP, an ally of the state’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).On Thursday, Alagiri said he could meet actor Rajinikanth, who is expected to launch his political party in January, when the latter visits Chennai, but ruled out any possible alliance. “I’ve not met him on his birthday (December 12)...I’ll meet him when he’s in Chennai,” Alagiri said. The 70-year-old actor was out of town for shooting his latest film, Annathe, in Hyderabad under the Sun Pictures banner owned by Karunanidhi’s grandnephew Kalanidhi Maran. With shooting suspended after a few in the crew tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, Rajinikanth is likely to return to the city soon.Political analyst Sumanth Raman said the DMK is expected not to “lose sleep” over Alagiri floating a new party. “It’s a do-or-die battle for the DMK and Alagiri is looking to make himself relevant,” Raman said. “Even if a few disgruntled members gravitate to Alagiri’s new party, it will not impact the DMK. However, the BJP is seen to be sending out feelers to Alagiri to embarrass the DMK.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alagiri-hints-at-launching-a-new-party-says-won-t-work-with-dmk/story-KVaJr9Lp0umuRxmRIp3qsL.html
25-12-2020||India||Remembering Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 96th birth anniversary||Today is the 96th birth anniversary of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader to successfully complete a five-year term as the country’s prime minister. Born in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, Vajpayee was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1957 from Balrampur constituency as a member of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, a forerunner of the BJP.Vajpayee, who was also a poet, quickly grabbed the attention of top political leaders across the aisle with his sharp oratory skills. After the death of Deendayal Upadhyaya, Vajpayee took over the party leadership and became the national president of Jana Sangh in 1968. He was among prominent opposition leaders who were arrested during the Emergency imposed by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1975.In 1977, several opposition parties, including Jana Sangh, came together to contest the general elections by forming the Janata Party. Vajpayee served as the minister of external affairs (MEA) in Morarji Desai’s cabinet following Congress’ defeat in that election. In 1979, Desai resigned as India’s 4th prime minister, triggering a collapse of the Janata Party. The erstwhile leaders of Jana Sangh came together in 1980 to form the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was headed by Vajpayee.Also Read | Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s 96th birth anniversary: Iconic poems penned by late former prime ministerAfter years of political struggle, Vajpayee became the 10th Prime Minister of India in 1996 following the BJP’s emergence as the single-largest party. However, the BJP failed to garner enough support to prove majority on the floor of Parliament, and Vajpayee had to resign after 16 days. In 1998, several political parties formed a coalition with the BJP and Vajpayee led the government under the banner of National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The government lasted 13 months as the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) withdrew its support in 1999.The 1999 Lok Sabha elections were held in the aftermath of Kargil operations and the BJP-led NDA secured a comfortable majority, helping Vajpayee to complete a full five-year term for the first time. It was during Vajpayee’s prime ministership that India carried out the Pokhran-II nuclear tests in 1998. Vajpayee resigned as the prime minister in 2004 and a year later, he announced his retirement from active politics, owing to his feeble health condition. In 2015, he was bestowed with India’s highest civilian honour, Bharat Ratna. After a prolonged illness, the veteran leader passed away on August 16, 2018, at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remembering-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-his-96th-birth-anniversary/story-N0X1uG8yFLcL5JXhBHTcDK.html
