26-12-2020||India||JD(U) national executive begins, Arunachal defections, Bihar results on agenda||The two-day JD (U) national executive committee meeting began in Patna on Saturday evening with the party’s national office-bearers deliberating on the agenda.The agenda will be placed before the national executive and endorsed by the party’s national council on Sunday. The JD (U) national executive comprises 225 members.Party sources said that Saturday’s meeting broadly decided to discuss the party’s performance in Bihar polls, forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, the developments in Arunachal Pradesh where six of the party MLAs defected to the BJP.Party sources said that Sunday’s meeting would be crucial as the party’s performance in Bihar assembly polls and Arunachal Pradesh developments are likely to overshadow other discussions.Party leaders said that the political resolution that is to be placed on Sunday will approve the party’s plan to expand in other states as party’s national president Nitish Kumar is the most acceptable face in the country. The JD (U), at present has units in 28 states.“It will also contest forthcoming elections in West Bengal and Assam,” said a party leader.Though party national president Nitish Kumar on Friday had downplayed the issue, a sense of despondence has engulfed the party leaders. “It was unfortunate and not necessary. The party was friendly opposition in the state,” was how JD (U) national principal general secretary K C Tyagi reacted to a news agency.The JD-U now has just one MLA in the 60-member Arunachal assembly. BJP and JD-U are allies in the coalition government in Bihar.“We were in friendly opposition in Arunachal Pradesh. There was no danger to the state government by our MLAs. I think it was not necessary. Whatever happened is unfortunate,” Tyagi, who is also the party spokesperson, said.JD (U) sources said that in the recent municipal corporation election at Itanagar, JD (U) won nine out of 20 seats and the BJP 10 seats whereas one seat went to NCP. “This must have made the BJP jittery as both the parties are not in alliance there,” said a party leader.Party sources said that the national executive meeting becomes all the more important as this is the first time since 2005 that the JD (U) is playing second fiddle in the NDA government behind the BJP in Bihar. “So far, it has been the senior partner in 2005, 2010 and in 2017 when JD (U) and the BJP joined hands again,” said a party functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-national-executive-begins-arunachal-defections-bihar-results-on-agenda/story-gCnPvX5vSoCqp96UjkW9nN.html
26-12-2020||India||After 9 months, Nagaland to allow domestic tourists from December 27||Nagaland will open entry to domestic tourists for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic, from December 27 following health protocols. The reopening of tourism in the state in the first phase will be only for domestic tourists and entry point via road, rail and air will be restricted to the state’s commercial hub, Dimapur.According to a tourism department official, the state sees a huge number of domestic tourists. Last year, the department witnessed 1,25,949 tourists visiting from different states.As per the latest guidelines, tourists will have to produce inner line permit (ILP) obtainable on www.ilp.nagaland.gov.in along with a negative report of Covid-19 test (RT-PCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT) conducted not earlier than three days before arrival. Also read: More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month“Any tourist having symptoms of Covid-19, even with a Covid-19 negative report, will be mandatorily tested on arrival/entry as per the protocols of the Health and Family Welfare Department and he/she will be charged for the test,” a government order said.Tourists, after obtaining the ILP and having in possession a Covid-19 negative test report, will be required to register on www.tourism.nagaland.gov.in or install Nagaland Tourism official app available both on the Google Play Store and the Apple Store and provide required details, it added. However, only pre-booked or package tours will be allowed, the government stated.Ever since the country went into Covid-19 induced lockdown in late March, the state’s tourism was also shut. On Sunday, it will open for the first time in 9 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-9-months-nagaland-to-allow-domestic-tourists-from-december-27/story-oUsMOFe9lSEqMiMJGyOgLI.html
26-12-2020||India||Political patronage writ large: Irani’s lawyer on case filed by shooter||Union Minister Smriti Irani’s legal counsel Kirat Nagra on Saturday said the case filed against her by shooter Vartika Singh is based on “the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods” and that “political patronage” is writ large on the matter. Nagra said the case is a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame the minister and that she will take legal recourse against it. Singh has moved a court in Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh accusing Irani and two others of demanding money to make her a member of the central women’s commission, days after she was herself named in a police complaint. In November this year, a complaint was filed against the shooter and another person at Musafirkhana police station in Amethi district. Reacting to the matter, Nagra said in a statement, “This is a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame my client on the basis of the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods which also included brazen forgeries of official documents by this individual.” Nagra said that to deflect attention from the investigation into the FIR against her for forging official documents, Singh has “lodged some fictitious case which we have read about in the press.” “A malicious attempt has been made at seeking publicity by a habitual criminal offender wherein political patronage is writ large for this slander and defamation,” Nagra said. Nagra said Irani would take legal recourse in the matter, “including availing both civil and criminal prosecution remedies as available in law to my client.” PTI JTR SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-patronage-writ-large-irani-s-lawyer-on-case-filed-by-shooter/story-Naer8OKfJkrpxYSl4I52iP.html
26-12-2020||India||Amartya Sen lashes out at Visva-Bharati VC ‘empowered’ by Centre||At the centre of a raging row over his family being in “illegal” possession of land at Visva-Bharati, a livid Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has accused its vice chancellor of acting at the behest of the Centre “with its growing control over Bengal”.Sen was born in 1933 at Santiniketan, which is home to Visva-Bharati, the university founded by Rabindranath Tagore, another Nobel prize recipient and literary giant from Bengal. Sen, in a media statement late Friday, said the entire land occupied by him on the hallowed campus was registered on a long term lease that was nowhere close to expiry.“I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the V.C., empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi with its growing control over Bengal,” Sen wrote.A huge controversy had erupted on Thursday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati when media reported that the university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties including Sen.These people had set up restaurants, schools and other businesses on its land, the varsity said, according to the report.Referring to the reports, Sen said Visva-Bharati authorities had never complained to him or his family about any irregularity in holding the land.The Nobel laureate asserted that the Visva-Bharati land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry.“Additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul,” he said.A freehold land is a land parcel over which the owner has complete control for perpetuity.“I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist. For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others,” he said.Abanindranath was a nephew of Rabindranath Tagore and a famed painter of the Bengal School of Art.Amartya Sen’s maternal grandfather Kshitimohan Sen was a pupil at Santiniketan that evolved into a university over time, and was honoured with ‘Deshikottam’, a coveted award, in 1952. Kshitimohan Sen was the award’s first recipient.On media reports about the VC’s claim to the faculty that Sen had called him up deprecating eviction of hawkers who sell their wares in front of his house ‘Pratichi’, Sen said, “He would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with me introducing myself as ‘Bharat Ratna’ something that no one has ever heard me do”.Taking a swipe at Chakrabarty, Sen called him “an inventive artist”.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had reacted angrily to the media reports on Thursday, saying, “Because of his ideological anti-BJP stance, Amartyada has been subjected to such vicious attack by the present authorities of university.“I respect Amartya da. Do you believe Amartya Sen has occupied land? I am offering apology to Amartya da on behalf of Bengal,” Banerjee said.She also wrote a letter to Sen and asked him to consider her a “sister and friend” in his war against “intolerance and totalitarianism”.BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh had Friday cautioned Sen against being “used” by people with political interests. “We may disagree with him ideologically but we have respect for him. We urge him not to be (allowed to be) used by anti-development political forces in West Bengal,” Ghosh said.The US-based economist, an icon of Bengali achievement on world stage, has often been critical of the Narendra Modi government’s economic policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amartya-sen-lashes-out-at-visva-bharati-vc-empowered-by-centre/story-m87NkUSVVZz11lFLyWW4fI.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Railways will meet operating expenditure from earnings despite Covid-19’: Board chairman||Indian Railways is set to meet its operating expenditure despite having suffered a significant loss through passenger revenue this year, railways board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.The national transporter has incurred 87 per cent loss in passenger revenue, down from Rs 53,000 crore last year to just Rs 4,600 crore, owing to suspension of regular passenger trains due to Covid-19 pandemic.“This year has been a “Year of Grit and Victories” for Indian Railways. Faced with daunting and unprecedented Covid related challenges, under the guidance and vision of PM, Indian Railways has not only been able to keep the national supply chain running and move millions of people back home in most adverse circumstances but has also been able to usher in an unprecedented growth in the development of infrastructure, innovation, capacity expansion of network, freight diversification and transparency matters. Railways has used the Covid challenge as an opportunity to lay the foundation for future development and the next level of travelling experience for passengers,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday.Yadav said that it expects an increase in freight loading revenue, compensated by the enhanced transportation of non-traditional commodities like food grain and fertilisers.“Due to several expenditure controlling measures and the earnings from freight revenue, we will be able to compensate for the revenue loss from the passenger segment,” Yadav said at a press conference.Also read: Kumaraswamy bats for farm legislation, Deve Gowda criticises Congress“Railways has so far spent 12 per cent less than the last year. We have controlled our expenditure and are saving on fuel and inventory. Despite Covid, we will meet our operating expenditure from our revenue... We have almost surpassed both freight loading and freight revenue of last year. So, this year’s revenue would be more than last year’s from freight,” he said.The chairman said railways’ biggest achievements this year was that it managed to maintain the supply line of essential commodities, ferried more than 60 lakh migrant workers through Shramik Special trainsHe added that the ministry has also managed to clear the backlog of all maintenance and safety works.Speaking on the bullet train project, Yadav said that the Maharashtra government has assured the ministry of providing necessary land clearances for the remaining portion lying in the state in the next four months. So far, 68 per cent land has been acquired for the project.“Once that is done, we can start work on the entire line and then bullet train from both the states can be commissioned together. We will get the full picture over the next four months and then decide if the commissioning will be done in phases or at once. However, if the Maharashtra land acquisition is delayed, then a 325 kilometre-long stretch till Vapi will be commissioned. The decision will be taken in four months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-will-meet-operating-expenditure-from-earnings-despite-covid-19-board-chairman/story-0Ksu3k9tm5oDepQDnQYXvJ.html
26-12-2020||India||14 UK returnees test Covid-19 positive in Karnataka, samples sent to NIMHANS for further tests||The Karnataka government has said that 14 people of the 2500 returnees from the United Kingdom to the state have tested Covid-19 positive and that their swab samples have been sent to NIMHANS for gene sequencing to find out whether it is the new strain of the virus.Karnataka medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that 1,638 out of 2,500 returnees from the UK have been tested and 14 of them have been found positive. “This process needs 48 hours. Once we get the reports it will be sent to the Central government. About 38,500 people have returned from the UK to India. ICMR will collate reports from all states and then come up with a report,” he said. The rest of the people are also being tested.Stating that the health department will discuss with the home ministry regarding prevention and containment of the new variant of coronavirus and come up with guidelines, the Health Minister added all necessary precautions are being taken at airports. “We have also made arrangements to test people who do not have a negative report at the airports,” he said.’Responding to questions about vaccine trails, Dr Sudhakar said that third stage trials are being conducted in several states including in Karnataka. “Anyone can volunteer to take the vaccine at this stage. I have personally appealed to many frontline warriors especially medical students to volunteer for trials,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-uk-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnataka-samples-sent-to-nimhans-for-further-tests/story-OpftqbDFRmFVXjrsiEzS1K.html
26-12-2020||India||External affairs minister S Jaishankar to visit Qatar on December 27||Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar will be on a two-day visit to Qatar from December 27 to 28 wherein he will be meeting Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani, Qatari Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister.According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Jaishankar will be meeting Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani and also call on other important dignitaries of the State of Qatar.This will be Jaishankar’s first visit to Qatar as External Affairs Minister.“During the visit, he will hold talks with his counterpart on bilateral issues as well as regional and international issues of mutual interest. He will convey special gratitude to the State of Qatar for taking care of Indians during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Ministry.India and Qatar have maintained close high-level contacts during the Covid-19 pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani have spoken thrice on the telephone in the past few months. EAM and other Cabinet Ministers have also spoken with their Qatari counterparts.The Ministry further said that India and Qatar enjoy strong economic, cultural and people-to-people ties. “Qatar hosts more than 7 lakh Indians. The bilateral trade was USD 10.95 billion in 2019-20. Both sides remain committed to intensifying bilateral cooperation in various fields including energy and investments,” the statement said.India and Qatar have also worked together to face the Covid-19 pandemic and coordinated smooth operation of flights under an Air Bubble arrangement, the ministry added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-to-visit-qatar-on-december-27/story-3FVJetBNB6TSlDOwITaAdM.html
26-12-2020||India||Rajasthan prepared for vaccination drive, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan is all geared up for the Covid-19 vaccination drive under the government’s protocol and guidelines, according to chief minister Ashok Gehlot.“The preparations of Covid vaccination are going well in the state. We have prepared the state under the protocol and the guidelines of the government,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi.The Chief Minister also said that Congress MLA Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya has volunteered to get himself vaccinated in a trial of Covid vaccine, and now senior IAS officer Dr Prithviraj is getting himself vaccinated.This will encourage other people to get themselves volunteering for the vaccination, he tweeted.The third phase trial of the country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, ‘Covaxin’ prepared by Bharat Biotech launched in Jaipur has been funded by Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune.Gehlot further stated that he completely believed that the act of volunteering will increase the confidence of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-prepared-for-vaccination-drive-says-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-ogUtaFv6maR11VT4280IcL.html
26-12-2020||India||‘After BTC poll, BJP to gain majority in Assam polls’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday expressed confidence of the Bharatiya Janata Party forming a government in Assam with full majority in the 2021 assembly polls. Shah arrived in Assam on Saturday early morning where he was welcomed by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and other BJP leaders.“The Bodoland poll, won by the NDA, was only a semi-final. The final is Assam polls which is ahead. In this poll too, BJP will have full majority,” said Amit Shah while addressing at a public rally held at Amingaon in Kamrup district on Saturday. He said that Assam was earlier known for movements and violence, but chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had unified people in the region with rest of the country through the promotion of traditions, culture and heritage. He further said that there was a time when the separatist factions used to give arms to the youths, but have now joined the mainstream to become part of Assam’s growth engine. Also read: More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month“Bodoland accords was the biggest success. I am very much proud to say that in the recently conducted Bodoland polls, eighty per cent polling took place with no bloodshed,” he said. Stressing on “ideological chance,” he said that it can happen only through development. He added that the northeast has turned into a growth engine of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who keep the northeast region in focus.“Modiji visited the northeast thirty times in six years. Every time he visited, he came with gifts,” said Shah. He launched an attack on the former government led by Congress for not working for the development of Assam. In his visit, Shah is expected to meet BJP’s core committee’s newly-elected members, the ruling coalition of Bodoland Territorial Council, 23-member delegation of the United Peoples Party Liberal-BJP-Gana Suraksha Party combine, said Himanta Biswa Sarma, according to news agency PTI. Shah laid foundation stones of Rs 186 crore beautification programme of Vaishnav Saint Srimanta Sankardeva at Batadrava, one medical college and hospital to be set up in the capital city by combining Mahendra Mohan Choudhury hospital and the Kalapahar Covid Care hospital at the cost of Rs 860 crore and 11 law colleges across Assam, including providing Rs 2.5 lakhs each to 8,000 Vaishnava monasteries. Shah is scheduled to offer prayers at Kamakhya Temple in Guwahati on December 27. He would visit Manipur to launch various schemes before leaving for New Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-btc-poll-bjp-to-gain-majority-in-assam-polls-amit-shah/story-UOegGiiaLSiJzyZGBjQqpI.html
26-12-2020||India||Northeastern states to play leading role in post-Covid India: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said Northeastern states are going to play a leading role in post-Covid India and the entire country will look up to the region for avenues of business entrepreneurship, start-up initiatives and livelihood opportunities.   Singh also said that the Northeast has distinguished itself as a model for development and Covid management for the rest of the country.  The Northeastern states are going to play a leading role in post-Covid India and the entire country will look up to the region for avenues of business entrepreneurship and start-up initiatives, he told reporters here.The Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) appreciated the Northeastern states for taking disciplined, timely and effective measures against the Covid-19 pandemic which have enabled even the impartial agencies to rate the states of the region among the best Covid managed states.   Ever since Narendra Modi took over as prime minister, it was his clear instructions that we have to raise the Northeastern states at par with the more developed states and regions of the country, he said.Singh, who is on a two-day visit to the region, said in the last seven years, a structured institutionalisation of various sectors was possible because of the high priority given by the prime minister and the same reflected in the form of instant preparedness to meet the sudden challenge posed by the Covid pandemic.   The pace of development has been on such a fast track that when the Modi government came to power in 2014, there were at least three Northeastern states which had never seen a train.Today, there is a broad gauge rail track being built in all states and they are going to have its first train to Bangladesh, which will take off from Agartala in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeastern-states-to-play-leading-role-in-post-covid-india-jitendra-singh/story-yNMje43rhytLlJXEIAdNlM.html
26-12-2020||India||No devotees to be allowed inside Cossipore Udyanbati for Kalpataru Utsav this year||The Ramakrishna Math at Cossipore here which attracts lakhs of devotees on January 1 every year for ‘Kalpataru Utsav’ will be out of bounds for people this time due to the pandemic, the RKM authorities said in a statement Saturday.People gather at the Cossipore Udyanbati in north Kolkata to mark ‘Kalpataru Utsav’ - an annual event to commemorate Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa’s attainment of ‘Kalpataru’, also called ‘Kalpavriksha’, meaning the wish fulfilling tree in the heavens.“While special puja and other rituals will continue to be held as usual for Shri Shri Thakur (Ramakrishna Paramhansa), devotees will not be allowed access into the compound. The gate of Udyanbati will be closed till January 3,” the statement signed by Ramakrishna Math head Swami Bagishananda said.This is for the first time that the Ramkrishna Math and Mission authorities have decided to hold the function without devotees.However, arrangements have been made for live streaming of the rituals, which will begin at 4.30 am and continue till 5.20 pm, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-devotees-to-be-allowed-inside-cossipore-udyanbati-for-kalpataru-utsav-this-year/story-eRBeQI12HbjWDLdidQUcWJ.html
26-12-2020||India||14 UK returnees to Karnataka test positive for Covid-19; samples sent for genetic sequencing||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said 14 people who have come to the state from the UK so far have tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genetic sequencing to find whether it is a new strain of virus that has infected them.“A total of 2,500 people have come (from the UK), of them 1,638 have been tested. According to information I received last night 14 of them have tested positive. All the 14 (samples) have been sent to NIMHANS for (genetic sequencing),” he said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, the Central government has notified ten designated labs in the country for genetic sequencing, out of them two are in Bengaluru- NIMHANS and National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS).“The 14 samples are undergoing genetic sequencing. The second variant of virus in the UK is said to have undergone 17 mutations, the genetic sequencing will test in detail about mutations, which may require 48 hours, probably it (report) will come tomorrow,” he said.A total of 2,500 people have come to the state from the UK from November 25 till December 22 in two flights of Air India and British Airways- that operate, and efforts were on to trace, monitor their health and subject them to tests.The Minister however, said information regarding the genetic sequencing test reports as per the Prime Minister’s Office message will be sent to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which is likely to share the information to the public in a day or two.“...a total of 38,500 passengers have come to the country from the UK since November 22 and after gathering information about samples, positives and final report after genetic sequencing from all states, ICMR either tomorrow or the day after will share the information to the media,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-uk-returnees-to-karnataka-test-positive-for-covid-19-samples-sent-for-genetic-sequencing/story-5eDMZyMqXl3MrQmK7hmCLM.html
26-12-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, panchayat and local body polls deferred for 3 months||Local body and three-tier Panchayat elections have been deferred for the next three months in Madhya Pradesh due to the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic, said an official of the MP State Election Commission. In an order released on Saturday, MP State Election Commission deputy secretary Arun Parmar said, “In view of public health, the deferred election will be conducted after February as departments of the MP government has not completed necessary preparations.” “After analyzing the condition of Covid 19 cases in MP, the Commission has decided to defer the elections of eight municipal corporations and 407 municipalities which were slated to be held between January and February 2021 and three-tier panchayat elections which were slated to be held from December 2020 to February 2021,” said Parmar. “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, assembly elections were conducted in Bihar and local body elections were held in J&K, Hyderabad and Rajasthan. The local body polls in Haryana have also been declared. It is a constitutional duty of the Commission to conduct the election but MP departments have not completed important preparations required to conduct local elections during the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic,” said the order. The election schedule will be announced after February. Till then, the state government has been asked to complete all the preparations needed, reads the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-panchayat-and-local-body-polls-deferred-for-3-months/story-AkURFkzfTMIdztAhLDviVL.html
26-12-2020||India||Former Haryana CM Hooda demands special session of Haryana Assembly||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday again demanded convening of a special session of the Assembly and said his Congress party will move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government. “The government has lost the support of the people and many MLAs backing it,” the Leader of Opposition in Haryana said in a statement here. Hooda said that he has requested the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly “as the government is not wanting a session of the House because it wants to avoid facing a no-confidence motion”. He claimed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier said there was no need to call a special session of the Assembly and that the Opposition did not have any specific issue to raise. Hooda said “today the farmers of the state are protesting on roads all over Haryana and at Delhi borders. Every day one of the agitators sitting under the open sky is dying due to the bitter cold. In such a situation, we ask if the state government does not consider such a big agitation of farmers as an issue?” “Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government,” he asked. Hooda reiterated his stand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly, saying “many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support from the government”. Two Independent MLAs -- Sombir Sangwan and Balraj Kundu -- have withdrawn support to the state government, while many of the 10 legislators of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) have openly come out in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. “In this battle between the farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have also spoken in support of the farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has lost not only support from the public, but also the confidence of its own legislators,” Hooda said.  “If a motion of no confidence comes in the legislative Assembly, then their allies in the government itself will vote against the government. That is why we have demanded a special session from the Governor. The government fears that many legislators will vote against it if a motion of no confidence comes and is avoiding a special session,” he claimed. Recently, Hooda had claimed that some MLAs were playing a “double role” -- making statements against the government but are continuing to support the government. “This will make it clear who stands with the farmers,” he had said, referring to the planned no-trust motion. At present, the Khattar government enjoys a comfortable majority in the 90-member State Assembly. The BJP has 40 MLAs and its ally JJP 10. There are 31 Congress MLAs and one each from the Indian National Lok Dal and Haryana Lokhit Party. Seven members are Independents, out of whom five, including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, support the ruling combine. Thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi’s borders for a month now, demanding repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-cm-hooda-demands-special-session-of-haryana-assembly/story-6BAFMQMD0M8iREzwG3CkxN.html
26-12-2020||India||Time has come to expand scope of Congress-led UPA: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Rauton Saturday called for expanding the scope of the Congress-led UPA bloc, saying the Opposition should unite against the “dictatorial attitude” of the Centre and provide a “formidable alternative” to the Narendra Modi government.Speaking to reporters here, Raut also said that Sonia Gandhi effectively led the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) all these years and now the time has come to expand its scope by inducting more allies.Responding to a query on a speculation that NCP chief Sharad Pawar may head the UPA, Raut said there was no dearth of leaders in the country.“What is important is the support of people. Apart from Sonia Gandhi,Sharad Pawar has support from a cross-section of people,” he said.“All Opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the Central government. A weak opposition is bad for democracy,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.Calling the UPA and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which Shiv Sena was part earlier, as the “empty match boxes”, Raut said nobody knows which party is part of which bloc.Queried on who should lead the UPA, Raut said, “ Congress interim president) Sonia Gandhi had led the UPA very ably all these years. Now the time has come to widen the UPA’s scope”.He said many regional parties in different states had fought against the BJP but are still not members of the UPA.“All Opposition parties should come under one umbrella to provide a formidable alternative to BJP and PM Narendra Modi, which is strong enough,” he said.The Sena chief spokesperson said non-BJP governments in various states are facing a lot of challenges like non- cooperation from the Central government in carrying out developmental works.“You all know what happened to Metro car shed (in Mumbai),” he said.The Shiv Sena heads the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, of which the NCP and the Congress are also constituents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-has-come-to-expand-scope-of-congress-led-upa-sanjay-raut/story-AyfT5saML2Ie01Ma2w1RWO.html
26-12-2020||India||BTP, Owaisi come together for Gujarat local polls, target Congress vote bank||In what could be music to the BJP in Gujarat, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has struck an alliance of sorts with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) of Chhotubhai Vasava who is already smarting after “treachery” by the Congress in neighbouring Rajasthan.This comes over a week after Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM declared his support to the BTP in Rajasthan, triggering speculations of his party making forays in the desert state after Bihar and more recently Uttar Pradesh. Gujarat tribal leader Chhotubhai Vasava’s BTP, which has two assembly seats in Rajasthan, withdrew support to the Ashok Gehlot government after the Congress and the BJP ganged up to ensure the BTP candidate in Dungarpur did not win as zila parishad president. Both parties also joined hands to defeat the BTP on three panchayat samiti seats.Not only did Vasava, an MLA from Jhagadia in Bharuch district who had bailed out Congress veteran Ahmed Patel in the 2017 Rajya Sabha elections, pull out support in Rajasthan, he also did so in two local panchayats in the tribal region. However, the BTP is known to have backed BJP nominees in the Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat this year. The BTP, which also has two MLAs in Gujarat, has announced that joining hands with Owaisi’s party and would jointly contest the local body elections in the state likely to be held in February 2021.Also read: To push for ‘one nation, one election’, BJP to hold 25 webinars over next few weeks“We have come together and would contest the local body elections to restore democracy and teach the two opportunistic parties (BJP and Congress) a lesson,” Chhotubhai Vasava told reporters in Bharuch. The already beleaguered Congress knows this is bad news for the party in Gujarat. Leader of Opposition in state assembly Paresh Dhanani told Hindustan Times, “This is a frustrated BJP’s B team. BTP plus AIMIM equals BJP. We know this well. But Congress will win, people have seen through the game.”Gujarat BJP president CR Patil appeared quite nonchalant. “Let them fight the elections, it is a democracy. We will fight them too.” Asked if this wasn’t an advantage for the BJP, Patil said, “We don’t see anything from such a prism. We work hard, our development agenda speaks, we go to people with that.”Political analysts see this as a clear marriage of convenience that may lead to electoral polarisation in Gujarat. Political and social scientist Vidyut Joshi says, “All these alliances are largely positioning, and have little to do with ideology. The BTP will fight only tribal seats, while Owaisi would look at Muslim dominated seats in major cities. However, in both cases, this will lead to consolidation of non-tribal and non-Muslim vote in favour of the BJP.”Former state Congress president and senior leader Arjun Modhwadia told Hindustan Times, “AIMIM has become a national B Team of the BJP. They did it in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and now they are coming to Gujarat. But this time, BJP’s tricks won’t work, you will see it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btp-owaisi-come-together-for-gujarat-local-polls-target-congress-vote-bank/story-CpIqNyJ88PGBhoPwngOjlO.html
26-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: VP Venkaiah Naidu asks lawmakers to choose politics of conviction over convenience and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Choose politics of conviction over convenience’: Venkaiah Naidu at Vajpayee memorial lecturePolitical parties should put an end to populism, introspect on the growing tendency to field candidates with criminal backgrounds, and choose the politics of conviction over convenience said vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘It was almost as if he was giving catching practice’ - Michael Hussey believes Steve Smith is ‘unsure’ while facing AshwinFormer Australia batsman Michael Hussey has expressed concern at the technique adopted by Australia’s batsmen against Indian spinners on Day 1 of the MCG Test on Saturday. Read moreFan asks Mira Rajput if she is expecting her third child with Shahid Kapoor, here is her replyShahid Kapoor’s wife Mira Rajput recently interacted with fans via an Ask Me Anything session on Instagram. She fielded a number of questions, ranging from food preferences to her favourite holiday destination. Read moreGovt agencies can still break into Apple iPhones regardless the security updatesApple is usually known for its security and privacy features in iPhones, iPads, Macs and other devices. In the past we have seen the company, fighting against government agencies to preserve private information on iPhones as well. Read moreCoolie No 1 promotions: Sara Ali Khan planks in orange crop top, mini skirtSara Ali Khan is having quite a busy Christmas this year and is occupied with the shoot of her upcoming Atrangi Re as well as the promotions of her latest release, Coolie No 1. Read moreVideo of woman jamming out on electric guitar wows netizens. May leave you in awe tooAre you a fan of rock music? Do you like to watch clips of Slash or Jimi Hendrix’s guitar solos on YouTube in your free time? If so, then here’s a recording you must check out. Read moreAmid severe winter, ITBP soldiers on alert at LAC; using yaks in ArunachalAs tension with China continues, soldiers remain on high alert along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang. Personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police were seen patrolling and training in the winter chill. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-vp-venkaiah-naidu-delivers-third-vajpayee-memorial-lecture-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oerpOXBRzu1jMRqq1gw71K.html
26-12-2020||India||Jharkhand CM to deliver lecture on tribal rights at Harvard||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren will deliver a keynote lecture on “tribal rights, sustainable development and welfare policies in Jharkhand” virtually during the 18th annual “India Conference” at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to be held from February 19 to 21, 2021.According to the official Twitter handle of the office of the chief minister, Soren has accepted the invitation sent to him on Friday.“The Chief Minister has accepted the invitation and thanked the organisers. He will be speaking on tribal rights, sustainable development and welfare policies in Jharkhand,” the tweet read. The tweet also attached a picture of the invitation, sent to the chief minister on Friday, seeking his consent to be a part of the “India Conference” as a speaker on a keynote panel.“India Conference” is the largest student-run meeting in North America focusing on India and one of the world’s leading forums for dialogue, debate, and networking around issues pertaining to contemporary India.Suraj Yengde, a PhD scholar and senior fellow at Harvard Kennedy School, sent the invitation letter, saying his work, in particular, has been of keen interest “to most of us as you merged a proud tribal indigenous politics with a development agenda...for strengthening of democracy that is locked in caste and feudalistic nepotism”.“We are looking to have Hemant in the chief ministers’ panel virtually to discuss on the issues of governance, state-centre relations, handling of Covid-19 and the intersections of caste and tribal identities in the current politics,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-to-deliver-lecture-on-tribal-rights-at-harvard/story-son5GssgdIp3w7lqPzXNDL.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Choose politics of conviction over convenience’: Venkaiah Naidu at Vajpayee memorial lecture||Political parties should put an end to populism, introspect on the growing tendency to field candidates with criminal backgrounds, and choose the politics of conviction over convenience said vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. Delivering the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee memorial lecture organised by the think tank India Foundation, the vice president said, “The hunger for power and entry of people with a criminal background is leading to violence in the political arena and debasing politics...Unless these undesirable trends are checked, there will be further deterioration and cause irreparable damage to the country’s polity.” Referring to Vajpayee as the father of coalition politics in India, for leading a coalition of 23 parties, Naidu said, political parties will do well to imbibe the qualities of consensus building from the late PM. “He (Vajpayee) epitomized the politics of conviction and consensus...For Vajpayee consensus was not an expedient political tool, it was a core element of his convictions,” Naidu said. Referring to Vajpyee’s governance he said, the late PM fast tracked development in various sectors ranging from Gram Sadak Yojana to air connectivity to even political connectivity. “He got many parties together for the first time in India’s history and was able to provide able leadership and a stable government.” “He took pragmatic initiatives and the reforms that were undertaken were aimed at making the life of the common man better. He wanted to make a difference, it was a golden era for economy, there was 8% growth per year, and he pushed several reforms. He used to say empowering the individual is empowering the nation,” the VP said. On the growing trend of defections, Naidu said loopholes in the anti-defection laws need to be addressed. “In a democracy one has the right to change parties if you don’t like the policies or the leader, but that should be on issues. Defection matters cannot remain undecided for long periods of time; it will be making a mockery of democracy. Time has come for political parties to think, introspect and bid goodbye to politics of convenience and follow politics of conviction and politics of consensus,” he said. He also called upon political parties to introspect on the tendency to field candidates with a criminal background; the instance of politicians indulging in violence and the emergence of caste-based politics. He went on to add that people should elect their representatives on the basis of character, caliber, capacity and conduct and not caste, community, cash and criminality. “We need to raise the level of debates, the level of discourse. It is time to reflect on what is happening, the standard of speeches…avoid unruly behaviour, physical fights also. Media has a responsibility too… this (unruly) behaviour should not be reported in a positive manner, you create disturbance you get prominence. Some MPs who prepare well and contribute to debates are not reported. Only unruly behaviour is reported, giving them prominence,” he said. Urging political parties and governments to give priority to long-term development instead of populist policies, he said it is the duty of governments to help the weaker sections and give a helping hand to them. “Governments should show a little bias in favour of the poor, the unorganised, the rural people and women because they have been discriminated against.” The VP who is also the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha also frowned on the tendency to disrupt the proceedings in the house. He said, “Disruption should be avoided. Let the government propose, the opposition oppose and let the house decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choose-politics-of-conviction-over-convenience-venkaiah-naidu-at-vajpayee-memorial-lecture/story-mMTNoAU7NF4xcaKEHuJOLL.html
26-12-2020||India||40 companies of central paramilitary forces to be deployed for Kumbh in Haridwar||Forty companies of central paramilitary forces will be deployed for the Kumbh Mela starting here next month, a senior police official said.The Centre has given its approval for the deployment of 40 companies of paramilitary forces, including seven companies each of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), six of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 10 each of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), for the mela, Inspector General (IG) of Police (Kumbh Mela) Sanjay Gunjyal said. Five companies of the central paramilitary forces will arrive on January 1. The next batch of seven companies will be received on February 1, Gunjyal said.On the main bathing days or ‘Shahi Snan’ days, twelve-fourteen companies of the central paramilitary forces will be deployed in the mela area, the IG said. Besides these, he said, the Centre is also sending NSG commandos, snipers and bomb disposal squads with anti-sabotage sniffer dogs on the state government’s request. Gunjyal also attended a seminar with Ganga Sabha representatives to review the preparations for Kumbh and invited suggestions from them on how to improve the arrangements, calling them one of the principal stakeholders in the organisation of the event. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha suggested that Har ki Pairi ghat should be declared a shoe-free zone during the event.Devotees staying at hotels and dharmashalas during the event should by asked by their managements to visit Har ki Pairi without their shoes on, he said.Gunjyal said police personnel deployed at Har ki Pairi can also be asked to wear shoes and belts made of material other than leather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-companies-of-central-paramilitary-forces-to-be-deployed-for-kumbh-in-haridwar/story-PbKrrpUpU29jO7ZYNnkQAL.html
26-12-2020||India||More muscle to IAF with at least 3 more Rafales flying-in next month||The Indian Air Force’s solitary Rafale squadron will add more muscle with the arrival of at least three more fighter jets in January, a shot in the arm for the IAF that is grappling with a shortage of combat planes, people familiar with developments said on Saturday on the condition of anonymity.Also Read: Rafale’s deep-strike cruise missile gets an upgrade for targets in mountainsThis batch of Rafale fighters will be the third set of deliveries of the French-origin aircraft to the air force, which has ordered a total of 36 warplanes (equivalent of two squadrons) at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.“At least three Rafale jets will arrive in India next month. The dates are still being worked out. The planes will be flown to Jamnagar from France without a stopover on the way. Refuelling support will be provided by Indian and French tankers,” the people said.The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal. The delivery of the three jets in January will take the number of Rafales in the IAF’s inventory to 11.Also read: Farmers’ group seek resumption of talks on Tuesday over new farm lawsThe second batch of the IAF’s three Rafale fighter jets had reached the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from France in early November before they flew to their homebase in Ambala. The first batch of five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10.Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in DelhiThe arrival of more fighters will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets in the Ladakh theatre amid military tensions with China, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The IAF has been operating the fighter jets - equipped with advanced weapons and sensors - in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China amid a lingering border dispute. The IAF will induct three to four jets every two months, with all the 36 planes likely to join its combat fleet by the year-end. The second Rafale squadron will be based at Hasimara in West Bengal to strengthen the IAF’s capabilities in the eastern sector.Also Read: China sells 50 armed drones to Pakistan, begins psyops. It’s a reminder | AnalysisThe Rafale fighters are the first imported jets to join the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997.The twin-engine Rafale jets are capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. The fighters can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-muscle-to-iaf-at-least-3-more-rafales-to-fly-in-next-month/story-mrU4vkeBNw9osQvcdOogEL.html
26-12-2020||India||MP cabinet approves bill against forced conversions. Here are other states with similar laws||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (Freedom of Religion Act) 2020 with a provision for a maximum of 10 years in jail for anyone “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe to undergo religious conversion”. The proposed legislation, which will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means.Forcing someone to convert their religion will attract up to 5 years of imprisonment and a minimum Rs 25,000 fine. Madhya Pradesh is not the first state to propose such legislation.Here’s a look at other states that have a similar law or may introduce one:Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh has a similar law. In fact, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath batted for the law ever since he formed the government in the state. The law came into effect on November 27 and 35 people have been apprehended under the law in the state so far. Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh brought a law into force last week which requires a person to give prior notice to authorities for converting to another religion and outlawing conversions solely for marriage. This is very similar to the law in force in Uttar Pradesh. Section 7 of the Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019, requires an individual to submit a “declaration” of intention to the district magistrate when converting from one religion to the other.HaryanaAnother Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state has been contemplating legal provisions against conversion into another religion. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that his government is mulling over formulating such legislation after Uttar Pradesh introduced the law.KarnatakaKarnataka’s home minister Basavaraj Bommai has also announced that the state will have a similar law like that in UP. He said, “When Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments started mulling over it (a law), we too started thinking about it- how to do it, how to ensure that there was pressure or force involved (in conversion)- it is the main thing.” Chief minister B S Yediyurappa has repeatedly cited the need for such a law.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand government also passed a similar law and is planning to end monetary benefits extended for inter-faith marriages in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cabinet-approves-bill-against-forced-conversions-here-are-other-states-with-similar-laws/story-IAm8bDimQqsbBopxVP6RuL.html
26-12-2020||India||Omar alleges NC candidate forced to join Apni Party, claims to have phone recording||National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah on Saturday alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre is interfering with the outcome of the recently-concluded District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir. Abdullah also alleged that a lawmaker of the NC was forced to join the Apni Party. He pointed out that shortly after the results were announced two members of his party were also detained.Also Read: J-K administration interfering to change DDC results, says Omar Abdullah“The government has started to harass those who fought the election in Shopian. They are being put under preventive detention for no reason,” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “Two senior leaders of the National Conference were detained after the declaration of the DDC poll results. One lady of our party who won in the election in Shopian was forced to join the Apni Party. We have a phone recording to prove it,” said Omar Abdullah.The NC leader was referring to the induction of Yasmeena Jan to the Apni Party, led by former J-K finance minister Altaf Bukhari. Jan had contested and won the polls as a National Conference candidate from Imam Sahib-I in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Abdullah had earlier on Friday blamed the police and Jammu and Kashmir administration of facilitating horse-trading after the results of the DDC polls were declared. He also took to Twitter to criticise the J-K administration.Also Read: The Number Theory| Understanding the DDC election results in Jammu and Kashmir“This explains why our leaders in Shopian district are being put under “preventive arrest” by the police. J&K police & the administration are facilitating horse trading & defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested & won elections on an NC mandate,” Omar said on Twitter.The DDC elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir across eight phases and the results were released on Tuesday. The BJP secured victory with 75 seats and the People’s Alliance of Gupkar Declaration won 110 seats. Independent candidates have secured wins in 50 constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-alleges-nc-candidate-forced-to-join-apni-party-claims-to-have-phone-recording/story-toVrkLZdPnwoEZxbfD50RP.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi dresses in ‘pheran’ gifted by JK farm labourer to launch scheme for UT||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often chosen to dress in the traditional attire of a region while attending an event related to it, and it was a Kashmiri ‘pheran’ on Saturday as he launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme to extend health insurance benefits to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir.Sources close to the prime minister said he had received the pheran as a gift in winters last year from a farm labourer from Jammu and Kashmir.Modi had planned to wear this during his visit to the region, but the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that such a trip could not materialise.He took the opportunity of the launch of the scheme through video-conference on Saturday to wear the “special gift”, the sources said.He has also been recently donning Bengali shawls multiple times in his virtual programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dresses-in-pheran-gifted-by-jk-farm-labourer-to-launch-scheme-for-ut/story-UgnQEZ6ymNCALnoUZxYyhL.html
26-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group seek resumption of talks on Tuesday over new farm laws||Farmers’ groups on Saturday proposed to hold another round of talks with the Centre over the three farm bills on Tuesday, listing the demands they have outlined for the government ahead of the discussions. Farmers’ rights activist and Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said that the farmers are ready to hold another set of discussions at 11am on Tuesday.“The first two points in our agenda for talks are modalities to repeal the three farm laws and mechanism and procedure to bring a law for providing a legal guarantee on MSP (Minimum Support Price),” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: No corporation can snatch your land: Amit Shah to farmersYadav’s proposal on behalf of the protesting farmers is similar to what the farmers have earlier demanded as they continue to press the government to withdraw the recently passed laws. Though the agitating farmers have demanded a legal guarantee on minimum support price, the Centre has on several occasions assured the farmers that the MSP system will not be disturbed because of the new laws.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday highlighted that the MSP system will continue to run while disbursing funds to farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme at a virtual event on Friday. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at MSP, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting a price from private traders, they have the freedom,” Modi had said during the event. He also highlighted that farmers will continue to get assured prices for their produce under his government.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 pointsBharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait also said that the modalities to repeal the laws will be one of the primary points of discussion when talks resume. “Modalities for the repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for MSP should be part of agenda for talks with the government,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The government has earlier outlined that it is ready for the long haul over the farm laws and have continued assuring the farmers that the laws are reformatory in nature.The farmers’ groups also said a tractor march has been scheduled on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway on December 30 to protest against the farm laws. Farmer leader Darshan Pal told ANI, “Toll plazas in Punjab and Haryana will remain permanently open. On December 30, we will organise a tractor march from Singhu border.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-seek-resumption-of-talks-on-tuesday-over-new-farm-laws/story-RIsjoNexOvyGNIGlTC0xbK.html
26-12-2020||India||To push for ‘one nation, one election’, BJP to hold 25 webinars over next few weeks||To build consensus for simultaneous elections in the country, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise 25 webinars over the coming weeks on the merits of one nation, one election, people aware of the details said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pushed for conducting simultaneous elections to the Lok Sabha and the state assemblies over the last few years on the ground that it does away with the obstruction in carrying out development work that is hampered by the model code of conduct, imposed due to frequent elections. To allow a level playing field, during the implementation of the MCC, incumbent governments are forbidden from making new announcements of schemes and policies. The MCC, however, does not prohibit the completion of ongoing work. According to a senior BJP leader, the webinars that are aimed at creating awareness about the benefits of simultaneous elections will be addressed by senior party leaders, and will be attended by academics and legal experts. Since coming to power in 2014, PM Modi has advocated simultaneous elections. Recently, while addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference, the PM pitched for one nation, one election, pointing out it is the need of the hour as elections are being held every few months, impacting development work. “Elections are held at different places every few months and the impact it has on development work is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on ‘one nation, one election’,” Modi had said. In 2016, the government think tank, Niti Aayog in a discussion paper, ‘Analysis of Simultaneous Elections: The What, Why and How’, also lent support to the idea of simultaneous elections, stating that frequent polls change the focus of policy making because “short-sighted populist” and “politically safe” measures are accorded higher priority over difficult structural reforms. Instead of holding elections in two to five states every year, the report proposed elections in two cycles with an interregnum of 30 months: 14 states to go to polls along with that of the Lok Sabha in one phase and the remaining states in the next cycle two-and-a-half years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-push-for-one-nation-one-election-bjp-to-hold-25-webinars-over-next-few-weeks/story-ii3Lj90RoLfGkuYyclkHaO.html
26-12-2020||India||After threatening to quit NDA, ally RLP joins farmers’ protest at Shahjahanpur||A large number of supporters of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of the NDA, on Saturday joined the farmers’ protest being held on the Jaipur-Delhi National Highway in Shahjahanpur of Alwar district along the Rajasthan-Haryana border. At about 3.00 pm on Saturday afternoon, hundreds of vehicles reached the border from Kotputli area of Jaipur rural. The RLP workers have put up a separate pandal on the highway next to the farmers supporting RLP. “I request the Central government not to play with fire. Any government who has dared to go against the people has been dethroned. Because of this act agriculture mandis will end, why didn’t the government consult the farmers? Because of these laws, land mafias will increase. I don’t understand why the government is not withdrawing the farm laws,” said RLP chief Hanuman Beniwal at the protest site. He said he was the son of a farmer but the Central government wants to muscle down the farmers’ protest. “This (farmer protest) is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” he said. Earlier, RLP chief Hanuman Beniwal had threatened to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) if the three farm laws were not repealed. But, he did not make any such announcement on Saturday.On Friday, farmers from Maharashtra had also reached Shajahanpur to lend their support to those protesting farmers against the three farm laws. The farmers had covered a distance of 900 km since Monday, after they undertook their journey from Nashik. Addressing famers at the protest site in Shahjahanpur, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Joginder Singh said the prime minister doesn’t care for the children of farmers. “He only cares for the children of a few corporates. He does not understand us,” he said. “BJP is calling us Khalistani and Pakistanis. Shame on them. Each of us are from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. We have seen bodies of freedom fighters and soldiers who died for the country. Senior judges, officers, people’s representatives, are coming to our protests and telling us that they support us. The regime is crumbling,” Singh said. National President of Kisan Mahapanchayat, Rampal Jat, said on the lines of the Singhu border protest, the farmers’ movement in Rajasthan has progressed. “Peace is our strength. A large number of farmers have started coming to the border. The march towards Delhi will be held peacefully,” he added. Due to increasing number of farmers at the border, the traffic jam on the highway has increased and traffic has been diverted to new routes connecting Jaipur and with the national capital. While coming from Jaipur to Shahjahanpur, traffic has been diverted from four places in between. Similarly, vehicles coming from Delhi are diverted from Bawal. Due to this, the pressure of heavy vehicles has increased on the second road leading out from the highway. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat had started proceeding towards Delhi earlier this month but were stopped by the Rewari police at the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Since then, they have been protesting at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, near the Rajasthan-Haryana border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-threatening-to-quit-nda-ally-rlp-joins-farmers-protest-at-shahjahanpur/story-0tAvTrCOexcGZS9Ycf90KL.html
26-12-2020||India||Kashmir under grips of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ with temperatures falling below freezing point||There was no let-up in cold wave conditions in Kashmir on Saturday as the minimum temperature stayed below the freezing point, even as the meteorological department said the valley is likely to receive light rain and snow over the next few days.The weather across Kashmir has remained dry and cold since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, MeT department officials said.The officials said Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 3.7 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night’s minus 4.3 degrees Celsius.In the south Kashmir tourist resort of Pahalgam, the mercury settled at minus 4.5 degrees Celsius, up from minus 5.9 degrees Celsius the previous night.The famous ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir was the coldest place in the valley at minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 5.6 degrees Celsius the previous night, according to the officials.Qazigund recorded a minimum temperature of minus 4 degrees Celsius, Kupwara minus 3.6 degrees Celsius and Kokernag minus 4.0 degrees Celsius, the officials said.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai Kalan’ -- a 40-day period of harshest winter when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said.The ‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, will end on January 31. However, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The weather department said there is a possibility of light rain and snowfall in the valley for the next few days starting Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-under-grips-of-chillai-kalan-with-temperatures-falling-below-freezing-point/story-rPH6QHN8Y29QI4WlUDY6iL.html
26-12-2020||India||Ahead of Amit Shah’s visit to Manipur, a look at ILP system||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh has said his government will honour Union home minister Amit Shah for his role in introducing the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system to the northeastern state. Shah will be in Imphal on Sunday as part of his visit to the northeast. “We’re also appealing to the people to attend the programme which is being planned as an appreciation to Union home minister Amit Shahji’s role in introducing the ILP (Inner Line Permit) system in the state,” Biren Singh has said.Outsiders, including people from other states of the country, need to take permission to visit states that come under the ILP regime. The objective of the ILP system is to prevent settlement of other Indian nationals in the states that come under it so as to protect the indigenous population in terms of land, jobs, and other facilities.Here’s everything you need to know about the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system:1. ILP is issued to grant inward travel permission to an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. The system was formally introduced in Manipur on January 1, 2020.2. Manipur is the fourth state in the northeast where this system is applicable. Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram also come under the ILP regime.3. No Indian citizen can visit any of these states unless they belong to that state, nor can they overstay beyond the period specified in the ILP.4. The concept of the ILP comes from the colonial area. Under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Act, 1873, the British framed regulations restricting the entry and regulating the stay of outsiders in designated areas and was done to protect their own trading interests in these areas.5. An ILP is issued by the state government concerned and can be obtained after applying either online or physically. Dates of travel and areas that the ILP holder can travel to are mentioned in the document.6. Demands for an ILP system have also been made in various other northeastern states.7. The system was also discussed in light of the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill which makes it easier for non-Muslim refugees from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan to obtain Indian citizenship. If CAB is implemented with provisions excluding the states under the ILP regime, it means that beneficiaries under CAB will become Indian citizens but will not be able to settle in these three states. No clear decision with respect to the status of the ILP has been taken by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-amit-shah-s-visit-to-manipur-a-look-at-ilp-system/story-aHn53E295mq9rFORsOIEjK.html
26-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet approves 111 new urban bodies, 5 more municipal corporations||In a bid to boost urbanization, the Bihar cabinet on Saturday approved the urban development department’s (UDD) proposal to amend the Bihar Municipal Act to pave the way for creation of over 100 new urban local bodies and upgrade the status of existing ones.The exercise would also lead to creation of five more municipal corporations in the state. Currently, there are 12 municipal corporations in the state, which includes Chapra that was accorded the status of a municipal corporation in 2016.At the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, the government gave its approval for the upgradation of Nagar Parishads of Motihari, Sasaram, Bettiah, Madhubani and Samastipur as municipal corporations. It also approved the UDD’s proposal to expand the limit of 12 urban bodies, including those of the Bihar Sharif municipal corporation, Masaurhi Nagar Parishad, Buxar Nagar Parishad and Hajipur Nagar Parishad.UDD officials said that the process to develop 103 new Nagar Panchayats and eight new Nagar Parishads would start after the cabinet decision. Similarly, 32 Nagar Panchayats would be upgraded as Nagar Parishads.A total of nine new Nagar Panchayats would be created in Darbhanga, followed by eight each in Nalanda and Purnia, seven in Muzaffarpur and five each in Gaya and Katihar. Punpun and Paliganj would be notified as new Nagar Panchayats in Patna.Currently, the state has 49 Nagar Parishads (also called city councils) and 80 Nagar Panchayats (administratively known town councils), said an UDD official.The official said that the government’s decision to create new urban bodies and upgrade the existing ones to bigger entities would lead to huge investments in infrastructure development, development of business activities and enhancement of civic amenities. However, the people falling under the jurisdiction of these urban bodies need to pay taxes for availing civic amenities.Bihar has about 11.27% urban population against the national average of 31.16%. Once the new urban areas are notified and infrastructure is enhanced according to their new status, the state’s urbanization will grow to about 20%, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-approves-111-new-urban-bodies-5-more-municipal-corporations/story-QfiV4oWxU8anDcZSExiQ2O.html
26-12-2020||India||Top Maoist carrying Rs 10 lakh reward arrested with AK-47, 5 associates in Jharkhand||Giridih police in Jharkhand achieved a major breakthrough with the arrest of Prasant Majhi, identified as a high-ranking member of banned CPI (Maoists), with a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head, along with his five associates in hilly terrain of Parasnath under Khukhra police station.Giridih superintendent of police (SP) Amit Renu on Saturday admitted the arrest but refused to share details saying that he was busy in the process of action and would talk later on the matter.Officials of local police station said a special squad also seized AK-47 rifle from Prasant Majhi. Among the arrested Maoists activists, two are women and three men.Majhi’s arrest is said to be one of the major breakthroughs of Renu who has launched an all-out operation for eliminating Maoists from the region.Also read: Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs to move high court against jail deptPolice official said that after getting a tip-off, SP Amit Renu set up a special squad which arrested Majhi hiding in between Parvatpur-Pandeydih villages on the border of Giridih- Dhanbad districts under Khukhra police station.Sources said the police arrested Prasant Majhi and his associates on Friday and secretly took him away to an unknown location for interrogation to avoid Maoists-triggered protest.A CRPF picket is being set up in Parvatpur-Pandeydih, the village of dreaded Maoist Ajay Mahto who is carrying a reward worth Rs 25 lakh on his head.Maoists are launching agitation against the picket in the village. On December 23, Maoists-triggered villagers carried out a violent attack at the construction site of the CRPF picket.Police official said Maoists are active in the region. Prasant Majhi had reportedly come to Pandeydih village to intensify agitation of villagers against the CRPF picket when he was arrested with AK-47 and five associates.Hilly terrain of Parasnath of Jharkhand’s Giridih district and its adjoining Topchachi block of Dhanbad district are considered den of Maoists activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-carrying-rs-10-lakh-reward-arrested-with-ak-47-5-associates-in-jharkhand/story-jhEfAeOBNfTLV2y5gxGG6H.html
26-12-2020||India||J-K administration interfering to change DDC results: Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah has accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of attempting to “change” the district development council (DDC) election results by arresting leaders and forcing the winning candidates to join parties other than the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).Abdullah said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Apni Party and both state and central governments should accept that the majority of seats in the DDC elections have been won by the PAGD.“After the results, repeatedly from Delhi, government and BJP spokespersons said that it was a victory of democracy. Even today the PM, during a health programme inauguration, said, it is the win of democracy. Then the next steps should also be taken democratically, which unfortunately is not happening,” he said.He alleged that some officers of the government were interfering with the electoral process after the declaration of the DDC results.“On whose command we don’t know. There are arrests, detentions and threats; the districts in Kashmir, where they can change the results using detentions and make DDC chairman from parties other than the Gupkar Alliance, they are doing it with vim and vigour,” he said. In the first DDC elections, the PAGD-- a conglomerate of six J&K regional parties including the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party-- have won 110 of the 240 seats. BJP was successful in 75 constituencies, Congress on 26 seats and the newly-floated Apni Party, considered close to the BJP, managed to get 12 seats, while the Independents emerged as a major force with 50 seats.“We want to tell the J&K government and the central government not to play with democracy. J&K has already paid a heavy price for these things. If the PM himself is saying that in these elections democracy has won, then he should tell his administration, his police, civil officers that they should not interfere in these things (election results). My colleagues should be released and the harassment of the families of the winning candidates should stop,” he said.HT’s attempt to get a reaction from Kashmir divisional commissioner, Pandurang K Pole, did not elicit any response. Also Read: Parties woo Independents as they emerge key players for at least four J&K DDCs Abdullah alleged that in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, his two senior colleagues-- ex-MLC of Wachi, Showkat Ganai and segment in-charge Shopian Shabir Ahmad Kulle-- have been picked up after the results.“They are saying that they have been taken into preventive detention. What are they preventing we don’t understand. Except democracy, nothing else is being prevented there,” he said.He said that the winning candidates from Shopian are being brought one by one to Srinagar to make them join the Apni Party.“They include independents, members of the Congress, PDP and unfortunately we also saw a woman, who won on the NC mandate; she was forcibly made to join the Apni Party yesterday,” he said.Abdullah played an audio of a purported telephonic conversation between an NC leader and the husband of the party’s winning woman candidate. It alleged that the woman’s brother has been detained and her husband was asked to make her join the Apni Party to ensure his release within three days. HT can’t independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip.“The woman went and the Apni Party members garlanded her and the murder of democracy started,” Abullah said, and added that the J&K administration was using the police to make arrests and detentions to force candidates to join the Apni Party.He demanded that the NC’s woman candidate be disqualified under the anti-defection law.Also Read: 4G ban extended in Jammu and Kashmir till January 8; Udhampur, Ganderbal exemptedHe said the BJP scored a higher vote percentage since it contested more seats than the PAGD and because voters turned out in greater numbers in Jammu-- about 70%-- compared to around 30% polling in Kashmir.“In elections, to form a government, we see seats only, and not vote share,” he said.Abdullah reiterated that the PAGD will continue to fight against the revocation of special rights enshrined under Article 370 and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. Demanding that the detained and arrested leaders are immediately released, Abdullah said the developments were a discredit to democracy and institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-administration-interfering-to-change-ddc-results-omar-abdullah/story-DbthAeoSjbjuZUQAsez2iL.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi to flag off India’s first ‘driverless’ train next week. Know more||India will soon get its first driverless fully-automated Metro train and which will be flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, December 28. The announcement was made by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday evening. The train service will be operated on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line, which connects Delhi’s Janakpuri West with Noida’s Botanical Garden line. PM Modi will also launch a fully-operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) for travel on the Airport Express Line of Delhi Metro, DMRC said.Here’s everything you need to know about India’s first driverless Metro train:1. The trials for the train were started along the 20-km stretch on the Pink Line in December 2017. The trials were equipped with Unattended Train Operations (UTO) and Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling systems.2. The automatic trains will only be limited to Line 7 and Line 8 of the DMRC network as driverless train operation (DTO) or unattended train operation (UTO) modes can only be implemented on lines which came up under the Phase III expansion as these corridors are equipped with advanced signalling technology. The first driverless train will run on Line 7.3. The train will be controlled entirely from DMRC’s three command centres, without any human intervention. The Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling technology will also make it possible to monitor and troubleshoot every aspect of train operations remotely and manual intervention will be required only in cases of hardware replacement.4. At the command centres, information controllers will handle the passenger information system as well as crowd monitoring. With access to CCTV feed, all rolling stock controllers will monitor train equipment in real-time, download faults and other events captured by CCTVs and assist traffic controllers in executing commands remotely.5. DMRC has also engaged a consultant, a consortium of Systra MVA and Systra France, for inspection and review of the entire system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-india-s-first-driverless-train-next-week-know-more/story-U6G9QGcuCYVsglvTGdZxoK.html
26-12-2020||India||From Hisar to Delhi: 10 coldest places in northwestern plains||India has been witnessing biting cold conditions, which are projected to continue further in the upcoming week by the weather department. The northwestern plains of the country are expected to see mercury dropping below 2-3 degrees Celsius, as forecasted by the department. While some minimum temperatures have shown rising trends, most places are still gripped by the chilly waves.Also Read | Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-endIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has said active movements of western disturbances are likely to affect the western Himalayan region from Saturday that can lead to scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad. Rain showers during the next two days in isolated parts of the northwestern plains of India have also been forecasted by the department.IMD has also projected chilly conditions in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and said these places could see dense to very dense fog in the mornings during the weekend and that fresh spells of dense fog probably over plains of north India can start from December 29. “Dense to very dense fog are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi in morning hours during on 28th to 30th December and Dense fog also likely over Uttar Pradesh in morning hours on 29th and 30th December 2020,” IMD said.Here are 10 cities in the plains that were the coldest on Saturday, according to Skymet Weather:1. Haryana shivered the most with Hisar’s temperature at 2.2 degrees Celsius and Narnaul freezing at 3 degrees Celsius.2. Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria recorded next lowest of 3.5 degrees Celsius, followed by Punjab’s Amritsar at 3.8 degrees celsius.3. Chandigarh along with Haryana’s Rohtak witnessed a cold of 4 degrees Celsius.4. Churu and Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded the minimum temperature of 4.1 degrees Celsius.5. Ludhiana in Punjab and Delhi braved the cold at 4.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-hisar-to-delhi-10-coldest-places-in-northwestern-plains/story-Xrs5Lxm84kQy1PffDpJ2jP.html
26-12-2020||India||Dharavi model underlines importance of community participation: Senior health official||A collective effort by the people and authorities helped Mumbai’s Dharavi, once a hotspot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reduce the number of infection, a senior health official said on Saturday, a day after the area reported zero positive cases for the first time since the pandemic in the country. The slum-dominated Dharavi did not report a single Covid-19 infection on Friday for the first time since April 1 when the first patient of the viral disease was detected in the area.“Dharavi model underlines the importance of community-based model and community participation in any public health crisis,” Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “The model of tracing, testing and treatment was found to be useful due to community participation and the vital role played by private doctors in Dharavi with the guidance of bureaucracy and public health department,” Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state health department, added. The total case count of Dharavi now stands at 3,788, with the number of active cases at only 12. The coronavirus caseload of Mumbai stood at 289,800 on Friday with 596 new cases being recorded in the last 24 hours. The death toll reached 11,056 after 11 new fatalities were reported in the city. Currently, Mumbai has 8,219 active Covid-19 cases with a growth rate of 0.21 per cent. Maharashtra reported 3,431 new coronavirus disease cases on Friday, taking the tally of infections to 19,13,382. There were 71 new fatalities pushing the state’s death toll to 49,129.Dharavi modelAsia’s largest slum saw its first positive case on April 1, when a 56-year-old man with no history of foreign travel died from the coronavirus disease. Hindustan Times had reported that eight of his family members were quarantined and were set to undergo tests. The man was a resident of a building commissioned under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project. Dharavi is spread over 239-hectares and housing close to one million people, making it next to impossible to enforce social distancing norms. According to a report by the think tank Observer Research Foundation (ORF), Dharavi houses 20,000 small-scale work units, while the rest are made up of shanties with community toilets, one toilet complex shared by about 1,400 people on average. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) relied on three tactics - tracking, testing, and treating, which came to be known as the Dharavi model and was driven by Kiran Dighavkar, an assistant municipal commissioner with BMC. When HT interviewed the man at the helm of the Dharavi model, Dighavkar spoke at length about community toilets rendering contact-tracing efforts futile. “WHO or ICMR direct contact-tracing on a massive scale. But in Dharavi, contact-tracing is difficult because 5,000 people are using one toilet block. The only thing in our control is proactive work. We are chasing the virus, as opposed to people identifying they are unwell, doing a test and coming to us. We arrange a large number of fever camps, screen residents, identify suspected Covid-19 cases and shift them to institutional quarantine facilities,” he said. Dighavkar said the Dharavi model is made for locations where social distancing and home quarantining of patients and high-risk contacts is not possible, like in slums. “Aspects of this model can be used in dense urban areas with high cases, such as organising fever camps, early detection, quarantining suspected Covid cases and institutional quarantine of a large number of high-risk contacts,” he added. Private hospitals and practitioners were taken on board as stakeholders in the fight against coronavirus. As a result, the average growth rate of Covid-positive cases plummeted from 12 per cent in April to 4.3 per cent in May to 0.83 per cent in June and just 0.38 per cent in July and yesterday Dharavi reported zero cases for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak. Way forwardThe Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, did a seroprevalence survey in July, which found that more than half the population at Dharavi had Covid-19 antibodies, meaning they had already been exposed to the virus. Mumbai has experience when it comes to dealing with highly contagious diseases, it is after all the home to the largest drug-resistant tuberculosis cluster in the country. Keeping talks of herd immunity aside commissioner Dighavkar told HT in July that screening and testing efforts will be continued along with an emphasis on hygiene and healthcare infrastructure. “We will keep screening and testing. We are working on behavioural change of residents for cleanliness and sanitary habits, especially while using community toilets,” he had said.“I also want to create a permanent Covid health care infrastructure in Dharavi, like we built a 200-bed hospital in front of Maharashtra Nature Park, with oxygen supply beds in a record 15 days in April. This will be converted into a permanent structure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharavi-model-underlines-importance-of-community-participation-senior-health-official/story-F2oG5XLfHKEvapGg2beVvN.html
26-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD says rainfall, snowfall likely in north Indian states towards end of the year and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-endThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over northern parts of India in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Read MoreStart of a golden chapter: Nadda after PM Modi launches PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K residentsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda said on Saturday the launch of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme in Jammu and Kashmir was the start of a “golden chapter” for the residents of the Union territory. Read MoreFrom goods trade to travel norms: Key points of post-Brexit trade dealAfter months of negotiation and deliberation, the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) have agreed upon a post-Brexit trade deal.  Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Should have got an opportunity couple of years back’, Ajit Agarkar praises Shubman Gill’s heroics on debutUnder the leadership of stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane, India dominated the opening day of the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne. After losing the toss, India bundled up the hosts for 195. Read More‘Monolith’ appears in San Francisco, this time with a gingerbread twistUnless you stay far away from the Internet, there’s a high possibility that you may have heard about the monoliths making headlines across the world. From Utah to Romania, these shiny metal objects appeared at random places. There is a latest addition to that list but this time with a Christmas twist. Read MoreSalman Khan puts up a special message for fans outside his residence, ahead of his birthday. WatchEvery year, hordes of fans flock to Salman Khan’s Galaxy Apartments residence in Mumbai on his birthday, hoping to catch a glimpse of him. This year, he put up a notice for them outside his building. Read More‘Some farmers misguided by their political masters’: Javadekar attacks oppnUnion Minister Prakash Javadekar said that ‘some’ agitating farmers were misguided by their ‘political masters’. He added that they were showing as if it was the stand of all farmers of the country. The union environment minister also hit out at Congress’ Rahul Gandhi for his criticism over farm laws. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-predicts-rainfall-or-snowfall-in-india-s-northern-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5IEupxtIYEzlIxWas9DLRP.html
26-12-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs to move high court against jail dept||The customs department is planning to move the Kerala high court against the state jail department’s decision not to allow its officials along with visitors who want to meet the prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case-- Swapna Suresh. Lodged in a women’s prison in the state capital under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act), recently, the customs had issued a directive to the jail that it should be informed about anyone visiting her and a customs official will accompany the visitor. Also Read: Sivasankar assisted in gold smuggling, says ED charge sheetBut the jail department had refused and sent back a customs official last week who accompanied her relatives to the jail. State jail chief Rishiraj Singh said such a move will set a new precedent and demoralise jail officials. But customs officials fear that it is an attempt to weaken the high-profile case. “We have already informed the Cofeposa board about this. We will move the High Court next week. She had already complained that she was facing serious threats and some people met her in the jail and forced her to change her statement,” said a senior official who did not want to be named. He said if the situation continued like this the department may move the apex court to shift the case to another state. He also said state police and jail officials were not fully co-operating with ongoing probe. But the jail department maintained that normal jail procedures and laws were applicable to Cofeposa detainees also and officials can’t be allowed with visitors every time. Also Read: Everything but effective probe’: Kerala CM asks PM to rein in central agenciesIn December first week, Suresh had told a court dealing with economic offences in Kochi that her life was in danger and sought special protection in jail and for her family members too. She said she was under pressure not to take big names and some people met her in jail a couple of times to pressurise her in this regard. Later, the court directed the prisons department to provide enough security for her in jail. Following the court directive her security was beefed up in jail. Central agencies probing the case had expressed concern over her revelations and later customs had issued a directive to the jail authorities that it should be informed about all visitors to her and an official will accompany them. But the jail department said it cannot be allowed and it will also question the integrity of its officials. The gold smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later PS Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the baggage, was arrested by the customs. Five days later two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru by the National Investigation Agency. Later, senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, Kerala CM’s principal secretary, was arrested after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. During the probe it was discovered that smuggling through the consular office was continuing for more than a year. Currently, a multi-agency team involving five central agencies is probing the case and has arrested 34 people. The Enforcement Directorate had interrogated another secretary of the chief minister, CM Raveendran and state minister K T Jaleel a couple of times earlier in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-customs-to-move-high-court-against-jail-dept/story-64IxtIfuOM1WvEaguqHLmO.html
26-12-2020||India||Rain in northern states, cold wave conditions likely during year-end||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over northern parts of India in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The weather bureau has also said that cold wave to severe cold wave conditions would prevail over some states due to strengthening of northwesterly/northerly lower-level winds from December 29.In a series of tweets, the weather bureau updated its forecasts for north Indian states till the end of December, saying the cold wave conditions are likely to extend to parts of western and central India towards the end of this month. “Under the influence of the approaching Western Disturbance Scattered to Fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad,” IMD said. Significant Weather Features on dated 26/12/2020.♦ Under the influence of the approaching Western Disturbance Scattered to Fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad.Similarly, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand would also experience rainfall or snowfall and thundershowers are expected in Punjab and Haryana, on December 27 and 28, IMD said. Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh are also set to experience cold wave or severe cold wave conditions because of “the strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/northerly lower level winds,” IMD said.Cold day conditions are predicted for these states on December 28 and 29 and on December 29 and 30 for northern Rajasthan. Dense to very dense fog during morning hours is also expected during the morning hours in these states from December 28 till the year end. “Ground Frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during 28th-29th December, 2020,” IMD tweeted.Towards the end of December, these cold wave conditions are also expected to spread towards western India. “Northern parts of Saurashtra & Kutch and West Madhya Pradesh also likely to experience cold wave conditions on these days,” IMD said.Also read: As La Nina peaks, longer, harsher winter likelyIMD had earlier forecast that a new western disturbance might affect the western Himalayan region and the plains in northwestern India starting December 27 and isolated or scattered rainfall or snowfall in many northern and northwestern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-in-northern-states-cold-wave-conditions-likely-during-year-end/story-aF2nUbL0HhxIffnCCvwbYP.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Wake up’: Digvijaya Singh calls upon Congress members to join farmers’ stir||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday asked members of his party to wake up and join the farmers’ protests to speak up against the new farm laws brought in by the Centre. “Farmers of Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan are protesting against farm laws because PM Modi is doing injustice to them. Farmers of Madhya Pradesh are innocent but even Congressmen are sleeping. Wake up, join the stir and raise voices against these laws,” ANI quoted the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh as saying.Singh’s remarks on the farmers came after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said there was no confusion in the state regarding the farm laws, adding that the agriculturists support Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Also Read | No confusion over new farm laws in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan“The Centre’s three farm laws have been implemented in Madhya Pradesh and there’s no confusion over it. In all 313 blocks of the state, we will organise training on these laws, so our farmers can understand them better and learn how to benefit from them,” the chief minister had said earlier in the day.Singh’s comments also came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the government will have to listen to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. “Mitti ka kann kann goonj raha hai, sarkar ko sunna padega (Even the dust particles are speaking up, the government will have to listen (to the farmers),” Gandhi said as he posted a video of protesting farmers. मिट्टी का कण-कण गूंज रहा है,सरकार को सुनना पड़ेगा। pic.twitter.com/yhwH6D8uWOPrime Minister Modi on Friday had blamed opposition parties of misleading the farmers during his outreach to the agriculturists. Farmers from various states have been protesting on Delhi borders for more than a month against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre and passed by Parliament in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wake-up-digvijaya-singh-calls-upon-congress-members-to-join-farmers-stir/story-t4PaPhMh74mSPaoToSCVqM.html
26-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet approves proposal for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats||Bihar Cabinet has approved a proposal for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats and eight new nagar parishads, upgradation of 32 nagar panchayats to nagar parishads and five nagar parishads to municipal corporations.The State Cabinet has also approved a proposal for the expansion of 12 Nagar Nikay.Earlier, the Bihar Cabinet had approved a proposal to provide free Covid-19 vaccine to people of the state when it is available.It is to mention that this was one of the poll promises of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly polls. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) secured a 125-seat majority in the 243-seat strong Bihar Legislative Assembly.As promised in Nitish Kumar-led JDU’s manifesto -- ‘Saat Nishchay-2’, the Cabinet also gave its nod for a proposal to create 20 lakh job opportunities in the public and private sectors.The state government will also introduce a special scheme for promotion of entrepreneurship among women.For this, the government would provide an interest-free loan up to 50 per cent of their project or a maximum of Rs 5 lakh in addition to the subsidy of 50 per cent or Rs 5 lakh of the project cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-approves-proposal-for-creation-of-103-new-nagar-panchayats/story-42ZalRmWj0XpyaaGLNkhxI.html
26-12-2020||India||Start of a golden chapter: Nadda after PM Modi launches PMJAY SEHAT scheme for J-K residents||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda said on Saturday the launch of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme in Jammu and Kashmir was the start of a “golden chapter” for the residents of the Union territory. Nadda congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme virtually and interacted with the beneficiaries of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.“Respected Shri @narendramodi ji, who has been committed for the development of Jammu and Kashmir for years and the welfare of the people, has started a golden chapter by launching Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY Health Scheme for all the people of Jammu and Kashmir today. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for this,” Nadda said in one of his tweets in Hindi.The BJP president also hailed the removal of Articles 370 and 35A, which was done in August 2019 by the Narendra Modi government. “Since Independence, the development of Jammu and Kashmir, which has always been neglected, has today started on a new path due to the removal of Articles 370 and 35A. Today, the central government, under the leadership of the respected Prime Minister, Mr @narendramodi ji, is rapidly working to connect Jammu and Kashmir with the mainstream,” Nadda wrote in another tweet. आजादी के बाद से जिस जम्मू-कश्मीर में विकास सदैव उपेक्षित रहा वो आज आर्टिकल 370 और 35A के हटने के कारण एक नई राह पर आगे बढ़ चला है। आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में आज केंद्र सरकार, जम्मू-कश्मीर को मुख्यधारा से जोड़ने का काम तेजी से कर रही है।Nadda also congratulated the people of Jammu and Kashmir mentioning the recently-concluded District Development Council (DDC) polls. The BJP emerged as the single largest party winning 75 of the 280 seats that went to polls. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is an amalgamation of seven regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, finished as the largest pre-poll alliance with 110 seats.“The enthusiasm with which the people of Jammu and Kashmir participated in the local body elections and made them successful is highly appreciated. The people of the state have shown confidence in the policies of the respected Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, who won the Panchayat elections will leave no stone unturned to uphold them,” Nadda also tweeted.AB-PMJAY is a flagship health scheme of the central government, which was launched in 2018, and provides a cover of up to Rs 500,000 per family every year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-of-a-golden-chapter-nadda-after-pm-modi-launches-pmjay-sehat-scheme-for-j-k-residents/story-6Tn4M99vea878cpOjkI3jP.html
26-12-2020||India||‘It’s time to strengthen UPA’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut hits out at BJP||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has urged opposition parties to unite to take on the “autocratic” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre.“Opposition unity is the need of the hour,” Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut said. He said the Centre was taking lightly the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders against three farm laws enacted to liberalise the farm sector in September. “...The situation at the Delhi borders is very serious and for the last one month, there has been no attempt to solve the issue of the farmers. The government is not taking them seriously and many making fun of the agitation. Hence the opposition parties need to come together and raise voice against this autocratic government,” said Raut. “Currently there is a UPA [United Progressive Alliance] led by Sonia Gandhi and it is time to strengthen it.” Raut said more parties need to join the alliance and their leaders should raise voice against the Centre. “In addition to Sonia Gandhi, there is also Sharad Pawar’s leadership and they can provide an effective alternative.”Raut accused the Centre of targeting the non-BJP state governments and not allowing them to function. “In Maharashtra, they are working to ensure that the Metro project does not take off.”BJP leader Ram Kadam said instead of blaming the Centre, the Maharashtra government should introspect over its performance in the last one year. “There were no developmental works at all and all it did was blame the central government for its failure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-to-strengthen-upa-sena-s-sanjay-raut-hits-out-at-bjp/story-onGGBjvumgNtQJcB5uxg3M.html
26-12-2020||India||Haryana municipal elections tomorrow: All you need to know||The stage is set for a direct fight between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine and the Congress in the municipal elections in Haryana, which will be held on Sunday, December 27. This will be the first elections which will be held in Haryana after the BJP-JJP alliance came to power in the state in 2019 making Manohar Lal Khattar the chief minister of the state for the second time. JJP president Dushyant Chautala was sworn in as the deputy chief minister.Here’s all you need to know about the Haryana municipal elections:1. The seats of the mayor and members of all the wards municipal corporations (MCs) of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat, president and members of the municipal council of Rewari, and municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Uklana (Hisar) will go to the polls in these elections. All three MCs have 20 wards each, while the Rewari council has 31 wards, and committees of Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana have 15, 17 and 13 wards each, respectively.2. Polling will be conducted from 8am to 5.30pm with strict Covid-19 guidelines in place. Mandatory sanitisation of the polling station will be done before the polling and every person involved in the election activity, as well as the voters, will have to wear face masks.3. Everyone will be scanned thermally at the entry point of polling stations and hand gloves will be provided to the voter, for signing on the voter register and pressing the button of the electronic voting machine (EVM).4. Last one hour of the polling time has been fixed for Covid-19 patients and those having symptoms of the coronavirus disease.5. The election for municipalities will be conducted through EVMs while ballot papers will be used for mayor and president elections. None of the above (NOTA) option will also be used in these elections.6. The election expenditure limit for mayors has been increased from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 22 lakh while the election expenditure limit for members of corporations has been increased from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 5.50 lakh. For the position of the president of municipal council and committees, the expenditure has been fixed at Rs 15 lakh and Rs 10 lakh respectively.7. Adequate police force will be deployed to maintain law and order at the polling stations and in sensitive and hypersensitive areas.8. Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has boycotted these elections in protest against the “atrocities” allegedly committed on farmers by the centre and the state’s BJP-JJP government.9. The ruling alliance is fighting these elections on the plank of development made in the state while the Congress has targeted the coalition on a range of issues associated with farmers, employees and law and order.10. In the 2019 assembly elections, the BJP emerged as the single largest party and formed the government in a post-poll alliance with the JJP and seven Independent MLAs.11. Counting of votes will be done on December 30.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-municipal-elections-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-Cp80vNqbi5iuOFYLxMJJ5H.html
26-12-2020||India||Modi govt helped youth in northeast leave arms, participate in developing the region: Shah||Home minister Amit Shah on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Congress and opposition parties in Assam alleging that the earlier governments under Congress did not do anything to bring back the youth of northeast from the path of insurgency. Shah said, “Assam saw several agitations over the past few decades. Lots of Assamese youth died during these agitations. It disturbed Assam’s peace and halted the region’s development.”Shah said that several separatist factions in the northeast forced the youth to take up arms and the central government has ensured that these factions join the mainstream. He listed the India-Bangladesh land boundary agreement, ending the blockade in Manipur, Bru-Reang refugee settlement and the recently concluded Bodoland territorial council elections as important steps taken to ensure peace and stability in the region. “I am proud to say that in the recently concluded Bodoland elections there was a turnout of more than 80% and there was not a single incident of bloodshed reported. This tells that if there is determination for development and respect towards peace and stability then the government can work with the people. PM Modi has commitment towards peace and determination to develop the region.”The union home minister pointed out that it was the Modi government that restored normalcy in the region and the government is determined that development in the region will pave the way for people to change their mindset and join the mainstream. Shah also lauded the chief minister Sarabananda Sonowal and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for their role in bringing separatist voices back into the mainstream. He remained confident that BJP will win the upcoming elections and said that the Himanta Biswa Sarma and Sarabananda Sonowal duo have led the state towards achieving new milestones. The home minister lauded the government for its handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said that the state was able to contain its Covid-19 death rate. Also Read: BJP undecided on naming CM candidate for Assam polls: Himanta Biswa SarmaShah also asked the people of Assam to vote for BJP and alleged that Congress is taking help of separatist elements to return to power. “Elections are approaching, once more people with divisive agenda will reappear in a new form, they will try to convince us to take the path of agitation. I want to question them if their agitation ever brought any development to Assam.”“Few people who were responsible for the deaths of Assamese youth are now forming political parties. The ones who were responsible for firing bullets are indirectly supporting the Congress party. They want to dent BJP’s vote share and want to restore the Congress government’s rule in the state,” Shah further added. During his address, Shah said the Modi government kept northeast region in focus during its 6 year rule. “In the last six years, PM Modi visited the northeastern states thirty times. The government is committed towards developing the region. Every time he visited the region he brought gifts for the people of the region to spur growth and development.”Shah also attacked the Congress for allowing poachers a free hand which led to fall in the rhino numbers in the state and said that the BJP government addressed this concern to restore the pride of the Assamese people. “These poachers during the Congress rule in Assam hunted rhinos with protection from the state and the ruling BJP government has now dealt with this issue firmly and Kaziranga is free of infiltrators.”During his speech, Shah also appealed to the protesting farmers in Delhi’s borders to resolve their issues regarding the agriculture laws through discussions. Shah laid foundation for a medical college in Guwahati and 9 law colleges across Assam during his two-day visit. Amit Shah is on a two-day visit to Assam and Manipur to take stock of the party’s preparedness ahead of the 2021 legislative assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-helped-youth-in-northeast-leave-arms-participate-in-developing-the-region-shah/story-F4zp0jU5eSYp56oQYoPcHM.html
26-12-2020||India||Central Vista revamp: MPs’ offices to come up in place of two buildings||The Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan in Lutyens’ Delhi will be the first two buildings to be razed to pave the way for the construction of chambers of Members of Parliament there as part of Central Vista redevelopment project.An official from HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, which has prepared the master plan of the ambitious project, said that MP offices will come up where Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan are currently located on Rafi Marg and Sansad Marg respectively.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building where the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The National Emblem will crown the new Parliament building.According to the plan, a tunnel would be constructed to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex.“The new Parliament will have six committee rooms to conduct business,” the HCP official said.The government has identified around four locations -- in Gole Market, K G Marg, near Africa Avenue and near Talkatora Stadium -- in central Delhi for the temporary shifting of offices of various ministries.Government sources said that the demolition of buildings will be carried out in phases to ensure smooth functioning of various ministry offices.To construct Common Central Secretariat for ministry offices, several buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan among others are likely to be demolished.The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation’s power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.According to the CPWD’s latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista, the prime minister’s new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.The prime minister’s new residence will be built on a 15-acre plot and it will have 10 buildings and they will have ground plus three floors, the CPWD said in its proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-revamp-mps-offices-to-come-up-in-place-of-two-buildings/story-sMRnhr5TGTo8kMA6TQel4N.html
26-12-2020||India||Pakistan explored Rajasthan, Gujarat borders extensively in 2020 for infiltration: Report||Pakistan in the year 2020 tried multiple routes for infiltration apart from sending terrorists through borders in Jammu and Kashmir or Punjab only. According to the Border Security Force (BSF), attempts were made by Pakistan from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders as well to infiltrate terrorists into the Indian side.Data compiled by the BSF also says that the number of infiltration has increased.Last year, there were no incidents of attempts of infiltration from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders recorded by the BSF till the first week of November.Interestingly, the Kashmir Frontier of BSF has recorded just one infiltration in comparison with a previous year where 4 infiltrations took place till the first week of November.This year, the Rajashthan and Gujarat frontier of the BSF has recorded infiltration incidents in August and September.Officials claimed that Pakistan is exploring other ways to send terrorists but the BSF round the clock keep a strict vigil and regularly updating positions as per the intelligence input.“We have seen incidents of infiltration attempt s from Gujarat and Rajasthan borders as well this year. Last year, no such incidents were recorded in the same period of time,” a senior BSF official said.BSF officials said that 11 infiltration incidents have recorded this year till the first week of November from Jammu, Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat border.This year, the highest 4-4 each infiltration incident happened from Jammu as well as Punjab borders.In November, a 150-metre long underground tunnel suspected to be used by terrorists for infiltration was detected near International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba.The tunnel was detected in a joint operation by the BSF and Jammu and Kashmir police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-explored-rajasthan-gujarat-borders-extensively-in-2020-for-infiltration-report/story-Fo9K2mueennEbakUf4M6vO.html
26-12-2020||India||Physical participation in crime not a must for conviction over common intention: HC||Physical participation in the crime is not necessary for an accused facing “common intention” charges to be convicted in murder cases, the Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench observed on Tuesday while convicting a labourer from Bhandara district. Virendra Fule, 32, was accused of carrying a sword, which his two accomplices later used to kill a woman in 2008.“Accused no.3 [Fule] did not commit any overt act during the assault, but the evidence on record is sufficient to hold that he shared the common intention with the other two accused,” said the bench of justices ZA Haq and Amit Borkar while setting aside Fule’s acquittal.In January 2016, an additional sessions’ judge at Bhandara convicted Fule’s accomplices for the murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The trial court acquitted Fule saying no overt act was attributed to him. He merely waited outside the slain woman’s house with the sword, it added.The high court held the trial court was unjustified in acquitting Fule. It added Fule was at the crime scene with the other two convicts, carrying a sword. “It appears that the accused no.3 was standing at veranda as a cover to accused nos.1 and 2, which proves that he shared a common intention with the other accused [to kill the woman]),” the high court said. “Therefore, the accused no.3 is also liable to be convicted...as the prosecution has proved common intention of all the accused.” The high court sentenced Fule to life imprisonment and directed him to surrender before the trial court by January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-participation-in-crime-not-a-must-for-conviction-over-common-intention-hc/story-te24bSaYCHLdaFHeIybgFN.html
26-12-2020||India||Life equation 2020: Pandemic plus social exclusion equals slide into poverty for millions in informal sector||They have long battled job insecurities and temperamental employers but 2020 was particularly tough for domestic workers, rickshaw pullers and daily wage workers who confronted not just a pandemic but also social exclusion -- and the sombre realisation their jobs were expendable.While the virus affected all classes, the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic was particularly devastating for those in the informal sector who found themselves on the streets, without their livelihoods and sometimes without their homes too.“The economic crisis of the proportion of contraction of more than 20 per cent in the second quarter and potential livelihood losses leading to approximately 400 million people sliding back into poverty according to ILO warrants a radically new model if we are sincere about ensuring a minimum floor of dignity for every citizen of the country,” said Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar.Mamta, a 69-year-old domestic worker, is living that inexorable slide into poverty in a society that has deemed her and others like her “high risk”.She had been working as a house help in Noida since her husband died 15 years ago but was turfed out in April without any notice.“My employers in April told me they cannot keep a help in view of the infection and fear of contracting it from people like us. Since then, the financial crunch has been so acute that I had to borrow money from a loan shark but am now unable to repay him,” she told PTI.With no wages and no money to pay back the money lender, Mamta is caught in a vicious debt circle. She said she thought things would improve when the unlock period started but that did not happen because people are still wary of hiring help and letting them into their homes.“I don’t even have money to buy medicines and have begun to lose weight. I have not been keeping well,” said the woman who came to the big city from Siliguri 25 years ago.Mamta is not alone.Thousands of part-time and full-time domestic helps lost their jobs and went without any money for months when they were fired because people feared contracting Covid-19 from them.Hina said she has been reduced to going door to door asking people if they need help with anything.“When I started working as a domestic help, my mother told me this line of work would mean a good consistent income but this year proved her wrong. I am desperately looking for work but people are still scared of hiring domestic help,” said the 24-year-old who lives in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar locality.“My previous employers fired me after telling me they can’t be exposed to me since I live in a slum and share a bathroom with others. What should people like us do?” she asked despairingly.It has been a traumatic year for rickshaw pullers and cab drivers too.Raja Ram, 34, the sole earner for his family of six, said nobody wants to get on to his rickshaw and he feels like an untouchable.“There was absolutely no income in March, April and May. Even now, people do not want to use rickshaws because they fear catching the infection from us. I even started keeping a sanitiser with me and sanitise the seat in front of the customer but this is not helping either. We feel like untouchables,” he said.Ram has now started doing any odd job he finds in his area in Noida.“I have started delivering groceries for people at home. I also have some work as a daily wage worker but it is not much,” he said.Cab drivers, in a higher income bracket than rickshaw pullers like Ram, are caught in the same trap with business plummeting despite scrupulous adherence to all Covid appropriate behaviour.“Just last year, I would earn up to Rs 1 lakh per month but now my income for this year has not been more than Rs 30,000 per month,” said Sanjay Singh, a driver working for a cab hailing service in Delhi who follows all the dos and don’ts required to ensure customer confidence in times of a pandemic.“We were seeing the trend of people preferring a cab hailing service rather than buying their own vehicles. But that changed this year with this pandemic,” Singh said.Singh is hoping for a better 2021 but realises the future is bleak, saying Covid-19 has made people more apprehensive about health safety in cabs.According to Oxfam India’s Behar, the pandemic-led crisis has accentuated the “inherent obscene inequality of our economic model” and there is need to recognise this and reboot a fundamentally different economic model to ensure a just and green future.Poonam Muttreja, public health expert and executive director of Population Foundation of India (PFI), said Covid-19 is far bigger than just a health crisis. The pandemic and subsequent national lockdown has resulted in a health, social and economic emergency that is nothing short of a catastrophe. “The economic crisis has had a significant impact on informal workers. Almost 90 per cent of workers in India work in the informal economy -- that part of the economy which thrives on daily work, and daily cash, with little provisions of employment protection. Like demonetisation, the current lockdown has exposed millions of workers and their families to starvation and very bleak future prospects,” Muttreja said.She said the impact on vulnerable populations, particularly women, is profound.“Domestic workers, a vast majority of whom are women, have been placed on unpaid leave since the pandemic began, due to hygiene issues raised by their employers and are concerned about making ends meet,” she said.Going forward, the government must ensure income support to families of those working in the informal sector so that they are able to sustain themselves.“Support could also include cash transfers, food or in-kind distributions, as well as distance support (e.g. radio campaigns) to raise awareness and listen to their needs. Specific measures should be designed for women workers. Increased investment in education and vocational training for women is imperative as it can lead to higher female labour force participation in the formal sector in the long run,” Muttreja added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-equation-2020-pandemic-plus-social-exclusion-equals-slide-into-poverty-for-millions-in-informal-sector/story-5uFHm16Soz4XjLavbk39RN.html
26-12-2020||India||Amit Shah to review election preparedness in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah who is on a two-day tour of Assam reached Guwahati on Saturday morning. He was welcomed by folk artists outside Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati. Shah is set to inaugurate a slew of projects for the state during his visit. Shah tweeted “Reached Guwahati! I wholeheartedly thank the people of Assam for such a warm welcome.” along with snaps of the welcoming committee of folk artists. The minister is all set to distribute financial grants to 8,000 traditional Vaishnavite monasteries of the state under the Assam Darshan programme. He will also lay foundation stones for the development of Batadrava Than as a cultural and tourist destination, nine law colleges to be established across Assam, and a new medical college in capital city Guwahati. “I heartily welcomed Hon’ble Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji at Guwahati airport and thanked him on behalf of the people of Assam as he is set to launch several developmental projects for the state,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.Shah is scheduled to hold a meeting with party leaders and review the election preparation ahead of the assembly polls scheduled to be held next year in Assam. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) vice president and Assam in-charge Baijayant Panda has said many opposition leaders from Assam are in touch with the party. “A large number of MLAs in West Bengal have joined us. This is happening all over the country and in other states also. In Assam too, several elected representatives at the local level in recent few weeks have joined us. This is because all over the country the undeniable popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is exceptional,” Panda said, according to ANI.“So in Assam, many leaders are contacting us on a daily basis from those parties which are opposing us so we will take that into consideration and surely you will see many people joining the BJP very soon. As assembly polls in Assam are nearing, a large number of Congress leaders are making a bid to join the ruling BJP in Assam,” Panda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-review-election-preparedness-in-assam/story-7Vg1hwFIsjm92jc37JMwbK.html
26-12-2020||India||NGT extends term of oversight committee to monitor pollution of Ganga||The National Green Tribunal has extended the term of an oversight committee to monitor pollution of Ganga river and oversee compliance of environmental norms in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that unless the UP government sets up any other effective alternative mechanism, it may not be advisable to close the committee abruptly. Accordingly, the term of the oversight committee, for the time being, will be extended for six months. If the State of UP has any other suggestion, it will be open to put forward the same, it said. “We also request the oversight committee to monitor compliance of directions to oversee preparation of District Environment Management Plans (DEMPs) and their execution by the District Environment Committees (DECs) in terms of order of this tribunal,” the bench said. The tribunal noted that initially the tenure of the oversight committee headed by former high court judge Justice SVS Rathore was for six months which was subsequently extended at different intervals. The oversight committee replaced earlier committees appointed by the tribunal to monitor pollution of Ganga, rejuvenation of river Hindon and associated issues, sand mining at Allahabad, pollution of thermal power stations in Singrauli, pollution of Ramgarh lake and River Ami in Gorakhpur, solid and biomedical waste management norms etc. In the course of time, the committee has been requested to monitor compliance of some other environmental issues also such as relating to water bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-extends-term-of-oversight-committee-to-monitor-pollution-of-ganga/story-2vEdhsFgm9lHoQkQeQUT5L.html
26-12-2020||India||India to become 5th largest economy in 2025, 3rd largest by 2030||India, which appears to have been pushed back to being the world’s sixth biggest economy in 2020, will again overtake the UK to become the fifth largest in 2025 and race to the third spot by 2030, a think tank said on Saturday. India had overtaken the UK in 2019 to become the fifth largest economy in the world but has been relegated to 6th spot in 2020. “India has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic. As a result, after overtaking the UK in 2019, the UK overtakes India again in this year’s forecasts and stays ahead till 2024 before India takes over again,” the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) said in an annual report published on Saturday.  The UK appears to have overtaken India again during 2020 as a result of the weakness of the rupee, it said. The CEBR forecasts that the Indian economy will expand by 9 per cent in 2021 and by 7 per cent in 2022. “Growth will naturally slow as India becomes more economically developed, with the annual GDP growth expected to sink to 5.8 per cent in 2035.” “This growth trajectory will see India become the world’s third largest economy by 2030, overtaking the UK in 2025, Germany in 2027 and Japan in 2030,” it said. The UK-based think tank forecast that China will in 2028 overtake the US to become the world’s biggest economy, five years earlier than previously estimated due to the contrasting recoveries of the two countries from the Covid-19 pandemic. Japan would remain the world’s third-biggest economy, in dollar terms, until the early 2030s when it would be overtaken by India, pushing Germany down from fourth to fifth. The CEBR said India’s economy had been losing momentum even ahead of the shock delivered by the Covid-19 crisis. The rate of GDP growth sank to a more than ten-year low of 4.2 per cent in 2019, down from 6.1 per cent the previous year and around half the 8.3 per cent growth rate recorded in 2016. “Slowing growth has been a consequence of a confluence of factors including fragility in the banking system, adjustment to reforms and a deceleration of global trade,” it said. The Covid-19 pandemic, the think tank said, has been a human and an economic catastrophe for India, with more than 140,000 deaths recorded as of the middle of December. While this is the highest death toll outside of the US in absolute terms, it equates to around 10 deaths per 100,000, which is a significantly lower figure than has been seen in much of Europe and the Americas. “GDP in Q2 (April-June) 2020 was 23.9 per cent below its 2019 level, indicating that nearly a quarter of the country’s economic activity was wiped out by the drying up of global demand and the collapse of domestic demand that accompanied the series of strict national lockdowns,” it said. As restrictions were gradually lifted, many parts of the economy were able to spring back into action, although output remains well below pre-pandemic levels. An important driver of India’s economic recovery thus far has been the agricultural sector, which has been buoyed by a bountiful harvest. “The pace of the economic recovery will be inextricably linked to the development of the Covid-19 pandemic, both domestically and internationally,” it said. As the manufacturer of the majority of the world’s vaccines and with a 42-year-old vaccination programme that targets 55 million people each year, India is better placed than many other developing countries to roll out the vaccines successfully and efficiently next year. “In the medium to long term, reforms such as the 2016 demonetisation and more recently the controversial efforts to liberalise the agricultural sector can deliver economic benefits,” the think tank said. However, with the majority of the Indian workforce employed in the agricultural sector, the reform process requires a delicate and gradual approach that balances the need for longer-term efficiency gains with the need to support incomes in the short-term. The government’s stimulus spending in response to the Covid-19 crisis has been significantly more restrained than most other large economies, although the debt to GDP ratio did rise to 89 per cent in 2020.  “The infrastructure bottlenecks that exist in India mean that investment in this area has the potential to unlock significant productivity gains. Therefore, the outlook for the economy going forwards will be closely related to the government’s approach to infrastructure spending,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-become-5th-largest-economy-in-2025-3rd-largest-by-2030/story-hokHBcnuIoomZu7r9OGKjN.html
26-12-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: Cracks begin to show as Congress delays review of Bihar poll results and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Congress delays review of Bihar poll results, cracks begin to showEven a month and a half after the Bihar Assembly election results were declared, the Congress party is yet to assess the reasons for its flop show despite being blamed by ally, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), for the Grand Alliance or Mahagathbandhan’s narrow loss to the NDA. Read more Railways installs devices in trains to assist drivers in foggy conditionsTrain mishaps due to inhibited visibility from thick foggy conditions is a peril to passengers and crew members that could easily result in loss of life and damage of property. Read more Madhya Pradesh cabinet approves Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. The controversial ordinance outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. Read more WHO releases list of 10 global health issues to track in 2021The World Health Organization (WHO) released a list of global health issues that the world could have to deal with in 2021 as inadequacies of health systems across countries lay bare at the hands of the coronavirus disease. Read more WATCH: Ashwin outfoxes Steve Smith again, gets him for a duck. Sunil Gavaskar says ‘it was a plan’Ravichandran Ashwin once again emerged as India’s most successful bowler after Australia won the toss and elected to bat first on Day 1 of the Boxing Day Test match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Read more Android updates ‘Fast Pairing’ interface for Bluetooth devices, makes it look like that in iPhonesIt looks like Google is trying to copy Apple when it comes to ‘Fast Pairing’ of Bluetooth accessories on Android phones. The Fast Pairing feature was launched on Android back in 2017. Read more Gauahar Khan-Zaid Darbar host lavish wedding reception: Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Nigaar Khan, Gautam Rode attend. See picsGauahar Khan married Zaid Darbar in a traditional nikaah ceremony on Friday, and threw a lavish wedding reception in the evening. Filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, and several television stars attended the function. Read more Plane ‘flies’ for the last time with excavator’s ‘help’. WatchThere are some videos that may make you say “That’s so bizarre” but at the same time also leave you thoroughly impressed. This video involving a plane and an excavator perfectly fits that category. Read more Sonu Sood pays surprise visit to fan’s roadside food stall in HyderabadBollywood actor Sonu Sood surprised a fan by visiting his roadside food stall. The ‘Dabangg’ star is referred to as one of the most humble celebrities in Bollywood. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cracks-begin-to-show-as-congress-delays-review-of-bihar-poll-results-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HNpd5kgxv0PmkHnRIuNj7I.html
26-12-2020||India||Some people in Delhi are trying to teach me democracy every day, says PM Modi||The peaceful election of Jammu and Kashmir’s District Development Council is a mirror to those who teach me democracy every day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, attacking the opposition once again. “Jammu and Kashmir elected their representatives within such a short span after it became a Union Territory. But Puducherry is not conducting elections despite Supreme Court order and those who are in power there teach me democracy every day,” PM Modi said.His veiled attack comes after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently said there is no democracy in India. “We were in J&K government. But you know why we walked out of the government.Our demand was panchayat elections should be held and people be given their due rights to choose their representatives. Now you have your representatives who will work for you. Braving Covid-19, cold, voters came out and the election was peaceful. People of J&K upheld Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of gram swaraj,” PM Modi said.After launching the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir which will benefit 21 lakh eligible people with free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh, PM Modi interacted with two beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat scheme.“When people for whom we are working for praise me, those words become blessings for me,” PM Modi said.“This is a historic day for J&K. Every people of J&K will get benefits of Ayushman Bharat scheme. I wanted to launch this scheme yesterday on the occasion of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Atalji had a special connection with J&K, which is now prospering on his way of ‘Insaniyat, Jamhuriyat and Kashmiriyat,’” PM Modi said.Lauding the leadership of PM Modi, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said 10 lakh 70,000 farmers have been benefitted by Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. “From August last year, there has been a new wave of development in Jammu and Kashmir,” the L-G said listing out the new development projects in the Union Territory.All preparation for Covid-19 vaccine has also been done in J&K, Sinha said. “Today is a very significant day for J&K. This is being launched a day after Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Everyone is aware of Vajpayeeji’s sentiment for Kashmir,” Union home minister Amit Shah said.“The scheme is in force everywhere. But everywhere else, it is only meant for the poor. J&K is the first place where all residents will be able to reap the benefits of this scheme,” Amit Shah said.According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the SEHAT scheme would work in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY). “The scheme would operate in insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY),” the statement read, adding that the benefits of the scheme would be portable across all 24,148 hospitals enlisted under ABPM-JAY in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-sehat-healthcare-for-j-k-significant-day-says-amit-shah/story-IkoaSlwHeh2Chv48y2j7bP.html
26-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cabinet okays bill against forced conversions||The state Cabinet on Saturday approved the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantrey (Freedom of Religion Act) 2020 with a provision for a maximum of 10 years in jail for anyone “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe to undergo religious conversion”. The draft bill says Ghar Wapsi, or conversion to Hinduism, will not be treated as conversion. “Under this legislation, the re-conversion to the ancestral religion will not be treated as conversion,” said the draft. The proposed legislation will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, said state home minister Narottam Mishra. He said the bill seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means. Mishra said it provides for one to 10 years of imprisonment and a maximum fine of 1 lakh for conversions. “The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring such marriages null and void. Before conversion, the person and religious gurus have to inform district magistrate at least 60 days prior,” said MishraThe bill provides for a five-year jail term for religious gurus, who perform conversion ceremonies, says the draft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-okays-bill-against-forced-conversions/story-1mGDJ2T3P0LlfMONc3fPfP.html
26-12-2020||India||About 35 arrests, dozen FIRs as UP ‘love jihad’ law completes one month||Going full steam, the Uttar Pradesh police have made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. Nearly a dozen FIRs have been lodged since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 27. Eight arrests were made from Etah, seven from Sitapur, four from Greater Noida, three each from Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh, two each from Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Kannauj and one each from Bareilly and Hardoi, officials said here. The first case was registered in Bareilly just a day after the legislation came into force. The police cracked the whip following a complaint of Tikaram Rathore, the father of a 20-year-girl and resident of Sharif Nagar village in Bareilly. He alleged that Uwaish Ahmad (22) had become friends with his daughter and was trying to “coax, coerce and lure” her to convert. An FIR was lodged at Deorania police station in Bareilly district and the accused was arrested on December 3. Acting swiftly after being tipped off about interfaith marriages, the Lucknow Police stopped a ceremony in the state capital, asking the couple to meet the legal requirements first. In Muzaffarnagar district, one Nadeem and an accomplice were arrested on December 6 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Nadeem, however, got reprieve when the Allahabad High Court directed the police not to take any coercive action against him. Likewise, in Moradabad, two brothers, arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, were released on an order of a CJM court. Rashid and Salim were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar’s office in Moradabad to record Rashid’s marriage to a Hindu woman whose family had filed the complaint. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38), who is married, was picked up in Mau district on December 3 and 13 of his accomplices booked for allegedly abducting a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with an intent to change her religion. An FIR was lodged at Tambor police station in Sitapur district and 22-year-old Zubrail along with five of his family members and two locals was accused of kidnapping a 19-year-old girl and converting her. All, barring Zubrail, were arrested on December 5. In Bijnor, 22-year-old labourer Afzal was arrested on December 13 for allegedly kidnapping a girl from her home. A 19-year-old woman lodged an FIR with Shahabad police station in Hardoi district on December 11 alleging that she was raped on the pretext of marriage and also pressured to convert by one Mohammed Azad. She also alleged that she was being sold by Azad in Delhi.  Azad was booked for rape, for flouting UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020 and for human trafficking. He was arrested on December 16. Rashid Ali (22) and Saleem Ali (25) were arrested under the new law in Moradabad district on similar charges. A man was sent to jail in Bijnor on December 16 for ‘love jihad’, a term coined by BJP leaders and right-wing activists to describe the crime against which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also spoken out. Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ to threaten those who do not respect daughters and sisters. Amid a hue and cry over the law, social activist Shantanu Sharma said, “We have no problems with the new law but its enforcement should not cause harassment to people. It should be ensured that it is not misused.” “Making a new law doesn’t mean that forcible conversions will be checked easily. Ultimately, it will be the police which will enforce it. It’s too early to predict whether it will succeed in its purpose or not, but it should be used carefully,” he said. Former UP Director General of Police Yashpal Singh said that when a girl flees, there is pressure for her recovery. “It (law) is good as per the social structure and with this there will be not exploitation. However, as per modern social outlook, people can feel stripped off their freedom.” High court lawyer Sandeep Chowdhury said, “The law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. It militates against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.” He pointed out that a PIL has already been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the law and now it is for the court to decide. The high court has asked the state government to respond to a petition which contended that the new law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. The ordinance aimed at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, got the assent of UP Governor Anandiben Patel just within days of the state cabinet approving its draft.  The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-35-arrests-dozen-firs-as-up-love-jihad-law-completes-one-month/story-Z6PvZOZXnRo4VakO6Uf51L.html
26-12-2020||India||Govt launches competition seeking solutions in vaccine distribution system from startups||As the country prepares for the first round of Covid-19 vaccination, the government is offering start-ups a chance to develop solutions for better implementation and strengthening of the vaccine distribution system.The Union ministries of health and information technology have sought these solutions as part of a grand challenge for strengthening the COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system. Co-WIN, a digitalised platform, will be used to roll out and scale up the mechanism for the vaccine distribution system nationally, said information technology ministry’s senior director Ajay Garg.The health ministry has identified seven focus areas of technology development to address the likely limitations associated with the effective vaccine distribution system and its seamless administration across India. “These challenges try to broadly address the priority areas relating to infrastructure, monitoring, and management, dynamic learning and information systems, constraints of human resources, including technical capacities, vaccine logistics management and tracking enlisted beneficiaries for any adverse event following the immunisation on a real-time basis,” Garg said.The challenge was launched on December 22 on a collaborative platform developed for building synergies in the Indian tech start-up space. Participation has been invited from start-ups and emerging technology specialists to augment and scale the Co-WIN platform.Registrations are open till January 15. The top five applicants will be provided the Co-WIN Application Programming Interface to prove the efficacy of their solutions for possible integration with the platform. Each shortlisted applicant will get Rs 2 lakh to cover their logistical requirements. The final two winners will get a reward of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-launches-competition-seeking-solutions-in-vaccine-distribution-system-from-startups/story-fzefOTWnpBxPtUdNrPJJdK.html
26-12-2020||India||16 years of Indian Ocean tsunami: What India has learnt||December 26 marks the 16th anniversary of the massive Indian Ocean tsunami. On this day, a 100-foot high tsunami triggered by an earthquake of magnitude 9.1, one of the largest ever recorded, from under the Indian Ocean killed more than 230,000 people in South Asia. With the epicentre near Sumatra, Indonesia, the earthquake triggered a tsunami that hit Thailand, Sri Lanka, India, Indonesia.A tsunami researcher and forecaster with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Center for Tsunami Research, Vasily Titov cites the destructive capacity of the 2004 tsunami to the earthquake in the megathrust fault, ‘where heavy oceanic plates subduct beneath lighter continental plates’. “They are the largest faults in the world and they’re all underwater,” History reported him saying. He added that the tsunami waves could be seen like a large pebble falling in the ocean causing mega ripples.The Sumatra earthquake and tsunami are considered to be an eye-opener for India as it introduced the Indian coastline to tsunami and its destructible power. Learning from the unprecedented natural disaster that led to such heavy damage to life and property, the Ministry of Earth founded the Indian Tsunami Early Warning System (ITEWS) at Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Hyderabad in October 2007. Scientists in India are now able to predict and project movements in Indian ocean through real-time seismic monitoring with Bottom Pressure Recorders (BPR), tide gauges and 24x7 operational tsunami warning system to detect tsunamigenic earthquakes as to provide early advisories to the most vulnerable. A community performance-based programme known as Tsunami Ready has also been started by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO to promote tsunami preparedness by actively involving the public, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. As part of the UNESCO-IOC framework, the ITEWC now offers advisories to all Indian Ocean rim countries.India is the first country to establish an early warning system for tsunami detection, while Odisha is the first state in the country to get Tsunami Ready recognition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-years-of-indian-ocean-tsunami-what-india-has-learnt/story-ek5f9RQTVLUR4pwNO49kHJ.html
26-12-2020||India||With masks, sanitisers and Covid tests, Bengal readies for Ganga Sagar Mela||The West Bengal government is gearing up to receive millions of pilgrims in mid-January for the Ganga Sagar Mela, the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India after the Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. It has also made arrangements for live streaming of the holy dip during the mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pilgrims can book online a tirtha samagri pack comprising Ganga Jal in a container, prasad, and the holy tika. “E-snan [bath] is a first initiative by the district administration through which people can take a bath with Ganga Jal at the convenience while watching live Ganga Sagar on the website and take the feel of the sahi snan,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas, where the mela is held every year. More than four million people take the holy dip at the confluence of River Ganges and Bay of Bengal in mid-January to celebrate Makar Sankranti, the first major Hindu festival in the Gregorian calendar. “As this is a pandemic year, apart from the usual healthcare facilities that are available every year for the pilgrims, this time we need to set up a separate infrastructure for Covid-19 suspects and patients,” said an official of the district administration. Suspected Covid-19 pilgrims would be tested at various check-points, starting from Kolkata. Wrist bands would be provided to pilgrims who undergo Covid-19 tests for easy identification and their health would be monitored. The vehicles of pilgrims would be sanitized. Masks and sanitizers would be also be provided. “For pilgrims who develop [Covid-19] symptoms in the mela ground, there would be safe homes, Covid hospital and quarantine centres. Additional medical professionals are being deployed this time,” said the official. An app named Atithi Path has been launched which would provide all details of the mela including route charts, timings of the tide, and puja and act as a virtual tour guide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-masks-sanitisers-and-covid-tests-bengal-readies-for-ganga-sagar-mela/story-BMCTMrZZed1xUFVvF492wN.html
26-12-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Shopian, operation underway||Two unidentified terrorists have been killed in an encounter that broke out at Kanigam area of Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmir Zone Police has said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area in south Kashmir following information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated and an encounter ensued.The operation began on Friday night following specific inputs. Two army jawans were also injured in the operation last night, ANI quoted Dilbagh Singh, DG, J-K Police as saying. The two terrorists neutralized today belonged to Al-Badr, while the operation is still underway there is no casualty from our side, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-militants-killed-in-shopian-encounter-operation-underway/story-1MtPGs9sNjf8K2EK9fPlYN.html
26-12-2020||India||Railways installs devices in trains to assist drivers in foggy conditions||Train mishaps due to inhibited visibility from thick foggy conditions is a peril to passengers and crew members that could easily result in loss of life and damage of property. To meet this challenge, the Indian Railways has installed a fog safety device in trains to assist drivers tackle poor visibility due to thick fog during the season. General Manager of Northern Railways, Ashutosh Gangal, outlined the procedure by which a fog condition is declared at a station. “Several departments in railways make arrangements due to fog. Visibility test object placed at railway stations. station masters declare fog conditions if the object isn’t available. Fog conditions are withdrawn after the object becomes visible. Signal location booklet has been given to the crew,” he said. The visibility test object is placed at a distance of 180 metres from the starter and if it is not visible to the station master or the station superintendent, fog conditions are declared. When such a condition is declared, a fog signal is registered and the time when the condition was declared is recorded. Once the visibility test object comes within sight again, fog conditions are withdrawn. Speaking about train crews, Gangal said that foggy conditions might cause the crew to miss signals due to impaired visibility. To counter this challenge, fog sensing devices have been placed in between the gaps of a signal and signal location booklets are also given to the crew so that they are aware of a signal’s location and if it is not visible, the drivers are to regulate the speed of the train until the see it and then proceed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-installs-devices-in-trains-to-assist-drivers-in-foggy-conditions/story-qFgusV0ceaHvLyydywgDQP.html
26-12-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar challenges Rahul Gandhi, DMK for debate on farm laws||Hitting out at the opposition leaders for criticising the three farm laws, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar has challenged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for an open debate on whether the farm reforms introduced by the Centre are in the interest of farmers or not.“Rahul Gandhi suddenly said you will (Centre government) have to withdraw the new farm laws. I am giving him an open challenge for a debate, whether the laws are good, in the interest of farmers or not. I am giving challenge to Rahul Gandhi and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to debate,” Javadekar said while addressing farmers in Chennai.Rahul Gandhi on Thursday called the farmer protests a ‘Satyagraha’ and urged the people to support the farmers agitating against the three farm laws passed by the Central government.Citing a media report alleging the new laws used to dupe farmers, Rahul Gandhi had tweeted: “Farmers in India are agitating against anti-agricultural laws to avoid such a tragedy. In this Satyagraha, we all have to support the annadata of the country.”The ‘Delhi Chalo’ farmers’ protest along Delhi’s borders has entered the 31st day on Saturday. Meanwhile, several rounds of talks between ministers and farmers’ leaders have failed to produce a breakthrough so far.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-challenges-rahul-gandhi-dmk-for-debate-on-farm-laws/story-YYKqtouN4SBa4GdWt4OmWP.html
26-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cabinet approves Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020||Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved the Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020. The controversial ordinance outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. “Under the new Bill, forcing religious conversion on someone will attract 1-5 years of imprisonment and a minimum Rs 25,000 fine,” said state home minister Narottam Mishra.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, while batting for the bill, had called it his government’s Beti Bachao Abhiyan or save the daughter mission. No one will be able to convert anyone from one religion to another through marriage or “any other fraudulent means by seducing or intimidating anyone” if the bill was passed, he had said. “Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I’ll break you,” the chief minister had added. This approval comes after Uttar Pradesh’s governor’s assent to the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions last month.Section 3 of the bill states anyone found guilty of abetment to religious conversion shall face imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of not less than Rs 25,000. Attempt to hide one’s religion will be punishable by imprisonment of three to 10 years and a fine of at least Rs 50,000. If a minor or a woman from Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste categories is forced into conversion, the perpetrator will be imprisoned for two to 10 years and fined up to Rs 50,000. Blood relatives of victims of such religious conversion can file a complaint, the bill further states.Provision for the imprisonment of five to 10 years and fine of at least Rs 100,000 is being made for attempting mass religious conversion (of two or more persons).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-approves-dharma-swatantrya-religious-freedom-bill-2020/story-V2aFPFRxQmzmA4k8qQUd1H.html
26-12-2020||India||4G ban extended in Jammu and Kashmir till January 8; Udhampur, Ganderbal exempted||An order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday stated that the ban on 4G internet services in the Union Territory (UT) has been extended till January 8, except Udhampur and Ganderbal districts. Earlier, the ban on 4G services was imposed till December 25 by the administration. Friday’s order said that internet speed will continue to be restricted to 2G apart from the districts of Udhampur and Ganderbal- where internet connectivity will be made available without any speed-related restrictions. “The aforesaid directions shall be effective December 26, 2020, and remain in force till January 8, 2021, unless modified earlier,” it added.Further advocating the stoppage of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir, the order pointed out that there was information that a large number of terrorists were trying to infiltrate from across the border and the curbs on high-speed internet had blocked their attempts to do so. Meanwhile, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chief and National Conference (NC) Patron Farooq Abdullah on Thursday requested the Centre to restore 4G immediately adding that people of Kashmir — students, business people and others — were suffering due to the restrictions.“We request the government that 4G should be restored immediately. It is unfortunate that the people of this state, our children, students, business people are suffering because now everything is online. When the Prime Minister is talking about 5G, we do not even have 4G. This should be restored as quickly as possible,” he said. Mobile internet services had been suspended in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019 due to security reasons when the central government had abrogated Article 370 and Article 35A and J-K transitioned from a state into a UT on October 31, 2019.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-ban-extended-in-jammu-and-kashmir-till-january-8-udampur-ganderbal-exempted/story-AoGZdQzohiylOYoZ9EJU7L.html
26-12-2020||India||MNS workers allegedly vandalise Amazon warehouse in Pune||An FIR (First Information Report) has been registered on Friday allegedly against 8 to 10 Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers for vandalising Amazon’s Godown in Pune, police said.MNS workers allegedly vandalised godown of Amazon based warehouse in Pune’s Kondhwa over notice sent by Mumbai court to Raj Thackeray asking him to remain present in court on January 5 over controversy on adding Marathi language on Amazon’s website.“The notice sent to Raj Thackeray by Amazon yesterday (Thursday) is illegal. If one has to do business in Maharashtra they must provide an option in Marathi language and if they don’t do it in future as well....then the way this (Amazon’s godown) has been vandalised similarly Maharashtra Navnirman Sena will not let their shops, vehicles operate in Maharashtra,” said MNS worker Amit Jagtap, who was allegedly leading the group which vandalised the godown.The e-commerce company had approached Dindoshi court in the city after which a notice was issued to MNS chief Raj Thackeray directing him to appear in court on January 5.MNS had recently written a letter to Amazon chief asking him to include Marathi language as an option on their website for Maharashtra customers.The case has been registered with Kondhwa police station of Pune under section 143,147,149,427,452 of IPC along with several other relevant sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mns-workers-allegedly-vandalise-amazon-warehouse-in-pune/story-w13yuUTHHIcvvlb8Rj9ULN.html
26-12-2020||India||China sells 50 armed drones to Pakistan, begins psyops. It’s a reminder | Analysis||This month, China’s state media publicised its decision to supply 50 Wing Loong II armed drones to Pakistan, which it prophesied, would be a nightmare for Indian ground formations in high-altitude areas as India’s military does not have the ability to respond to the new-age stand-off weapons.Arguing that armed Chinese and Turkish drones had played a crucial role in Libya, Syria and Azerbaijan conflicts by decimating the enemy defences and conventional armour, the Chinese media said Indian ground formations would be unable to parry an attack by a large number of armed drones.Also Read: China’s offer for disengagement in East Ladakh is a trap. RejectedWhile the Chinese emphasis on the success of Wing Loong II in African and Asian theatre is a matter to be noted, Indian military officials point out that the armed drones perform optimally in uncontested air spaces or where it has air dominance. Like in Afghanistan and Iraq where the United States drones have been used to carry out strikes against insurgents or terrorists because the US was dominating the air space.This isn’t going to be the case with China or Pakistan’s border with India.“Whether it is Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir or the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the airspace is very closely monitored by radars and hotly contested with fighters. The armed drones will simply be shot down if they cross the lines,” said a former Indian Air Force chief.But Pakistan’s acquisition of the armed drones from China does underscore the need for India to acquire weaponised drones and anti-drone systems since the unmanned aerial vehicles can be used to launch air-to-ground weapons without crossing the LoC or LAC. The drones can discharge the weapons beyond the engagement envelopes of the Indian guns or surface-to-air missiles on the ground.Also Read: Apologise, Afghanistan tells China after busting its espionage cell in KabulAs of now, India does not have any armed drone system.The navy is acquiring two US Predators on lease for maritime domain awareness for friend or foe identification. And the Israeli weaponisation upgrade of the Heron drone will take time.India had accepted the necessity for the armed forces to have Close-in weapon systems in 2015 and floated the tender for the system that detects and destroys incoming missiles or enemy aircraft three years later. The Russian S-400 system, which made the cut, is expected to be available next year.The defence public sector company Bharat Electronics, meanwhile, has come up with an anti-drone radar-based system but it is still to be validated by the users.While it suits the Chinese media and military to compare the Indian army with Armenian, Syrian or Government of National Accord (GNA) forces in the Africa-Asian theatre for its psychological warfare, the Bharat Electronics-manufactured medium-powered radar detects even birds in flight. Besides, it is cost-effective to shoot down an infiltrating drone by using L-70 or ZU-23 air defence guns.After all, a Chinese Wing Loong II drone is one-tenth the cost of a fighter and it does not make sense to shoot them down using million-dollar US air-to-air missiles.To ensure that the troops are protected from stand-off weapons, the Indian Army is using tunnel defences with huge concrete Hume pipes to provide the defence in case of the first strike on the front-line. But a lucky strike from an enemy drone can unravel the best of defence plans without a properly integrated air defence network in place..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-pla-tries-to-psyche-indian-army-by-supplying-armed-drones-to-pak/story-tySb4UnKimFUYIxJdP3xGL.html
26-12-2020||India||India records 22,273 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, 3.4% lower than yesterday; daily toll falls below 300||India on Saturday recorded 22,273 new Covid-19 infections, 3.4% lower than yesterday. In the last 24 hours, 22,274 people were discharged which pushed the tally of active cases down to 2,81,667. The daily Covid-19 toll on Friday fell below 300 — 251 deaths were reported on Friday — taking the death rate to 1.45%. Kerala on Friday reported over 5,000 cases with the test positivity rate touching 11.4 per cent. In the last 24 hours, 48,853 samples were tested and 5,397 people tested positive for the virus, while 4,506 persons have been cured, Health minister K K Shailaja said in a press release.Continuing the trend of the decreasing number of Covid-19 infections, Delhi on Friday recorded 758 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over four months. The highest single-day spike till date — 8,593 cases — was reported on November 11. In the ongoing door-to-door contact drive being conducted by the Delhi government to test UK-returned persons for prevalence of Covid-19, eight have so far been found infected with the coronavirus.Maharashtra reported 3,431 new coronavirus infections on Friday, taking the tally of cases to 19,13,382. In a marked achievement, the Dharavi area of Mumbai which became a hotbed of the infection because of the congested settlement did not report a single new infection on Friday.On December 28 and 29, a dry run of vaccination drive will be carries out in Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-22-273-new-covid-19-infections-in-last-24-hours-3-4-lower-than-yesterday-daily-toll-falls-below-300/story-MyMZwEWCAvyggECwEPK6mI.html
26-12-2020||India||News Updates from Hindustan Times: 1 dead, 3 rescued after fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unit in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi: One dead, 3 rescued after fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unitOne person died while three others were rescued after a fire broke out at a mask manufacturing unit in Mayapuri area of the national Capital on Saturday morning. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the call was received at 3.54am and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Read morePM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for Jammu and Kashmir todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The scheme will benefit as many as 21 lakh eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011, officials said. Read moreRipple lawsuit worries Indian crypto exchangesA US lawsuit against Ripple Labs Inc., the issuer of the world’s third-largest cryptocurrency, has sent the value of the XRP currency plunging but Indian exchanges have refrained from restricting its trading although they are closely monitoring the case. Read moreJapan urges Biden to be strong in support of Taiwan against ChinaA top Japanese defence official on Friday urged US President-elect Joe Biden to “be strong” in supporting Taiwan in the face of an aggressive China, calling the island’s safety a “red line.” Read moreIndia vs Australia: The long and short of Rishabh Pant’s return and Wriddhiman Saha’s departureRishabh Pant is 23, Wriddhiman Saha is 36. Pant averages over 38 with the bat, Saha just 29. Pant has a Ranji Trophy triple century, Saha’s highest is 203*. Pant is the only Indian wicketkeeper to have scored a century (159) in Australia. Read moreFrom Paatal Lok to The Queen’s Gambit, the top 10 TV shows of 2020In hindsight, as creatively fulfilling as 2020 was for underexposed filmmakers, it was unfortunately quite ordinary in terms of television. This is odd, wouldn’t you say? The streaming industry has seen a well-documented boom this year. Read moreWhatsApp inches closer to launching multi-device supportWhatsApp has been working on providing multi-device support on its platform for quite sometime now. Over the course of this year, reports have detailed the progress that the company has made in improving various aspects of this upcoming feature. Now, a new report gives us more information about this feature. Read moreMan swims 662 feet underwater with one breath in Denmark. Video may take your breath wayThe Guinness World Records’ social media handles are home to some awe-inspiring videos. This clip, which shows a Danish swimmer Stig Severinsen swimming 662 feet, 8.7 inches or 202 meters underwater with just one breath, is a fine addition to that set. Watching the recording may take your breath away, pun intended. Read moreStudy reveals why an early start is key to developing musical skill later in lifeIs there, as some have suggested, a developmental period early in life when the brain is especially receptive to musical training? The answer, according to new research, is probably not. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-1-dead-3-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-mask-manufacturing-unit-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KvDVM6VuHnJpOXZCwk7suN.html
26-12-2020||India||Covid-19 variant updates: France reports first case of the new variant, Norway extends flight ban||As the world is continuing the fight against the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis which has infected over 80 million people and killed nearly 1.8 million, the detection of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom (UK) has further aggravated the situation and the new variant has been reported in eight European nations, Japan, Australia etc. Reported first by the authorities in the UK in mid-December, the new variant (B-117) is found to be more 70 per cent transmissible with the World Health Organization (WHO) adding that it is spreading among the young population. WHO is continuing to monitor the situation and it is crucial to strengthen the existing protocol measures social distancing, wearing masks and staying in core support bubbles, the organisation’s Regional Director for Europe Hans Kluge said.Here are the latest developments on the new Covid-19 variant: 1. Health authorities in France confirmed the first case of the new variant detected in the UK. The public health agency said in a statement that a French man had arrived in France from England on December 19 and tested positive for the variant on Friday. He currently has no symptoms and is isolating at his house. The statement added that authorities were tracing the man’s contacts and labs were studying tests from other people who may have also tested positive for the new variant.2. In India, nine more passengers from the UK who arrived in Telangana after December 9 tested positive for coronavirus, which pushed the tally of cases among UK returnees to 16. Samples of all these passengers have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Micro Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to confirm the variant and the results are expected in two days, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, the Director Public Health of Telangana said.Also Read| Covid-19: UK, South Africa strains spark a battle of mutations3. World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) Regional Director for Europe Hans Kluge said that the new strain has been detected in eight countries of the continent adding that the WHO was continuing to monitor the situation. “The variant also seems to be spreading among younger age groups, unlike previous strains,” Kluge wrote on Twitter.4. The United States, which continues to be the worst-hit nation from the pandemic has ordered that passengers arriving from the UK will be required to show proof of a negative Covid-19 test amid concerns of the new variant. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said that these passengers would need to get a negative polymerase chain reaction or antigen test no more than 72 hours before leaving. The order will come into effect from Sunday and will be signed by President Donald Trump.5. Norway on Friday extended its ban on flights from Britain until Sunday as the new variant is spreading rapidly across Europe. The government had first imposed the ban on December 21. The health ministry further added that flights might be suspended after New Year.Also Read: Seven UK returnees, one contact tested positive for Covid-196. Japan has confirmed the first cases of the new variant with Shigeru Omi, head of a government task force, calling for tighter border control to prevent its spread. Five people arrived in Japan from December 18-21, before the government stepped up border control for arrivals from Britain. Out of these five people, a man in his 60s had developed fatigue while the remaining four were without any symptoms. Health minister Norihisa Tamura said all of them were sent to quarantine straight from the airports.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-variant-updates-france-reports-first-case-of-the-new-variant-norway-extends-flight-ban/story-gix6ObPe5QCzQVzmPqLozN.html
26-12-2020||India||RT-PCR test mandatory for Sabarimala pilgrims from today||Devotees visiting the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala will have to carry with them a Covid-19 negative certificate after undergoing an RT-PCR test, the Kerala High Court and state government have directed. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which manages the temple, has also said the RT-PCR test certificate, taken not more than 48 hours prior to their visit to the temple, is must for pilgrims from December 26.“Covid-19-negative certificate after a RT-PCR test, taken not more than 48 hours prior to their visit to the temple, is a must for the pilgrims to visit the shrine. Else they will not be permitted to undertake the pilgrimage,” N Vasu, TDB president, said in a release.The recent directive by the High Court has also raised the number of pilgrims permissible daily to 5,000. In the view of the increase in the number of permitted pilgrims at the hill shrine, the state Health Department has intensified the antigen testing in Sabarimala.  The TDB, however, limited to 100 the number of people taking part in the three-day procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam to be adorned on the idol of Lord Ayyappa during the Makaravilakku ceremony. The receptions to the procession at various points on the way to Sabarimala have been cancelled, TDB said. The temple will remain closed after the Mandala Puja on December 26 and reopen for the Makaravilakku pooja on December 31. This is the first annual pilgrimage season at the hill temple after the coronavirus outbreak.Meanwhile, over 5,000 fresh cases of coronavirus were recorded in Kerala on Friday, including 46 health workers, and the test positivity rate touched 11.4%. The death toll mounted to 2,930 with 16 deaths being added to the tally. With this, the Covid-19 caseload in the state mounted to 7,32,084 and the total recoveries touched 6,64,951.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-sabarimala-pilgrims-from-today/story-5s2Wbsx4hn1dpzSBJSg2IP.html
26-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Will there be 6th round of talks soon? 10 points||The farmers’ unions on Friday indicated that talks with the Centre on the three agriculture laws might begin soon though the unions are yet to reply formally to the last letter of the agriculture ministry. A decision regarding the further course of action is likely to be taken on Saturday.Here are the latest updates:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Union ministers on Friday reached out to farmers across the country, making it clear that repealing the laws — what the protesting farmers want — is not on the table.2. In a major development, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged farmers to try the new laws as an experiment. “Let farm laws be implemented for a year or two. Let’s try this as an experiment, and if found not beneficial for farmers, the government will be ready for all possible amendments,” he said.3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government is ready to talk with opposition parties as well if the discussion is based on facts.4. The protesting farmers are thinking of resuming talks with the Centre at this stage as they feel that the Centre has not clearly understood their demands.5. In their last letter to the ministry, farmers raised the demand for a higher MSP. The ministry, in its reply, said as MSP is not under the purview of the three agriculture laws that are being discussed by the two parties, including MSP in the agenda is not “logical”.6. Reacting to PM Modi’s address on Friday, farmers’ unions asked why the government doesn’t give in writing that MSP will have a legal guarantee. “In public speeches, the prime minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing?” Shiv Kumar Kakka, a senior leader of Sankyut Kisan Morcha said.7. Farmers also dismissed PM Modi’s claim of implementing the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan Committee. “In election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so,” Shiv Kumar Kakka said.8. The protesters on Friday picketed at highway booths, allegedly ransacked the venue of a BJP event at Bathinda. From December 26, there will be protests against corporates.9. Amid reports that power supply to mobile towers was being disconnected by protesting farmers in different parts of the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to them to not inconvenience the general public with such actions.10. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre’s new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don’t have a single benefit,” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-will-there-be-6th-round-of-talks-soon-10-points/story-IqTK4pkaUcF1HZj1bkxJZO.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Modi to launch AB-PMJAY SEHAT scheme for Jammu and Kashmir today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. The scheme will benefit as many as 21 lakh eligible people on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011, officials said. The beneficiaries will get the Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC) as per the SECC 2011database, they added.A senior government official told news agency ANI that with the launch of AB-PMJAY SEHAT, all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, irrespective of their socio-economic status, will be covered under the scheme. “The government is collecting details of beneficiary families who may be missing from the SECC 2011 database. This will ensure that all beneficiaries are enrolled at the earliest so that they can avail free healthcare services,” the official said.According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO),  the scheme would work in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY).“The scheme would operate in insurance mode in convergence with Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY),” the statement read, adding that the benefits of the scheme would be portable across all 24,148 hospitals enlisted under ABPM-JAY in India.The PM-JAY, world’s largest health insurance/assurance scheme fully financed by the government, provides a cover of Rs 500,000 per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation across public and private empanelled hospitals in India. The benefit of Rs 5,00,000 is on a family floater basis, which means that it can be used by one or all members of the family. It covers medical procedures such as oncology, cardiology, nephrology etc and up to three days of pre-hospitalisation and 15 days post-hospitalisation expenses such as diagnostics and medicines are also included in the scheme.Union home minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will be participating in the virtual event.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ab-pmjay-sehat-scheme-for-jammu-and-kashmir-today/story-9KaBtprMebauxnBddAQ3VN.html
26-12-2020||India||PM Cares ‘owned, controlled and established’ by govt, says Centre||The central government, in a reply to an application under the Right To Information (RTI) act on 24 December, said that PM-CARES fund is “owned by, controlled by and established by the Government of India”.In its response the office of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemption) said that “PM Cares Fund has been registered under the Registration Act, 1908 and being a body owned by, controlled by and established by the Government of India,” but that it does not meet the definition of a so-called “public authority.” In an earlier reply, the government had said the fund was not owned, controlled or “substantially financed by any government”. The fund was established to collect donations to raise funds for emergencies (beyond natural disasters), such as the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister is Chairperson (ex-officio) of the PM-CARES Fund . All contributions towards the PM CARES Fund are 100% exempt from Income Tax.The trust deed of the fund issued on March 17 had stated that the fund isn’t controlled by the government. “The trust is neither intended to be or is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any government or any instrumentality of the government,” the deed said.As per the PM CARES website, ₹3,076.62 crores were collected by the fund in 2019-20. The RTI reply, however, maintains that the fund is beyond the purview of the Right to Information Act as it is not a “public authority”. “ I have no doubts that the PM CARES Fund” registered as a ‘Public Charitable Trust’, akin to an NGO, ought to be transparent as it has been provided with many government services and facilities,” said RTI activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd.). HT reached out to the officer on special duty to the PM by email but did not receive a response immediately. The government has said that divulging details about the fund is not viable as it is “personal in nature”, not related to any “public authority or interest” and would cause an “unwarranted invasion of privacy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-owned-controlled-and-established-by-govt-says-centre/story-IsM4n2ZFtZL0saPwmzmcmN.html
26-12-2020||India||EC gears up to launch digital voter ID cards||From two QR codes for additional security, to free duplicate copies, the Election Commission is gearing up to launch digital voter ID cards by January 25, marked as national voters’ day in India. While digital voter ID cards will be optional, the commission has extended the provision to all electors and will also allow them to store the card on the government’s digital document safe — Digilocker. “Delivery of election ID cards has been a cumbersome process,” said a person familiar with the matter. “Now, immediately on approval, EPIC (Electors Photo ID Card) will be downloadable. Elector can print the card or store it as per convenience.”Voter ID card delivery through normal means will also continue, this person added, asking not to be named. Registered electors seeking a digital card will need to register with their mobile number or email ID on the voter helpline app. Once the verification is done with a one time password, the digital card will be downloadable. The same verification process will also apply for overseas electors. To ensure security of the digital voter card, there will be two QR codes. The first code will contain the photo and demographic data of the individual, while the second will contain dynamic data. Ahead of the election, the second code will get updated with information regarding the date and time of the poll. It will serve the purpose of the photo voter slip, although the Commission will continue paper slip distribution as well. “The code can be scanned and the voter will be provided real-time data about the ongoing election,” said a second person familiar with the matter who too asked not to be identified. The digital voter IDs will be verified by the Commission and can only be downloaded on the registered mobile number. Not more than six digital voter ID cards can be downloaded on one phone. The many benefits the Commission envisages for the e-EPIC include ease of carrying, downloading and self-print outs. Moreover, in case a voter migrates, the single card will suffice. Only the address associated with the QR code will change and a fresh copy can be immediately downloaded. At present, a payment of Rs 25 is made for a duplicate card. With the advent of the digital voter ID, duplicates will be provided free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-gears-up-to-launch-digital-voter-id-cards/story-Wd5sLkP8C31TrkajvddaRK.html
26-12-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh: 6 JD(U) MLAs join BJP before local poll results||The Janata Dal (United), or JD(U) received a major jolt in Arunachal Pradesh, with six of its seven MLAs shifting allegiance to the ruling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a bulletin issued by the state legislative assembly said.The lone MLA from the People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA), Kardo Nyigyor from Likabali constituency, has also joined the saffron party.JD(U) national president and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, however, downplayed the development and said: “It’s not a big issue. The national executive is meeting on December 26 and 27.” “Right now, we are focusing on our proposed meeting. They have gone their own way,” he said in Patna.The development comes a day ahead of the announcement of the panchayat and municipal poll results. The JD(U) MLAs who switched sides are Talem Taboh from Rumgong Assembly Constituency, Hayeng Mangfi (Chayang Tajo), Jikke Tako (Tali), Dorjee Wangdi Kharma (Kalaktang), Dongru Siongju (Bomdila) and Kanggong Taku from Mariyang-Geku constituency, the bulletin said.On November 26, the JD(U) had issued show-cause notices to Siongju, Kharma and Taku for “anti-party” activities, and suspended them. The six JD(U) MLAs had earlier elected Talem Taboh as the new Legislature Party leader, allegedly without the knowledge of senior party members.The PPA MLA was also suspended by the regional outfit earlier this month. “We have accepted their letters conveying the intention to join the party,” BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh president B R Waghe said.Following the switchover, the BJP now has 48 MLAs in the 60-member House, while the JD(U) is left with only one.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-6-jd-u-mlas-join-bjp-before-local-poll-results/story-y98z2ty6FdfDR7W4813ZJM.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Apologise to farmers’: Opposition hits back at PM Modi||The Opposition on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his allegations that vested interests were misleading farmer protests, with the Congress party asking the PM to apologise to farmers for enacting three contentious agriculture laws that have sparked protests. “Instead of inventing excuses, indulging in event management, the Modi Government should seek apologize to the farmers and should immediately withdraw these three black laws,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The party’s attack came on a day the PM interacted with farmers and strongly defended the three laws, blaming Opposition parties of hijacking the protests and misleading cultivators. The PM also pointedly accused the West Bengal government of denying central government benefits to seven million farmers in the state.Hours later, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hit back. “While he (PM Modi) publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB (West Bengal) through his PM Kisan Yojana and alleges non-cooperation of the state government, the fact is that he is trying to mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts,” Banerjee said.The Bengal government was always ready to cooperate in the interest of farmers, she added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed the laws will harm farmers. “BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? ...The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don’t have a single benefit,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs Sanjay Singh and Bhagwant Mann raised slogans in the presence of the PM, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. The incident took place in the Central Hall of Parliament when Modi arrived to pay floral tributes to Madan Mohan Malaviya and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on their birth anniversaries.Surjewala said that the central government was the enemy of farmers. “The bitter truth is that it is taking shelter behind political dishonesty, slyness and dramatics is not at all interested in solving the problems of farmers. The Prime Minister Modi who dug roads, attacked farmers with water cannons and lathi charge is today indulging in the drama of ‘Samman Nidhi’,” he said.He slammed the government for calling farmers “terrorists, parasite, tukde-tukde gang, misguided gang, and khalistanis”.“Modi Ji, it is a matter of deep anguish that the farmers whom you are treating with cruelty and apathy, they are the same people, who brought you to this throne and this position of glory,” Surjewala said. “Today, this BJP is branding these farmers brothers as terrorists, parasite, tukde-tukde gang, misguided gang, khalistani and misguided lot. It is shameful that the minister of agriculture has gone to the extent of calling them political puppets in his letters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apologise-to-farmers-opposition-hits-back-at-pm-modi/story-Gf2igiCqjQ6XbTYbiI5R4M.html
26-12-2020||India||No corporation can snatch your land: Amit Shah to farmers||No corporate can snatch away any farmer’s land so long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday as part of a massive outreach by top ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to defend three recently enacted agriculture laws that have sparked fierce protests. Addressing a gathering in Delhi’s Mehrauli on former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Shah promised that the government will continue to provide assured prices for crops and support state-regulated agricultural markets, or mandis. He blamed the Opposition, including Congress, for spreading lies about the minimum support price (MSP) and other provisions.“The Opposition is brazenly lying...farmers’ welfare is the top priority of the Modi government,” Shah asserted.Shah said farmers from all parts of the country backed the laws and added that if any farm organisations felt that any provision was against their interests, the government was ready to discuss and consider it with an open mind. “Neither MSP will end, nor anyone can snatch your land. I want to tell farmers that as long as Narendra Modi is PM, no corporate can snatch away your land, this is BJP’s promise to you,” he said.Other top ministers also addressed similar events. In Delhi’s Dwarka, defence minister Rajnath Singh suggested that farmers try the three new farm laws as an “experiment” for a year or two and if they are found not beneficial, the government would bring necessary amendments. Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Smriti Irani separately interacted with farmers at Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and also joined in to PM Modi’s video address to farmers. Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to farmers to end their protest and hold talks with the government. I hope they will understand the importance of the new farm laws, and the issue will be resolved soon,” said Tomar.“There is an attempt to deceive the farmers. The protests are being used for political ends,” said railway minister Piyush Goyal. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plan to field other senior ministers, including road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, social justice minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”, who will travel across the country to convince people about the benefits of the new law. In his speech, Shah said the government was committed to MSP and had raised the quantum of funds provided for farm welfare. “I want to tell farmers in the whole country that opposition leaders have no issues and they are spreading lies that MSP will end. The Prime Minister has clarified and now I again clarify that MSP is there and will continue,” he said.Opposition leaders, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, demanded loan waiver for farmers when the government started PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.“In 10 years, the UPA government waived loans or Rs 60,000 crore. In just two and a half years, Modi ji provided Rs 95,000 crore to ten crore farmers,” Shah said.He claimed the opposition was trying to manufacture issues and spreading “lies” . “The mandis will also continue. They are spreading lies that mandis will be closed. I want to ask the opposition which provision tells them that the mandis will be closed? In Dwarka, Singh called himself a farmer’s son and said the government will never hurt the interest of farmers. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws that they are not in their interest. I am the son of a farmer and have worked in farms. I want to assure there is not a single provision in these laws that is against farmers,” he added.Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh, that the government was committed to the “protection and promotion” of farmers’ welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-corporation-can-snatch-your-land-amit-shah-to-farmers/story-Kz1hQXntwiIzNFgLFoltHJ.html
26-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Guarding a Delhi garden||In these times of coronavirus, many people are advised to work from home as much as possible. But not all jobs have this luxury — say if one’s a hospital nurse, or an airline pilot, or a newspaper reporter, or a security guard.And that’s why guard Mamta Singh is manning her post, checking the tickets of visitors as they step into this balmy central Delhi garden filled with few people this afternoon. “At least these days I don’t have to get my kids ready for the school in the morning,” she says, explaining that their school is closed due to the pandemic.In her early 30s, Ms Singh is dressed in blue shirt, black pants and a tie in stripes of red and blue. The parting in her hair is covered with red sindoor (traditional vermilion red). Her black shoes are polished so thoroughly that you can almost see your reflection. She has a plastic chair to sit but is obliged to get up to check the tickets each time a person approaches the entrance. There’s no rush at the moment and the kind guard finds time to respond to a few queries.“Very often in the morning he prepares the breakfast while I get busy with the children,” she says, referring to her husband. Pratap Singh is a “supervisor mechanic” in an automobile firm. The couple, natives of the mountainous Bageshwar in Uttarakhand, live in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. During the day when both of them are at work, the children are looked after by Ms Singh’s sister, who lives in the facing house.It is a fact of Indian society, cutting across social and economic divides, that in households where both husband and wife have day jobs, the wife still ends up doing most kitchen chores.Not true in Ms Singh’s case.“Whoever among us manages to reach home early starts with the cooking,” she says, shrugging her shoulders with a smile. And eventually, both she and her husband end up sharing the kitchen work daily. Although sometimes when Ms Singh has to stay late at work, her husband does the entire cooking alone. Today Ms Singh is hopeful of reaching home well in time. And now two visitors arrive. She politely checks for their ticket and smiles, reflexively gesturing towards the entrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-guarding-a-delhi-garden/story-GzWRiAtMnOEkyJ8egVbxtM.html
26-12-2020||India||Court asks for footage of police raid on lawyer appearing in riots cases||A Delhi court on Friday ordered the Special Cell of Delhi Police to produce the entire video footage of the raid conducted at the office of Mehmood Pracha, a lawyer associated with multiple cases in connection with the north-east Delhi riots who has alleged that the police action was aimed at preventing him from getting justice for those affected by the violence. The court also directed the Investigating Officer (IO) to submit a status report on investigations against Pracha, who is being probed in an FIR relating to the alleged use of forged documents on judicial record in one of the riots matters. Citing a victim’s statement, police have also accused Pracha of tutoring victims to give false statements in riot-related cases – a charge he denies. Pracha is representing nearly 80 people in the Delhi riots cases.Several senior legal experts members have contended that the action by the police could amount to a breach of attorney-client privilege given the related cases Pracha is appearing in, and described it as an attempt to create pressure on lawyers fighting for the rights of several riots victims and accused.On Friday, Duty Magistrate Anshu Singhal took up two applications by Pracha, who contended that the Special Cell officials did not only breach the attorney-client privilege by taking away the entire data from the computers in his office but also violated the court order which specifically ordered the police to produce “forthwith” any evidence, if found, before the court. The lawyer further relied upon Section 165(6) of the Criminal Procedure Code to assert that he was entitled in law to get a copy of the records, collected as evidence by the police. Admitting his application, the magistrate sought production of record of the evidences taken during the raid and posted the matter for further hearing on December 27, and asked the Special Cell IO to come before it with the detailed footage.Pracha also pressed for a court-monitored probe of the FIR against him, pointing out that the FIR was registered way back in August but the raid conducted now is with an ulterior design to deter him from appearing in riots cases. On this, the magistrate asked the Special Cell IO to present a status report before the court concerned on January 5. Speaking to HT after the hearing, Pracha said that the police have displayed an egregious example of lawlessness and illegalities under the guise of investigation into a forgery FIR registered against unknown persons. “I am not even aware if I have been named as an accused or not in this FIR. It has been almost four months since registration of the FIR and there is no charge sheet till date. They took away details of all the cases and clients, which are privileged communication between a lawyer and his clients. If this is not a witch-hunt what else can be? I was assaulted but I am now being told that another FIR is lodged against me at the instance of the raiding team,” he said. Meanwhile, Delhi Police on Friday confirmed that they have registered a case at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station against Pracha on charges of obstructing government officials from doing their duty. The police raid on Pracha’s office began around noon on Thursday and continued till 2.30am on Friday.In response to Pracha’s allegation of assault by police personnel during the raid, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Manshi Chandra denied the allegations. The officers said that police had a search warrant from the court to search locations of two lawyers. Police said that while the process went off smoothly at the premises of advocate Javed Ali in east Delhi, they faced stiff resistance at Pracha’s office. Former additional solicitor general Indira Jaising condemned the raid at Pracha’s office, saying such actions will lead to a denial of justice to various accused and victims in the Delhi riots cases who are entitled to a free and fair trial. “The omnibus raid is also an attack on the attorney-client privilege that Mr Pracha is entitled to, especially for those being represented by him in connection with the February riots cases. What has now happened with Mr Pracha appears to be a continuing trend of attacking the basic right of legal representation by attacking their lawyers,” added Jaising. Advocate Rizwan, who represents suspended councillor Tahir Hussain, said that the raids conducted at Pracha’s office is unfortunate and is a deliberate attempt to create pressure on the lawyers representing the accused and victims of the Delhi riots. “Today, it is Pracha, tomorrow it can be someone else,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-for-footage-of-police-raid-on-lawyer-appearing-in-riots-cases/story-ShGpRhhfIFEgcSV2o6cL6N.html
26-12-2020||India||‘Don’t get misled’: Modi leads govt’s mega farmer outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said his government was open to talks so long as they were based on “tark” and “tathya” (arguments and facts), while blaming opposition parties for misleading farmers about three new agriculture laws for their “political agenda”.Modi staunchly defended his farm-reform agenda, which he said was needed to “modernise” the agrarian sector. On the occasion of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, the Prime Minister released the year’s last tranche of PM-KISAN, the direct income-transfer scheme started by his government for farmers, making payments worth ₹18,000 crore to 90 million cultivators. Under the programme, farmers are provided income support of ₹6,000 a year, paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000 -- one every four months. “I bow to farmers. A majority of them have supported the laws. I will never allow farmers’ interests to be compromised at any cost,” Modi said. “We have brought changes to benefit farmers. We don’t claim we have all knowledge and only we know best. But there should at least be talks. I humbly request everyone, even to those opposed to our politics that we are ready for talks but talks should be based on ‘tark’ and ‘tathya’ (argument and facts).” He added: “The country must modernise the farm sector and prepare for challenges to farming in the 21st century.” Prior to a 51-minute virtual address to farmers, the PM chatted with farmers from six states via video conferencing -- interactions geared to showcase achievements of farmers who have embraced new business models unleashed by the recent farm reforms. For almost a month, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere in northern India, have camped on the borders of Delhi to press the government to repeal the laws they fear will weaken their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Six rounds of talks between the government and farm unions have failed to break the impasse. In his speech, Modi framed the ongoing agitation as a political “event”, in which his opponents were instigating “innocent farmers” with falsehoods. “I don’t blame farmers but those misleading them.” Modi accused the Opposition of politicking, and said while at the beginning, the issues raised were genuine – such as that of minimum support prices (MSP) – the protests were “hijacked” by those with political agenda. “MSP was pushed aside and now they are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free… Why have they shifted from farmer’s issues to new demands?” he asked. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at MSP, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting price from private traders, they have the freedom,” said Modi, stressing that farmers will continue to get assured prices under his government. He said some people were furthering their “political goals and ideologies” through the farmer protests. “The people (politicians and activists opposing the laws) who are talking about mandis, agricultural produce market committees (APMC) are the ones who destroyed West Bengal, Kerala. There are no APMCs and mandis in Kerala. So, why are no protests in Kerala? Why don’t they start a movement there?” Both Bengal and Kerala are ruled by parties opposed to Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Farm unions slammed the speech and accused the PM of trying to divide farmers. “He addressed farmers of only six states. He did not once address the farmers who are protesting. It’s his prerogative to decide who he wants to represent as PM. His speech was a fusion of false, fabricated and fake news,” said Avik Saha of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Opposition parties accused Modi of not addressing farmers’ demands.“The Prime Minister is giving clarifications on television and his ministers are offering excuses through letters, but, the fact remains that he is busy in the servility of a handful of crony capitalists,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. Modi mounted a sharp attack on the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government for “being the only state” to not implement the PM-KISAN scheme. “I regret that while all farmers getting it (cash support), only West Bengal government has deprived 70 lakh farmers of it. They are not benefiting because the West Bengal government due to political reasons are depriving them. It is a central scheme, its free for state government.” The West Bengal government doesn’t implement the cash transfer scheme launched by Modi on 24 February 2019. It has said that it prefers to run its own income-support scheme for farmers. “Instead of protesting against the West Bengal government for not implementing the PM-KISAN scheme, some people from Bengal are protesting in Punjab (against the farm laws),” Modi said. Assembly polls in West Bengal are due in April-May next year and the BJP is looking to unseat the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. The PM also took on the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which ruled Bengal for three decades. “If you listen to a 15 years old speech of Mamata ji, then you will know how much this ideology has ruined Bengal,” he said. “For the Opposition, the ongoing protests by farmers is an event management, a selfie moment,” Modi said. The PM’s virtual interaction with farmers, which was broadcast nationally at panchayat offices, served as a platform to highlight the promises of a new agricultural economy that the laws purport to build. “I have sold 85 quintal of soya to ITC Ltd. They assess the quality of produce in front of us and pay us accordingly on the same day. If there are impurities or excess moisture, the company tells us to and grade and sort out produce before selling,” Manoj Patedar, a farmer from MP, told the PM. Gagan Pering of Arunachal Pradesh said he sold his produce through contract farming. In response, the PM mocked the claim of protesters that the new laws would allow corporations to grab the lands of small farmers. “Okay, so the buyer took your produce. Did he also take your land? Some people are saying the new laws will allow traders to take away your land too,” the PM said. Analysts said Modi’s speech craftily avoided implicating the farming community, an influential voting bloc, while laying the blame on political opponents. “He has sought to pitch it as a political battle, not as a battle of livelihoods and economics of farming. He avoided blaming farmers. That is the strategy the government appears to have adopted to deal with the protests,” said Abhinav Barbora, a political analyst with Silchar University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-get-misled-modi-leads-govt-s-mega-farmer-outreach/story-ogQH81gf54nSgTFPIa2oWI.html
26-12-2020||India||Ashwini Kumar Choubey seeks CM Nitish Kumar’s help to end strike of Bihar’s junior doctors||Agitating junior doctors of government medical colleges of Bihar received a shot in the arm on Friday when Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that he would seek chief minister Nitish Kumar’s intervention to resolve the issues leading to the strike. Choubey was in Patna to inaugurate the two-day national seminar organised by the Government Ayurveda College and Hospital, Patna, on ‘the role of rasaushadhi in management of Covid-19’. The Union minister appealed to the junior doctors to call off the strike for the sake of embattled humanity, as he would soon talk to the CM and resolve their demands for hike in their stipend. Around 1,000 junior doctors from nine government medical colleges in the state went on an indefinite strike from December 23 in support of their demand of a raise in their monthly stipend. They are demanding an increase in the monthly stipend for PG courses to Rs 80,000 in the first year, Rs 85,000 in the second year, and Rs 90,000 in the third year. They currently get Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000, and Rs 60,000 for the three years respectively. Earlier, speaking at the seminar, the Union minister assured all possible help to develop the college as a national level institution. He also said that his ministry would support the state government’s initiative to build another Ayurvedic institution at Rajgir. Choubey lauded the concept of Ayurvedic therapy and said that herbs always played an important role in curing various types of infections since time immemorial. “Ayurveda and Yoga help human beings develop immunity against many unexplained diseases,” he added. Principal of the College Dineshwar Prasad, Superintendent Vijay Shankar Dubey and many prominent Ayurveda experts from across the country participated in the seminar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashwini-kumar-choubey-seeks-cm-nitish-kumar-s-help-to-end-strike-of-bihar-s-junior-doctors/story-BwUXEmhPq8i8NWLwLsBbwM.html
26-12-2020||India||Shamsur Rahman Faruqi (1935-2020) ‘Link uniting old, new cultures’: Tributes pour in for literary icon||He wrote in Urdu and English, and his library was probably one of the most impressive ones in Allahabad, with its 10,000 books in both languages — along with every single issue of the New York Review of Books, going back to its founding in 1963.Writer Shamsur Rahman Faruqi, who died on December 25, aged 85, was revered in the world of contemporary Indian literature, but the awe he commanded sat easily on his shoulders. Though he is identified with serious literature, he told this reporter once, while showing his e-Reader, “This holds my thriller reads. John Grisham on Kindle is my daily candy.” In more solemn moments, however, he confessed that his natural affinity was for pre-18th century sensibilities, yet untouched by Western influences, emphasising that he had a particular fondness for Urdu and Persian poets.A retired officer of the Indian Postal Service, Faruqi’s best known novel, The Mirror Of Beauty, was a weighty Mughal-era epic, largely set in Delhi. He originally wrote it in Urdu (Kai Chaand The Sar-e-Aasmaan, 2006) and translated it into English himself, in 2013. His next book, The Sun That Rose From The Earth, containing fictionalized stories of great Urdu poets, was a part of his life’s extensive oeuvre, which includes a staggering four-volume treatise on poet Mir Taqi Mir. In fact, one of the projects he was busy with in his final years was translating Mir’s poems into English.“His contribution is immense in Urdu adab (literature and history), tanquid (criticism) and tehqeeq (research),” says poet Iffat Zarrin, who has read all of Faruqi’s Urdu works. “He was the roshan sitara (bright star) of Urdu, a last link uniting the old and the new tehzeeb (culture) and tareekh (period).”Author TCA Raghavan, who frequently corresponded with Faruqi while working on an acclaimed biography of poet Abdul Rahim, describes him as an extraordinary writer and scholar, who was also one of our great storytellers. “His immense knowledge about the culture of North India during the period of Mughal decline enabled him to create a universe different from the conventional view of the previous centuries. Through Faruqi’s marvellous prose, we enter a world not of decadence and decay but of refinement, literary achievement and enormous creativity.”Faruqi located his fiction in the cultural and literary past of the Indo-Muslim way of life of the 18th and 19th centuries, but he never regarded it as a dead past. “I’m not writing historical fiction. I am writing about poetry, love, death, what it meant to be a poet, or a lover, or an Indian at that time. It was a very rich and significant period of our history, even though it has lapsed from our memory,” he once told this reporter.Very possessive about his book collection, Faruqi was especially proud of his 46 volumes of the Urdu oral romance, the Dastan-e Amir Hamza, that were printed by Munshi Nawal Kishore in Lucknow and Kanpur from 1888 to 1917. He was also fond of many English language novelists and poets. Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice was the first English novel he read from cover to cover as a young boy of 14 — he was, by then, already very well-read in Urdu literature. At one point, he especially loved Thomas Hardy, so much so that he would read everything he could manage to find by and about the author in the small town of Gorakhpur, where he (Faruqi) grew up.Despite becoming a towering figure of Urdu literature, Faruqi didn’t think of himself as part of the establishment. In fact, through the long-defunct literary magazine Shabkhoon, which he once founded, published and edited, he would challenge the “hegemony” of the Urdu Progressives by encouraging new writers to free themselves from the standard doctrines.In later years, he divided his time between Allahabad and Delhi, where one of his two daughters is an English professor in Jamia Millia Islamia University. His wife, Jamila, died in 2007. Faruqi himself had recently recovered from Covid. An easy-going man, Faruqi was nevertheless a sophisticated snob. On being asked why he lived in Allahabad, when he could easily have settled in cosmopolitan Delhi, he answered: “Delhi and Allahabad are almost alike. I’d prefer New York.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shamsur-rahman-faruqi-1935-2020-link-uniting-old-new-cultures-tributes-pour-in-for-literary-icon/story-SyX9zpLh1a9sMEXu1bGiRK.html
26-12-2020||India||Key Supreme Court judgments that marked 2020||The Supreme Court , once a hive of activity, remains quiet, but since March 23, when the courts started virtual hearings, life has returned to some sort of new normal : the court rooms have been substituted by virtual courts; paper books by computer files; judges conduct hearings through video conferencing; and technology largely determines success of a hearing, if not the outcome. But the year 2020 was as striking as any other year for the Supreme Court of India. A rundown of the outgoing year shows an assortment of crucial judgments , including a few that changed the landscape of judicial history. Access to Internet equivalent to a fundamental right The first month of 2020 witnessed a three-judge bench ruling against the telecommunication blackout in Jammu and Kashmir following the scrapping of Article 370. The judgment did not directly order for restoration of the services in the backdrop of the security concerns, but laid down an important principle in law – right to access Internet is a fundamental right by extension. Therefore, it can be demanded as such before a constitutional court. Further, every blackout order must specify reasons and has to be reviewed regularly by the authorities concerned, the court said. Consider taking away power of disqualification from the Speaker The Speaker also belongs to a political party, emphasised the court, requesting Parliament to amend the Constitution and strip Legislative Assembly Speakers of their exclusive power to disqualify MLAs. The court was hearing an appeal by a Congress MLA from Manipur, who complained against a delay by the Speaker in deciding a disqualification petition against another MLA who won on a Congress ticket but later joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The court maintained that disqualification cases of either MPs or the MLAs should be decided by an independent tribunal, outside Parliament or legislative assemblies. In this case, the court said it was bound by existing laws and thus asked the Speaker to decide the disqualification petition preferably within three months.  Anticipatory bail cannot have a deadlineA five-judge bench cleared the confusion on whether the protection given to a person through anticipatory bail was time-bound, as it ruled that a pre-arrest bail cannot be subject to time constraints and that it can very well continue till the end of trial. The bench added a caveat that if there are any special or peculiar features necessitating the court to limit the tenure of anticipatory bail, it is open for it to do so. No fundamental right to reservation In February, the top court ruled that there is no fundamental right to claim reservation in public jobs; it added that no court could ask a state government to provide reservation. Explaining the constitutional mandate on providing reservation, the court held that it is within absolute discretion of a state government to decide whether or not to provide for reservation, and that there is no obligation on the states to mandatorily do so. It also clarified that a previous five-judge bench ruling on the necessity to collect data regarding inadequacy of representation of Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in government services was confined only to situations when a state wants to provide reservation but not otherwise. The judgment came when the court dealt with a bunch of cases on reservations for people from SCs and STs in promotions in a government department in Uttarakhand. Permanent Commission for women in armed forces The year 2020 also saw the Supreme Court smashing the glass ceiling in services as it granted Permanent Commission (PC) to women officers in army, navy and air force. The deeply entrenched stereotype that men are dominant and women are primarily caretakers must end, said the court in a series of rulings in February when it struck down a 2019 circular that foreclosed the chances of women officers to apply for PCs. It directed the government to give PC to all serving women officers who have completed 14 years of service and to also give pensionary benefits to those who were retired on account of not being granted the commission. It added that service conditions of men and women officers would be the same and that the latter shall also be provided with choices of specialisations. Even for command assignments, there can’t be an absolute exclusion of women officers and they should be considered on a case-by-case basis, the court said. Cloud over land acquisition law clearedFollowing a stark difference of opinion between different benches of the apex court and a stalemate across various high courts where land acquisition cases remained pending, a five-judge bench overturned a 2014 ruling that was being followed widely. The bench held that land acquisition proceedings under the 1894 Act will not lapse if compensation payable to the landowner has been tendered by depositing it in the treasury, and not in the court or with the landowner. The 2014 ruling held that compensation would be treated as “paid” only if it were deposited in the court, not the treasury. The previous ruling had said that the land acquisition proceedings would have to be initiated again under the new law, Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and the acquisition process under the old 1894 Act would automatically lapse if the developer had not taken control of the land for five years, or if compensation was not paid to displaced farmers. Acquisition proceedings under the 2013 Act gave land owners a chance to demand higher compensation for acquisition of their land by the government. Political parties must publish criminal records of selected candidates on websites Pushing for electoral reforms as it always has, the Supreme Court directed political parties to publish the entire criminal history of their candidates for assembly and Lok Sabha elections, along with the reasons that prompted them to field suspected criminals . The court held that the information should be published in a local as well as a national newspaper as well as on the parties’ social media handles. It should mandatorily be published either within 48 hours of the selection of candidates or less than two weeks before the first date for filing of nominations, whichever is earlier, the court said. Amendments in the SC/ST act upheld After a smaller bench tweaked some mandatory provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (SC/ST Act) and laid down several requirements before registration of an FIR and arrest of an accused, a three-judge bench affirmed the Central government’s amendments to restore the original provisions of the law. The bench held that a preliminary inquiry is no longer a must when a complaint under this law is made. Also, no prior approval of appointing authority or a senior police officer is required before registration of an FIR. Further, there cannot be anticipatory bail in these cases until a court is satisfied that no case under the SC/ST Act is prima facie made out. RBI ban on cryptocurrency set aside The Supreme Court left the door ajar for cryptocurrency in India as it quashed a 2018 circular by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) putting a complete ban on banking services for the virtual currency. The court held the 2018 circular as unreasonable and disproportionate to the objective sought to be achieved by RBI, clearing the decks for a regulatory regime of cryptocurrency in India instead of a complete ban. The 2018 circular stated that the entities regulated by RBI are prohibited from providing any service in relation to virtual currencies, including those related to the transfer or receipt of money in accounts relating to the purchase or sale of virtual currencies. SC disapproves ex post facto’ Environmental Clearance The Supreme Court held that the concept of ‘ex post facto’ Environmental Clearance (EC) is against the fundamental principles of environmental jurisprudence. In its judgment in April, the court said that allowing industrial projects operate without EC would prove detrimental to the environment and lead to irreparable degradation. It further noted that a retrospective or an ex post facto environment clearance is “alien to environmental jurisprudence” because, before the issuance of an EC, the statutory notification (EIA notification 2006) warrants careful application of mind and a study into the likely consequences of a proposed activity on the environment. Significantly, this verdict came at a time when the draft of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, to replace the EIA notification 2006, was floated. The new law proposed a lifeline for industrial projects that start operating without a valid EC. NEET will be the only entrance for medical admissions The Supreme Court put an end to all speculation and confusion when it ruled in April that the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) would be the only uniform entrance test for medical admissions in the country, and that no institution could hold its separate exam. It held that minority institutions, deemed universities, and private colleges must also abide with the pertinent regulations and that they cannot claim violation of their rights to admit students since NEET is in the larger national interest. The court dismissed a clutch of petitions by religious and linguistic minority institutions, which opposed various notifications and rules made in the Medical Council of India Act and Dentist Act in order to prescribe NEET as the all-India exam for admissions to graduate and post-graduate medical courses. Nine-judge bench should decide Faith vs Right to pray By referring the issue to a bench of nine judges, the apex court kept the issue of entry of women of all ages to Kerala’s Sabrimala temple alive without setting aside the previous ruling allowing such access. It turned down objections by a set of parties, pointing to a bunch of other cases raising the similar issues relating to entry of women in places of worship of various religions, including mosques and fire temples. Holding that no matter is beyond the jurisdiction of the apex court, the nine-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde, noted that the reference was required to “do complete justice” in a pending matter, namely Sabarimala. While the matter was referred to the larger bench in February itself, the reasons behind the decision were released only in May. Suo motu public interest litigation on migrants’ crisis during Covid-19 lockdown Initially hesitant, the Supreme Court in May commenced suo motu (on its own) proceedings in a bid to ameliorate the problems faced by migrant workers left stranded in different parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. After hearing the Centre and states, it directed that all migrant workers wishing to go back home must be transported within a fortnight. For those who had already returned, the court ordered states and union territories to ensure registration (of around 10 million migrant workers) at village and block levels to identify their employability and provide them jobs in the home states. This order, however, came at least a month after a different bench in the Supreme Court expressed satisfaction at the steps being taken by the government and said the situation did not seem to be a “crisis” -- a term used in the suo motu order though. The court has since initiated two other suo motu cases with respect to treatment facilities and spread of the infection in the child protection homes. Contempt petition against noted lawyer Prashant Bhushan and Re 1 fine Anguished at two of his tweets targeting Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and the former CJIs, the top court initiated criminal contempt petition against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Bhushan did not apologise and stood firm on his assertions regarding the last four CJIs and their alleged role in destruction of democratic values. “To assume and suggest that ‘CJI is the SC, and SC is the CJI’, is to undermine the institution of SC,” said the lawyer as he opted not to yield despite repeated exhortation by the judges on the bench that the proceedings could be dropped the moment he said sorry. In August, Bhushan was finally held guilty of the contempt, only be sentenced to a fine of Re 1 . The lawyer deposited the fine but also sought a right of intra-court appeal to challenge this order. Bhushan’s petition to reconsider his conviction under contempt charge is also pending. Daughters’ right in a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) property In 2005, a watershed amendment was made in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 to give daughters the same rights in the coparcenary (parental) property as the sons. But two judgments by the top court gave conflicting decisions as to whether it was necessary for a man to be alive on the date of the 2005 amendment to give his daughter the right in the parental property. A three-judge bench settled this dispute in August when it ruled that a right of the daughter is secured at the time of her birth. The father being alive or not on the date of the amendment will not affect her rights in any manner. It said: “A son is a son until he gets a wife. A daughter is a daughter throughout her life...The eligibility of a married daughter must be placed on a par with an unmarried daughter (for she must have been once in that state) to claim the benefit...(Otherwise, it would be) unfair, gender-biased and unreasonable.” CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case While the mystery remains to be solved, the Supreme Court in August ordered for a CBI investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death , and directed the Maharashtra government to render all assistance. The court rejected Maharashtra government’s argument that Rajput’s father could not have got an FIR registered at Patna, which later formed the basis for the Bihar government to recommend a CBI probe. The top court delivered the verdict on a plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty who sought transfer of FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai where the 37-year-old Rajput was found dead inside his apartment in suburban Bandra. Public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely by protesters In the context of protests in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the apex court held that occupation of public roads and public spaces in exercise of the right to protest is not permissible under the law. It added that notwithstanding the fact that the right to protest is a right guaranteed under the Constitution, protests have to be in designated areas after due approvals from the authorities concerned. The court also obligated the law enforcement agencies to act, saying the administration must keep public spaces free from obstructions and that they cannot wait either for an order from the court or go on having endless talks with the protesters. A woman’s right to a shared household By a judgment in October, the Supreme Court broke new ground when it ruled that a woman facing domestic violence has a right to reside in a shared household even if it is owned or rented by her in-laws and the husband has no legal right in the property. It said the household may even belong to a joint-family or be rented by the woman’s in-laws but the complainant still has a right to reside in it if she has been living there after her marriage. It would also not matter if she has been compelled to move out after the discord since the house will still be treated as a shared household, entitling her to live in it once she files a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act. In a recent judgment, the top court extended this right to hold that an aggrieved woman cannot be evicted summarily even by a tribunal under the Senior Citizens Act and that she must be heard when the shared household belongs to her in-laws. Bail to Arnab Goswami In November, the Supreme Court protected Republic TV founding editor Arnab Goswami from arrest in connection with a case of abetment to suicide. The charge related to the suicide of an interior designer who was owed money by Goswami’s company. The apex court held that the Bombay High Court – which declined Goswami’s request for interim bail – “abdicated its constitutional duty and function as a protector of liberty” by not conducting a prima facie evaluation of the FIR against Goswami and the other accused in the case. It further underlined that the criminal law should not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sc-judgments-that-marked-2020/story-QbCKCUKVe9ePpuNR2hUWNP.html
26-12-2020||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to release book on Mahatma on January 1||A new book on Mahatma Gandhi’s discovery of his Hindu identity during his stay in South Africa will be released by Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat at Rajghat in New Delhi on New Year’s Day. The office of Union culture minister Prahlad Patel has confirmed that he will be present at the release along with the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan.The book, Making of A Hindu Patriot, published by ‘Har Anand’, is over 1,000-pages long and described by its authors JK Bajaj and MD Srinivas as an academic study. Written over the last decade, it was meant to be released in October to coincide with the 151st anniversary of the Mahatma’s birth but was delayed due to the pandemic. The authors also worked on the Gujarati, Hindi and English editions of Mahatma’s Hind Swaraj, which was released in 2011 by then Chief Minister Narendra Modi and Bhagwat.Bajaj attributed the term “Hindu Patriot” to Leo Tolstoy, with whom Gandhi exchanged letters in 1909 and 1910. “Tolstoy told his diarist that ‘this Gandhi is quite a good fellow except for his Hindu Patriotism’”, said Bajaj, who is also a member of the government-appointed commission examining the sub-categorisation of OBCs , the first step of ensuring that the benefits of reservation aren’t being monopolised by a few groups. According to him, Gandhi responded to Tolstoy’s words later by saying, “My patriotism is patent enough, my love for India is evergrowing but it is derived from my religion and is therefore in no sense exclusive.”While an RSS spokesperson didn’t respond to HT’s queries seeking comment, Bhagwat referred to Hind Swaraj in a piece in HT last year. “In his Hind Swaraj, he envisioned a dream picture of Bharat’s progress and performance based on the pure swadeshi (made in India) vision, which was free from this slave mindset,’’ Bhagwat wrote. In the introduction to Making of a Hindu Patriot, the authors write: “We have tried to tell the story of the evolution of Hind Swaraj as a text of religious patriotism and of the parallel evolution of Gandhiji as a Hindu Patriot, perhaps the greatest Hindu Patriot, Deshbhakta Mahatma, of our times. We tell this story largely in his own words.’’ They add that they chose the term because Gandhi always perceived himself as a Hindu, and that is how his contemporaries saw him. They quote Gandhi as saying the “fight is on behalf of religion, that is, for religion which underlies all religions”The book covers the period before 1914 when Gandhi was fighting for the rights of Indians in South Africa. “To us, the treatment meted out to him in South African prisons was also new. They made him break stones on the road, paraded him in handcuffs through the streets and put him in an isolation cell for months. He could suffer all this and come out stronger because his religious faith and anchorage,’’ said Bajaj.The book says that In South Africa, Gandhi was under pressure to convert from some of his Christian and Muslim well-wishers, during which he discovered the “meaning and responsibility of being a Hindu.”Bhagwat’s presence at Rajghat is interesting as the RSS has had a complicated link with the Mahatma. The RSS was temporarily banned in the wake of the assassination of the Mahatma by Nathuram Godse, although the organisation disowned the latter and said he left it in the 1930s. The ban was lifted a year after the assassination in 1949. Gandhi’s grandson and former governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi declined comment.Tushar Gandhi, the great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, said: “It’s an irony of our times that the chief of RSS is releasing a book on Bapu that to one dealing with his life in South Africa and Bapu’s discovery of his faith. The journey of Bapu’s discovery of the objective and ideal of his life started from his reading of John Ruskin’s ‘Unto This Last’ a book which espouses sustainable ethical and moral commerce and an almost Socialist way of life but illustrates it with Biblical references. The head of an organisation like RSS which rejects all else but ‘Hindutva’ accepting the influence of the Church in the transformation of Bapu. I hope while talking on the book he desists from Hindutvaising Bapu and accepts the fact that the transformation in Bapu came about because he realised that the Kingdom of God was within himself and his adherence to the ideal of Unity of humankind above the narrow confines of region, race and religion.”He added: “To me what is ironical is that the ideology that birthed Bapu’s murderer, has realised that eventually it is Gandhi who is inevitable, unavoidable and inescapable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-to-release-book-on-mahatma-on-jan-1/story-y4Kj4tNYTqySpixoq3x3NK.html
26-12-2020||India||Protesters aside, even farmers who support laws want price assurance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Friday, in which he defended the new agricultural laws and renewed his offer for talks to farm leaders, has been spurned by the protesting farmers camped on Delhi’s borders even as some other farm organisations said they are willing to give the changes a chance. However, most farmers, whether part of the protest or not, seem to agree on one basic point: the need for assured prices. Satpal Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Majdoor Sangh, sat through the PM’s speech at his home in Balia, Uttar Pradesh. “The Prime Minister has said he will never allow interests of farmers to be harmed. I think these laws will benefit us by giving us more options. But farmers should get minimum prices,” Singh said. To be sure, the organisation Singh is a member of has publicly supported the government’s reform agenda and its leader Chaudhury Ram Kumar Balia has met agriculture minister Narendra Tomar last well to pledge support for three farm laws that other unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, want scrapped.  Several small farmers unaligned to any large political party or farm unions, said they didn’t understand the laws. “We watched the speech at the panchayat office. If farmers are protesting for better prices, I support them. I don’t understand the laws, but I feel big buyers should come to us. Local markets are in a bad shape,” said Kadam Barua, a paddy grower in Assam’s Lakhimpur district. Modi, in a major address to farmers on Friday, said his government was open to talks with farm unions and even opposition parties who have pressed on with a massive pushback against his farm policies so long as discussions were based on “tark” and “tathya” (Hindi for ‘arguments and facts’), but staunchly defended his farm-reform agenda needed to “modernise” the farm sector. Farm unions protesting the laws, who have hunkered down on the capital’s borders, slammed the PM’s speech. “Not once did the PM address the protesting farmers. The issues he raised did not address the main problem. Farmers want assured prices,” said Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a leading platform of protesting farm unions. Even those who said they agreed with the Prime Minister said farmers should get minimum prices, underscoring a common gripe of farmers. “We have said we support the laws but mandis should strengthened so that farmers get minimum support prices,” said Satpal Singh of the Farmer Producer Organisation Association of Kurukshetra. He is a different person from his namesake mentioned above. His organisation, too, has supported the laws. The massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. The prime minister in his speech on Friday insisted that the reforms would not impact the MSP mechanism, which would continue as before. He however hasn’t committed to offer a legal backing for it. “The Opposition is misleading farmers regarding MSP. If farmers want to sell at msp, they can go to mandis. If they think they are getting price from private traders, they have the freedom,” the PM said.On Wednesday, Darshan Pal, a senior farm leader, had spelt out why the assurance on minimum prices was not enough. The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The so-called minimum support prices or MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of farming that takes into account all expenses of farming a particular crop plus the value of family labour. Pal said the farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called ‘C2’ in economic parlance. Farmers also want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill hugely. “The problem is that the government cannot buy all 23 commodities, as demanded by farmers. This makes little economic sense. Farmers need assured prices and support, but they have to be supported through less market-distorting means,” said Pravesh Sharma, former agriculture secretary of Madhya Pradesh and fellow of the think-tank ICRIER||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-backing-laws-also-see-need-for-price-assurance/story-kpAIuikrww0Wncq0jLBg6H.html
26-12-2020||India||Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 case for the first time since April||Dharavi, once a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot in Mumbai, did not report a single infection in the last 24 hours for the first time since April when the first patient was detected in the area, news agency PTI reported on Friday. The caseload of Dharavi now stands at 3,788, though the number of active cases is 12, eight of them in home isolation and four in a Covid care centre, PTI cited a civic official as saying. So far, 3,464 people have recovered in Dharavi, where 650,000 people are crammed into shanty colonies spread over 2.5 square kilometres. Also read | Risk of mutation can’t be ignored, danger yet to pass: Uddhav ThackerayThe first Covid-19 case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, nearly 20 days after the first such case was detected in Mumbai.Maharashtra recorded 3,580 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,909,951. The death toll breached the 49,000 mark after 89 new casualties. Maharashtra has controlled its daily caseload and has not crossed 5,000 cases for the past 20 days. A total of 98,503 cases have been reported in December, against the 109,166 from November 1 to November 24.Mumbai clocked 643 cases, taking the count to 289,204, and 12 deaths, taking the toll to 11,045. Pune city recorded 299 cases, pushing the tally to 189,338. Nagpur city stands third after Mumbai and Pune in terms of daily caseload with 237 new cases.Also read | Maharashtra tweaks quarantine rules for fliers on new strain watchlistThe state has completed 12,341,204 Covid tests with 62,728 tests conducted on Thursday. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.48%. The number of recovered patients reached 1,804,871 with 3,171 recorded in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate remains at 94.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-no-new-covid-19-case-for-the-first-time-since-april/story-5AoEc4avk6ZPOQnzVFGZ0H.html
26-12-2020||India||Noted Urdu poet Shamsur Rahman Faruqi passes away||Eminent poet, critic and writer Shamsur Rahman Faruqi passed away at his home on Friday morning. He was 85.He will be buried next to his late wife Jamila at the Newada graveyard in Ashok Nagar amid the presence of family members and friends in the evening, informed his nephew and writer Mahmood Farooqui.“He had been Covid-19 positive but was discharged on November 23 after test results came negative. However he developed complications and fungal infection, mycosis, which further worsened his condition. He was being treated at a hospital in Delhi. He wanted to come to his beloved city where he spent all his life. He arrived in his home town Prayagraj in an air ambulance on Friday morning and died shortly afterwards around 11.15am,” the nephew said.Faruqi was considered a fine Urdu critic, poet, writer, and theorist. His works ranged from literary history and criticism to poetry and fiction. Considered an authority on llm-e bayan (the science of poetic discourse) and classical poetry, he was also a noted lexicographer. Faruqi’s book ‘Kai Chaand The Sar-e-Asmaan’, written in 2006, has been hailed as a masterpiece of Urdu fiction. An English version of this book ‘Mirror of Beauty’ was published in 2013. He has also translated his stories into English which are included in a book titled ‘The Sun That Rose from the Earth’ in 2014. He has also been credited with spearheading the revival of the Dastangoi - an urdu oral storytelling art form. He was awarded the Saraswati Samman in 1996 for his work ‘Sher-e Shor-Angez’, a study of the major eighteenth-century poet Meer Taqi Meer published in four volumes. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2009.Born on September 30, 1935 in a village in Azamgarh, Faruqi completed his MA (English) from Allahabad University in 1955 and began writing in 1960. He worked for the Indian Postal Service also. He was also editor of his literary magazine Shabkhoon and part-time professor at the South Asia Regional Studies Center at the University of Pennsylvania, US.Some of his well-known works include Early Urdu Literary Culture and History (2001), The Flower-Lit Road: Essays in Urdu Literary Theory and Criticism (2005), Urdu Ka Arambhik Yug (2007) and The Mirror of Beauty (2013).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-urdu-poet-shamsur-rehman-faruqi-passes-away/story-m4Z7hva6yUFaHFWb1jbaZP.html
