27-12-2020||India||Man paraded naked for ‘attempting molestation’||KOTAA 28-year-old man was paraded naked in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district after an alleged molestation bid, police officials said on Sunday. While the man has been booked for trying to molest a woman in the village, over half a dozen people have been booked for assaulting the man, the officials said.Sarola police station house officer Raghuveer Singh said that the 28-year-old entered the house of a woman, belonging to the Bheel community, and tried to molest her on Saturday. The man’s bid was foiled when the woman’s husband reached the house, Singh said. The man managed to escape, Singh said. Relatives of the woman, however, called the man to a deserted place in the village on Sunday morning where they allegedly assaulted him, the officer said. “The man was paraded naked with a garland of shoes around his neck in the village on Sunday morning,” Singh said. The accused also shot a video of the incident and circulated it on social media, he added.An FIR against the woman’s husband and his relatives has been filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act, Singh said.The woman, meanwhile, has filed a complaint against the man under Section 354 (Assault with intent to outrage modesty) of the IPC and SC/ST Act, Singh said.Deputy superintendent of police Rajeev Parihar said that several relatives of the woman’s husband and the 28-year-old man have been detained and arrests will be made after a thorough investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-paraded-naked-for-attempting-molestation/story-ntVxQDEAbDo8hdLIRZE0bN.html
27-12-2020||India||Lawyer says Saibaba denied cap in jail, authorities reject claim||The lawyer of former Delhi professor, GN Saibaba, who is serving life term in Nagpur Central Jail for alleged Maoist links, said on Sunday that the jail authorities refused to accept a woollen cap and several other items that his family sent for him. However, the jail authorities rejected the allegations.According to Saibaba’s lawyer, Aakash Sarode as many as 34 different things that Saibaba wanted, the prison authorities accepted only 13 items when he went there three days back to hand them over. “Of the essentials, you have even refused to accept woollen cap/monkey cap, Napkin, handkerchief, towel, and white T- shirt, while you accepted underwear and loincloth only. Given the bone-chilling cold that whole of Nagpur is facing at the moment, I fail to understand how else do you expect my client to save himself from cold,” asked Sarode through a letter to the jail superintendent. The Gadchiroli district sessions court convicted Saibaba and five others in 2017 for aiding and abetting Maoist activities and waging a war against the nation. Saibaba is wheel-chair bound professor with 90% disability. His lawyer stated that his condition was deteriorating and he is also suffering from multiple ailments. . He said that a month back, Saibaba had consulted the jail authorities about the essential things. Subsequently, he made a list of the things and submitted an application to the jail authorities, Sarode said. “On December 24, I went to the jail with all the material along with the list of items... However, the jail officials refused to accept several things, which neither pose any security threat nor any danger of Covid-19 spread,” alleged the lawyer. However, the jail superintendent, Anup Kumre, dismissed all the allegations and said that most of the items are repetitions, which are already in Saibaba’s possession, like sweater, woollen monkey cap and woollen blanket. “We are very reasonable with the jail inmates and always ready to help them as per the jail norms,” he said. Moreover, the Nagpur central prison is a Covid-19 prone area and hence the authorities are also very careful to allow outside material in the jail, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-says-saibaba-denied-cap-in-jail-authorities-reject-claim/story-flFeoCy5dT70meRdIbBClN.html
27-12-2020||India||Bengal assembly polls: Abhishek and Suvendu trade barbs as poll battle heats up||Kolkata: Youth Trinamool Congress president Abhishek Banerjee, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, on Sunday accused former minister Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19, of being “corrupt and spineless” and faced a counter-attack in less than an hour as the political slugfest in the poll-bound state intensified. Narrowing the political battle between the ruling TMC and the BJP in poll-bound Bengal to a personal clash, Banerjee, who was recently branded by Adhikari as “tolabaaj” (extortionist), hit back from a rally at Diamond Harbour, his Lok Sabha constituency in South 24 Parganas district located adjacent to Kolkata. “You called me a tolabaaj (extortionist) while you are the one whose name figures in the Saradha and Narada cases being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate. You were seen in the (Narada) video accepting money wrapped in newspaper. My name is not there in the files. The ED and CBI won’t be able to do anything to me,” said Banerjee. “You have no spine and joined the BJP for protection,” he added. Addressing a rally that was preceded by a roadshow at Danton in West Midnapore district shortly after a public meeting by Abhishek Banerjee ended, Adhikari accused his adversary of misappropriating funds meant for victims of cyclone Amphan or beneficiaries of social welfare schemes. During the roadshow, Adhikari even chanted slogans asking people to save Bengal from “tolabaaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew). None of the leaders mentioned each other’s name but the spirit and content of the vitriolic speeches made things obvious. It is now almost an open secret in Bengal politics that Adhikari left the TMC because he was unhappy with organizational decisions taken by Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw his first veiled challenge at the TMC while addressing a public rally at Nandigram, the assembly constituency he represented in East Midnapore before resigning from the assembly. On the year’s last Sunday, however, there was no pulling of punches. Abhishek Banerjee dared the Centre and probe agencies. “f you (Centre) ever get any proof of my involvement in these cases, set up the gallows. I will voluntarily come and hang myself,” he said At Danton, Adhikari said he did not raise his voice against alleged corruption in the government all these years because he was waiting for a time when the TMC could be ousted from power. “The coming elections will not be held in the presence of the state police. We will have Central paramilitary forces. People will give you a befitting reply,” said Adhikari. “Bengal has to be won and presented to Narendra Modi. It is necessary that Bengal and the country is run by the same government,” reiterated Adhikari. On Sunday afternoon, Abhishek Banerjee said, “Bengal is not an object that can be handed over to the Prime Minister.” BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy was stoned by some protestors at Diamond Harbour on December 10. This was Banerjee’s first rally in the district after that incident. It triggered a cold war between the Union home ministry and the state. The ministry unilaterally transferred three Indian Police Service officers who were in charge of Nadda’s security. The state has opposed this. “People are aggrieved with the Centre’s policies. Some of them may have pelted stones. Nobody should pelt stones. We have to give our reply to the BJP through the ballot,” said Abhishek Banerjee. Abhishek Banerjee also targeted the Prime Minister and the Centre. “The Centre has suspended the area development fund given to members of the Parliament because of the Covid-19 pandemic but nobody raised a question when thousands of crores were spent on a new plane for the Prime Minister,” said Abhishek Banerjee. “Over the past one month ,the Union home minister has come to Bengal, big BJP leaders have come to Bengal and Union ministers have come to Bengal because they cannot stop a simple five-feet-one-inch-tall woman who lives in a tin-roofed house. You are no match for even the nails on her fingers,” said Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assembly-polls-abhishek-and-suvendu-trade-barbs-as-poll-battle-heats-up/story-5UkHp8StTyVWf62XNFJuAM.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Sharad Pawar himself would not want to become UPA chief’: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Sunday said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar would not want to be declared the chief of Opposition’s United Progressive Alliance (UPA), as there is no such thing that exists.The comment comes at a time when Pawar’s name is making rounds for UPA chairperson’s post with the Shiv Sena also batting for the veteran leader and pressing for the need for Opposition parties to come together at the national level. While speaking to news agency ANI, Chidambaram said, “I don’t think even Mr Sharad Pawar wants to be declared as the chairperson of UPA. When these parties meet, the natural person to extend the invitation and the natural person to preside over the meeting will be the leader of the largest party; we are not selecting a prime minister. There is no such thing as the chairperson of UPA.” Chidambaram said among the UPA allies, Congress has the largest bench strength in the Parliament. “The UPA consists of about nine or 10 parties, the biggest in our alliance being the Congress, with roughly about 95 or 100 members in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha,” he told ANI.Also read: Pejwara seer reveals secret behind PM Modi’s growing beard, hairThe former finance minister said if the Congress calls for a meeting of the alliance, “it is only natural that a Congress leader will preside over the meeting”. “Some of the parties may take the initiative to call the meeting of UPA and Congress will attend it, but if the Congress is calling a meeting, it is only natural that one of its own leaders will preside over the meeting,” Chidambaram said. He also stressed on the importance of UPA and its allies working together to make the alliance stronger nationwide. Speculations are rife that the parties in the Opposition are in favour of Pawar taking a lead to form a formidable combine to take on the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) at the national level. Pawar himself had expressed the need for such a combine and had pressed that Congress should take the lead by keeping differences with parties such as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) at bay. Shiv Sena parliamentarian and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the UPA has weakened and has lost its relevance. He also had stated that apart from interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Pawar also has support from a cross-section of people and leaders from other parties in the Opposition. Pawar is the only leader who is taken seriously even by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he had said. “The time has come to expand the scope of UPA by inducting more allies. All Opposition parties should come together against the dictatorial attitude of the central government. A weak Opposition is bad for democracy,” he had said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress has expressed its dismay over Sena’s criticism on UPA. “Our alliance with Sena is limited to Maharashtra and it is based on the common minimum programme that we had finalised before forming the state government. Sena has no business to comment on UPA and it’s not a part of the [UPA] alliance as yet. All the alliance partners have full faith in the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who has been leading the alliance efficiently. As far as the leadership of UPA by Sharad Pawar is concerned, he too, has refused any such proposal,” said Maharashtra public works department minister and former state chief minister Ashok Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-himself-would-not-want-to-become-upa-chief-p-chidambaram/story-NyoeietKYwwHCzaWDsYMRJ.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Talks need to be conducted from farmers’ perspective’: MoS Kailash Chaudhary||Union minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Kailash Chaudhary on Sunday expressed hope that the next round of discussions with protesting farmers’ rights leaders will yield results.“Problems can only be resolved by talking. I firmly believe talks scheduled on Dec 29 will resolve issues if they’re conducted from farmers’ perspective, not from the perspective of politicians who’re politicising the issue,” Chaudhary was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chaudhary’s words were similar to how several ministers and lawmakers have reacted to the ongoing protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders, which have now entered its 32nd day. Choudhary will most likely attend the meeting with Union minister of agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Prakash, union minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare.Other than Chaudhary, defence minister Rajnath Singh while addressing an event to celebrate three years of Jai Ram Thakur’s government in Himachal Pradesh also alleged that several political parties are politicising the issue and misleading farmers. Singh during his address also reiterated his previous appeal to farmers asking them to allow the implementation of the laws for a period of one year and seek changes if the laws do not prove to be beneficial.BJP has also alleged that Congress is trying to mislead farmers because BJP had the willpower to implement the much-needed reforms in the agricultural sector. The ruling party also said that the reforms were promised in Congress’s 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto. The prime minister earlier this month had even told opposition leaders to take the credit of the benefits of farm laws while addressing a virtual event.Farmers on Saturday proposed that the government discuss with their leaders the modalities of repealing the bills and give legal assurance that the system of procurement under MSP continues.Along with farmers, several politicians continued to lash out at the Centre for not empathizing with farmers. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh said BJP should not hurt sentiments of farmers by calling them unpatriotic. He said, “If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists, militants and hooligans, it should give up all pretence of being a people’s party.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also invited BJP leaders and union ministers to hold a debate highlighting the benefits of these new laws. He also said that these laws are intended to keep industrialists happy and the farmers of the nation in danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-need-to-be-conducted-from-farmers-perspective-mos-kailash-chaudhary/story-ybT3Uqx8q4MXz62Y9LK7PO.html
27-12-2020||India||After poll debacle, revamp talk gets stronger in Kerala Congress||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar, who is in Kerala to examine the recent local body election debacle, is flooded with complaints and many leaders have sought leadership change in the state unit. After the defeat in local body elections, senior leaders have trained their guns on state president Mullapally Ramachandran, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and convenor of the United Democratic Front MM Hassan. Party insiders said a major surgery is unlikely as the state is set to go for the assembly elections in four months, but some of the district presidents may get axed soon. Anwar has asked leaders not to wash dirt in pubic and maintain the party discipline.During his two-day stay, leaders of allies will also meet the AICC general secretary. Some of them have already asked the lead party (Congress) to set its house in order and patch up differences between senior leaders. They have asked the party leadership to bring former chief minister Oommen Chandy to the front but the latter has shown least interest. They feel his popularity and connect with common people will help the party to overcome the latest setbacks. Also read: In veiled message to BJP, AIADMK asserts Palaniswami as CM candidateThe party leadership is quite upset with the poll outcome - in last general election in 2019, the UDF had managed 19 out of 20 Lok Sabha seats. The local body elections took place in the backdrop of mounting challenges to ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led government of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, whose secretary is in jail and a minister was questioned by law enforcement agencies several times in connection with a gold smuggling racket uncovered in July. Besides this, party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was forced to proceed on leave after his son was arrested in connection with a narcotics haul in Bengaluru. Many central agencies had also pitched their tents in the state, probing a series of alleged kickbacks. Though the Congress and the BJP tried their best to exploit these sensational cases, the LDF pulled off a victory literally shocking the party leadership. “The party will have to do a serious re-thinking on its strategy and bring more young leaders to the fore. Otherwise, local body outcome will be repeated in assembly elections also,” warned a senior leader from Malabar, adding time was ripe for the party to end growing factionalism. Many leaders feel that the distribution of seats based on groups did a major damage and there were no sincere effort to convince rebel candidates at many places. What really worries the leadership is that some of the traditional vote banks, like Christian heartland in central Travancore, ditched the party badly. Though state leaders dismissed it as a temporary setback, the party is in no mood to take it lightly. It has asked the state unit to get ready for assembly elections and start searching for suitable candidates. The AICC general secretary has reportedly warned leaders that the party was supreme, not groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-poll-debacle-revamp-talk-gets-stronger-in-kerala-congress/story-jTLABep4S0ptiI0wEfu9PI.html
27-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of eastern freight corridor on Dec 29||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the ‘New Bhaupur - New Khurja section’ of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC) on December 29 at 11 am via video conferencing.According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), Modi will also inaugurate EDFC’s Operation Control Centre (OCC) at Prayagraj.Governor of Uttar Pradesh Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath and Union Minister Piyush Goyal will also be present on the occasion. The 351 km New Bhaupur - New Khurja section of EDFC is situated in Uttar Pradesh and is built at a cost of Rs 5,750 crores. The section will open new vistas of opportunity for the local industries such as aluminium industry (Pukhrayan region of Kanpur Dehat district), dairy sector (Auraiya district), textile production/block printing (Etawah district), glassware industry (Firozabad district), pottery products (Khurja of Bulandshahr district), asafoetida or ‘hing’ production (Hathras district) and locks and hardware (Aligarh district). The section will also decongest the existing Kanpur - Delhi main line and will enable Indian Railways to run faster trains.“A state-of-the-art Operation Control Centre (OCC) at Prayagraj will act as the command centre for the entire route length of the EDFC. The OCC is one of the largest structures of its type globally, with modern interiors, ergonomic design and best-in-class acoustics. The building is environment-friendly with a Green Building rating of GRIHA4 and is built as per norms of the ‘Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan’,” the PMO said.The EDFC which is envisioned over a route of 1,856 km, starts from Sahnewal near Ludhiana in Punjab and will pass through the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand to terminate at Dankuni in West Bengal.It is being constructed by Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), that has been set up as a special purpose vehicle to build and operate Dedicated Freight Corridors.DFCCIL is also constructing the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (1,504 route km) that connects Dadri in Uttar Pradesh to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai and will traverse through the states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-new-bhaupur-new-khurja-section-of-eastern-freight-corridor-on-dec-29/story-D1inPHbzI5DzJYXUzFyCTO.html
27-12-2020||India||Mercury below 5 degrees celsius at many places in north India; IMD forecasts cold wave later this week||Several places in north India, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, recorded their minimum temperature below the five-degree Celsius mark on Sunday, with the India Meteorological Department forecasting severe cold wave in parts of the region later this week and warning of dense fog.Though the mercury rose slightly in Delhi due to a Western Disturbance, the department said the relief will be short-lived as cold and dry northerly and northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas are likely to bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from December 28-29. Ground frost and dense fog is likely in isolated pockets in the region,” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Gurdaspur in Punjab and Churk in east Uttar Pradesh recorded lows of 2 degrees Celsius and 2.6 degrees Celsius respectively, while cold wave intensified in Kashmir with minimum temperatures dropping across the region to stay several notches below the freezing point.Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded a low of minus 7.2 degrees Celsius, Qazigund minus five degrees Celsius, Kupwara minus 4.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, recorded minus 4.9 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological (MeT) department in Srinagar.“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh; scattered rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on 27th-28th December,” the IMD said in its all-India weather bulletin.The minimum temperature in Delhi rose slightly under the influence of the Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the upper Himalayas, according to the IMD.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6 degrees Celsius as against 4.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday.However, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the relief will be short-lived.The WD will lead to “scattered to fairly widespread” snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Once the wind system withdraws, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely to occur in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from December 28-29, it said.For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.Biting cold conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab, with Gurdaspur recording a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius.While Gurdaspur was the coldest place in Punjab, Narnaul was the coldest at 3.3 degrees Celsius in Haryana, the MeT department in Chandigarh said.In Haryana, Karnal, Rohtak, Ambala and Hisar recorded respective minimums of 3.8 degrees Celsius, 5.4 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees Celsius and 5.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a low of 4.1 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded respective minimums of 4.8 degrees Celsius, 4.2 degrees Celsius and 3.9 degrees Celsius.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, the MeT department said.It has forecast light rain or snow in the Kashmir Valley over the next three days.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius – down from the previous night’s minus 3.7 degrees Celsius.They said the mercury in Pahalgam tourist destination in south Kashmir settled at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, up more than a notch compared to the previous night’s low of minus 4.5 degrees Celsius.The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during the 40-day period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa, Manali, Mandi, Solan, Sundernagar and Bhuntar shivered at sub-zero temperatures.Keylong was the coldest place in the state at minus 11.6 degrees Celsius, MeT Centre, Shimla, Director Manmohan Singh said.Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Manali in Kullu district recorded lows of minus 3.4 and minus 0.6 degree Celsius, he added.Besides Mandi, Bhuntar, Sundernagar and Solan recorded lows of minus 2, minus 1.6, minus 1.2 and minus 0.5 degrees Celsius respectively. Dalhousie and Kufri recorded lows of 2.9 and 3.6 degrees Celsius respectively.In Uttar Pradesh, cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places, while some places witnessed dense to very dense fog, the MeT department in Lucknow said.The weather in the state was dry, it said.State capital Lucknow recorded a minimum temperature of 5.9 degrees Celsius, Allahabad 7.2 degrees Celsius, Kanpur 5.8 degrees Celsius, Bareilly 4.3 degrees Celsius and Fursatganj 3.1 degrees Celsius.Mount Abu, the only hill station of Rajasthan, was recorded the coldest place in the state at 2 degrees Celsius even as several places saw an increase of two-three notches in night temperatures.In the plains, Sriganganagar, Alwar and Sawai Madhopur recorded 6.2, 7.2 and 7.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday night.Madhya Pradesh, especially its western region, is likely to experience cold wave conditions for the second time this month from December 29, an IMD official said.Large parts of the state had witnessed biting cold conditions last week. However, the chill had subsided slightly and minimum temperature had increased to some extent over the last few days.“Cold wave conditions are likely to prevail in Madhya Pradesh, especially its western part, for the second time this month from Tuesday. These conditions may continue for the next three to four days after that,” P K Saha, a senior meteorologist with IMD’s Bhopal office, said.“The westerly disturbance has caused snowfall in northern India. This is going to bring chilly winds to Madhya Pradesh by Tuesday. But the cold wave conditions are not expected to last long in the state,” he said.Extreme cold wave conditions are unlikely next week, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-below-5-degrees-celsius-at-many-places-in-north-india-imd-forecasts-cold-wave-later-this-week/story-9cZEJ3iIA1iGeQspbg3IwK.html
27-12-2020||India||136th foundation day of Congress: Rahul Gandhi absent, farmers’ protest focus of tomorrow’s events||The 136th foundation day of the Indian National Congress will be observed through various campaigns on December 28. The All India Congress Committee earlier asked the state units to come up with innovative campaign ideas to connect with the youth. Tiranga Yatra and Selfie with Tiranga are two campaigns that the party has launched apparently to engage with people on nationalism plank. However, Rahul Gandhi is out of India and will be away for a few days, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala confirmed on Sunday after reports of him leaving the country a day ahead of the party’s foundation day started doing the rounds on social media.The focus of this foundation day will also be on the ongoing farmers’ protest which the party has been supporting from the beginning. Rahul Gandhi has also sharpened his attack on the government and PM Modi regarding the farmers’ protest. Also Read | Mentioned same reforms during 2019 election: Sitharaman reminds Rahul Gandhi of Cong’s manifestoThe Indian National Congress was formed on December 28, 1885, and its first session was held in then Bombay from December 28 to December 31. Umesh Chandra Banerjee was the first president of Congress.“INC has been at the forefront in the efforts to forge a secular, democratic and united India, an India which is a world leader in all fields and has always put India first despite all odds and obstacles. The INC fought for and won India’s independence, forged the constitutional idea of India, built up the nation from one of the poorest (when India gained independence) in the world to a global superpower,” AICC said in its press release. The anniversary comes at a time when the Grand Old Party is battling crises both inside and outside. The electoral crisis has been aggravated by a rebellion inside as several veteran Congress leaders, including a few former CMs, wrote a letter demanding organisational reforms in the party. On December 19, Congress president Sonia Gandhi met the dissenters and several other senior leaders at her 10, Janpath residence where it has been indicated that there will be an election for the president post. It was learnt that most leaders in the meeting opined that they want Rahul Gandhi as the president. The last election was held in 1997 under Sitaram Kesri at the Calcutta plenary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-foundation-day-farmers-protest-in-focus-state-units-to-organise-tiranga-yatra-on-december-28/story-0jxaJmg5hxkMbBqaznJh2I.html
27-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital, advised week’s bed rest||Tamil superstar and aspiring politician Rajinikanth was discharged from a private hospital in Hyderabad on Sunday and has been advised bed rest for a week. He was admitted to the hospital on December 25 with ‘severe hypertension and exhaustion’ and was discharged after his blood pressure stabilised. He has returned to Chennai.In addition to medication and diet, the 70-year-old actor has been advised “minimal physical activity and avoid stress,” Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, said a statement. “In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age” he has to be in complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of his blood pressures and “has also been counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting Covid-19”. While leaving the hospital, the veteran actor waved to fans who had gathered outside. It remains to be seen how Rajinikanth would forge ahead with his political plans ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Earlier this month, he had declared that on December 31 he would announce the launch date for his political party which he is expected to float in January 2021. Leaders of several political parties in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have wished Rajinikanth a speedy recovery. “As of now there is no change (on announcing party date on December 31) but after meeting him we will get a clearer idea,” said a person close to Rajinikanth. The person who did not wish to be named, said that a meeting may take place on Monday. When asked if the announcement will be done virtually on social media, he said that it would be Rajinikanth’s decision. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic Rajinikanth’s political foray has remained doubtful as doctors had advised him against a hectic lifestyle at the age of 70 since he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016. But the actor sprung a surprise earlier this month saying that though there were health concerns, he was ready to sacrifice his life for the people of Tamil Nadu and made two appointments for his yet to be launched party. At that time, Rajinikanth had also said that he had 40% shooting left to be completed for ‘Annathe’ which is being produced by late DMK leader M Karunanidhi’s grand-nephew Kalanidhi Maran’s Sun Pictures. Rajinikanth had been shooting in Hyderabad for almost ten days for his upcoming film ‘Annathe’ but it was suspended on December 23 after four crew members tested positive for Covid-19 during a routine test on the film sets. Rajinikanth also underwent a Covid-19 test on December 22 and although it was negative, he had isolated himself. He was admitted to Apollo Hospitals after ‘severe fluctuations’ in his blood pressure. Since then, a thorough check up did not reveal anything alarming. He was discharged since his blood pressure had stabilized and his medical condition had improved, the medical bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-discharged-from-hospital-advised-week-s-bed-rest/story-WGUP1wTV09EB3bddzWNr6H.html
27-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: 1,500 vehicles stranded for 10 hours on Jammu-Srinagar highway due to landslide, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Landslide strands 1,500 vehicles for 10 hours on Jammu-Srinagar highwayMotorists on the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained stranded for 10 hours on Sunday following a landslide in Ramban district before the rubble was cleared in the evening, a senior government official said. Read more‘No Corona, Corona No’: This is Ramdas Athawale’s slogan for Covid-19 UK variantUnion minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday said that his earlier slogan “Go Corona, Corona Go” has been successful as the Covid-19 situation is improving in the country. Hence, he has come up with a new slogan “No Corona, Corona No”, which is for the new variant of the infection detected in the UK first, and then in several other places. Read more‘BJP ministers fail to highlight a single benefit of farm laws’: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Bharatiya Janata Party despite sending out its chief ministers and union ministers to assure farmers that the newly passed agricultural laws are beneficial has failed to point out a single benefit. Read moreDaniel Pearl murder accused Omar Sheikh to stay in Pak jail for nowAhmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the UK-born al-Qaeda terrorist, and his three aides accused of kidnapping and murdering American journalist Daniel Pearl in Pakistan, will remain behind bars in Sindh despite a provincial court ordering their immediate release. Read moreApple Glass is real, here’s how it will workApple has long said to be working on an augmented reality (AR)-based eye gear called Apple Glass. Some reports in the past hinted towards the device launching alongside the iPhone 12 series. But that didn’t happen. Now, a new report sheds light on how the company’s purported new device would work. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Not doubting Kohli’s captaincy but it takes something special to pick up the pieces,’ Ricky Ponting lauds Ajinkya Rahane’s leadership skillsRicky Ponting has praised India’s stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane for his superlative effort leading the team against Australia in the second Test against in Melbourne. Not only was Rahane brilliant with his field placings and bowling changes on the first day, he took it a step forward by playing a captain’s knock on Sunday, scoring the 12th century of his Test career and shepherding India’s strong response to Australia’s 195. Read moreSandwiched Forever review: Kunaal Roy Kapur, Aahana Kumra show is perfect for a lazy binge-watchEven as we see so many - largely unsuccessful -- attempts at replicating the success of hit sitcoms like Dekh Bhai Dekh, Sarabhai vs Sarabhai, Khichdi and many others, Sandwiched Forever is a decent effort that is suited to the world of today and its challenges. Read moreGuardian angel: Homeless man risks his own life, runs inside burning shelter to save animals“Wherever there is a human being, there is an opportunity for a kindness,” hundreds of years ago these words were said by Roman philosopher Lucius Annaeus Seneca. In 2020, they still stand true. WatchCBI report on Sushant Singh Rajput death: Maharashtra minister’s appealWith a conclusion awaited in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, Maharashtra’s Home minister made an appeal to the Central Bureau of Investigation, which is handling the probe. Anil Deshmukh said that with 5-6 months having passed in the investigation, it was time for the central agency to release its findings in public domain. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-1-500-vehicles-stranded-for-10-hours-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-due-to-landslide-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pcIhTuc8dypzDzzlt4mu8O.html
27-12-2020||India||Landslide strands 1,500 vehicles for 10 hours on Jammu-Srinagar highway||More than 1,500 motorists on the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained stranded for 10 hours on Sunday following a landslide in Ramban district before the rubble was cleared in the evening, a senior government official said. The landslide which blocked the road at 9.30 am was finally cleared at 7.30 pm.Senior superintendent of police, National Highway Traffic, JS Johar said, “The highway was blocked since 9.30 am this morning following a landslide at Duggi Pulli Chanderkot near CRPF camp in Ramban district.”Johar also said that around 1,500 vehicles were stranded due to the landslide.“The debris clearance operation is on and we are hopeful of restoring the highway soon,” he said. The officer also said that rain had been hampering the restoration work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-strands-1-500-vehicles-for-10-hours-on-jammu-sringar-highway/story-CuFlABA4oM4C6jfBhlcQBO.html
27-12-2020||India||It has been a contented journey, says Aarya Dharmchand Kumar||Actor-cum-fitness coach Aarya Dharmchand Kumar believes that doing too many period shows keeps one back from becoming a household name, “When you are into too many shows where you are playing someone from history and your make-up and costumes transform you into a new being, it becomes difficult to get that instant recognition and become a known face. I did too many such shows as I needed work and they did provide me a base but with little or no identification.So,I waited for that one show to change things for me,” said the ‘Dharmakshetra’ actor. Aarya has a strong Lucknow connect as he did his hotel management course from IIHM, Lucknow before taking to acting. “I hail from Jammu and was in an army school. There was this one cinema hall near my school where I spent most of my time watching films of big stars. That fascination has stayed with me till date. Before starting my career in the show business, I did my hotel management course from IIHM, Lucknow. Those were golden days as I got a lot of stage exposure during college fests. After the course, me and my friends reached Delhi for work. I decided to go for auditions and thankfully got a Punjabi show before landing in Mumbai to pursue acting,” he said. For the suave actor, the turning point was the role of a police officer. “When I was offered ‘Armanon Ka Balidaan-Aarakshan’ I knew it would change my career. It did and since then there was no looking back. Shows happened and good work came my way. So I feel it has been a contented journey. Currently I’m playing Joseph in the ongoing show ‘Yeshu’ and loving every bit of it,” said Aarya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-has-been-a-contented-journey-says-aarya-dharmchand-kumar/story-dn1zfGUV4JHuGl0YvCUWjM.html
27-12-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi gifted Inner Line Permit to Manipur, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi “gifted Inner Line Permit (ILP)” to Manipur as he felt that it would be injustice to them since other surrounding states have the regime.“The Inner Line Permit (ILP) was the biggest gift to the people of Manipur by the Prime Minister Modi as he felt that it would be injustice (to people of Manipur) as other surrounding states had it,” Shah said during his visit to Imphal as he recalled various initiatives taken up by the Modi government since it came to power.ILP is issued to grant inward travel permission to an Indian citizen for a limited period into a state where it is in force. The ILP regime was formally introduced in Manipur on January 1, 2020Chief minister Biren Singh welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow an ILP regime in Manipur. “The government under the leadership of Narendra Modi, unexpectedly took the decision of enforcing ILP in Manipur giving tremendous joy to the people and home minister Amit Shah took a crucial role in making the historic decision possible,” he said.Manipur is the fourth state in the Northeast to have the ILP regime. Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh are the three other states that have the ILP system.Shah went on to say that development in the Northeast is a priority for Prime Minister Modi.“Manipur was earlier known for insurgency, blockades and bandhs. But in the last 3 years, we have not seen any bandh. I would like to congratulate chief minister Biren Singh as he has given the state a new face of progress.”He also appealed to civil society organisations in the State to include topics of development in their demands as growth in sectors like health, education among others are the key to development of a region.Shah laid foundation stones for seven projects including Churachandpur Medical College and IT-SEZ at Mantripukhuri. He also inaugurated the much awaited Rs 1,998-crore Thoubal multi-purpose project and the Rs 475-crore Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-gifted-inner-line-permit-to-manipur-says-amit-shah/story-YzyrF4jCIahKNMwhnj8qNM.html
27-12-2020||India||‘We’re not holidaying at Delhi’s borders, here to seek answers’, says Hannan Mollah||Farmers camping at various Delhi borders are here not for a “holiday” but to seek answers from the Centre to their grievances, farmer leader Hannan Mollah said on Sunday as he criticised the government for a lack of response to their proposal for talks on December 29. Farmer groups protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws have proposed a meeting with the government at 11 am on December 29, but they are yet to receive any response from the government, he claimed. Previously, five rounds of talks between the farmer unions and the government have failed to break the deadlock. “Thousands of farmers who are bearing the winter chill and have gathered at the borders are not here for a holiday. The government till now said that we did not want a meeting, now that we have specifically told them when, where and what of the meeting, there is no response from them. Now, it is for the people to decide who are liars. We acknowledge that there cannot be a resolution without a dialogue with the government,” the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary said. Mollah said the farmer unions have proposed four specific talking points for the December 29 meeting -- the government stating the procedure for repealing three farm laws, procedure to make minimum support price (MSP) for crops a legal right, release of Punjab farmers arrested in pollution-related cases, and repeal of the Electricity Amendment Bill. “While there is no response from the government, they are busy pushing an agenda on the movement which was never ours to start with. Out of the 500 organisations which are part of the farmer struggle, around 10-11 would be Left-leaning. They want the people to believe that crores of people are responding to the call of the Left parties? If this were true, then we would have a revolution,” the 76-year-old leader, who is also a CPI(M) politburo member, told PTI. Mollah was an eight-term MP from West Bengal’s Uluberia constituency. However, despite his political links, he has a reputation of reviving and aiding farmer protests and movements across the country and has been part of the protests against the land acquisition law and the farmers’ stir in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh. He has now emerged as one of the most prominent faces of the farmer agitation against the three controversial agri-marketing legislations. While the government has attacked the Left parties for supporting and misusing the farmer protests for their own agenda, Mollah and the other farmer leaders have strongly refuted the charge. Mollah alleged that these lies were being spread by the government to isolate the movement and said that no political party was ever part of the farmer protests, nor were they ever consulted over it. “The government is talking like the grandson of Goebbels (Joseph Goebbels was a German Nazi politician and Reich Minister of Propaganda of Nazi Germany).... Quote me on this. We have repeatedly said that we have not allowed any political party to drive our protest. No political party was consulted when we launched the movement.This is just a way to isolate the Kisan movement in front of the people,” he said. Asked if after months of struggle there is a sense of hopelessness and inertia creeping in among the protesting farmers and their leaders, Mollah said that the movement was driven by the common farmers and the leaders were following them, not the other way round. “The farmers have come ready to sit here for the next six months. If any leader even asked them to move, he will probably be lynched. They have decided to go home after achieving what they want. However, at the end of the day, we are fighting a government machinery and the poor can only fight, they can’t do anything else,” he said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states have been protesting at various border points of Delhi against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-re-not-holidaying-at-delhi-s-borders-here-to-seek-answers-says-hannan-mollah/story-CzhAdD3ZrpAWF2gUrRiQbO.html
27-12-2020||India||Dawood’s aide wanted for serial blast plot nabbed in Jamshedpur after 24 years||Fugitive underworld don and US-designated terrorist supporter Dawood Ibrahim’s close aide Abdul Majeed Kutty was arrested by Gujarat anti-terrorism squad (ATS) from Mango roundabout under Mango police station (PS) in Jamshedpur late Saturday night, police said.Abdul Majeed has been absconding for the past 24 years and had fled to Malaysia after an FIR was lodged against him under section 25(1) Arms Act and 4 (b)/5(b)/6 of the Explosives Act in a case related to explosives and arms sent by Dawood Ibrahim at the behest of a Pakistani agency to carry out bomb blasts in Gujarat and Maharashtra on the Republic Day in 1997.The FIR against him was lodged in Mehsana, Gujarat for smuggling 4 kilograms of RDX, 115 pistols, 750 cartridges made in Pakistan and 10 detonators in 1996. The arms and explosive haul was made from Bombay Guest House near Dudhsagar Dairy on December 23, 1996.Also read: AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine has ‘winning formula’: chief executive Pascal Soriot“Gujarat ATS had come to the city on Friday morning and sought out cooperation for verifying the address and other details of Md Kamal, son of Haroon Rashid. A joint team of Mango police and Gujarat ATS nabbed him from his car near Mango chowk late last evening. During interrogation, it was found that he is a member of an international criminal gang and had fled and was living in Malaysia, Dubai and Bangkok on a fake passport in the name of Md Kamal before coming to Jamshedpur,” Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP), said. “Abdul Majeed Kutty was hiding in the Sahara City complex under Mango PS for the past few years under the fake name of Kamal while his real name is Abdul Majeed Kutty. He was wanted by Gujarat ATS for over two decades. Gujarat ATS has left the city taking along the arrested accused,” added the SSP.As per the available information, this consignment of explosives, arms and ammunition was smuggled in via the Barmer border in Rajasthan and was supposed to be sent to Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Originally hailing from Kerala, Abdul Majeed Kutty was living a lavish life in a duplex bungalow at Sahara City Complex and was nabbed by the Gujarat ATS and Mango police when he was driving to the market in his Ford car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-s-aide-wanted-for-serial-blast-plot-nabbed-in-jamshedpur-after-24-years/story-fRl7EOuXpCIAZc12vYtqHL.html
27-12-2020||India||‘No Corona, Corona No’: This is Ramdas Athawale’s slogan for Covid-19 UK variant||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday said that his earlier slogan “Go Corona, Corona Go” has been successful as the Covid-19 situation is improving in the country. Hence, he has come up with a new slogan “No Corona, Corona No”, which is for the new variant of the infection detected in the UK first, and then in several other places. The news strain is believed to be more contagious and capable of infecting young people as well.“Earlier I gave the slogan ‘Go Corona, Corona Go’ and now corona is going. For the new coronavirus strain, I give the slogan of ‘No Corona, Corona No’,” the minister told ANI. Earlier I gave the slogan 'Go Corona, Corona Go' and now corona is going. For the new coronavirus strain, I give the slogan of 'No Corona, Corona No': Union Minister Ramdas Athawale pic.twitter.com/ND2RQA7gAYThe earlier slogan was coined by Athawale in February when the infection just started to surface in India. He started the slogan as he took part at a prayer meet at Mumbai’s Gateway of India. He chanted the slogan ion March 5, when several Indians, inspired by PM Modi, switched off the lights and lit candles, diyas etc. Meanwhile, the minister has claimed that his earlier slogan became world famous. “I gave the slogan in February, when the Covid-19 situation was not as bad in India. At that time people were saying, will this make corona go away? Now we are seeing this slogan all across the world,” he had said in April.In October, however, he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-corona-corona-no-this-is-ramdas-athawale-s-slogan-for-covid-19-uk-variant/story-PNTt8PkPle7m9v7hSrWkGJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Govt pushed back Chinese investments, not China soldiers: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the Modi government may have pushed back Chinese investments, but it hasn’t been able to push back Chinese soldiers who intruded into Indian territory.The BJP rubbished the Rajya Sabha member’s claim, published in his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana. “It is their single-point agenda to target the Modi government,” Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said.“We were unable to push back Chinese soldiers, but we pushed back Chinese investments,” Raut’s article said.“Instead of shutting investments, we should have pushed back Chinese soldiers from Ladakh,” the Sena MP said.Upadhye said he was yet to come across an article by Raut where he does not cast aspersions on the Modi government.“Anyway the public doesn’t take such claims seriously,” he added.Raut also wrote that the relationship between states and the Centre is getting sour. “If those in power at the Centre don’t realise that they are doing disservice to the people by indulging in politicking, there would be a break-up of states the way USSR disintegrated,” he said.“The fact that states where the BJP is not in power are also part of the country is being forgotten,” Raut said.Claiming that the US government’s coronavirus relief package provides Rs 85,000 per month for each citizen, Raut bemoaned that such a relief package was missing in India.“The Centre doesn’t have money, but has funds to win elections, topple governments and form new ones. The country’s debt burden amount is more than the national revenue. If our prime minister can sleep peacefully in such a situation, he should be praised,” the Rajya Sabha member said.“People lost their lives due to the pandemic, but the Parliament lost its soul. Farmers are protesting against three agriculture laws, but the government ignored their sentiments and instead raised emotional issues like the Ram temple in Ayodhya,” he said.The future of India’s parliamentary democracy came under threat this year, he said. Prominent personalities have informed Modi that instead of building a new Parliament complex at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore, that money should be spent on improving the healthcare facilities, he added.“Funds are being collected from people for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. If a similar crowd-funding activity is carried out for the new Parliament complex, even Rs one lakh would not be collected as such buildings have become useless for people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushed-back-chinese-investments-not-china-soldiers-sanjay-raut/story-RutGalh3MKHVve1pFWjd7O.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Being contract bound, I missed on many projects’||Actor-model Shweta Bhardwaj feels that for a female it is necessary to stand on her feet as early as possible. “I remember how I started my modelling career with a catalogue shoot that fetched me extra pocket money. I strongly feel that one should be financially independent in today’s world to fulfill one’s dreams, else all the hard work goes in vain,” said the ‘Players’ actor. Talking about her early days, Shweta said, “Ace designer Rohit Bal saw me at the party and asked to walk for his show. And, that show made me a known face! Along with a number of musical videos, I did a Delhi-based film ‘Let’s Enjoy’. Coming to Mumbai was because of my crush of that time (laughs). It was in 2007, I won a mega-model contest and was doing TV commercials. Actor-producer Suniel Shetty saw me on a billboard and I got a three-film deal contract from his production house but those films got delayed due to various reasons. That contract bound me from taking work from other makers and I missed on really good projects including ‘Dev D’.” Shweta made a debut in the film industry with ‘Mission Istanbul’ and did a number of films including Telugu cinema. “For me work is important and so I’m happy doing regional films too. My recently released film ‘Omprakash Zindabad’, that was extensively shot in Lucknow with legendry actors like late Om Puriji and Jagdeepji, finally saw the light of the day. Shooting in Lucknow and nearby districts was a memorable experience for me. I fell ill during that period but shooting in a village was life changing stint for me,” said Shweta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/being-contract-bound-i-missed-on-many-projects/story-QNFXCOC9h06cXnZcPsiY6I.html
27-12-2020||India||‘I can’t do something I don’t believe in’||Actor Urvashi Jogiya is not willing to act in digital series with unnecessary adult content. On her visit to Varanasi she said, “There are lot of offers coming for web-series but most of them have bold shots with erotic content. And I’m not game for something that I don’t believe in.” Urvashi who has also done episodic for TV shows like ‘Adaalat’ and ‘Saavdhan India’ feels bold content is not her cup of tea, “I have turned down three offers as I am not convinced doing bold shots. I love to act but I need to be convinced before taking up a project. Unnecessarily stripping in front of a camera is not a performance. But, if bold content is part of the script and worth it then I will surely do it,” says the actor. Urvashi accepts to sustain in Mumbai one needs to work. “When I don’t shoot, I take up photo shoots and commercials. I have done lot of fashion and bridal shoots for make-up academies, fashion brands and photographers. Besides, I keep giving auditions. I also do talks on mental health which is very important in today’s world.” She was also played parts in shows like ‘Madhubala’, ‘Shapath’, and ‘Kya Hua Tera Vaada’. The actor is also looking for opportunities to expand her horizon. “Being a Gujarati I am business minded. ‘Kuch-na-kuch to dhanda hona chahiye’ is the common mindset in our community. So, I’m exploring options. My visit to Varanasi was this purpose only.” She had been to the city earlier too. “I came here in 2017 but that was just for travel. This time, I explored Bada Bazaar, picked up some stuff as I plan to venture in clothing line exhibition and gradually come up with my start-up.” Going gaga about city’s rich heritage she said. “I love different shades of the city. Though it’s crowded at some places but the fact is that it’s beautiful and peaceful at the same time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-can-t-do-something-i-don-t-believe-in/story-6a3ED27z5MAgkE3b8cSRDM.html
27-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar steps down as JD(U) president, hands over charge to RCP Singh||In a surprise move, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar stepped down as national president of the Janata Dal (United) on Sunday and handed over the reins of the party to former bureaucrat turned politician, R C P Singh on Sunday. Singh, a second-term Rajya Sabha MP, is a close associate of Nitish Kumar and has been actively carrying on the JD (U) organizational work ever since he became an MP in 2010 after taking voluntary retirement from service that year. He was the general secretary of the party before his elevation as its president. His name for the post was proposed by Kumar himself and party office-bearers unanimously seconded it. “Nitish Kumar ji decided to relinquish the post of party president and proposed the name of RCP Singh for the same, following which Singh has been elected as new party chief for next three years,” said party principal general secretary K C Tyagi. Kumar’s term as JD (U) national president was to end in 2022 after his re-election as party chief in 2019. He cited one man, one post principle for stepping down, people familiar with the development said.. Party sources said that Kumar surprised everybody by announcing in the national executive meeting that it was not right for a person to hold both posts of president and chief minister. He said that party will move forward under the leadership under Singh. Singh, now a Rajya Sabha MP for a second term, is better known by his initials, RCP and maintains a low profile. He takes over the reins of the party at a time when the JD (U) performed below par in Bihar assembly elections.An UP cadre IAS officer, Singh first came in contact with Nitish Kumar when he was posted as private secretary to then Union minister Beni Prasad Verma in 1996. Kumar and Singh are said to have bonded over the fact that both come from Nalanda in Bihar and are Kurmi (as was Verma). Nitish Kumar is also said to have been impressed with Singh’s acumen as a bureaucrat. When Nitish Kumar became Union railway minister, Singh became his special secretary, later following him through his various portfolios. After Kumar became CM in November 2005, Singh moved to Bihar. He came to play a key role in postings, and as the CM’s principal secretary, was seen as his voice. Soon, Singh’s influence extended to the JD(U) as well. In his presidential address at the national executive, Singh said that it was an emotional moment for him. “I have been associated with Nitish Kumar ji since 1998. I will try to work to his expectations for the faith that he has shown in me,” he said. The scars of developments in Arunachal Pradesh, where six JD (U) MLAs defected to BJP, was clearly visible during the national executive, with Singh himself obliquely criticizing the saffron party. “Nitishji has been running the alliance in Bihar since 2005 and it was due to his work that BJP was able to increase its strike rate in 2010. We don’t betray, neither cheat nor conspire against anybody. We are not demoralized but will work with more zeal to expand our organisation,” Singh said in his address.K C Tyagi was more forthcoming in his criticism of the BJP.“We express anguish over six JD (U) MLAs from Arunachal Pradesh joining Bharatiya Janata Party. This is not a good sign for alliance politics. We work with honesty with all,” said Tyagi. He, however, added that the Arunachal Pradesh developments will have no impact on alliance in Bihar. Tyagi announced that the JD (U) would be contesting the West Bengal polls with full vigour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-steps-down-as-jd-u-president-hands-over-charge-to-rcp-singh/story-8vXtc1hiDWVGfj36fIQYzO.html
27-12-2020||India||Trade, energy cooperation on agenda in Jaishankar’s Qatar visit||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday began a two-day visit to Qatar that is expected to focus on trade, energy cooperation and issues related to Indian workers.Jaishankar will meet Qatari deputy prime minister and foreign minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani and other dignitaries to discuss bilateral, regional and international issues.The visit is part of India’s ongoing outreach to West Asia, which the country sees as part of its extended neighbourhood. Jaishankar recently visited Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, while minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan travelled to Oman. Indian Army chief General MM Naravane visited the UAE and Saudi Arabia, the first such trips by an army chief.In a phone conversation on December 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, decided to create a special task force to facilitate investments by the Qatar Investment Authority in India, and to explore Qatari investments in the country’s energy value-chain.The Qatar Investment Authority has so far invested $600 million in two Indian companies.Jaishankar will also convey India’s special gratitude to Qatar for taking care of Indian expatriates during the Covid-19 pandemic, the external affairs ministry said. Qatar hosts more than 700,000 Indians.Also read: ‘New GST rule doesn’t apply to MSMEs’ - Ministry officialNew Delhi has called on the member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Qatar, to facilitate the return of workers who had come home during the pandemic.Indian workers have benefited from Qatar’s labour reforms ahead of the 2022 football World Cup, including a 25 per cent hike in the minimum wage and the dismantling of a system that required workers to seek the consent of employers to switch jobs.During a meeting of the India-Qatar joint committee on labour and manpower development on December 9, the two sides agreed on institutionalising measures to promote and protect the rights of workers, including settling labour issues and facilitating the movement of people between the two countries in a safe and secure manner.Bilateral trade was worth $10.95 billion in 2019-20, and both countries intend to intensify cooperation in fields such as energy and investments. “The Gulf countries have also been generous in helping India in ensuring oil and gas supplies during the Covid-19 pandemic,” the external affairs ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-energy-cooperation-on-agenda-in-jaishankar-s-qatar-visit/story-dwbqeCgolllOxrpg3W4T7N.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Urging Centre with folded hands farmers are our people,’ says Kejriwal as he visits Singhu||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday visited Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last four weeks against the three agriculture laws passed by the Centre in September. The Punjab Academy of the Delhi government organised a kirtan durbar on Sunday at Singhu border. Kejriwal and Sisodia paid a visit to the musical event and were seated among the audience during the kirtan.Throwing a challenge to the Centre and its ministers to take part in an open debate with the protesting farmers on the provisions of new laws, Kejriwal said, “The government is saying farmers are being misled. They have little understanding of the farm laws. I have heard all speeches and hence I want the government to send its most knowledgeable minister or representative to take part in an open debate with the farmers. It will be clear who has a better understanding.”Also Read: ‘BJP ministers fail to highlight a single benefit of farm laws’: KejriwalSlamming Centre’s attempt to attribute the protest to “anti-social” elements, Kejriwal said, “This is a weapon of all governments. When we took part in Anna andolan, we were also labelled like this. If farmers are anti-national now, then who will feed you? Farmers have been bluffed by all parties for the last 70 years. I want to tell the Centre with folded hands that these protesters are our people. They are fighting for their cause braving this cold. If they are robbed of their farming, what will they do?”As he said earlier, Kejriwal once again pointed out that the laws have no benefits for farmers. “They are saying MSP will not be done away with. The land will not be grabbed. Are these benefits? These are already there,” he said adding that the provision of selling produce anywhere in the country is also no benefit as getting a better price than the MSP.Assuring of all assistance from the Delhi government, Sisodia said, “The Centre wanted to imprison the protesters inside Delhi stadiums. But Delhi CM opposed and ensured that farmers don’t have to suffer in Delhi. In future too, we will do whatever possible for our farmers.”This was Kejriwal’s second visit to Singhu. The protesters are not allowing any political leader to address from their platform. On Sunday too, Kejriwal’s address was at the musical event organised by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-visits-singhu-border/story-X1ZJzKgzVdSnewcS4MAiMK.html
27-12-2020||India||UPA chairperson not a PM post, don’t think Sharad Pawar wants it: P Chidambaram||With speculations that Sharad Pawar may become chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), former cabinet minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said that the post is not that of a Prime Minister, noting that even Pawar will not want to be declared as the chairperson of the alliance as there is no such thing which exists.“I don’t think even Mr Sharad Pawar wants to be declared as the chairperson of the UPA.... When these parties meet, the natural person to extend the invitation and the natural person to preside over the meeting will be the leader of the largest party; we are not selecting a prime minister,” Chidambaram told ANI in an exclusive interaction.“There is no such thing as chairperson of UPA,” he added.Underlining the importance of calling a meet of the UPA parties, the former finance minister said that if the party calls for a meeting of the alliance, “it is only natural that a Congress leader will preside over the meeting’.Further, Chidambaram stressed on the importance of UPA and its allies working together to make the alliance stronger nationwide.“Some of the parties may take the initiative to call the meeting of UPA and Congress will attend it but if the Congress is calling a meeting it is only natural that one of its own leaders will preside over the meeting,” Chidambaram told ANI.Chidambaram mentioned that among the UPA allies, Congress had the largest bench strength in parliament.“The UPA consists of about nine or ten parties and the biggest party in the alliance is the Congress party. Congress has roughly about 95 or 100 members in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha,” he told ANI.Recently, Congress’ ally in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena, in its mouthpiece, Saamna, praised Sharad Pawar for his personality and said ‘Sharad Pawar should become the next chairperson of United Progressive Alliance’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upa-chairperson-not-a-pm-post-don-t-think-sharad-pawar-wants-it-p-chidambaram/story-3TU9qDyhGK0TFYzFIFf5KJ.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Agri reforms were introduced during Narasimha Rao regime, are irreversible’: Venkaiah Naidu||Stating that the reforms in various sectors initiated by former Prime Minister late PV Narasimha Rao were irreversible, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said the reforms process was being implemented more vigorously by the present Narendra Modi government.“The bold economic reforms launched by Rao had accelerated the country’s development on various fronts. It was during his regime that reforms in agriculture sector were introduced and restrictions on transportation of food grains were removed,” Naidu said while releasing a book “Viplava Tapasvi,” written in Telugu by senior journalist A Krishna Rao. The book highlights the different facets of the former prime minister.Naidu reminded that the reforms process was later carried forward by the Vajpayee government and is now being implemented more vigorously by the present Modi government. “He had removed license raj, took up banking reforms, electricity privatization, telecom modernization and steps for boosting exports and attracting foreign investment. He facilitated the entry of India into the World Trade Organization,” he pointed out.Also read: 1991’s reforms too took time to show results - Rajnath SinghNaidu said Rao had a firm belief that the government should not do business but focus on the welfare and development of the nation. “The objective of the economic reforms was to involve the private sector in the development process. He liberalised economy and involved the private sector in key areas,” he pointed out.The vice president reminded that when Narasimha Rao took over as the prime minister, the country was going through severe economic crisis and political uncertainty. “He surpassed the expectations of many political pundits and effectively steered the country through many challenges during his tenure,” he said.Describing the former PM as a multi-faceted personality, he said Rao was a great scholar, litterateur and multi-linguist.“Unfortunately, he did not get due recognition in his party and also as an administrator,” Naidu said.PV Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations Committee chairman and Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao and publisher Raghavendra Rao attended the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-reforms-were-introduced-during-narasimha-rao-regime-are-irreversible-venkaiah-naidu/story-3jktmOQK6Na4Y1HDfvADoN.html
27-12-2020||India||Not a good sign for alliance politics: KC Tyagi on JD(U) MLAs joining BJP in Arunachal Pradesh||Janata Dal (United) leader KC Tyagi on Sunday said the exit of six JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh and their joining the BJP is not a good sign for alliance politics. Talem Taboh, Hayeng Mangfi, Jikke Tako, Dorjee Wangdi, Kharma, Dongru Siongju and Kanggong Taku — the six JD(U) MLAs of Arunachal Pradesh have recently switched to the BJP, leaving JD(U) with only one MLA in the state.Though Nitish Kumar downplayed the exit and said that they have gone their own way, KC Tyagi expressed his anguish and said this is not a good sign for alliance politics. JD(U) is part of the NDA government in Centre and fought Bihar election in alliance with the BJP.Meanwhile,Rajya Sabha member Ramchandra Prasad Singh, a close confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, was on Sunday chosen as the new president of JD(U). Kumar had proposed the name of Singh for the top post, which was then approved by other members during the party’s national executive meeting, a senior leader told PTI.The chief minister, who was re-elected as the JD(U) president in 2019 for three years, relinquished the post in favour of Singh, its leader in Rajya Sabha.Singh, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, was so far the general secretary of the regional party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-good-sign-for-alliance-politics-kc-tyagi-on-jd-u-mlas-joining-bjp-in-arunachal-praesh/story-96ASKjmY7TtHADSLeU4ZRL.html
27-12-2020||India||BJP will perform well in every corner of Himachal in Panchayati Raj polls: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anurag Thakur on Sunday asserted that BJP will perform well in every corner of Himachal Pradesh in the upcoming Panchayati Raj polls.Thakur, Union Minister of State (MoS) for Finance and Corporate Affairs made the remark while addressing people of Himachal Pradesh via video-conference on completion of three years of Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state.“We won elections in Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and even the general election. In the coming days, Panchayati Raj polls will be held in Himachal Pradesh and I am confident that BJP will perform well in every corner of the state,” Thakur said.According to an announcement of the state election commission, the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) elections in Himachal Pradesh will be held in three phases next month--on January 17, 19 and 21.Thakur, who is Lok Sabha MP from Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur constituency said that the central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to enhance investment in the state.“I hope that in the next two years, Himachal Pradesh under the leadership of Chief Minister Jairam Thakur will achieve more than it achieved in the past three years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-perform-well-in-every-corner-of-himachal-in-panchayati-raj-polls-anurag-thakur/story-bV45xJ9KZh35DnWk1E6X6J.html
27-12-2020||India||Jaishankar arrives in Qatar for two-day visit to strengthen bilateral relations||Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar on Sunday arrived on a two-day visit to Qatar from December 27 to 28 wherein he will hold a discussion with Qatari Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani and other important dignitaries. “EAM @DrSJaishankar arrived on a two-day visit. He’ll call on HH Father Amir and HH Deputy Amir. He’ll hold detailed discussions with DPM and FM @MBA_AlThani_ on strengthening India-Qatar bilateral relationship,” India in Qatar wrote in a tweet. EAM @DrSJaishankar arrived on two-day visit. He’ll call on HH Father Amir and HH the Deputy Amir. He’ll hold detailed discussions with DPM&FM @MBA_AlThani_ on strengthening India-Qatar bilateral relationship #IndiaQatar @MEAIndia ⁦@IndianDiplomacy⁩ pic.twitter.com/piYiFsRih0This will be Jaishankar’s first visit to Qatar as External Affairs Minister.During the visit, he will hold talks with his counterpart on bilateral issues as well as regional and international issues of mutual interest.According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), India and Qatar enjoy strong economic, cultural and people-to-people ties.“Qatar hosts more than 7 lakh Indians. The bilateral trade was USD 10.95 billion in 2019-20. Both sides remain committed to intensifying bilateral cooperation in various fields including energy and investments,” the statement said.India and Qatar have also worked together to face the Covid-19 pandemic and coordinated smooth operation of flights under an Air Bubble arrangement, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-arrives-in-qatar-for-two-day-visit-to-strengthen-bilateral-relations/story-WfsZ7LfE9aM8dWGiuuoyxK.html
27-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre extends validity of driving license and other related documents till March 31 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Validity of vehicle registration, driving license extended till March 31The validity of crucial documents like driving licence, vehicle registration, and fitness certificates that have expired since February 1 and could not be extended owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Read MoreNew farm laws aimed to continue reforms Vajpayee govt initiated, says defence minister Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday told farmers that the new farm laws introduced by the government are aimed to continue the process of agricultural reforms spearheaded . Read MoreGoogle Pixel 6 shows up for the first time and it might be disappointing for fansGoogle launched the Pixel 5 smartphone back in September this year. Now, nearly three months later, reports about the Pixel 5 successor, that is, the Google Pixel 6 smartphone have already started to flood the internet. As per the latest report by Slash Leaks. Read MoreMS Dhoni named captain of ICC Men’s ODI and T20I Teams of the Decade, Kohli leads Test sideThe International Cricket Council (ICC) announced the Men’s T20I and ODI teams of the decade on Sunday and named former India captain MS Dhoni as the leader of both sides. Read MoreCoolie No 1 promotions: Sara Ali Khan proves her love for prints in crop top and mini skirtThe floral print is having a major moment right now. A lot of Bollywood divas are opting for bold colours and prints that remind us of the Spring season. From Ananya Panday to Janhvi Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, the actors are showing us how to slay in a floral print. Read MoreAnurag Basu says his vision for Hrithik Roshan-starrer Kites clashed with Rakesh Roshan’s: ‘Film was neither here nor there’Director Anurag Basu has said that his vision for the 2010 film Kites did not match that of producer Rakesh Roshan. Intended to be a film that could crossover to Hollywood, Anurag said that in the end ‘na idhar ki rahi na udhar (It was neither here nor there).” Read MoreGrocery store staff breaks into dance in New Zealand, video is all about happinessThe Internet is filled with different kinds of videos, including those that leave people with a smile on their face. Just like this wholesome video from New Zealand which is now spreading happiness among people. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-extends-validity-of-driving-license-and-other-related-documents-till-march-31-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2MlY2HCIVNUa5841tss6nK.html
27-12-2020||India||‘New GST rule doesn’t apply to small firms’: Ministry official||Small companies do not require to pay minimum 1 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST) liabilities in cash as businesses with an annual turnover of less than Rs 6 crore are exempted from the new rule, a finance ministry official said.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) last week introduced a change in the GST rules that restricted the use of input tax credit (ITC) for discharging GST liability to 99 per cent, the official said requesting anonymity. The move was aimed at curbing the misappropriation of the ITC through fake invoicing, he said.“In order to protect small businesses and genuine taxpayers, there are some exemptions to this rule,” he said. The new rule is not applicable in such cases where registered entities have already deposited more than Rs 1 lakh as income-tax in last two years.It is also not applicable to registered entities which have received a refund of more than Rs 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of export, he said, adding that government departments and local authorities are also exempted from the rule.“A legitimate business runs for profit and a minimum value addition is expected from them. It is only where a lot of fake credit is used that no tax payment in cash is made,” he said giving the reason behind implementing the new rule.Also read: 1991’s reforms too took time to show results: Rajnath SinghThis rule will help control fake invoices fraudsters who avail and pass on ITC by dummy, fake and dormant entities which show high turnovers but have no financial credibility and flee after issuing fake invoices and misusing ITC, he added. The new rule is the outcome of a thorough deliberation by the GST Law Committee to check the menace of fake invoices and misappropriation of ITC, he said. The government in November launched a nationwide drive to nab such fraudsters. “So far, 175 people have been arrested under the ongoing drive and more than 1,800 cases have been booked against over 8,000 fake entities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-gst-rule-doesn-t-apply-to-msmes/story-smEKFxBooXxXWgNCCCh9YN.html
27-12-2020||India||Chavan responds to Raut: ‘Alliance with Shiv Sena limited to Maharashtra’||Senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday said that the Shiv Sena is not part of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) as the tie-up between the Congress and the Shiv Sena is only limited to Maharashtra. “Shiv Sena is yet to become a part of the UPA. Our alliance with the Sena in Maharashtra is based on a Common Minimum Programme (CMP) and limited to Maharashtra,” he said.The comments by the state Pwd minister came just a day after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut called for expansion of the Congress-led bloc saying that the opposition should unite against the “dictatorial attitude” of the Centre and provide a “formidable alternative” to the Narendra Modi government. Raut had also appreciated Sonia Gandhi and said that she effectively led the UPA all these years with many allies in the fold. Responding to a query on a speculation that NCP chief Sharad Pawar may head the UPA, Raut said there was no dearth of leaders in the country.“What is important is the support of people. Apart from Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar has support from a cross-section of people,” he said.Chavan responded to this comment and said that it was not proper for the Uddhav Thackeray-led party to comment on the UPA leadership.“Sharad Pawar himself has denied the speculation that he will be the next chairperson of the UPA. UPA allies trust the leadership of Sonia Gandhi. So there is no need to discuss the issue,” Chavan said.The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, of which the NCP and the Congress are constituents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chavan-responds-to-raut-alliance-with-shiv-sena-limited-to-maharashtra/story-FCk3olbtMkpyn9Z8ctywkK.html
27-12-2020||India||New farm laws aimed to continue reforms Vajpayee govt initiated, says defence minister Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday told farmers that the new farm laws introduced by the government are aimed to continue the process of agricultural reforms spearheaded initially by the Vajpayee government.The defence minister was addressing a virtual event to celebrate the completion of three years of Jai Ram Thakur government in Himachal Pradesh. During his speech, Rajnath Singh said that when he was the agriculture minister in 2003 he had faced challenges in lowering input costs in farming. He said at that time banks charged 14-18% interest on farm loans.JP Nadda shares old video, take a dig at Rahul Gandhi over criticism of farm laws“It surprised me that interest charged on motor vehicle loans was close to 8% but for a productive sector like farming banks were levying 14-18% interest rates on agricultural loans,” Singh said.“I requested finance minister Jaswant Singh to reduce interest rates for farmers. He was reluctant initially, but after prime minister Vajpayee’s nudge, he agreed to reduce interest rates. PM Modi’s new laws are aimed at continuing the process of reforms which was introduced by Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” Singh further added.Singh also assured farmers all over the country during his speech that under the new laws they now can sell their produce anywhere in the country. He also reiterated his previous proposal from last week where he asked farmers to allow the implementation of the laws for a year and then seek changes if the laws do not prove to be beneficial.The defence minister also hit out at Congress and other opposing parties during his speech saying that the laws have scared elements who previously took advantage of the shortcomings in the agricultural sector. He also said that the Minimum Support Price system (MSP) of procurement will continue.Inner Line Permit biggest gift to people of Manipur by PM Modi: Amit Shah in ImphalLeaders of farmers’ unions on Saturday informed the government that they are ready to sit for another round of discussions on December 29. They have said that discussions can be held if the government agrees on discussing modalities to repeal the newly introduced laws and legal guarantee of procurement under the MSP system.The month-long protest by farmers’ groups at Delhi’s borders has entered its 32nd day. Farmers still believe that the government’s laws will pave the way for contract farming and affect the procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-farm-laws-aimed-to-continue-reforms-vajpayee-govt-initiated-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh/story-0E7D9YB1zfm6N9E2INEhmJ.html
27-12-2020||India||RCP Singh becomes new JD(U) president, takes over from Nitish Kumar||RCP Singh, a close confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, was on Sunday chosen as the new president of Janata Dal (United).Kumar had proposed the name of Singh for the top post, which was then approved by other members during the party’s national executive meeting, a senior leader told PTI.The chief minister, who was re-elected as the JD(U) president in 2019 for three years, relinquished the post in favour of Singh, its leader in Rajya Sabha.Singh, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, was so far the general secretary of the regional party.The JD(U) is holding its national executive meeting to deliberate on issues related to the country’s political situation, after six out of the party’s seven MLAs switched over to the BJP.Polls in neighbouring West Bengal also came up for discussion at the meeting, the senior leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rcp-singh-becomes-new-jd-u-president-takes-over-from-nitish-kumar/story-zByU4jhXcWCsKQQIhr0Q4H.html
27-12-2020||India||Manufacturers should ensure products meet global standards : PM Modi||With the focus on self-reliance and indigenous production, manufacturers should ensure that their products meet global standards, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday . In his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, the PM said this is an opportune moment to work with the ethos “zero effect, zero defect”. “I urge manufacturers and industry leaders of the country…people of the country have taken a firm step…moving a bold step forward…vocal for local is reverberating in each and every household….in such a scenario, it is time to ensure that our products meet global standards. Whatever is global best; we should make it in India and prove it. For that, our entrepreneur friends have to come forward. Startups too have to come forth,” he said. To give a fillip to indigenous production in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, the Union government has announced a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. The PM also gave the call of “vocal for local” to reduce dependence on imports. Referring to the demand for local products going up, PM Modi said a growing trend of customers demanding India made toys is a big transformation in the mindset. “A huge change has begun in the minds of our countrymen…that too within a year. It is not easy to gauge this change. Even economists would not be able to assess it on their parameters,” he said. Geographical Indication, or GI, tagging for agri products will also aid in the making of a self-reliant India, the PM said, citing the example of saffron from Kashmir. The PM said, “…After obtaining the GI tag certificate, Kashmiri Saffron was launched in a super market in Dubai. Now its exports will get a boost. This will further strengthen our efforts to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Farmers growing saffron will be especially benefited by this” The PM also referred to the need to preserve India’s culture and heritage and recalled how the sons of Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh, sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh sacrificed their lives to protect the country’s “millennia old culture, civilization and traditions from the cruel misdemeanours of tyrants and tormentors”. “The tyrants wanted sahibzade to renounce their faith; abandon the teachings of the great Guru tradition. But our sahibzade showed amazing courage and determination even at that tender age. During the immurement, as stones began piling up, gradually raising the height of the wall……. Death staring into the face…..despite that, they did not budge even a bit. It was on this day itself that Guru Gobind Singh ji’s mother -Mata Gujari attained martyrdom,” he said. He also referred to his visit to Gurudwara Rakabganj last week where he paid tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur. The visit came in the midst of the ongoing protests by a large section of farmers from Haryana and Punjab against the farm laws. These agitating farmers have been demanding a repeal of the farm laws. “During this very month, inspired by Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji, many people sleep on the floor. People reminisce, the supreme sacrifices made by family members of Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji with immense reverence,” he said. In the last radio broadcast for the year, the Prime Minister also said that the number of leopards in India has risen by more than 60% between 2014 and 2018. Dubbing this as an achievement, he said, amongst the states with the maximum population of leopards, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are topmost in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manufacturers-should-ensure-products-meet-global-standards-pm-modi/story-xe56zSSTfSA9cDJNf5rEJJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Validity of vehicle registration, driving license extended till March 31||The validity of crucial documents like driving licence, vehicle registration, and fitness certificates that have expired since February 1 and could not be extended owing to the coronavirus pandemic has been extended until March 31, 2021, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) said on Sunday.This is the fourth such extension for the validity of these documents. The last such extension was done in August, when the government had extended the validity till December 31, 2020. The latest extension is meant to cover documents that expire either by February 1 or by March 31 of 2021. This has been done to help citizens use their private modes of transportation while maintaining social distancing, said the MoRTH. “This will help out citizens in availing transport-related services while maintaining social distancing,” the circular released by the Press Information Bureau said.Keeping in mind the long queues for licence renewal that would violate social distancing norms, and the lockdowns and curfews that are still in force in different parts of the country, the decision of extending the deadline was taken by the Union ministry. “The government has provided for the availability of the essential goods and production thereof and has allowed the vehicles for the transport of such goods/cargo and further opening up the operation of passenger transport in view of the fact that citizens were finding it difficult to get renewed the validity of various documents due to lock-down in operation at various stages in different parts of the country and other countries world over. Renewal of such documents is still leading to the assembly of people and long queues in front of the transport offices across the country,” the Union government said in an advisory to all states and union territories (UTs).The Union ministry has asked all states and UTs to implement the recent advisory in letter and spirit so that citizens do not face additional challenges during an ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/validity-of-vehicle-registration-driving-license-extended-till-march-31/story-aaHC00v8MY8M9ODWfv1xsJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Took years to see positive results of 1991 economic reforms too, says Rajnath Singh, urges farmers to wait for 2 years||Reiterating Modi government’s commitment to protecting minimum support price so that farmers’ interests are not hurt at any cost, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said it takes some to see the impact of the agriculture reforms. “I appeal to farmers to see changes in the next one and half years. Otherwise, we can improve them through talks,” Rajnath Singh said as he was addressing the people of Himachal Pradesh via video-conferencing on the completion of three years of Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government.“Be it the 1991 economic reforms brought in by the Narasimha Rao government or other ones enacted during the Vajpayee government, it took four-five years to see their positive results. If we can’t wait for four-five years, we can wait for at least two years to witness positive results of the agriculture reforms carried out by the Narendra Modi government,” Singh said.On an earlier occasion too, Rajnath Singh while addressing farmers in Delhi asked them to let the laws be implemented and the wait and see. “The income of farmers will double with the enactment of farm laws,” Rajnath said.Slamming the opposition for misleading farmers, Singh said, “It’s unfortunate that those who don’t even know about farming, are misleading innocent farmers. This govt never intended to stop MSP, neither it will in future. Mandis will also be maintained. No ‘Mai Ka Lal’ can take away land from farmers.”The protesting farmer unions on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks to end the deadlock over the three newly enacted farm laws, but made it clear that the modalities for its repeal and guarantee for MSP should be part of the agenda. The agriculture ministry in its last letter to the unions maintained that as MSP does not come under the purview of the three laws that are being discussed, it was not logical to include this in the agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-years-to-see-positive-results-of-1991-economic-reforms-too-says-rajnath-singh-urges-farmers-to-wait-for-2-years/story-lSWsOPggordsxeTxCjuLIO.html
27-12-2020||India||Inner Line Permit biggest gift to people of Manipur by PM Modi: Amit Shah in Imphal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday capped off his two-day visit to the northeast with a foundation stone laying ceremony in Manipur’s capital city, Imphal. Highlighting the slew of development projects launched by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, Shah stated that Manipur - “once a hotbed of insurgency” - is now experiencing a new thrust in development.“Earlier, Manipur was known for insurgency, bandhs, and blockades, but now most militant organisations have joined the mainstream and those left would also do so following efforts of the BJP government,” he said.Shah heralded the recently granted Inner-Line Permit (ILP) system as the best gift for the people of Manipur, one that fulfilled their long standing demand. “Besides granting statehood to Manipur the gift of ILP is the best gift BJP has given the people of Manipur,” the home minister said.Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking the decision to grant ILP to Manipur, Shah said, “Modiji realised that Manipur is not having the Inner Line Permit when other states surrounding it had it which is injustice to the indigenous people and he found a way.”The ILP is an official travel document issued by the concerned state government to allow travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It is obligatory for the citizens from outside those states to obtain a permit for entering into the protected state. The objective behind this is to prevent settlement of other Indian nationals in ILP states so as to protect the indigenous population and their access to land, jobs, and other facilities. Besides Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, and Nagaland also come under the ILP system.Shah also talked about the IT SEZ worth Rs 950 crore that will be soon opened which he estimated would contribute around Rs 4,600 crore towards Manipur’s GDP.The home minister also promised a medical hospital in a designated tribal area and urged chief minister N Biren Singh to look into establishing a college for forensic sciences in Manipur in collaboration with the esteemed Institute of Forensic Science for the benefit of the students here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inner-line-permit-biggest-gift-to-people-of-manipur-by-pm-modi-amit-shah-in-imphal/story-Ud89flKymJPNEBBbOoYQnN.html
27-12-2020||India||Covid-19: These states have renewed restrictions ahead of new year celebrations||As alarm over the new coronavirus variant found in the UK and later in France, Spain, Sweden and Canada spreads, several states have renewed restrictions ahead of new year celebrations. The states have also listed out precautions to be taken to help prevent the spread of coronavirus.This comes in the backdrop of daily Covid-19 cases in the country falling to 18,732, and the total count reaching 10,187,850 on Sunday, according to the health ministry dashboard. The country recorded 279 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll due to the virus to 147,622. Here are the states that have renewed restrictions ahead of new year celebrations:Maharashtra: The state has announced a seven-hour night curfew across all cities and municipal corporation areas. The 11 pm to 6 am curfew is in place since December 22, and will continue till January 5, 2021. “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated,” BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.Tamil Nadu: The state government issued an order banning new year celebrations on beaches, hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31 and January 1, 2021. There will be no entry to the beaches on these days, and no midnight revelries would be allowed on beach roads, restaurants, hotels, clubs, resorts including beach resorts, and similar places on New Year’s eve and the following day, an official statement read.Karnataka: After the night curfew order was withdrawn, Karnataka has put a ban on mass gatherings without social distancing in clubs, pubs, restaurants or in similar places from December 30 to January 2.Rajasthan: Curfew will be imposed in Rajasthan from 8 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1. Markets in the state will also be closed at 7 pm on New Year’s eve, according to an order of the state home department. The order, which was passed after it was decided that ‘Diwali-like’ restrictions will be put in place, will be applicable in all municipal councils.Uttarakhand: State capital Dehradun has banned public celebrations like parties at hotels, bars and restaurants on New Year’s Eve and New Year, adding that violation of the ban will be punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-these-states-have-renewed-restrictions-ahead-of-new-year-celebrations/story-AXMyoSi0fyhhSfHSmAQZTO.html
27-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Dry run in Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat on December 28, 29||With a January target to roll out the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India, the Centre is starting dry run in four states — Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat — from tomorrow. The exercise will continue for two days, December 28 and 29, in two districts each. There will be no vaccine involved in the process, which will only check the feasibility of the plan which involves real-time monitoring through Co-WIN app.Though India has not given a nod to any vaccine for emergency use, Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, tested and manufactured in India by Serum Institute, is the front-runner. Once the UK drug regulator gives its approval to the vaccine, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation is likely to hold a meeting where the details will be reviewed and the nod will be given after evaluation.Also Read: Covid-19: Vaccination dry run to be held in 4 states next weekFor Covid-19 vaccination, as many as 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level training of state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, information, education and communication officials and development partners.Here’s how the dry run will take place1. It will be a mock drill. Everything except vaccine administering will be tested. Data will be fed to Co-WIN app, cold storage will be tested, the transport of vaccines from cold storage to the sites, crowd management at sites will be checked. 2. For vaccination, as many sites as possible will be used. Hence, the dry runs too will be conducted in all different settings — district hospitals, community health centres or primary health care centre, urban site, private health facility and rural outreach. Also Read: Dry run for Covid vaccine in Ludhiana on December 28, 293. The aim of the exercise is to identify challenges and make required changes in the plan so that the final process becomes foolproof.4. The programme managers will get a hands-on experience of how everything will take place at various levels. 5. The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and review at block and district levels, and preparation of feedback to be shared with the state and the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-punjab-assam-andhra-pradesh-and-gujarat-on-december-28-29/story-5UE7d1iZVbWAPUNjxpa7kJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Lingaraj Temple reopens for devotees after remaining closed for almost nine months due to Covid-19||Shree Lingaraj Temple here reopened for devotees on Sunday after remaining closed for almost nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.Servitors and their family members were allowed entry into the oldest shrine of the state capital on the first day.They will be allowed to pray inside the temple till December 31, while the general public from outside the state capital will be allowed from January 6.The residents of Bhubaneswar can have the darshan of the Lord from January 3.The 11th century Shree Lingaraj temple is a unique place in India where both Lord Shiva and Lord Vishnu are worshipped together, making it a “Hari-Har” peeth.The officials said the temple was sanitised a day before allowing the devotees to offer prayer in the shine. The temple will remain closed for devotees on January 1 and 2 due to possible big congregation due to the New Year.The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, which has made arrangement for adherence of the Covid-19 guidelines, has meanwhile, clarified that the devotees having Covid-19 negative report will only be allowed to enter the temple.The BMC has put up temporary test camps near the temple to enable the devotees to get their Covid-19 tests before getting entry into the shrine. The authorities have also put up barricades outside the temple to ensure smooth darshan and proper implementation of the Covid-19 norms.Meanwhile, the Puri district administration announced its decision to allow the people who live in the pilgrim town, to enter Lord Jagannath Temple on December 31.Puri District Magistrate-cum-Collector Balwant Singh said the special arrangements will be made for the purpose of allowing the local people to enter the 12th century shrine.Shree Jagannath temple was opened for devotees on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lingaraj-temple-reopens-for-devotees-after-remaining-closed-for-almost-nine-months-due-to-covid-19/story-1AjROj36J2lC3cE1yQzKNM.html
27-12-2020||India||J-K: Amar Singh College conservation project recognised with UNESCO award||Srinagar-based Amar Singh College’s building, built nearly 80 years ago, is one of the seven conservation projects to be recognised with the 2020 UNESCO Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation.The award was announced by nine international conservation experts. The deliberations were held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic by INTACH’s Jammu and Kashmir chapter.The INTACH chapter in the Union Territory had carried out the conservation work at the Amar Singh College and restoration of the Amar Singh College brought back one of the most prominent institutional buildings in Kashmir to its former glory.The project team’s meticulous attention to original building design and materials involved imparting training to new generation of building artisans in brick and stone masonry.The project serves as a noteworthy model for safeguarding a unique 20th-century architectural asset.With the annoucement of this award, teachers, staff and students of this college feel proud as now people and tourists will also like to visit this college to see this heritage building and this building is now included in oldest heritage building of Kashmir valley.Bashir Ahmad Rather, Principal Amar Singh College, Srinagar said, “If a heritage or cultural building has been conserved properly, that is when it can get recognised with UNESCO. The building was renovated last year using the original material the building was constructed from.”Professor Tariq Ashai told ANI, the ambience and construction of the college building has been recognised by UNESCO.“It was only possible because of the students and the faculty members of the college. We now have the responsibility to preserve the infrastructure and beauty of this building,” he added. Students of Amar Singh College also lauded the administration for preserving the building till date. They are happy to be a part of the educational institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-amar-singh-college-conservation-project-recognised-with-unesco-award/story-LrT3V5xYtw7WbaGR9W5aEM.html
27-12-2020||India||JP Nadda shares old video, take a dig at Rahul Gandhi over criticism of farm laws||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi speaking in the Lok Sabha and accused him of opposing now what he advocated earlier. Nadda was referring to the staunch criticism of farm laws by the Opposition.Rahul Gandhi can be seen narrating a story of a Uttar Pradesh farmer in the video. “A farmer from UP once asked me how it was possible that that while he sold potatoes for Rs 2 per kilogram, his children bought packets of potato chips, with each one having chips worth one potato, for Rs 10 each,” he said. ये क्या जादू हो रहा है राहुल जी?पहले आप जिस चीज़ की वकालत कर रहे थे, अब उसका ही विरोध कर रहे है।देश हित, किसान हित से आपका कुछ लेना-देना नही है।आपको सिर्फ़ राजनीति करनी है।लेकिन आपका दुर्भाग्य है कि अब आपका पाखंड नही चलेगा। देश की जनता और किसान आपका दोहरा चरित्र जान चुके है। pic.twitter.com/Uu2mDfBuIT“On being asked why he thought this was happening, the farmer said it was because they were unable to sell their products directly to the factories making chips. If there was provision for us to sell our produce directly, without middlemen, all profit would reach us,” he added.The video clip, from 2015, shows Rahul Gandhi speaking on what prompted the Congress to undertake the Amethi Food Park project.The BJP government at the Centre has been saying that the new farm laws, passed by Parliament in September, will be liberating for small farmers. According to the government, the laws will shield farmers from middlemen and increase their income. The group of farmers protesting against the laws, however, feel that they will put them at the mercy of big landowners. They have proposed December 29 as the date for the next round of talks with the government. This will be the sixth round of meetings between Union ministers and farmer groups.The three contentious farm laws are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-shares-old-video-take-a-dig-at-rahul-gandhi-over-criticism-of-farm-laws/story-QFnqO63iQHVwwYWMDvoOqN.html
27-12-2020||India||J-K cop arrested in Budgam two days after decamping with two rifles||A special police officer (SPO) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police who had deserted the force two days ago was arrested from Central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Sunday morning, police said.Three other persons were also arrested along with the deserter cop by security forces during checking of vehicles at Chadoora, police said.A police spokesman said that on a specific input, a joint team of the Jammu and Kashmir Police, 53 Rashtriya Rifles and 181 Bn CRPF launched a cordon and search operation at Hayatpora, Chadoora. “During search, one vehicle tried to flee from the cordon which was stopped tactfully, the occupants tried to resist who were overpowered by security forces. Out of them one was identified as deserter SPO turned militant Altaf Hussain,” the spokesman said.The spokesman said the other three arrested persons were identified as Shabir Ahmad Bhat, Jamsheed Magray and Zahid Dar - all residents of Pulwama. Arms and ammunition and other incriminating material were seized from them after a search. “On further enquiry, it was found that the group is associated with banned terror organization Jaish e Mohammad (JeM) and was operating in the area with the intention of carrying out some subversive activities.”Two days ago the SPO had decamped with two AK 47 rifles along with one Jahangir who was later on arrested by security forces in a cordon and search operation.“In this regard case under relevant sections of UAPA has been registered in Chadoora police station and investigation taken up,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cop-arrested-in-budgam-two-days-after-decamping-with-two-rifles/story-IibEKN0MAqZHptpLgf9JOI.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Landmark peak, active Covid-19 cases lowest after 170 days’: Health ministry||As India’s daily Covid-19 caseload dropped to 18,732 on Sunday, the Union health ministry called it “landmark peak in country’s infection trajectory”.“Landmark peak in India’s Covid-19 trajectory as daily new cases drop to 18,732 after 6 months. India’s total active caseload has fallen to 2.78 lakh (2,78,690) today. This is the lowest after 170 days,” the ministry said on Twitter. #Unite2FightCoronaLandmark peak in India's Covid19 trajectory- Daily new cases drop to 18,732 after 6 months.https://t.co/btuueGmJPu pic.twitter.com/vBmDDEj673It also said that India has reported a trend of sustained decrease in the number of active cases. “India’s present active caseload consists of just 2.74 per cent of India’s total positive cases,” it said.The total recovered cases stand at 97,61,538. The gap between recovered and active cases, that is steadily increasing, is nearing 95 lakh and presently stands at 94,82,848, the ministry said.India’s Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,01,87,850 on Sunday.The total number of active cases in the country stands at 2,78,690 while the total discharged cases are at 97,61,538 with 21,430 new discharges in the last 24 hours, according to health ministry tally.Maharashtra has 59,223 active cases while Kerala has 63,927 active Covid-19 cases, according to the Health Ministry. Meanwhile, a total of 16,81,02,657 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to December 26. Of these, 9,43,368 samples were tested yesterday, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-peak-active-covid-19-cases-lowest-after-170-days-health-ministry/story-DFqJ8XWtKRJqmi8RCnsJSN.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Request CBI to share findings in Sushant Singh Rajput case’: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should reveal the findings of the investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput case.“It has been more than five months since the investigation began but CBI has not revealed if actor Sushant Singh Rajput was murdered or he died by suicide. I request CBI to reveal findings of the investigation at the earliest,” Deshmukh said.The actor was found dead in his Mumbai residence on June 14. Mumbai Police, which said the actor died by suicide, was carrying out the initial investigation of the case. In August, the Supreme Court ordered a CBI probe into the case.The CBI approached the forensic department of the AIIMS for a second opinion on Rajput’s autopsy. The forensic team submitted its report to the CBI and reportedly asserted that there was no mark to prove that it was not a suicide.Several agencies have launched parallel probe into the case: The CBI is probing the ‘suicide’ case, while Enforcement Directorate is probing a money-laundering angle and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing a drugs-related angle.Several Bollywood stars have been questioned by the NCB as part of its investigation. The NCB probe is based on some WhatsApp chats involving drugs.The agency had earlier arrested Rajput’s girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Rhea, her brother, and some other accused were later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-cbi-to-share-findings-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-maharashtra-minister/story-Z0AZvNTLV9xREvOSnQvryK.html
27-12-2020||India||Amit Shah offers prayers at Assam’s Kamakhya temple||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday offered prayers at Shaktipeeth Kamakhya temple atop the Nilachal Hills here, on the last day of his three-day visit to the northeast, before leaving for Manipur, where he is scheduled to inaugurate projects, a senior official said.Shah arrived at the temple from the PWD Inspection Bungalow at Amingaon here around 10 am, accompanied by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the official said.The home minister, however, entered the sanctum sanctorum of the temple with just three ‘Dolois’ or priests, as Sonowal and Sarma waited near its gate.He also undertook a ‘parikrama’ (circumambulation) around the shrine, the senior official added.Took blessings at Maa Kamakhya Devi temple and prayed for the wellbeing and prosperity of our citizens.ঐতিহ্যমণ্ডিত কামাখ্যা মন্দিৰত মা কামাখ্যাৰ শ্ৰীচৰণত সেৱা জনাই সকলোৰে কল্যাণৰ বাবে প্ৰাৰ্থনা জনালোঁ। pic.twitter.com/Hl0cE3SXu2The top BJP leader, who landed here on Friday night, launched four development projects the day after at an official function. He met expelled Congress MLAs Ajanta Neog and Rajdeep Goala, following which the two confirmed that they would be joining the saffron party.The Union minister held a late-night meeting with the state BJP’s core committee members to discuss poll strategy for the upcoming Assam assembly elections.Shah is set to lay foundation stones of seven major projects in Manipur, including a medical college at Churachandpur, later in the day. He will also inaugurate the Thoubal Dam and dedicate the Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen Road to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-offers-prayers-at-assam-s-kamakhya-temple/story-uWarmCnzyMfSc9dNdq9wAO.html
27-12-2020||India||2 suspected terrorists arrested in J-K’s Poonch, bid to attack temple foiled||Security forces on Sunday said that they have busted a terror module in Mendhar area in Poonch district following the arrest of two suspected terrorists of the J&K Ghaznavi Force from Balakote.The security forces also claimed to have foiled a sinister plot of Pakistan-backed terrorists to attack a temple in Ari area of Mendhar with grenades.Senior Superintendent of Police in Poonch, Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “At around 8 pm on Saturday, two suspects Mustafa Iqbal and Murtaza Iqbal, both sons of Mohammad Yaseen of Keri Galhuta in Gursai area of Poonch were picked up by special Operation Group (SOG) Mendher and 49 Rashtriya Rifles near Basooni”.The two suspects were interrogated at 49 RR battalion headquarters in Basooni. The officer said that during the interrogation a suspicious conversation with a man with a Pakistani number was found on the phone of Mustafa Iqbal.“During further questioning Mustafa Iqbal admitted that he had been tasked with throwing grenades at a Hindu temple in Ari of Mendhar. A video of how to use a grenade was also found in his phone,” said the SSP. Mendhar is a border town close to the Line of Control (LoC). Later during searches of his house, six grenades and a few posters of J&K Ghaznavi Force were also found, he added. “A search operation is still on and two more suspects have been picked up from Dabi village near the LoC in Balakote,” Angral said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-suspected-terrorists-arrested-in-j-k-s-poonch-bid-to-attack-temple-foiled/story-aXFAJ4PHjhaCTNpOhcwoLI.html
27-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On 2020’s last Mann Ki Baat PM Modi hails Kashmiri Saffron and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Saffron has been associated with Kashmir for centuries: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatInvoking the words of Abul Fazal the Prime Minister delved into the world of Kashmiri Kesar (saffron) in the latest episode of Mann ki Baat on Sunday morning.“If we talk about quality, then Kashmiri saffron is very unique, and entirely different from the saffron found in other countries.” Read More‘Time to ensure our products are world class’: Modi on last ‘Mann ki Baat’ of 2020Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged India’s manufacturers and industry leaders to amplify the call for ‘vocal for local’ by making more and more indigenous products. He also said that the manufacturers should ensure that the country’s products are world class. Read moreExpress train overshoots red signal by 500 metres, crew suspendedPassengers of the Tata Nagar-bound Danapur-Tata express were left stranded for hours after the train overshot the red signal at Hatidah Junction falling under Danapur rail division of the Eastern Central Railway on Saturday morning. Read MoreIndia stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane matches Virat Kohli’s feat, slams superb century against Australia in MelbourneAjinkya Rahane slammed his 12th Test century and first as captain as India drove away the advantage on Day 2 of the second Test against Australia on Sunday.Rahane got to his century with a square cut off Pat Cummins’ ball that raced away to the fence. Read MoreHarsh Goenka’s creative tweet of hope for the new year garners praise from tweepleBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka has shared a post on Twitter about the ending of the eventful year 2020 and nurturing hope for the upcoming new year. The year 2020 may have left the world at a standstill with the spread of a deadly virus. Read MoreMirza Ghalib 223rd birth anniversary: 20 couplets by the Mughal era Urdu poet that capture the pathos of loveOccupying a place of pride in the world of literature, Mirza Asadullah Baig Khan, who wrote under the pen name ‘Ghalib’ is one of the most quotable Urdu poets whose sher or couplets  Read MoreKangana Ranaut’s first director, Anurag Basu, says he doesn’t understand her public persona: ‘There are two Kanganas’Director Anurag Basu has said that he doesn’t meet Kangana Ranaut very often, but when he does, it’s like the old times. He said that he doesn’t understand the public persona that Kangana has developed. Read MoreSalman Khan says he ‘won’t celebrate birthday’, cuts a cake with paparazziBollywood actor Salman Khan turned 55 on December 27. Salman was seen at his Panvel farmhouse. He cut a cake at midnight with the paparazzi outside his farmhouse. “I’m not celebrating my birthday this year, it’s just me and my family,” he said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-2020-s-last-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-hails-kashmiri-saffron-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iuXo1mYOdF6dKWjBZ8qa4O.html
27-12-2020||India||5 states with highest coronavirus tally: A look at the numbers||Amid panic over the new strain of coronavirus, which was first found in the UK and is now spreading to other countries, India’s nationwide Covid-19 tally crossed the 10.18 million mark on Sunday. States with the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, according to Union health ministry.The new strain, which experts fear is more contagious than the earlier one, has prompted over 50 countries to impose travel restrictions on the UK. Meanwhile, eight people who returned to Kerala from the UK in the last one week and tested positive for Covid-19, are being tested for the new strain of the disease.Over 7,35,00 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Kerala and the death toll is inching towards the 3,000-mark with 21 deaths being added, state health minister K K Shailaja said Saturday, adding that total recoveries went up to 668,733.Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by the pandemic, recorded 2,854 new cases and 60 deaths in 24 hours. With this, the death toll due to the pandemic went up to 49,189 and the total infection tally in the state reached 19,16,236. There are 58,091 active patients in the state now.In Andhra Pradesh, confirmed cases of coronavirus crossed 880,000 with 282 fresh infections. The total recoveries increased to 8,69,920 and deaths to 7,092. According to the state government, after 1.15 crore sample tests, the overall infection positivity rate in the state was found to be 7.61% while the recovery rate touched 98.77%.Karnataka’s daily coronavirus case count was 857, taking the total number of infections to 915,345 while the state’s death toll reached 12,051. According to the state health department bulletin, there are 13,394 active cases, out of which 13,189 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 205 are in ICU.Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu recorded 1,019 new coronavirus cases, 1,098 recoveries and 11 deaths, taking the total infection tally to 8,13,161. While 7,92,063 people have recovered from the virus, 12,059 persons have lost their lives, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-with-highest-coronavirus-tally-a-look-at-the-numbers/story-GUnVmAn6wCfzZHgUGjXY0H.html
27-12-2020||India||Saffron has been associated with Kashmir for centuries: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Invoking the words of Abul Fazal the Prime Minister delved into the world of Kashmiri Kesar (saffron) in the latest episode of Mann ki Baat on Sunday morning. “If we talk about quality, then Kashmiri saffron is very unique, and entirely different from the saffron found in other countries.” the Prime Minister said while explaining how Kashmiri saffron was able to claim its rightful space in the global market after it received a geographical indication (GI) tag this year.A geographical indication (GI) is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin Kashmiri saffron received a GI tag this July which put the valley’s produce on the global map. Geographical Indications are part and parcel of intellectual property rights that comes under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. In India GI tags are issued under the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act of 1999. Powered by the GI tag Kashmiri saffron was launched in the UAE Food Security Summit this year by the Jammu and Kashmir’s principal secretary of agriculture Navin K Choudhary, an achievement reiterated by the Prime Minister on Sunday. Keeping tune with the theme of ‘Atma-nirbhar Bharat’ in Sunday’s episode, the Prime Minister encouraged Indians to buy saffron that’s exclusively produced in Kashmir. Talking about how the new GI tagged saffron is opening up new avenues of business the Prime Minister mentioned Abdul Majid Wani from Tral who was able to sell his GI tagged saffron produce through the National Saffron Mission, the government’s flagship program to promote saffron farming, in an e-market of Pampore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saffron-has-been-associated-with-kashmir-for-centuries-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-iU8h71QIbSg6mHRONvHFnJ.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Time to ensure our products are world class’: Modi on last ‘Mann ki Baat’ of 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged India’s manufacturers and industry leaders to amplify the call for ‘vocal for local’ by making more and more indigenous products. He also said that the manufacturers should ensure that the country’s products are world class.Addressing the final ‘Mann Ki Baat’ session of the year 2020, PM Modi said, “ I call upon our manufacturers and industry leaders that when people have taken determined step forward & when the mantra of ‘Vocal for Local’ is resonating in every house, it is time to ensure that our products are world-class.”At the beginning of his address, the Prime Minister said that the country developed new capabilities during the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic that helped it turn ‘Aatmanirbhar’.“Due to Corona, the supply chains got disrupted the world over but we learnt new lessons from each crisis. The nation also developed new capabilities. We can call this capability ‘Aatmanirbharata’ or self-reliance.” PM Modi said.Talking about the country’s approach towards preserving wildlife, Modi pointed out that there had been a rise in population of lions, tigers as well as a significant surge in forest cover. He further attributed this achievement to not only the government efforts, but also to those who contributed towards forest and wildlife conservation. We should take a vow that we will not litter, this is first resolve of Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. I want to remind you of one more thing which couldn't be discussed that much because of Corona. We have to definitely rid the nation of single-use plastic: PM Modi during #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/JwuzwfM8tl“India has seen a rise in population of lions, tigers as well as a significant increase in forest cover. Main reason is that not only govt but several other people, civil societies & other organisations are contributing towards forest & wildlife conservation,” he said.During the radio address, PM Modi remembered the supreme sacrifice of the family of Sri Guru Gobind Singh and said that their martyrdom gave a new lesson to the entire country and humanity. “This martyrdom did a great work of protecting our civilization. We are indebted to this martyrdom,” he said.Click here for all highlights of PM Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ addressStrongly highlighting the need for cleanliness and the government’s Swachh Bharat Mission, the Prime Minister said that a resolution should be taken to not litter and rid the nation of single-use plastic.“We should take a vow that we will not litter, this is the first resolve of Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. I want to remind you of one more thing which couldn’t be discussed that much because of Corona. We have to definitely rid the nation of single-use plastic,”On Friday, PM Modi had asked for suggestions for his final address of 2020 and asked people to reach out to him on the MyGov website, NaMo mobile application or record their messages over the phone.In the previous session of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, the Prime Minister spoke about the importance of culture and stressed on the need to have a strong vibrant and active alumni network which was needed not only in colleges and universities but also in schools in villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-ensure-our-products-are-world-class-modi-on-last-mann-ki-baat-of-2020/story-KLhvj9dG7mdSEpHsUTQZKP.html
27-12-2020||India||India reports less than 30k new Covid cases in a row for almost 2 weeks: Data||For 13 days in a row, the country has reported less than 30,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On Saturday, 22,273 new cases were registered from across the country, taking the cumulative positive cases to 10,188,392.Daily recoveries have also outnumbered daily new cases over the past one month, the data shows, with all states currently having a recovery rate of at least 90%.“The exponential rise in recoveries in tandem with lower daily new cases has resulted in consistent decline in the active cases and low mortality. Total recovered cases currently are nearing 97.5 lakh (97,40,108). India’s cumulative recoveries are highest in the world. The rising recoveries have also improved the recovery rate to 95.78%. India’s present active caseload of 2,81,667 consists of 2.77% of India’s total positive cases,” said Union health ministry in a statement.Nearly 74% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states mainly. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 4,506 newly recovered cases. In West Bengal, 1,954 people have recovered, which is followed by Maharashtra that reported 1,427 recovered cases in a single day.As for new cases, about 79% of the new cases are also concentrated in about 10 states.Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,397, followed by Maharashtra with 3,431 new cases. And the third state in the list is West Bengal that recorded 1,541 new cases on Saturday.The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in a day has also dropped to under 300, with 251 deaths reported from across the country on Saturday.With that, the total number of people having succumbed to the viral disease in the country has reached 147,659. The first death due to Covid-19 in the country was reported on March 12 from south India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-less-than-30k-new-covid-cases-in-a-row-for-almost-2-weeks-data/story-AImncg4xOxr2BvfsaEGMkM.html
27-12-2020||India||Haryana municipal elections updates: Polling underway amid strict Covid norms||Voting for municipal elections in Haryana started at 8am today and will go on till 5.30pm. Elections are being held for three municipal corporations, three municipal committees and one municipal council in the state. This time, the elections are seeing a direct face-off between the Bharatiya Janata Party and Jannayak Janata Party (BJP-JJP) alliance and the Congress party. The counting of votes and declaration of results will be on December 30.“The elections will be held for the Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat municipal corporations; Rewari municipal council and municipal committees of Sampla in Rohtak, Dharuhera in Rewari and Ukalana in Hisar districts, officials had told news agency PTI on Friday. Haryana: Voting for Panchkula Municipal Corporation election is underway; visuals from Blue Bird High School polling centre in Sector-16. pic.twitter.com/sXocw8Fo7MVoters were seen lined up at polling booths in Panchkula to exercise their franchise. This is the first time that voters would poll to directly elect their mayoral candidate in this municipal corporation. There are six candidates for the post of Mayor and 83 councillor candidates are contesting from 20 wards.Amid the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) situation in the country, strict guidelines have been imposed to ensure the polling process takes place in a smooth manner. Some of these guidelines are- thermal scanning of voters at entrance of polling booths, social distancing between voters, wearing of face mask/covering, mandatory sanitisation of booths etc. The last hour of polling has been alloted to the infected patients- who will cast their votes while wearing PPEs.Elaborate arrangements have been made for the conduct of free, fair and transparent elections, officials said adding that security has been beefed up at polling booths located in sensitive and hypersensitive areas. While the BJP-JJP alliance, which is also the ruling government in the state with Manohar Lal Khattar as CM and Dushyant Chautala as deputy CM, has played the development card this year, the main opposition Congress has targeted the alliance on a number of issues such as employment, law and order and the ongoing farmers’ agitation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-municipal-elections-updates-polling-underway-amid-strict-covid-norms/story-eRnBIuEGE3bh1aIZlXIWrK.html
27-12-2020||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi asks people to take new year resolution for India: Highlights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation through his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday. This was the last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address of the year 2020.In the previous edition of the monthly radio programme, PM Modi had emphasised on strong, vibrant and active alumni network, and urged educational institutions to adopt innovative methods and develop creative platforms for engagement with alumni.The Prime Minister said that a strong vibrant and active alumni network is needed not only in big Colleges and Universities but also in schools of our villages.Here are the highlights from PM Modi’s address: • One of the resolves for 2021 is to get India rid of single use plastic.• From Gurugram to Karnataka, there are people whose passion towards a cleaner environment is outstanding. Their efforts are both innovating and inspiring• The key to learning is to have inquisitiveness.• We remember the noble teachings in the sacred Gita. One of the things the sacred Gita teaches us is to keep learning. • In May this year, the Kashmiri saffron was given the Geographical Indication Tag or GI tag. Through this, we want to make Kashmiri saffron a globally popular brand• India’s youth is blessed with ‘Can Do’ spirit and ‘Will Do’ approach.• Not only leopards, but population of tigers, lions and forest cover of the country have also increased. It is not due to government efforts, but several people and organisations are working towards conservation of all these things. All of them deserve our appreciation.• I am now going to share a news which will make you feel proud: India has seen 60% increase in population of leopards, from 2014 to 2018• We pay tributes to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. • We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion.• We take new year resolution every year, this time, we should do it for our country. We should for with thought of zero effect, zero defect.• Vocal for Local is resonating in every house today. And the manufacturers should come forward, with a commitment that there will be no compromise in quality.• There were challenges, but we learnt new lessons. We saw the spirit of Aatmanirbhar Bharat in 2020.• In all the messages that I have received, there is a common thread: People have appreciated the collective power and unity of the country• 2021 will begin after four days. This is the last Mann Ki Baat of 2020.• A lot of messages I received have last year’s struggles and new year’s resolution||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-through-mann-ki-baat/story-vveQhxEqdM9ekPef2y5mUO.html
27-12-2020||India||MP govt’s bill against forced conversions exempts re-conversions||The Madhya Pradesh Cabinet on Saturday approved a proposed law to regulate inter-faith marriages in the state that provides for 10 year jail for ‘forcing’ women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe to undergo religious conversion, while exempting reconversion to parental religion from its purview.The proposed law called the Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Bill 2020 says ‘Paitrik Dharm me Wapsi’ will not be treated as conversion. “Under this legislation, re-conversion to the ancestral religion will not be treated as conversion,” said the draft law, defining ancestral religion as the religion of the father of the person at the time of his birth.Giving the reason for this clause, Madhya Pradesh home minister, Nirottam Mishra, said re-conversion will not be a punishable offence under this law because it is more a realisation of a mistake than a crime. The proposed legislation will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, and is stringent then the similar law enforced by the Uttar Pradesh government through an Ordinance.The UP law does not provide for parental property rights to the children of inter-faith marriage, monthly maintenance and Rs 50,000 fine for inter-faith marriage without the permission of the district magistrate. In UP, the fine amount is Rs 25,000. The jail term in the two laws are the same, shows an analysis of the proposed legislations of the two neighbouring states.Mishra said, “The bill seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means. The conspiracy and (the act of) abetting a person for conversion has also been prohibited.” Mishra said the bill has a provision of punishment from one to 10 years of imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rs 1 lakh for conversions. According to draft of the bill approved, “The forced conversion of woman, minor, scheduled castes and scheduled tribe will attract 2-10 years imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000. Mass forced conversion will attract 5-10 years of jail term and fine upto to Rs 1 lakh. Burden of proof will lie on the accused.” “Forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognizable offence and be non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring inter-faith forceful marriages and forced conversions null and void. Before conversion, the person and religious gurus have to inform the district magistrate at least 60 days prior to the scheduled date of marriage. The violation of this rule will attract 3-5 years of jail and a minimum fine of Rs 50,000,” according to the approved draft of the proposed bill. Also Read: In Madhya Pradesh, panchayat and local body polls deferred for 3 monthsMishra said, “MP government has come up with the toughest rule against forced conversion in India. With providing justice to the victim of forced conversion, the proposed legislation will ensure her rights too.” Retired high court judge, AK Gohil, said, “The bill doesn’t have any provision to deal with past cases of forced conversions and there is no time limit for lodging a complaint with the police after the marriage. Like the Dowry Prohibition Act, which has a time limit of lodging an FIR up to seven years of marriage, this proposed act should also mention the time limit of lodging an FIR.” MP Congress Committee spokesperson Narendra Saluja said, “We welcome this bill but the provisions under this bill serve the BJP agenda instead of helping women. The BJP is trying to create a rift in the society to win elections.” Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind state president Hazi Haroon said, “From chief minister to BJP MLAs, all the BJP leaders are using the bill as a step against ‘Love-Jihad’. BJP leaders are targeting Muslim community with this bill. If Love-Jihad is really a big issue and a crime, then they should have mentioned this in the bill. But the state government has not mentioned it as they know that the bill can be easily challenged in the court of law.” Raising concern over reconversions, social activist, Indira Iyengar, said, “Now, the violent incidents against the members of the Christian community will increase in the name of reconversion. In tribal areas, the saffron organisation members are already targeting converted Christians. Now, they will get freehand to threaten people to lodge fake complaints of forced conversion and also force tribals to reconvert into Hindu religion.” MP BJP spokesperson, Rajnesh Agrawal, said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan clearly said this bill is a part of Beti Bachao Abhiyan of the MP government. The bill is against forced conversions and not against conversions. People are free to change their religion by just informing the district magistrate. The Congress leaders are nowadays working to misguide people to win their lost political ground. But citizens of MP are intelligent enough to understand right and wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-s-bill-against-forced-conversions-exempts-re-conversions/story-N8XryMFE6gKM4SzrAjLMsK.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Water cannon or bluster, keep walking’: Rahul Gandhi tweets a poem to target Centre over farmers’ stir||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi used the farmers’ protest to target the Centre, saying that the protesters should keep walking and not be scared of the bluster of the government.Gandhi used a modified version of Dwarkaprasad Maheshwari’s popular poem “Veer Tum Badhe Chalo” to make the point.“Keep walking O brave one, patiently you move ahead. Doesn’t matter if there is water cannon shower or bluster/bravado, you don’t fear O fearless one. You remain firm, and walk on. O ‘annadata’, you keep walking,” according to a translation of Gandhi’s tweet in Hindi. वीर तुम बढ़े चलोधीर तुम बढ़े चलोवॉटर गन की बौछार होया गीदड़ भभकी हज़ार होतुम निडर डरो नहीं तुम निडर डटो वहींवीर तुम बढ़े चलोअन्नदाता तुम बढ़े चलो! pic.twitter.com/MqsuS9QxEjOn Saturday, he had said that the government will have to listen to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. Gandhi posted a video of protesting farmers and wrote: “Mitti ka kann kann goonj raha hai, sarkar ko sun na padega (The government will have to listen (to the farmers)).”The former Congress president, along with other party leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, visited Rashtrapati Bhavan on December 24.They submitted a memorandum having two crore signatures to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding repeal of the farm laws - the main demand of the farmers protesting near Delhi since November 26.Farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-cannon-or-bluster-keep-walking-rahul-gandhi-tweets-a-poem-to-target-centre-over-farmers-stir/story-vh5BhBiEn0lSIC3FCLQTBL.html
27-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers extend toll-free movement in Haryana indefinitely||The farmers’ organisations in Haryana have decided to force open the the toll plazas in the state for an indefinite period to ensure free commute for all passing through. The decision has been taken to further escalate the protests against the three farm laws. Earlier, the farmer union leaders had said that the toll plazas will remain open for three days from December 25 to 27. But in a late night meeting on Saturday, farmer leaders said that they will not allow the toll companies to charge from commuters until the Union government accepts their demands.“We have met several farmers and representatives of farmer unions and it was decided that the toll plazas to will not be allowed to charge from commuters indefinitely”, Bhartiya Kisan Union state president Gurnam Singh Charuni said.He said that the farmers will continue their protests at all toll plazas in the state until the farmers’ protests at Delhi borders are not ended.On the morning of December 25, the protesting farmers gathered at the toll plazas, forcing employees collecting toll to leave. They removed barricades from the toll gates allowing free movement of motorists.Even women and children joined the protests at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri, while farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on the roadside and sat on a dharna near Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Chandigarh highway and at Madina toll plaza on the Rohtak-Hisar highway.Also Read: Farm unions agree to talk to govt on Dec 29The farmers also took over Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on NH- 44, which connects Delhi with several northern states. They also took control of the Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway, the Thana toll plaza in Pehowa of Kurukshetra on Hisar-Chandigarh highway, Panipat toll plaza on NH-44 and Dahar toll plaza on Panipat-Rohtak highway.Meanwhile farmers from Haryana and Punjab continued their sit-in at the Shambhu toll plaza near Ambala on the Delhi-Amritsar NH-44 for the second day.Also Read: RLP joins protest, leaves NDA over new farm lawsThe concessionaire of Bastara toll plaza on National Highway 44, near Karnal, is likely to suffer a loss of around Rs 1.20 crore per day due to the toll-free movement of vehicles forced on the toll plaza.The toll plaza officials said that per day collection at Bastara is around Rs 1.20 crore to Rs 1.30 crore as 40,000 to 50,000 vehicles cross the toll plaza every day.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the losses suffered by the toll companies will ultimately be borne by the public since the concessionaires’ contracts will get extended to cover for the days they could not charge toll as is categorically mentioned in their contracts.“Opening toll plazas will not cause any loss to the government or the toll companies and it won’t benefit anybody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-extend-toll-free-movement-in-haryana-indefinitely/story-Fee9Y93YijMMSX369pzcBO.html
27-12-2020||India||India records 18,732 new cases of Covid-19, daily fatality count goes down to 279||India recorded 18,732 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Sunday. The total number of cases now stand at 10,187,850.The number of active cases went down further to 2,78,690, after 2,977 new cases were reported in the same period. As many as 97,61,538 patients have so far been cured or discharged from the hospitals.The country recorded 279 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to health ministry update.A surge in recoveries along with lower new cases has resulted in a consistent decline in the active cases of Covid-19 and low mortality, according to the ministry. India’s cumulative recoveries stand at 95.78 per cent while all States/UTs have a recovery rate of more than 90 per cent, it further stated.The daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases registered for a month now. A release from the health ministry stated that India’s cumulative recoveries are highest in the world.Meanwhile, the Centre’s national task force (NTF) on Saturday said that five per cent of the positive cases from all states and union territories will be tested for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) in view of the new Covid-19 virus strain detected in the United Kingdom.The task force held a meeting to discuss testing, treatment and surveillance strategies for Covid-19 in view of the new virus strain and said there is no need to change the existing treatment protocol due to mutation.In further good news, Mumbai’s Dharavi has reported zero positive cases of coronavirus on Friday for the first time since the pandemic reached the country earlier this year.Dharavi once reported highest Covid-19 cases on daily basis. An area of over 2.1 square kilometres and a population of about 10,00,000 makes Dharavi a densely populated area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-18-732-new-cases-of-covid-19-daily-fatality-count-goes-down-to-279/story-1Ix2kqpWWL5wufJtIMqhKI.html
27-12-2020||India||Vehicles with caste stickers to be seized in UP: Report||Caste has always been pivotal to electoral politics in Uttar Pradesh. But in the past few years, it has become a fad to boldly display caste identities on windscreens or number plates of vehicles in the state.Castes like Yadav, Jat, Gurjar, Brahmin, Pandit, Khatriya, Lodhi and Maurya appear to be competing with each other in asserting their dominant social or political status by putting the caste and sub-caste name tags on their SUVs, cars, motorcycles and other vehicles.But now, the Uttar Pradesh transport department has started cracking down on vehicles donning ‘casteism’. According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, the transport department has launched the drive after instructions from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The vehicles displaying caste stickers will now be seized, according to Hindustan which quoted from an order sent by Additional Transport Commissioner Mukesh Chandra to all Regional Transport Offices (RTOs).The PMO took cognizance of the matter after a letter from a teacher in Maharashtra, Harshal Prabhu, Hindustan reported. He wrote the letter on IGRS, an integrated system designed for redressal of grievances. Prabhu said that the display of such stickers is a threat to social fabric of the society.The PMO took note of the letter and sent it to the Uttar Pradesh government after which such drive was launched, according to Hindustan.“Such stickers should not be pasted on the vehicles. Those who are found guilty of the offcemce, their vehicle will be seized. According to our enforcement teams, every 20th vehicle is found carrying such a sticker. Our headquarters has asked us to take action against such vehicle owners,” DK Tripathi, deputy transport commissioner, Kanpur, told Hindustan.The practice of some people displaying their particular caste identities on vehicles is said to have come to the fore with greater visibility during the Samajwadi Party (SP) regime under Mulayam Singh Yadav (2003-07) when it became fashionable to drive SUVs and motorcycles with ‘Yadav’ written in bold letters on them.Similarly, vehicles with ‘Jatav’ stickers became more visible during the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) rule even as such vehicles can be spotted even today in some districts, especially in the western UP.Now, Kshatriya, Thakur or Rajput (different variants of the same caste) as a label on vehicles is the new entrant into the caste rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicles-with-caste-stickers-to-be-seized-in-up-report/story-HP4Q9ZnO3EKxnPivx1uqUO.html
27-12-2020||India||Year-ender UK: India, Indians figured more in pandemic, politics, protests||India and Indians are historically entwined with Britain at various levels, but 2020 saw the engagement touch a new high: from the “most desi government” in British history, to their mixed role in the Covid-19 pandemic, to India becoming the second biggest investor in the UK.For the first time in British politics, the year saw four persons of Indian origin appointed to the cabinet – Rishi Sunak, Priti Patel, Alok Sharma and Suella Braverman – after Prime Minister Boris Johnson formed his government after a resounding victory in the December 2019 election.Their elevation reflected success not only for the 1.5 million-strong Indian diaspora but also for the UK’s policies of multiculturalism. The near-mainstreaming of the community’s participation in politics was evident in the way they were lauded or pilloried in the news media – just like any other British politician.As James Cleverly, the chairman of the Conservative party said at the Republic Day event in January, Johnson is leading the “most desi government” in British history. Labour also raised the number, including Lisa Nandy, Preet Kaur Gill, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi and Valerie Vaz in the shadow cabinet.It was not unusual to often see Sunak batting for the Conservative party or the government and Nandy responding on behalf of the Labour party in widely-watched news programmes. There is already speculation that Johnson would induct more from the community in 2021.In fact, leading individuals from the community were among top experts regularly commenting and advising on key issues in the mainstream media, such as Anand Menon on Brexit, and Devi Sridhar, Bharat Pankhania and Sunetra Gupta on Covid-19.Experts helping the government deal with the pandemic included Nobel laureate Venki Ramakrishnan, whose term as president of the Royal Society ended in November, and Lalita Ramakrishnan of the University of Cambridge. Among the first to receive the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine were Hari Shukla and his wife Ranjan.The pandemic took a heavy toll on the community: as of December 23, as many as 1,188 patients categorised as ‘Indian’ in hospitals and care-homes in England alone had passed away – the highest casualty among the non-whites. The larger UK-wide toll included several doctors, nurses and pharmacists from the community.Among the deceased was Gulshan Ewing, 92, the pioneering editor of women’s magazines. Hailing from a Parsi family in Mumbai, she was one of the first women editors of leading Indian publications since the mid-1960s, setting benchmarks in film journalism and focussing on women audience. India came to the UK’s rescue when it faced a severe shortage of paracetamol in the initial stages of the outbreak, when the Johnson government was grappling with ways to deal with the virus. India sent 3 million packets in April, when pharmacies and supermarkets had run out of the drug.Besides politics and the pandemic, India and Indians also featured prominently in education, culture, extraditions, protests and history, as events and issues in India resonated in the UK, particularly those linked to new laws on citizenship, farmers and Kashmir. Also Read: Queen Elizabeth hails Diwali in Christmas message, doesn’t mention pandemicThe Ealing Council in west London announced the renaming of part of Southall’s Havelock Road – named after Henry Havelock, general in the colonial army involved in suppressing the 1857 Uprising – as Guru Nanak Road from early 2021, following a public consultation.At the University of Cambridge, sociologist Manali Desai became the first head of a department in its 811-year history when she was appointed head of the department of sociology. Also, its department of chemistry was named after its alumnus, Yusuf Hamied of pharma major Cipla.The year saw a change of guard in India House. Ruchi Ghanashyam, who was only the second woman Indian high commissioner to the UK since independence (after Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit) was succeeded by Gaitri Issar Kumar. Four idols stolen from India were recovered in the UK and handed over to the mission for return home: A 9th century statue of Natesh Shiva, stolen from the Ghateshwar temple in Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan, and three ancient idols stolen from Tamil Nadu in 1978.The Johnson government allowed India to continue to use a property in north-west London as a museum in the memory of B R Ambedkar, who lived there while studying at the London School of Economics in the 1920s.Also Read: Khalistan supporter’s nomination to UK House of Lords delayed, says Sikh groupNoor Inayat Khan, the Indian-origin British spy, who worked as an undercover radio operator in Nazi-occupied France in 1943, was captured and killed in the Dachau concentration camp in 1944 at the age of 30, received another honour when a ‘blue plaque’ was installed outside the house in Bloomsbury where she lived.Several Indians and members of the community received royal and other honours, including Vice Admiral Vinay Badhwar, who was presented the Alexander Dalrymple Award in recognition of his “outstanding contribution” to Indian hydrography and across the wider Indian Ocean region.Ravi Solanki, a doctor working on neurodegenerative diseases, was honoured by the Royal Academy of Engineering for exceptional achievement in tackling Covid-19, while Ranjitsinh Disale, an inspirational teacher in Maharashtra, won the $1 million Global Teacher Prize set up in partnership with Unesco by the Varkey Foundation.Besides India emerging as the second biggest investor in the UK, the year also saw entrepreneur Karan Bilimoria elected president of the Confederation of British Industry, the representative body of 1.9 lakh UK companies employing nearly 7 million people.114 AI Innovation LLP, a New Delhi-based artificial intelligence company, was among 10 global winners in a UK-US initiative that aims to find, fund and fast-track innovation and technology that gives advantage to military personnel and operations in the space domain.Zuber Issa and Mohsin Issa, sons of an immigrant from Gujarat, acquired retail giant Asda (valued at £6.8 billion), months after a new report co-produced by the high commission highlighted the multi-billion-pound ‘diaspora effect’ in British business: over 65,000 companied are owned by British citizens of Indian origin.As Johnson prepares to visit India in January and seek a free trade agreement, ministers and officials identified five sectors for closer cooperation in the post-Brexit UK: information and communications technology and services, food and drink, life sciences and chemicals.Members of the Indian community also continued to feature in crime and convictions, while proceedings to extradite several individuals continued during the year, including Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Sanjeev Chawla (who was escorted to New Delhi).Crime’s cross-country links were evident when the City of London Police hailed raids conducted by the CBI in six Indian cities from where 10 companies were defrauding UK nationals on the pretext of resolving “technical issues” on their computers, while Britain’s border officials seized 174,400 sildenafil tablets sourced from India.On the cultural front, while the BBC’s six-part adaptation of Vikram Seth’s 1993 tome ‘A Suitable Boy’ received mixed reviews, the London Fashion Week – in a first – showcased the magic of sari as models sashayed wearing saris from various parts of India, and the British Fashion Council appointed actor Priyanka Chopra as its new ambassador.Mahatma Gandhi, who had close interaction with London and the British during his lifetime, continued to make news. His statues in London and Leicester became the focus of protests during the Black Lives Matter campaign. But an unnamed buyer surprised many by picking up Gandhi’s spectacles from his time in South Africa for £260,000 in a Bristol auction.---||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-ender-uk-india-indians-figured-more-in-pandemic-politics-protests/story-5sWcgLKEnnhdSYiZu7TGbI.html
27-12-2020||India||‘No discipline in TMC’: Suvendu Adhikari after joining BJP||Suvendu Adhikari, TMC’s Nandigram face who has joined BJP, on Saturday said that there is no discipline in his previous party.The BJP is on the other hand the world’s largest political party and dedicated to the service of the nation, he said at a felicitation programme for those who quit the ruling TMC to join the saffron party.Continuing his comparison, Adhikari said that even resolutions taken at meetings were not recorded in the TMC.Also Read: Suvendu Adhikari’s show of strength day after Trinamool rally. And a boast “We who have quit TMC will work as disciplined soldiers so that BJP comes to power in the state in the assembly poll in 2021 and West Bengal becomes Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal),” he said.“West Bengal has to be handed over to the hands of the able leader Narendra Modi”, Adhikari said.Referring to PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Adhikari said many states have taken advantage of it to benefit its farmers. But West Bengal government has deprived the farmers from getting those benefits.“It is a need that the party which is ruling the country also comes to power here (in Bengal)”, he said.Speaking at the programme BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said “Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is saying that BJP is an outsiders’ party. Bengal was going to Pakistan. It was the founder Jana Sangh, Syama Prasad Mukherjee who raised his voice against this and present day West Bengal is here due to him”.Hitting out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the “outsider” controversy against BJP, Vijayvargiya said she even considers Prime Minister Narendra Modi an outsider.The world recognises Modi’s leadership but not Banerjee, he said. “Modiji is respected by the people of Balochistan in Pakistan who send rakhis to him. Even Amit Shah is termed as an outsider by her. She is trying to create a wave by crying outsiders against people who come to West Bengal”.Vijayvargyia claimed that the car of TMC MP Sunil Mondal, who too recently joined the saffron party, was attacked by TMC workers while coming to BJP office durng the day.“I have sent a report to the union home minister”, he said.Continuing his criticism of Banerjee, Vijayvargiya said that while she wears a white saree and chappal her nephew (TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee) wears spectacles which cost Rs 25 lakh and stays in a Rs seven crore residence which has an escalator.”This is what the Trinamool Congress leaders are saying.” The BJP leader said “Who is behind cattle smuggling, the syndicates? It is her nephew who is behind all these ....TMC is running a dictatorship in the state. In BJP democracy prevails”.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the party’s wings are spreading acoss the state. Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme on radio will be aired in every booth on December 27.National vice-president of BJP Mukul Roy, who too had shifted from the Mamata Banerjee-led party in 2017, said BJP knows how to give respect to its workers unlike TMC.“TMC will taste defeat surely and go into oblivion in the next assembly poll”, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-discipline-in-tmc-suvendu-adhikari-after-joining-bjp/story-fXieZz866dnk6KHz1OblFM.html
27-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: First ever International Day of Epidemic Preparedness being celebrated across globe today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.World celebrates 1st International Day of Epidemic Preparedness The first ever International Day of Epidemic Preparedness is being observed on Sunday. The United Nations General Assembly called on all its member states and other global organisations to mark December 27 every year as the International Day of Epidemic Preparedness in order to advocate the importance of global partnership against epidemics. Read moreChandigarh MP Kirron Kher pitches for extension to chief engineer, employees’ federation miffedMember of parliament Kirron Kher has written to the UT administrator, pitching for a three-month extension to Mukesh Anand, chief engineer-cum-special secretary engineering. The move has, however, not been received well by the federation of UT employees and workers. Read moreWomen have right to live on own terms: Allahabad high courtThe Allahabad high court has reunited a Hindu woman with her Muslim husband, underlining that “she has a choice to live her life on her own terms”. A bench of justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal decided on December 18 a habeas corpus plea filed by the man, who complained his wife had been sent to her parents against her wishes by the Nari Niketan or Child Welfare Committee (CWC). Read moreDespite smooth election, GOP leaders seek vote restrictionsChanges to the way millions of Americans voted this year contributed to record turnout, but that’s no guarantee the measures making it easier to cast ballots will stick around for future elections. Republicans in key states that voted for President-elect Joe Biden already are pushing for new restrictions, especially to absentee voting. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Felt like he was going to get a wicket almost every ball’ - Michael Hussey impressed with debutant Mohammed Siraj’s incisive spellMohammed Siraj couldn’t have hoped for a better Test debut than the one he was involved in. India vs Australia, Boxing Day Test, at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. It’s what dreams are made of and on Saturday, Siraj, who earned India’s 298th Test cap, made the occasion even more special by turning up a performance that pleased the onlookers. Read moreSalman Khan says he has ‘no desire’ to celebrate his birthday this year, cuts a cake at midnight. See picsActor Salman Khan retreated to his Panvel farmhouse for low-key birthday celebrations with his family. He cut a cake at midnight and spoke to the gathered media outside his farmhouse briefly. “There are no celebrations this year, it’s just me and my family, no one else,” he said. Read moreGoogle fixes ‘can’t reach Google’ bug on smart displays, Android phonesGoogle users across the globe encountered a bug while accessing Google Assistant last week. The bug prevented users from accessing Google Assistant not just on Android smartphones. Now, word is that Google has fixed this bug. Read morePregnant Kareena Kapoor in Rs 24k spaghetti strap dress makes a strong case for easy-breezy outfitsWhenever we need inspiration for slaying maternity fashion, it is Kareena Kapoor Khan that we look up to. The Veere Di Wedding actor has given pregnancy looks a new meaning. It is no more about baggy clothes that hide the baby bump, instead, Kareena opts for ensembles that are comfortable and flaunt her bump as well. Read moreWatch| ‘Won’t stand against farmers’: BJP ally RLP leaves NDA over farm laws||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-first-ever-international-day-of-epidemic-preparedness-being-celebrated-across-globe-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ShcawlMRr7Ao9jeXVcV1XK.html
27-12-2020||India||‘No change needed in treatment protocol’, says Covid task force after discussions on new strain||The national task force (NTF), formed by the government to organise and facilitate Covid-19 containment efforts in India, has said that there is no need to change the existing treatment protocol in view of mutations emerging in the United Kingdom.A meeting of the NTF was held on Saturday where discussions were held on evidence-based modifications in testing, and treatment and surveillance strategies for Sars-CoV-2 virus. The meeting was convened by the Indian Council of Meical Research (ICMR) under co-chairpersonship of Dr Vinod Paul, Member NITI Aayog and Dr Balram Bhargava, Secretary, Director General ICMR.It was emphasised that since the UK variant strain is implicated to cause increased transmissibility of the virus, it is critical to identify individuals infected with this strain and adequately contain them to prevent its transmission in India.The NTF concluded that there is no need to change the existing treatment protocol in view of mutations emerging in the strain.The Union health ministry, which took into consideration the recommendations of the NTF, said that since ICMR has always advocated the use of two or more gene assays for testing Sars-CoV-2, it is unlikely to miss infected cases using the current testing strategy.“It is proposed to continue enhanced genomic surveillance for early detection and containment of the UK variant SARS-CoV-2 strains. However, it is important to understand that like all other RNA viruses, SARS-CoV-2 will continue to mutate,” the ministry said.The mutated virus can also be contained by measures like social distancing, hand hygiene, wearing masks and also by an effective vaccine, as and when available, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-change-needed-in-treatment-protocol-says-covid-task-force-after-discussions-on-new-strain/story-NqQS75E6OQObcnuhHzSotN.html
27-12-2020||India||Covid-19 updates: Canada, Sweden add first cases of new variant, UK sees tougher measures||The new variant (B117) of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) identified in the United Kingdom (UK) in mid-December with a 70 per cent transmissible rate is spreading rapidly across the globe. Canada and Sweden have already reported the first cases of the variant. Many countries have tightened their border restrictions to temporarily ban or screen the passengers coming from the UK. Meanwhile, the UK - which is the epicentre of the new coronavirus variant - has ordered closure of shops selling non-essential goods, gymnasiums and pools and has prohibited the mixing of indoor householdsHere are the latest updates on the new Covid-19 variant: 1. Canada’s Ontario province on Saturday reported the first two cases of the new Covid-19 variant detected in the UK. According to CBS New, the two people - who are a couple - don’t have any known travel history and high risk contacts and are currently placed under self-isolation. The health authorities in Ontario have issued a release urging all residents of the province to stay at home as much as possible and follow all protocols including the lockdown measures beginning from today.2. In India, the central government’s National Task Force on Saturday said that five per cent of the positive cases across all states and union territories will be tested for Whole Genome Sequencing adding that this is being done in view of the new Covid-19 strain detected in the UK. A release issued by the Union health ministry added that over 50 samples of UK returnees are under sequencing at designated labs.Also Read| Covid-19 pandemic will not be the last: WHO chief3. Sweden identified the first case of the new variant after a person from the UK arrived in Södermanland county to celebrate Christmas. Signar Makitalo, the infection prevention doctor of the region said that there is possibility that more people might have been infected with the variant. The health agency has ordered all those in Sweden who travelled from the UK after December 12 to be tested for Covid-19.4. Millions of residents in the UK are witnessing tougher coronavirus measures since Saturday, with Northern Ireland and Scotland demanding tighter restrictions in order to halt the spread of the new variant of the virus. People placed under England’s top level of restrictions — Tier 4 — increased by 6 million on Saturday to 24 million in total. Indoor mixing of households is prohibited and only essential travel is allowed. On the other hand, shops selling non-essential goods, gymnasiums and pools, salons have been ordered to close and restaurants can only do takeout.Also Read: Canada’s Ontario finds two cases of coronavirus variant first seen in UK5. After reporting the first case of the UK variant on Friday, the Japanese government said that it would temporarily ban entry of non-resident foreign nationals and has further tightened border restrictions. The ban will take effect from December 28 and will run through January, the government said in a statement. “Japanese citizens and foreign residents will be allowed to enter but must show proof of a negative coronavirus test 72 hours before departing for Japan and must quarantine for two weeks after arrival,” the statement added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-updates-canada-sweden-add-first-cases-of-new-variant-uk-sees-tougher-measures/story-gUyqi2dNBV2vGMuH4Q4wBL.html
27-12-2020||India||‘Don’t drink alcohol, get indoors’, says IMD as North India braces for severe cold wave||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which has predicted a severe cold wave condition in many parts of North India, said that drinking alcohol at home or year-end parties won’t be a good idea.“Don’t drink alcohol. It reduces your body temperature,” an advisory from the IMD said.“Get indoors. Eat vitamin-C-rich fruits and moisturize your skin regularly to counter the effects of severe cold,” the advisory further said.In its latest impact-based advisory, the IMD said “severe” cold wave is expected over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and northern Rajasthan from December 29.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the mercury will increase slightly on Sunday and Monday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas, but the relief will be short-lived.He further said that after the western disturbance moves away and under the influence of the consequent strengthening of cold and dry north-westerly or northerly lower level winds, “cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely to re-establish over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh from December 29.According to IMD, a ‘cold day’ or ‘severe cold day’ is considered when the minimum temperature is under 10 degrees and the maximum temperature is 4.5 degree C or 6.4 degree C below normal. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below, and is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days.Last Sunday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for national capital Delhi, recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-drink-alcohol-get-indoors-says-imd-as-north-india-braces-for-severe-cold-wave/story-vPKcIJCHhaMCOuosr6pypK.html
27-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ of this year today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 72nd edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday. This episode, being the last of 2020, will focus on the events of the year gone by and plans for the upcoming year.On Friday, the PM asked for suggestions for his address and asked the people to reach out to him on the MyGov website, NaMo mobile application or record their messages over the phone. “How would you sum up the year gone by? What do you look forward to the most in 2021? Share this, and more in the final #MannKiBaat of 2020 on 27th December. Write on MyGov, NaMo App or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” PM Modi tweeted.In the previous edition of the programme, PM Modi had talked about the importance of culture and said it acts like emotional recharge during crises.“An ancient idol of Devi Annapurna, which was stolen from a temple in Varanasi almost 100 year ago, is being brought back from Canada to India. This coincided with Heritage Week which provides the culture enthusiasts an opportunity to look back into the past and discover the important phases of history. Despite the Covid-19 crisis, we saw people celebrating the Heritage Week in innovative ways,” PM Modi said.“India’s culture and scripture have always been a centre of attraction for the entire world. Some people came to India in search of them and stayed here for life. While some returned to their countries as cultural ambassadors of India,” he added.The PM also stressed on the need for a strong vibrant and active alumni network and urged educational institutions to adopt innovative methods and develop creative platforms for engagement with alumni. This was not only needed in colleges and universities but also in schools of our villages, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-last-mann-ki-baat-of-this-year-today/story-vvAld2OBJTMGSuku6tpFsJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Keep in touch with opposition in Bihar, Congress’ Adhir advises Nitish after Arunachal developments||Leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday warned Bihar Chief Minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar of the BJP’s “poaching skill” and asked him to keep in touch with opposition parties in the state as an “antidote to withstand the Arunachal Syndrome”.In Arunachal Pradesh, Kumar’s party had won seven seats in the assembly polls held last year and become the main opposition group while the BJP, his coalition partner in Bihar, had achieved power. Six of those seven JD(U) MLAs joined the saffron party on Friday.In a tweet, Chowdhury said, “Dear @NitishKumar Ji, Beware of #BJP, they are well adept and highly skillful in poaching operation like the notorious wild animal poachers of North Eastern region.” Chowdhury, also the West Bengal Congress president, advised Kumar to keep in touch with the opposition, hinting that he might face the same situation in Bihar too.“Before being torn into pieces and to be withered away by the same machination as you are now experiencing in #Arunachal Pradesh, @NitishKumar Ji, explore new ideas which may include keeping in touch with the opposition in Bihar as an antidote to withstand the #ArunachalSyndrome,” Chowdhury tweeted.Kumar is heading an NDA government in Bihar where the number of JD(U) MLAs is much less than that of the BJP.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the main opposition party in Bihar, has hinted at the possibility of a fresh alignment in the state if Kumar chose to snap ties with the BJP following the “humiliation” in Arunachal Pradesh.Chowdhury alleged that the saffron party believes in “exclusive political Atma Nirvar”, construction of only the BJP and destruction of all non-BJP parties.“Under the sun, the thirst of BJP party’s wholesale aggression cannot be quenched,” he claimed.The JD(U) had won seven of the 15 seats it contested in the 2019 assembly elections and emerged as the second largest party after the BJP, which had bagged 41 seats.Following the switchover, the BJP now has 48 MLAs in the 60-member House, while the JD(U) is left with only one.The Congress and the National People’s Party (NPP) have four members each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-in-touch-with-opposition-in-bihar-congress-adhir-advises-nitish-after-arunachal-developments/story-9oRrqcgjSDUENjntDREJIK.html
27-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh conversion law tougher than UP’s||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Saturday approved a proposed law to regulate interfaith marriages in the state that provides for up to 10 years in jail for “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to undergo religious conversion” with a special clause on no punitive action against those returning to their ancestral religion.The proposed law called the Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Bill, 2020 says “Paitrik Dharm me Wapsi” (return to the father’s religion) will not be treated as conversion. “Under this legislation, the re-conversion to the ancestral religion will not be treated as conversion,” said the draft law, defining ancestral religion as the religion of the father of the person at the time of his birth.Madhya Pradesh home minister Nirottam Mishra said re-conversion will not be a punishable offence under this law because it is more a realisation of a mistake than a crime. Also Read | Madhya Pradesh cabinet okays bill against forced conversionsThe proposed legislation will replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, said Mishra, and is different from the Uttar Pradesh government’s legislation promulgated through an ordinance on November 25. Unlike the MP law, the UP ordinance does not provide for parental property rights to children of an interfaith marriage, monthly maintenance and a Rs50,000 fine for an inter-religion union without permission of the district magistrate. In UP, the fine amount is Rs25,000. The jail terms in the two laws are equal.“The bill seeks to prohibit religious conversions or an attempt of conversion by means of misrepresentation, allurement, threat, undue influence, coercion, marriage, and any other fraudulent means. Such a conspiracy and abetting a person for conversion has also been prohibited,” Mishra said. According to a draft of the bill approved, “The forced conversion of a woman, minor, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe will attract 2-10 years imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rs50,000. Mass forced conversion will attract 5-10 years of jail term and fine of up to Rs1 lakh. Burden of proof will lie on the accused.”  “The forceful conversions and marriages will be a cognisable offence and non-bailable. There will be a provision for declaring interfaith forceful marriages and forced conversion null and void. The person and religious gurus have to inform the district magistrate at least 60 days prior to the scheduled date of marriage. The violation of this rule will attract 3-5 years of jail and a minimum fine of Rs50,000,” said the bill. “The MP government has come up with the toughest rule against forced conversion in India. By providing justice to the victim of forced conversion, the proposed legislation will ensure her rights too,” Mishra said. Retired high court judge AK Gohil said, “The bill doesn’t have any provision to deal with past cases of forced conversion and also there is no time limit of lodging a complaint with police after marriage. Like the Dowry Prohibition Act, which has a time limit of lodging an FIR up to seven years of marriage, this proposed act should also mention the time period limit for lodging an FIR.” MP Congress committee spokesperson Narendra Saluja said, “We welcome this bill but the provisions are more the agenda of the BJP than a real concern for women. The BJP is trying to create a rift in society to win elections.” Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind state president Hazi Haroon said, “From the chief minister to BJP MLAs, all the BJP leaders are using the bill as a step against love jihad. BJP leaders are targeting the Muslim community with this bill. If love jihad is really a big issue and crime, they should have mentioned this in the bill. But the state government has not mentioned it as they know that the bill can be easily challenged in a court of law.” Raising concern, social activist Indira Iyengar said, “Now, violent incidents against members of the Christian community will increase in the name of re-conversion. In tribal areas, saffron organisation members are already targeting converted Christians. Now, they will get a free hand to threaten people for lodging fake complaints of forced conversion and also for forcing tribal people to re-convert to the Hindu religion.” MP BJP spokesperson Rajnesh Agrawal said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan clearly said this bill is a part of the Beti Bachao Abhiyan of the MP government. The bill is against forced conversion, not against conversion. People are free to change their religion by just informing the district magistrate. Congress leaders are nowadays working to misguide people to win their lost political ground. But the citizens of MP are intelligent enough to understand what is right or wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-conversion-law-tougher-than-up-s/story-6p45HbHvS3gSfa5IOQPR4I.html
27-12-2020||India||India to begin sequencing of genes of 5% Covid +ve samples||India will soon begin sequencing the genes of at least 5% of all Covid-19 positive samples in an attempt to better track mutations, officials in the Union health ministry have said, detailing a new genomic surveillance exercise to be able to better detect if there are any worrying variants of the virus. The moves comes weeks after the UK found a variant with an unusually high number of changes, including some that are believed to make the virus 56%-70% more transmissible. The new strain is as yet not known to cause more severe disease or make the current class of vaccines ineffective. With India reporting 22,383 case a day on average over the last week, it would mean sequencing 1,120 genomes a day. To do this, the government has set-up a genomic surveillance consortium under the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the union health ministry said. Currently, laboratories under the consortium have 50 samples of people who returned from the UK. Separately, the National Task Force on Covid-19 that met on Saturday recommended that whole genome sequencing be also done in cases where the S gene does not show up in an RT-PCR or other molecular testing. Eight of the 23 mutations that have been identified in the new UK variant are on the S gene, including one on the receptor binding domain that is used by the virus to enter the human cells. All molecular tests – such as RT PCR, CBNAAT, and TrueNat -- amplify the genetic material of the virus present the in the swab samples and match it against two or three genes of Sars-CoV-2 to give a positive result. With the new mutations, some tests might fail to recognise the S gene in a patient sample. The NTF has also recommended that the sequencing be done if there is a proven case of re-infection. “The United Kingdom does whole genome sequencing for about 10% of their positive samples, which is one of the highest in the world. That is how they were able to detect the new variant that was spreading quickly in London and some other regions. Sequencing 5% of the total sample will be a very big exercise, but it will be very helpful in giving us information on which variant is in circulation, where should we implement restrictions to stop the spread of a particular variant, and whether the vaccines in development will continue to work against the variant,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology. Experts have said that the vaccines and natural immunity is likely to work against the new UK variant. To quickly detect and isolate people who might be carrying the mutant variant that is thought to spread 70% faster, the NCDC had already directed all agencies to send positive samples of UK returnees for whole genome sequencing. Whole genome sequencing was also mandated for anyone who tested positive in the community after returning from UK in the last 28 days. The consortium will comprise of laboratories of the National Institute of Virology-Pune, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology- Delhi, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology-Hyderabad, National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences-Bangalore among others. “A genomic surveillance consortium – INSACOG -- has been formed under the leadership of NCDC, New Delhi for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country,” said a release from the union health ministry. Most of these laboratories were already sequencing genomes of Sars-CoV-2, however, it is likely to increase the scale and coordinate the efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-begin-sequencing-of-genes-of-5-covid-ve-samples/story-WbSbm1dxKduKx6o4cKmswJ.html
27-12-2020||India||Congress to firm up poll plan in January||A Congress panel tasked to hold organisational elections is likely to firm up the schedule for the internal polls in the first week of January, people aware of the matter said.A member of the central election authority (CEA) said the panel was to announce the schedule by December-end but got delayed as efforts to build consensus on the presidential candidate are still on. He said Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with the party leaders, including some members of the group of 23 letter-writers, was part of that consensus-building.“What we gather is that there is a broad consensus among the party leaders on the name now. We will meet in the first week of January and finalise the schedule,” the CEA member said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | ‘Wake up’: Digvijaya Singh calls upon Congress members to join farmers’ stirOnce that is done, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, will meet to clear that.At Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with dissenters and other senior leaders at her 10, Janpath residence on December 19, there was a renewed call for Rahul Gandhi to return as the party chief. While Rahul Gandhi said it would not be appropriate to interfere in the ongoing internal election process, the dissenters are firm that they will not accept a “proxy” candidate and insisted that polls should be held at all levels, including the CWC.As per the Congress constitution, 12 of the 25 CWC members have to be elected by All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates and the rest are appointed by the party president.The CWC has not witnessed any election in over two decades now. The last time there was an election to the CWC was in 1997 during the Kolkata plenary. Prior to that, the CWC polls took place in 1992 at the Tirupati session.The CEA member quoted above said the panel is expected to wind up the organisational polls by February-end as per the deadline to inform the Election Commission of the completion of the process.Also Read | Amid rumblings in Congress, dissenters stress on need for hands-on chiefHe said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CEA has decided to restrict the electoral college to AICC members only. “We will not include the co-opted members this time. So, the electoral college will have around 800 members only,” he added.The CEA member said that the digital IDs of the AICC members are almost ready to enable the panel to hold a virtual session in case it is difficult to have the physical presence for such a convention due to Covid-19.The five-member CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, one of the 23 signatories to a letter written to Sonia Gandhi in August this year seeking complete overhaul of the party and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the 135-year-old organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-firm-up-poll-plan-in-january/story-YiDCsaTyvNghsiHChQ9WGK.html
27-12-2020||India||Gratuity can be withheld for recovery of dues: SC||The gratuity money of an employee can be withheld and forfeited for recovery of dues such as overstaying in official accommodation, the Supreme Court has ruled. A bench headed by justice Sanjay K Kaul held that there is no prohibition against recovering dues including penal rent -- the rent with penalty for overstaying in official accommodation -- from an employee’s gratuity. “If an employee occupies a quarter beyond the specified period, the penal rent would be the natural consequence and such penal rent can be adjusted against the dues payable, including gratuity,” said the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. The order, issued last week, settles a disputed point of law since a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court had previously taken a view to the contrary. A division bench in 2017 ruled unfavourably against confiscating the gratuity of an employee on account of overstaying in official quarters after his retirement. It had ordered the immediate release of his gratuity and held only normal rent, not the penal rent, should be charged for the period he overstayed. However, the three-judge bench, led by justice Kaul, has now held that any reliance on the 2017 order is “misplaced” since it is not even a judgment but just an order on the given facts of that case. It clarified that the 2017 order cannot be treated as a precedent. In doing so, the larger bench also cited a 2005 judgment of the top court when it upheld recovery of the penal rent from an employee for unauthorised occupation of the accommodation provided to him by the employer. In this judgment, although the court acknowledged that pensionary benefit such as gratuity is not a “bounty”, it had held that recoveries of dues can be made from gratuity without the consent of the employee concerned.The latest case had arisen out of an order by the Jharkhand high court, which snubbed an attempt by the Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) to recover penal rent amounting to Rs 1.95 lakh from an employee, who did not clear his dues and overstayed in the official accommodation in Bokaro after his retirement in 2016. The high court relied upon the 2017 order of the top court, and said that the SAIL must release the employee’s gratuity immediately. However, it allowed the SAIL to raise a demand for normal rent. The Supreme Court has now set aside the part of the high court order that held that the SAIL could not recover the dues from the gratuity amount. However, it did not interfere with the monetary aspect of the order, noting that a small amount is involved and that the SAIL’s residential scheme has also undergone change in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gratuity-can-be-withheld-for-recovery-of-dues-sc/story-JMyixieJczdTyGKRgvfzPM.html
27-12-2020||India||RLP joins protest, leaves NDA over new farm laws||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) on Saturday announced its decision to walk out of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the recently enacted farm laws.“We are quitting the NDA. Nothing is above the pride of farmers in the country,” RLP chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said at a farmers’ rally in Alwar’s Shahjahanpur after starting a march to Delhi in support of the farmers who have been protesting against the contentious laws. In September, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had quit the NDA over the three farms laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 26, demanding a repeal of these laws. “I request the central government to not play with flames. Any government who has dared to go against the farmers has been dethroned. Because of these laws, agriculture mandis will end, why didn’t the government consult the farmers? Because of this act land mafias raj will increase. I don’t understand why the government is not rolling back the laws,” said Beniwal at the protest site. The Centre has maintained that the laws have been enacted for the benefit of the farmers and has offered to give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. The farmers, however, have rejected the Centre’s offer and demanded that the laws be scrapped.Beniwal was elected as a BJP MLA in Rajasthan for the first time in 2008 but later left the party. He won the 2013 assembly elections as an Independent and formed the RLP ahead of the 2018 assembly elections. His party allied with the BJP for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He had resigned from three parliamentary committees last week in support of farmers’ agitation. The ties between the BJP and RLP were strained earlier this month after the ruling party at the Centre backed an Independent for the post of a local body head instead of RLP’s candidate. Beniwal at the time said that they were reconsidering their alliance with the BJP. The BJP downplayed Beniwal’s exit from the alliance and questioned the motive behind his move to walk out of the NDA. “Earlier, he had supported the agriculture laws but now just to gain political mileage he had quit the alliance,” BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said. Former MP quits BJPFormer MP Harinder Singh Khalsa on Saturday quit the BJP accusing its leadership of having an indifferent attitude towards the protesting farmers. Khalsa,73, had won the Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha seat in 2014 as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate but had been suspended from the AAP for his alleged anti-party activities. He had joined the BJP in 2019. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlp-joins-protest-leaves-nda-over-new-farm-laws/story-TpM7QHsY05Y0gVcnEVJCeM.html
27-12-2020||India||Bear and cub killed in road accident in Odisha’s Sambalpur district||A 20-year-old female bear and her 5-year-old cub were killed after a vehicle hit them early this morning in Sambalpur district.Wildlife officials said the mother bear and its cub were crossing the Podabalanda-Badmal road under Rairakhol forest division early on Saturday when an unknown vehicle hit them killing both the animals.The wildlife officials reached the spot on receiving information and sent the bodies for post-mortem. They have also initiated a probe.The accidental death of the bears came five days after an elephant was run over by the Puri-Surat Express train near Bhabanipali between Hatibari and Maneswar Railway stations under Sambalpur division.In another incident, a 13-year-old boy was trampled to death by an elephant while another teenager sustained injuries in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bear-and-cub-killed-in-road-accident-in-odisha-s-sambalpur-district/story-GqMq8xhAdxzs1kLPN6HShP.html
27-12-2020||India||Spike in air pollution, cold wave conditions likely from Dec 29: IMD||Air pollution levels are likely to spike and ‘cold wave’ to ‘severe cold wave’ conditions are likely to set in over many parts of northwest India, including Delhi, from December 29, the India Meteorological Department has said. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 337 in the “very poor” category on Saturday.Under the influence of an approaching western disturbance, widespread snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; scattered snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand; and light rain or thundershowers is likely over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on December 27 and 28, the IMD said.After the western disturbance moves away and under the influence of the consequent strengthening of cold and dry north-westerly or northerly lower level winds, “cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely to re-establish over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh from December 29.Also Read | Marginal improvement in Delhi’s air quality; remains in severe zone“The impact of the western disturbance will be mainly in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh where moderate rain or snowfall is expected. In Delhi, we can expect clouding and trace rainfall. After the WD passes, cold wave is likely to be established for three to four days from December 29 onwards. We already have very low minimum temperatures bordering cold wave conditions,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Northern parts of Saurashtra, Kutch and west Madhya Pradesh are also likely to experience cold wave conditions. Ground frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh between December 28 and 29. ‘Cold day’ conditions are also likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on December 28 and 29 and over North Rajasthan December 29 and 30. Dense to very dense fog is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi on December 28, 29 and 30.According to IMD, a ‘cold day’ or ‘severe cold day’ is considered when the minimum temperature is under 10 degrees and the maximum temperature is 4.5 degree C or 6.4 degree C below normal. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below, and is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. On December 27, when the wind direction changes temporarily to easterly, wind speed is likely to reduce leading to a spike in pollution levels. “We always see that during the transition of winds, air pollution levels go up but after that wind speed is likely to pick up,” said Shrivastava. According to air quality early warning system under the ministry of earth sciences, ventilation index on Sunday is likely to be 3500 m2/s. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 m2/s is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-air-pollution-cold-wave-conditions-likely-from-dec-29-imd/story-ydyWaPqm1yGnBlJBowfWIK.html
27-12-2020||India||Women have right to live on own terms: Allahabad high court||The Allahabad high court has reunited a Hindu woman with her Muslim husband, underlining that “she has a choice to live her life on her own terms”. A bench of justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal decided on December 18 a habeas corpus plea filed by the man, who complained his wife had been sent to her parents against her wishes by the Nari Niketan or Child Welfare Committee (CWC).The division bench, after interacting with the woman, noted that she unequivocally expressed her desire to stay with her husband.It said that she is “free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hinderance being created by third party”. The court also quashed an FIR registered against the man for allegedly abducting the woman.The bench set aside an order of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of remanding the woman to the Nari Niketan while stating that the act of the trial court and the CWC, Etah, reflected a lack of appreciation of legal provisions.The court said the woman was an adult as her date of birth was October 4, 1999 and the trial court did not appreciate the fact that when a school certificate had been produced, then any other evidence would be secondary and should not be relied on.Also Read | About 35 arrests, dozen FIRs as UP ‘love jihad’ law completes one monthThe court was hearing the plea by the husband, who through his counsel had contended that his wife was sent to the CWC against her choice, which, a day later, handed her custody to the parents.On December 16, the court asked police to produce the woman on December 18. On the said date, the court interacted with the woman who said her date of birth was October 4, 1999 and she had attained the age of majority. She told the court that she had entered into wedlock and wanted to live with her husband.Following this, the court said, “As the corpus (woman) has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and she has expressed that she wants to live with her husband, she is free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hinderance being created by third party”.While quashing the order of the city court, Etah, the bench said it had been passed “without application of mind”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-have-right-to-live-on-own-terms-hc/story-Uq4ukHgt33MVHmUQmhN25J.html
27-12-2020||India||Day before Amit Shah’s visit, Manipur’s Independent MLA extends support to BJP-led govt||A day before Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Manipur, a newly-elected independent MLA in the recently held by-polls in the northeastern state has extended support to the BJP-led coalition government.Independent MLA Y Antas Khan has written a letter to Governor Dr Najma Heptulla in this regard, people aware of the developments said.Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Friday tweeted, “Warmest welcome, Shri Y Antas Khan, Hon’ble MLA, Lilong Assembly constituency, for extending your support to BJP-led government in the state. The government is working with a well-knit strategy to ensure the state’s overall development, emphasizing deprived and neglected areas.”Independent MLA Antas Khan defeated his nearest rival and former minister Md Abdul Nasir by a margin of 3078 votes to win the Lilong assembly constituency under Thoubal district in the November by-polls.When contacted over the phone, Independent MLA Antas Khan said, “I extended support to the government as per the wishes of the people in the constituency.”The BJP-led coalition government in Manipur came to power in March 2017 with the support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF besides one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party, and an Independent. BJP’s total strength in the 60-member Manipur assembly which currently has an effective strength of 54 members is 22 MLAs while opposition Congress has 17 MLAs.Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the state particularly in and around the state capital, with search operations and frisking carried out from time to time.On Thursday, apart from reviewing the preparation activities, Chief Minister N Biren Singh also inspected the preparation work at Hafta Kangjeibung in Imphal where the visiting minister will address a gathering and lay the foundation stones of various projects including a medical college. The Union home minister is also expected to inaugurate some development projects on December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-before-amit-shah-s-visit-manipur-s-independent-mla-extends-support-to-bjp-led-govt/story-eEXkmMJ9mWuk4aeQEth8aM.html
27-12-2020||India||After Bodoland Territorial Council poll, BJP to gain majority in Assam polls, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday credited the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for unifying the people of Assam with the rest of the country. Addressing a public rally in Assam’s Kamrup district, Shah said the state has embarked on a journey of peace and development under chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.“Assam was earlier known for agitations and violence, but Sonowal and Sarma have unified the people of the state and the region with the rest of the country by upholding and promoting heritage and traditions,” he said.Shah said that BJP-led central government has given priority to Assam and the northeast in the past six years and ensured that the benefits of every scheme reach people in the state.“In Assam, there was a period of movements. Many agitations were launched over different issues in which hundreds of youths were killed. The peace of Assam was disturbed and development was halted,” he said.“There was a time when separatists used to give arms in the hands of the youth in these states. Almost all armed groups have joined the mainstream and the startups launched by youth are competing with other startups globally. What is the way forward? Development is the only way forward. Development is happening and will happen further but ideological change is also needed and that can’t happen only through development,” he said.Referring to the Bodo agreement signed earlier this year, he said the Modi government has initiated the process of establishing peace in Assam. “The Bodoland Accord was the biggest success,” he said. “Bodo youths who had taken up arms have now joined the mainstream…I am very much proud to say that in the recently conducted Bodoland polls, eighty percent polling took place with no bloodshed,” he said. The senior BJP leader also expressed confidence that the party will form a government in Assam with a full majority in the 2021 assembly polls. “The Bodoland poll, won by NDA, was only a semi-final. The final will be Assam election. In this poll too, BJP will have full majority,” Shah said.The BJP extended support to the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) and Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) to stake claim for the Bodoland Territorial Council, after it won nine seats in the local polls. The UPPL won 12 seats in the elections held earlier in December.The Union minister said that the northeast has turned into the country’s growth engine under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Modiji visited the Northeast Region thirty times in six years. Every time, he visited the region, he has come with gifts,” said Shah. He launched an attack on the former government led by Congress for not working for development of Assam. Invoking the 16th-century saint Acharya Sankardev, Shah said, “Congress didn’t do anything for the birthplace of Acharya Sankardev whose contributions gave recognition to Assam’s history, drama writing, arts and poetry.”“But BJP believes in strengthening of language, culture, arts of the states. BJP believes that India cannot achieve greatness until the culture and language of states are strengthened. India’s culture and arts are incomplete without Assamese culture and arts,” he said.During his visit, Shah is expected to meet the newly-elected members of the BJP’s core committee, the ruling coalition of Bodoland Territorial Council, the 23-member delegation of the United Peoples Party Liberal, news agency PTI reported.On Saturday, Shah laid the foundation stones of a Rs 186-crore beautification programme of Vaishnav Saint Srimanta Sankardeva at Batadrava, a medical college and hospital which will be set up in the capital city, estimated to cost Rs 860 crore, and 11 law colleges across the state.Shah’s visit also witnessed political developments in the state with legislators from other parties vying to join the BJP. During his stay he met Congress MLA Rajdeep Goala and Gana Shakti Party MLA Bhubon Pegu. Former cabinet minister and Congress MLA from Golaghat Ajanta Neog, who was expelled from the party on Friday, also met Shah at the PWD guest house in Amingaon where he will spend the night. Neog had tendered her resignation from primary of the Congress and also as legislator of Golaghat on Friday. All three leaders-Neog, Goala and Pegu are expected to join BJP. “BJP has no strength of its own that’s why they need those from other parties. They (the BJP) are taking people from other parties by threatening with action by agencies like Enforcement Directorate, CBI and Income Tax,” Assam Congress president Ripun Bora told journalists on Saturday. “Rajdeep Goala and Ajanta Neog are not connected with our party as they have already been expelled from the Congress. Since they are no longer associated with us, there’s nothing to say about what they are doing,” he added. Shah is scheduled to offer prayers at Kamakhya Temple in Guwahati on December 27. From Guwahati, the home minister will visit Manipur to launch various schemes before leaving for New Delhi. He also urged farmers agitating against the new agriculture laws to resolve their issues through discussions.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bodoland-territorial-council-poll-bjp-to-gain-majority-in-assam-polls-says-amit-shah/story-cArlbSmCMgpIFKpgc2YYpJ.html
27-12-2020||India||J&K polls show depth of our democracy, says PM Modi||The elections in Jammu and Kashmir’s District Development Council were a mirror to those who taught him democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said there was no democracy in the country.Modi said that while his government completed three-tier panchayat polls in Jammu and Kashmir in just over a year of the region becoming a Union territory, the dispensation in Puducherry could not carry out local body elections despite a Supreme Court order.While launching the Ayushman Bharat scheme virtually to extend health care benefits to Jammu and Kashmir residents, Modi said: “There are some people in Delhi who keep cursing, criticising and insulting me. They want to teach me lessons in democracy. I want to hold up a mirror to them… Look at Jammu and Kashmir, within a short span of becoming a union territory they have held DDC (District Development Council) polls as an example of democracy. But see the irony, on the other hand, despite the Supreme Court’s order in Puducherry, panchayat and municipal elections have not happened.”“The party of those teaching me democracy is in power in Puducherry,” the Prime Minister said, without naming the Congress, which has been ruling the UT since 2016. It shows the gap between what some parties preach and what they do, and also highlights their commitment to democracy, he added. On Thursday, Gandhi, after meeting President Ram Nath Kovind and submitting a memorandum signed by 20 million farmers seeking the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws, told reporters that India was now an “imaginary democracy” and anyone who opposes the PM, “will be dubbed as a terrorist and anti-national”. “Democracy…. which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India,” he said.The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have both declared victory in Jammu and Kashmir’s DDC elections, interpreting differently what the verdict meant in the backdrop of the Centre’s decision to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status last year. PAGD partners maintained that the people rejected the decision to scrap Article 370, which accorded special status to J&K, while the BJP contended that the results showed voters said no to “terrorism and separatism” and took the path of nationalism.Referring to the DDC elections, the first major electoral process after the nullification of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the state into two Union territories, the PM said people’s participation in huge numbers in the polls made it a moment of pride for the country.“The people of J&K have voted for strengthening democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. People of all walks of life came out and voted for development in DDC elections. Jammu and Kashmir has won Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of ‘gram swaraj’,” he said.He said his government has been committed to securing people’s right to elect their representatives at the local level and it was for this reason that it broke off the alliance between the BJP and the Peoples Democratic Party, which ran a coalition government in the erstwhile state.“There was a time, we were a part of the Jammu and Kashmir government, we had a deputy CM; but we broke the alliance. Our issue was that the panchayat elections should be held and people be given their due rights to choose their representatives,” the PM said.He added that the development of the people of Jammu and Kashmir was one of the highest priorities of his government and in line with that, the Ayushman Bharat scheme will ensure universal health coverage and quality and affordable essential health services to all.The scheme offers free-of-cost insurance cover to all residents of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, and extends financial cover of up to ₹5 lakh per family on a floater basis to all residents. There is a provision for operational extension of the ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana’ (PM-JAY) to approximately 15 lakh additional families and the benefits of the scheme will be portable across the country.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-polls-show-depth-of-our-democracy-says-pm-modi/story-vJhFQQZDaoLClWVqXLZE9J.html
27-12-2020||India||ED summons Eknath Khadse in Bhosri land deal case, asks him to appear on Dec 30||Senior NCP leader Eknath Khadse received summons from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) asking him to be present at its Mumbai office on December 30. The central investigating agency is likely to probe the money laundering angle in the Bhosri land deal case, in which the land was allegedly bought at an undervalued price.Khadse confirmed to HT that he had received the notice and would be going to the ED office. He joined the Sharad Pawar-led NCP in October this year.The former BJP heavyweight is facing trouble following allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal in Bhosri near Pune in 2016. The plot was bought by his wife Mandakini Khadse and son-in-law, Girish Choudhary for Rs 3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of Rs 30 crore, it is said.“He wants to harass me and thus the same case is being probed again and again by different agencies,” Khadse said without taking any name. He has blamed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for all his miseries in the past four years.“The land was bought at Rs 3.75 crore and the government has already spent Rs 14 crore to 15 crore on various probes. The case was investigated twice by anti-corruption bureau, once by Pune ACB and another time by Nashik ACB. Pune has submitted its closure report before the court. The state had spent Rs 3 crore to Rs 4 crore on Zoting committee (appointed by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government) to probe the same case. It was also probed by the Income Tax department. In all this will be the fifth probe in the same land deal,” Khadse said stressing that he has been targeted.In Dhule, he told reporters that people from across the state have called and expressed sympathy with him. “They also felt that this is a kind of injustice. It appears that they didn’t like the probes one after the other but decisions have been made and we have to follow them,” he commented.The investigation closure report of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Pune has given a clean chit to the former revenue minister. In its report filed before the Pune court in 2018, ACB Pune had said that there was no evidence that Khadse was aware that his wife and son-in-law had purchased the plot.Khadse was a prominent leader of the BJP from north Maharashtra and enjoys a significant hold in the region. He comes from Leva Patil, one of the OBC communities, that has a sizable population in north Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-eknath-khadse-in-bhosri-land-deal-case-asks-him-to-appear-on-dec-30/story-KMgCFglgrdZQCk400CiiaI.html
27-12-2020||India||Farm unions agree to talk to govt on Dec 29||Farm unions protesting three contentious agricultural laws on Saturday agreed to restart negotiations with the government, ending a stalemate in talks to resolve a month-long, politically challenging agitation by tens of thousands of farmers.Farm unions, who have hunkered down at the capital’s borders, on Saturday sent a letter to a senior bureaucrat of the agriculture ministry in which they agreed to hold delegation-level talks with the central government on December 29 at 11am.The farmers maintain that talks must be geared toward a repeal of the three laws they say will hurt their incomes. Talks between the unions and a team comprising three Union ministers — Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — had run aground on December 8, after the unions’ meeting with home minister Amit Shah.Farmers were to meet on December 9 with the three ministers for the sixth time but they called off the meeting, saying the talks were going nowhere since the government was not agreeing to their core demands.Also Read | Agitating farmers from western UP stay put in Noida at night“We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three central farm acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these acts,” said the letter by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of unions, to joint secretary in the farm ministry, Vivek Agrawal.“Be that as it may, since you are willing to hold a meeting on date, time and issues of our choosing, we make the following proposal on behalf of Samyukt Kisan Morcha after due consultation with all organisations,” the unions wrote, framing an agenda that has four main issues.Farm unions spelt out four demands in order of priorities; first, they said, “modalities (are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities”.These top two demands are the trickiest. Although the government has made attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, it is not prepared to scrap its three laws.On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah urged the protesting farmers to resolve their issues through discussions.Commenting on the letter, an official who participated in the previous rounds of talks said on condition of anonymity: “We welcome the farmers’ decision. The government is ready to discuss any issue, whether new or old. We have said this in writing. I am not in a position to comment more on this.”Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support price (MSP).Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Centre says not ‘logical’ to include MSP in talks, unions likely to reply todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to farmers on Friday, said his government was open to talks with farm unions and even opposition parties who have pressed on with a massive pushback against the farm policies so long as discussions were based on “tark” and “tathya” (Hindi for ‘arguments’ and ‘facts’), but staunchly defended his farm-reform agenda needed to “modernise” the farm sector.The government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments; these include greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the mechanism of MSP.Saturday’s letter made it clear that the farmers not only want a law mandating MSP, but they want an expansive system of guaranteed prices based on a broader measure of farming costs.The government has promised to continue its mechanism of setting minimum crop prices and procuring food produce, mainly staples, a proposal it is banking on to find a solution.Farm leader Darshan Pal spelt out why the assurance on minimum prices was not enough.The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The so-called minimum support prices or MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of cultivation that takes into account all expenses of raising a particular crop plus the value of family labour.Farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called ‘C2’ in economic parlance.Farmers also made it clear that they want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill. “There is no question that farmers need support. But they need to be supported in less market-distorting ways,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at think tank ICRIER.To be sure, Indian farmers get lower-than-global prices in most items not procured by the government because of oversupply and the government’s efforts to keep food inflation low.The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, they stated in their letter.The letter lastly stated that farmers want “changes to be made in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect the interests of farmers”.The bill proposes to provide cash instead of subsidised power for agricultural use. Farmers say the changeover could increase power costs for them.In a related development, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal announced a split from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the three farm laws. “I am not stuck with Fevicol with the NDA. Today, I separate myself from the NDA,” Beniwal said while addressing a farmers’ rally in Shahjahanpur in Alwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-agree-to-talk-to-govt-on-dec-29/story-Ymha1MB9ye7jvMQkjYz3zO.html
27-12-2020||India||Encounter between Uttarakhand STF and wanted criminal in UP’s Bijnore, combing operation on||An encounter broke out on late Saturday evening between Uttarakhand police’s Special Task Force (STF) and a wanted criminal in Chandpur Bijnore area of Uttar Pradesh. The STF team had gone there to conduct a raid to nab Kuldeep alias KD on whom Uttarakhand police has announced a reward of Rs 20,000. According to the statement released by Uttarakhand police, the STF team, along with US Nagar police, had gone there based on a tipoff to nab Kuldeep alias KD, against whom there are charges of three murders and extortion in US Nagar district of the state. Kuldeep has been absconding after jumping the parole. According to the tipoff, Kuldeep and his gang members were travelling towards US Nagar in a white car. When the STF team chased the car, there was firing from the gang members from the car, responding to which the STF team also fired many rounds. Following the encounter, Kuldeep and his gang members escaped into the nearby sugarcane fields taking the advantage of darkness. Kuldeep has likely been hit by a bullet as there was blood on the seats of the car they left behind. The STF team has informed the local police in Bijnore and started combing operation in the sugarcane fields to catch hold of Kuldeep and his accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-between-uttarakhand-stf-and-wanted-criminal-in-up-s-bijnore-combing-operation-on/story-HPcmTBchi8PblXTKnkbqMI.html
27-12-2020||India||Agitating farmers from western UP stay put in Noida at night||Braving biting cold, scores of farmers stayed put at the Delhi-Noida border near Chilla on Saturday night in protest against the three recent farm laws of the Centre even as other agitating farmers returned home for night stay.During the day, farmers’ groups from various Western Uttar Pradesh districts visit the border, join demonstrations and then return by evening, leaving local protestors and those from nearby districts at the site for an overnight stay, said Yogesh Pratap Singh, the UP unit chief of the BKU (Bhanu).Around 50 BKU (Bhanu) members, some of them belonging to Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, were at Chilla border on Saturday night, while 11 members observed fast during the day.“Eleven protestors observe fast during the day till 5 pm. It has been about a week since this hunger strike was started to protest against the government’s decision,” said Singh.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) members are camping at the Chilla border since December 1 while those belonging to the BKU (Lok Shakti) have been staying put at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal.The demonstrations continued even as Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks.On the next round of talks with the Centre, Singh, the son of BKU (Bhanu) chief Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, said, “Whenever the talks happen between the farmer unions and the government, it must be ensured that the three new laws are repealed and a new law ensuring MSP is discussed.” Over a dozen protestors belonging to the BKU (Lok Shakti) stayed put at the nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal, the faction’s home since December 2, for the overnight stay.“The protest is continuing and future of the protests would be decided after the next round of talks,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said.Meanwhile, traffic remained disrupted at the Chilla border due to the stir where only one carriageway (Delhi to Noida) was open for commuters, a Noida Traffic Police official said.The other routes – Kalindi Kunj and DND – were open and had normal traffic movement throughout the day, the official added. Thousands of farmers are currently camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitating-farmers-from-western-up-stay-put-in-noida-at-night/story-NaAww9Ne6sWrw3vYT1Mj4I.html
27-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest Updates: Rakesh Tikait, key farmer union leader receives death threat||It has been a month since farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana, began their protest march to the national capital seeking the removal of the three controversial farm laws passed by the central government in September. Till now, five rounds of talks have been held between farmer groups and Union ministers which remained inconclusive. On Friday, the protesters held a meet to discuss the Centre’s latest invitation for talks, with some of them indicating that they might resume dialogue in order to find a solution to the deadlock. Another meet of farmer groups will be held today where a formal decision will be taken on the invite for resumption of talks. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the government was open for talks and blamed opposition parties for misleading farmers against the three new laws for their political agenda. Releasing the next instalment of the PM-KISAN scheme, Modi added, “I bow to farmers. A majority of them have supported the laws. I will never allow farmers’ interests to be compromised at any cost.” The farmer groups however, hit out at the Prime Minister’s address and said he did not even once address those who have been protesting adding that the speech was a mix of fabricated and fake news. The protesting farmers, who have been camping at several border points in Delhi and neighbouring states are seeking the removal of Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Centre has projected that the new laws will eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce across India. However, the farmers maintain that the laws would demolish the Minimum Support Price (MSP) policy and do away with the wholesale market system. Follow live updates here: Bhartiya Kisan Union Spokesperson receives death threatRakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union alleged that he received a life threatening phone call. “It was a phone call from Bihar. They were threatening to kill me with arms. I’ve forwarded the recording to the police captain. They will do what is needed to be done next,” he said.  It was a phone call from Bihar. They were threatening to kill me with arms. I've forwarded the recording to the police captain. They will do what is needed to be done next: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, on receiving life threatening phone call pic.twitter.com/FxNffCRi2LRLP quits NDA over farm bills, says party chief Hanuman Beniwal After Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Rajasthan’s Rashtriya Loktantric Party(RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal also walked out of National Democratic Alliance. While addressing farmers’ rally in Shahjahanpur of Alwar, Beniwal said, “Bye-bye. We are quitting NDA. Nothing is above the pride of farmers in the country.” State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said that Beniwal’s party is an independent party and one man’s party. Just because of him BJP left the parliamentary seat from Nagaur and helped him in winning the election. “Earlier, he had supported the agri laws but now just to gain political mileage he had quit the alliance,” Pareekh added. Activist Yogendra Yadav says farmers ready to resume discussions Tuesday onwards, reports ANIAccording to ANI, activist Yogendra Yadav said that the farmers are ready to resume discussions from Tuesday, December 29. MSP should be part of talks: Tikait Modalities for repeal of three farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP should be part of agenda for talks with government said farmer leader Rakesh Tikait according to PTI.Former Lok Sabha MP Harinder Singh Khalsa quits BJP citing government’s negligence towards farmersFormer Lok Sabha MP Harinder Singh Khalsa resigned from BJP on Saturday citing government negligence towards the farmers. He said that he is resigning “in protest against the insensitivity shown by party leaders & the govt towards the sufferings of the farmers, their wives and children protesting against the three agrarian laws”.Centre indifferent towards farm stir, says SaamnaAmid the ongoing farmers’ protest, Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ on Saturday said that the Congress party has turned “feeble and disintegrated” and further suggested that all anti-BJP parties including the Sena should come together under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to provide a formidable alternative. Saamana added that those in power the Centre were indifferent towards the farmers’ agitation and added that instead of blaming the government, the main opposition party should introspect about its leadership issue.Two national highways closed due to stir; farmers yet to decide on sixth round of talksThe Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday said that two National Highways- NH9 and NH24 have been closed for traffic movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad as the farmers are continuing their protests against the central government’s agriculture reforms introduced in September. Delhi: Protesting farmers block main Delhi-Mohan Nagar road at UP Gate (Delhi-Ghaziabad border)."NH-9 & NH-24 closed from Delhi to Ghaziabad due to farmers' protests. People are advised to take alternate route for Ghaziabad via DND, ITO & Wazirabad," tweets Delhi Traffic Police pic.twitter.com/ntnh4J7CFqFarm reforms implemented in Madhya Pradesh, no confusion over it: CM ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that the farm reforms have been implemented in the state adding that there is no confusion over it. While speaking to news agency ANI, Chouhan added that training sessions will be organised on the laws in all the 313 blocks of the state so that they can learn how to benefit from them. Centre will have to listen to protesting farmers, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said that the central government will have to listen to the farmers protesting against the new agriculture reforms. Gandhi shared a video of the protesters on Twitter and wrote, “ “Mitti ka kann kann goonj raha hai, sarkar ko sun na padega---The government will have to listen (to the farmers).” मिट्टी का कण-कण गूंज रहा है,सरकार को सुनना पड़ेगा। pic.twitter.com/yhwH6D8uWOI challenge Rahul Gandhi, DMK to debate over reforms: JavadekarUnion minister Prakash Javadekar hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and challenged him and the DMK for an open debate on whether the farm reforms introduced by the central government are in the interest of farmers or not. Gandhi on Thursday had called the agitation a ‘Satyagraha’ and urged people to support the farmers. Rahul Gandhi suddenly said you'll have to withdraw #farmlaws. I am giving him open challenge for a debate, whether the laws are good, in the interest of farmers or not. I am giving challenge to Rahul Gandhi & DMK to debate: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar in Chennai. (25.12) pic.twitter.com/QIbnVGgjcXCentre adopting a callous and insensitive attitude towards farmers: SADThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) targeted the Central government over the ongoing stir and accused it of adopting a “callous and insensitive attitude” towards farmers. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the government should hold talks on ways and means to repeal the three farm laws in a “sincere manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-dec-26-2020/story-cCG4uCS9WWaPWu0VpP6nPP.html
