28-12-2020||India||Jaishankar wraps up Qatar visit with focus on boosting ‘multifaceted bilateral’ ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar’s two-day visit to Qatar was focused on enhancing bilateral ties in areas such as energy, trade, healthcare, defence and security.Jaishankar, who concluded the visit on Monday, also discussed regional and international issues with foreign minister Sheikh Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani.“Both ministers discussed ways to strengthen the multifaceted bilateral relationship in areas such as energy, trade, investment, food processing, healthcare, education, culture, defence and security,” the external affairs ministry said.“They agreed to maintain regular consultations and coordination on all issues of mutual interest at multilateral fora,” it added.The two sides are also in the process of setting up task forces on investment and energy. Jaishankar also invited his Qatari counterpart to visit India for the first joint commission meeting in 2021.The visit was part of India’s ongoing outreach to West Asia. Jaishankar recently visited the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain while minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan travelled to Oman.Also read: India’s first indigenous pneumonia vaccine by SII launchedThank @MBA_AlThani_ Deputy PM and Foreign Minister of Qatar for a very productive visit. Reviewed the entire gamut of our growing partnership. Discussed regional and multilateral developments. Looking forward to welcoming him to India for the Joint Commission meeting. pic.twitter.com/f1UY1gCCyKDuring the visit, Jaishankar also met the Amir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and the Father Amir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, who appreciated the contribution of the Indian community.Jaishankar handed over a personal message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Amir, inviting him to visit India and thanking Qatar for taking care of the Indian community during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Amir accepted the invitation to visit India at an early date.During his meeting with the Prime Minister and interior minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani, Jaishankar discussed strengthening bilateral economic and security cooperation.Jaishankar also interacted with business leaders from Qatar, including members of the Qatar Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Qatar Businessmen Association, and briefed them about opportunities arising from the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative.He held a virtual interaction with the Indian community and visited the Ahmed bin Ali FIFA Stadium built by the Indian company Larsen & Toubro along with its Qatari partner, Al Balagh group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-wraps-up-qatar-visit-with-focus-on-boosting-multifaceted-bilateral-ties/story-Pv6wwJFjqDSdMwrv6OepQO.html
28-12-2020||India||NCW writes to Hyderabad varsity to probe complaints of sexual harassment on campus||The National Commission for Women has written a letter to the chancellor of the Maulana Azad National Urdu University in Hyderabad to probe a complaint that it has received about illegal activities such as alleged prostitution, running of a sex racket and drugs at the health centre in the campus. In a letter dated December 17, the NCW has said it received a complaint from a Telangana resident that the administration has not been paying any attention to a complaint about these activities and has not conducted any enquiry in the matter. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said, “We received a complaint from a resident and a member has written to university chancellor Feroz Bakht Ahmed to undertake an inquiry.” The complainant‘s letter which has also been sent to the Prime Minister’s Office claims that girl students who have in the past complained of sexual harassment by a professor are “threatened to take the complaint back or face the music”. The complainant has also alleged that a fact finding team set up by the UGC that had gathered complaints from students, had earlier given the vice chancellor a clean-chit. While Bakht could not be reached, MANUU in-charge vice chancellor Prof S M Rahmatullah did not take calls or respond to text messages. However, a senior faculty in the university, who refused to be quoted, said no such case of sexual harassment had come to light in the university in the recent past. “There was an instance of a girl student making such a complaint against a faculty member at least three years ago, but the issue was closed after a due inquiry. At least in public domain, there are no such complaints after that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-writes-to-hyderabad-varsity-to-probe-complaints-of-sexual-harassment-on-campus/story-d0hKzJ8hyvKfuid4H635NL.html
28-12-2020||India||Nitish became Bihar CM on NDA’s request: Sushil Modi||PATNA A day after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said he had expressed no desire to become the chief minister and that his Janata Dal (United) party’s ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party could have picked its own CM, former deputy CM of the state, Sushil Kumar Modi, of the BJP, struck a conciliatory note and said Kumar had been reluctant to accept the state’s top post after the recent assembly elections and relented only after all National Democratic Alliance constituents in the state requested him to do so.“It is true that Nitish Kumar showed reluctance to continue as chief minister after the assembly polls and said the BJP should stake claim for the top post,” Modi, now a Rajya Sabha member, said on Monday.Modi, who is known to have an excellent equation with Nitish Kumar, was responding to queries on the sidelines of a function organised here on the birth anniversary of former Union minister Arun Jaitley.Kumar, who was chosen as CM despite his party winning just 43 seats (the BJP won 74 in the 243-member assembly), said at the JD (U) national executive meeting on Sunday that he was pressured to become the chief minister. “I didn’t have any intention to become the CM, but was pressured into accepting the post,” he had said.“Whoever becomes the CM, it hardly affects me. I don’t have any urge to continue on this post. I wanted a BJP CM and am (still) ready to co-operate,” he said.Kumar’s statement, which came two days after six JD (U) MLAs defected to the ruling BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, points to a divide developing in the ruling alliance.JD (U)’s national principal general secretary K C Tyagi also expressed anguish over repeated references to Kumar being the CM despite his party’s diminished strength in the assembly. He underscored that Kumar had initially expressed the opinion that the BJP, on account of its superior numerical strength, should have its own chief minister.He also ruled out the possibility of deterioration in relations between the two parties following the en masse defection of JD(U) MLAs to the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh.Modi too expressed similar sentiments. “The JD(U) itself has said that events taking place in another state will not affect the party’s tie-up with BJP in Bihar. I am confident that the NDA will rule Bihar for another five years, with Nitish Kumar at the helm, without any problem,” he said. “There is excellent coordination between the two parties.”Remembering Jaitley, he said, “I am sure had he been around, he would have found a way out of the current deadlock around the farm bills.”BJP’s spokesperson Nikhil Anand said that Kumar has put Bihar on the path to development. “He was again elected leader by NDA legislators and we are sure that he will continue to take Bihar forward .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-became-bihar-cm-on-nda-s-request-sushil-modi/story-RIaOEUhh3k735Iiz9vysKI.html
28-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi not on holiday, has gone to meet grandmother, sick relative: Congress||After the BJP criticised Rahul Gandhi for his visit abroad, the Congress on Monday said he has gone to meet an ailing relative and his grandmother and is not on a holiday. Asked about Rahul Gandhi’s absence from the party’s foundation day function at the AICC headquarters, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala came out in defence of Gandhi, saying he is currently not the party chief and has performed all the duties entrusted to him by the organisation. The former party chief left for Italy on Sunday afternoon, a day ahead of the party’s 136th foundation day, prompting many BJP leaders to take a swipe at him and the Congress. “Rahul Gandhi’s holiday in India has ended and he has gone back to Italy,” Union Minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh had tweeted. Surjewala said the BJP should not have any objection to Gandhi visiting an ailing relative. “Rahul Gandhi has gone out on a short personal visit to meet up with an ailing relative, who is seriously sick. He has not gone out on a holiday. He also meets up with his maternal grandmother this time of the year, every year. I don’t think the BJP should have objections to him visiting an ailing relative,” he told reporters. He said today the issue is not about Rahul Gandhi but of farmers protesting in the cold, and alleged that the prime minister or his ministers do not have time to meet them. “Why don’t the ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the prime minister of the country take care of the farmers? Instead of abusing the opposition, why don’t they pay attention to running the country? “Why doesn’t the prime minister and minister go 20 kilometers and talk to the farmers? Why is the prime minister so arrogant that he is not ready to talk to farmers,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-not-on-holiday-has-gone-to-meet-grandmother-sick-relative-congress/story-1U8ZhrdLzEsfrD4qR6otMP.html
28-12-2020||India||Two fake doctors held for molesting pregnant woman in hospital in Tripura||Tripura police on Monday arrested two men who allegedly masqueraded as doctors and molested a pregnant woman at a hospital of Kailasahar in Unakoti district. The two men identified as Raju Das (29) and Abhi Das (35) were remanded in judicial custody by a court.Police said that the incident took place early Sunday morning in the hospital where the patient was admitted. The two fake doctors entered her room and allegedly molested her. When the woman resisted and cried for help, they to escape from the hospital. Later, the patient’s husband lodged complaint at Kailasahar Women Police Station. “The woman’s husband lodged complaint on Sunday evening on the basis of which we took case under Section 354(B) and 417 of Indian Penal Code. Both of them were absconding after the incident. We arrested them today and forwarded to court. We are investigating the matter,” said Kailasahar Women Police Station officer in-charge Rinki Debbarma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-fake-doctors-held-for-molesting-pregnant-woman-in-hospital-in-tripura/story-P9Gl8jcfkEH5Jyqz5v40nJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Goa arrivals at ‘near-normal’ ahead of New Year’s eve||Flight arrivals in Goa have touched the highest levels since the pandemic began with the once-busy airport handling 72 arrivals and departures on December 27, - highest since domestic flights resumed operation - in the strongest indication that year-end holidaying has not been dampened by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. However, this enthusiasm could be there only for the New Year celebrations which is the biggest attraction in Goa where tourism contributes to 18 per cent of the state gross domestic product (SGDP).“There has been a consistent increase in domestic operations at the Goa International Airport. We have now touched 85 per cent of pre-Covid-19 levels when it comes to domestic air traffic,” Goa’s airport director Gagan Malik said.Trends across December, which has traditionally been the busiest month for the Goa Airport, have brought good cheer to Goa’s tourism industry that has felt the hardest blow of the lockdown in the summer.Arrivals have shown a marked increase in Goa across December.Also read: India’s first indigenous pneumonia vaccine by SII launchedTowards the end of November, the airport was handling 48 arrivals and departures which increased to 54 in the first week of December and further rose to 63 just ahead of Christmas on December 23.Goa’s roads and beaches, which earlier this year witnessed only thin traffic and few footfalls as people were hesitant to step out, are now witnessing crowds and traffic jams almost similar to pre-covid times.“Tourism has picked up and some hotels, especially the starred ones are witnessing 80 per cent occupancy. Some of the small and medium hotels are yet to reopen for business but things look positive. Credit to the Goa government for keeping a consistent policy and not introducing a fresh lockdown once we had reopened,” said Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa.“Goa is benefitting from being a safe destination to travel too since our Covid-19 cases have reduced significantly unlike Kerala which has seen a resurgence,” Shah added.According to the association, out of the 4,100 registered hotels in Goa, 1,300 are yet to reopen their doors indicating that the industry is still to feel the effects of the pandemic. Hotels have slashed rates by around 15-20 per cent in a bid to encourage people to travel. He added that certain sectors of the tourism industry, including mega-events, large have gatherings as well as the lack of foreign arrivals, has continued to hamper the industry.The industry is, however, keeping its fingers crossed over a possible resurgence in Covid-19 cases and is expecting a reduction in numbers across January and February.According to a report by KPMG Ltd, authored at the behest of the Goa government, Goa’s tourism industry may have suffered a loss of between Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,200 crore and job losses in the range of 35 per cent to 58 per cent on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-arrivals-at-near-normal-level-ahead-of-new-year-s-eve/story-DpmYTmJqRekMej1N4wFjmJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Over 1.3 lakh names removed from electoral roll: Assam govt||The Assam government on Monday said names of over 1.3 lakh persons have been deleted from the recently published electoral roll. In a written reply to a query from Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed, Election Minister Keshab Mahanta said the deleted names primarily comprise those who have shifted permanently or are dead voters. The minister said a total of 1,31,859 names were deleted from the photo electoral roll after the draft list was published on November 18 this year. He said that as per the Registration of ELectors Rules, 1960, the Electoral Registration Officer can strike off names of dead persons or of persons not resident of a particular constituency before the final publication of the voter list. On November 18, the draft electoral rolls for the 126 assembly constituencies in Assam were published, containing 2.24 crore voters, including 1.17 lakh first-timers. The draft list, however, witnessed an increase of 76,020 electors from the last final roll published on February 14 this year. The election to the 126-member Assam Assembly is likely in March-April of next year. The 2016 elections gave a fractured mandate and no party has an absolute majority in the current assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-3-lakh-names-removed-from-electoral-roll-assam-govt/story-5qOJ1OvghslNxNrWB0j77L.html
28-12-2020||India||Karnataka cabinet passes ordinance to ban cow slaughter in state||The Karnataka cabinet on Monday passed an ordinance to ban cow slaughter in the state after the bill could not be passed in the upper house of the legislature where the ruling BJP does not enjoy a majority.Law minister J Madhuswamy was quick to clarify that beef consumption in the state was not banned as buffaloes will continue to be slaughtered.The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle bill was passed in the winter session of the assembly amid slogans of ‘Gau Mata Ki Jai’ and BJP members sporting saffron scarves but it was not presented in the legislative council. The regional JDS declared that it would not support the bill, unlike the support it extended in passing agricultural landholding reform bills.Madhuswamy also said that the government would look into establishing gaushalas (cow shelters) across the state to take care of old and infirm cows in case they are abandoned by their owners. “The law itself is not new. Earlier there was a ban of the slaughter of cows under the age of 13. Now there is a blanket ban on the killing of any cow. However, buffaloes can be slaughtered.” The ordinance will be sent to the Governor for his assent in a day the minister added and after his consent will become law.Meanwhile, leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramiah while speaking at the Congress foundation day event said “I had once said in the assembly that I like eating cattle meat. Who is anybody to question us? Food habits are my right. If you don’t like it, don’t eat. I like to eat and I will. Does it need courage to say this?”Siddaramiah said that while farmers worshipped the cow as gau mata, he asked what should be done to old and unproductive cows as it costs Rs 100 per day per cow for a farmer to take care. “We should not be scared of expressing our feelings. We should come out of such confusion,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cabinet-passes-ordinance-to-ban-cow-slaughter-in-state/story-JiY4mdaxsDxdZTtauoddxO.html
28-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu allows bars attached to TASMAC to reopen||Bars attached to the Tami Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC) will reopen from Tuesday by adhering to Covid-19 precautions, according to a government order on Monday night. Tamil Nadu issued a standard operating procedure with a list of precautionary measures including checking saturation levels using digital pulse oximeters at the bar entrance. Only 50% of the seating capacity has been allowed and masks and social distancing are mandated for employees and patrons. Liquor sales from TASMAC are a major source of revenue for the state’s exchequer which was Rs 31,158 crore during the financial year 2018-19. The bars were closed in March owning to the Covid-19 pandemic but liquor sales were permitted from May across the state except in Chennai and adjoining Chengalpettu districts where there were a high number of positive coronavirus cases. The shops were permitted in the city from August onwards. Meanwhile, BJP workers belonging to the constituency of Chennai’s Harbour on Monday protested against the closure of a TASMAC shop in the neighbourhood. The workers alleged that the liquor shop was near a temple and hospital and it disturbed people. They were detained in a community hall for protesting without permission and violating Covid-19 norms and were let off later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-bars-attached-to-tasmac-to-reopen/story-1Yh0JMYDdTiAerMeOlqwlI.html
28-12-2020||India||Several states in grip of cold wave; North to witness chilly new year eve||North India is bracing for a chilly New Year eve as the night temperatures in the region are expected to fall by up to five notches over the next three days, the IMD said on Monday, when a cold wave swept across several states.A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi also over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather officials said. The minimum and maximum temperatures in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius and 20.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh. Isolated cold wave conditions are likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha during December 30-31.“….fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over northwest India during the next 3 days (29th-31st December),” the IMD said. There will be a slight rise in the temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter.An orange colour-coded warning has also been issued to the states. The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan during December 28-30.“Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours from December 31 to January 2,” the IMD added. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped by 4 to 5 notches in most parts of Rajasthan due to rain and snowfall in the Himalayan region, a Meteorological department official said on Monday.Radheshyam Sharma, the Director of Meteorological Department, said the present effect of conditions during winter is likely to continue till December 31 in the state.Due to an active Western Disturbance in north India over the last two days along with rains and snowfall in many parts of north India, the minimum temperature dropped by four to five notches in most parts of the state, he said.The lowest minimum temperature in the plains on Monday was 0.6 degree Celsius in Churu in western Rajasthan followed by 1 degree Celsius in Bhilwara in eastern Rajasthan, Sharma said.The lowest minimum overall was minus 0.2 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu.The Met department has issued an alert for cold weather conditions in the districts of Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota and Bharatpur division during the next two days.In Uttar Pradesh, very light rain and thundershowerswere witnessed at isolated places over western parts, but there was no major fluctuation in day temperatures in the state on Monday, according to the weather department.The weather remained dry over eastern Uttar Pradesh and the mercury hovered around normal levels in all divisions of the state, it said.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius at Churk, while Jhansi registered the highest temperature of 27.6 degrees Celsius.In Jammu and Kashmir, many areas in the higher reaches received fresh snowfall even as there was improvement in the minimum temperature across the Valley, providing some respite from the cold to the residents.Fresh snowfall was recorded in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley and the Jammu region during the night, the officials said.They said the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded two inches of snowfall, while Pahalgam resort, in the south, and Sonamarg resort, in central Kashmir, each received around an inch of snowfall.Many areas in the Jammu region also received fresh snowfall, they said.Meanwhile, piercing cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-states-in-grip-of-cold-wave-north-to-witness-chilly-new-year-eve/story-vLRn6nYUloi8DjDx5sx0zH.html
28-12-2020||India||Supreme Court announces new roster; CJI, 7 senior judges to hear PILs from Jan 4||The Supreme Court came out with a new roster on Monday determining allocation of cases to its different benches, which would come into effect from January 4 next year post the winter break.According to the new roster, public interest litigation (PIL) petitions, letter petitions and social justice matters would now be heard by Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde and seven senior judges.Besides the CJI, the seniormost judge, Justice N V Ramana, and justices R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and L Nageswara Rao would deal with the PILs and social justice matters, usually involving the Centre and the states, and their instrumentalities as opposite parties.Usually, six to seven benches of the apex court assemble through video-conferencing due to the situation triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, in contrast with the normal times when 14-15 benches used to take up cases in physical hearings.Besides PIL matters, the CJI has kept with him the matters of contempt, habeas corpus, social justice, direct and indirect tax cases, among others.He would also be dealing with election matters, cases pertaining to the appointments of constitutional functionaries and those that are specially assigned to him.The seven other judges would be assigned letter petitions and PILs by the CJI.Justice Ramana will also be hearing matters related to arbitration, compensation, religious and charitable endowments and cases pertaining to judicial officers.The bench headed by Justice Nariman would look into cases related to company law, family law, matters related to mercantile laws and commercial and banking transactions.The previous roster was notified on October 1, according to which PILs, letter petitions and social justice matters were being heard by the benches headed by the CJI and seven senior judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-announces-new-roster-cji-7-senior-judges-to-hear-pils-from-jan-4/story-9eVukeD4bICkrTUAb0GNqJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Donation drive for Ayodhya’s Ram temple from next month||Ram Janmabhoomi Temple Trust will launch a countrywide month-long donation drive to build the ambitious Ram Temple at Ayodhya, Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj said Monday. Giri , treasurer of Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Nyas, also said that around Rs 1,100 crore will be spent for the project which includes over Rs 300 crore to build the main structure of the temple.During the donation drive, coupons worth Rs1,000, Rs100 and even Rs 10 will be sold. The idea is to get contributions from even the poorest for which Rs 10 coupons will be sold. Swami Govind Giri Maharaj was in Nagpur on Monday to announce the beginning of a month-long donation drive to collect funds for building the temple starting from January 15.“We want to reach the last man of the society for their contribution for the project,” he said.“This is a special campaign under which door-to-door contact will happen to collect donations through sale of coupons. Contributions for the temple other than the special drive have already begun and will continue,” said Giri and informed that Rs100 crore has been collected for the project, so far. Answering a question, he said that the Rs 6 crore collected during the drive of 1990s has also been handed over to the Trust. The Ram temple campus will have a number of facilities like a yagnashala, library and a martyrs’ memorial. “The memorial will pay homage to all those who have laid down their lives for the temple, which include those who fought the war during the Mughal invasion of 1528 AD and also the karsevaks, who lost their lives,” he said. According to Giri, the design of temple foundation will be decided soon after a meeting with experts from IITs at Mumbai, Hyderabad, Surat and Roorkee. “They have come up with two suggestions for the foundation. After finalizing the plan in the meeting, we hope to start construction by January. It will take at least three and half years to complete the temple structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donation-drive-for-ayodhya-s-ram-temple-from-next-month/story-jrwlw82vLa6AaMspBvJyQO.html
28-12-2020||India||Commercial establishments operating in sites for residential use to be sealed in Srinagar||The Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) will soon seal commercial establishments in Srinagar operating in buildings and houses with residential use.From past many years, many buildings have come up in the city, especially in residential areas. Many areas which were otherwise marked as residential areas have been turned into commercial areas as business establishments have come in such locations.The SMC is tightening the grip on the violators, especially those without the permission.“Commercial establishments in Srinagar operating in buildings/houses with residential use building permissions to be sealed and prosecuted under law. Commercial activities are permissible only in buildings with commercial use building permission,” said Junaid Azim Mattu, SMC mayor. He said the drive will begin very soon.Also read: ‘Exercise caution’ - MHA tells states in wake of new Covid-19 strainSrinagar and its adjoining neighbourhoods have witnessed a construction boom in the last two decades, especially shops and malls have come up in the residential areas. Many people have converted their residential properties into commercial buildings without seeking proper permission from the concerned authorities.Sources said that the government has already identified many such buildings or houses which are being used for commercial purposes.“Earlier also similar warnings were given to people and at some places action was taken against the violators, but it proved short-lived. Hope this time government shows some seriousness, we are losing spaces for housing to business houses,” said Javeed Iqbal, resident of Rajbagh where dozens of houses have been turned into commercial places against the law.At Umerabad and Shalteng localities on the city outskirts, houses and plots meant for residential purposes have been converted into commercial properties.“During the lockdown, several shops were constructed in our lane and authorities didn’t take any action. How can shops be constructed in a residential colony? We even approached the authorities and brought to their notice but no action was taken against the violators,” said Tariq Ahmad, resident of Umarabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commercial-establishments-operating-in-sites-for-residential-use-to-be-sealed-in-srinagar/story-RWVCtgcImwb9EL7ZUObxeI.html
28-12-2020||India||In a first, Uttarakhand police personnel to get weekly-offs from January 1||In a first, the Uttarakhand police on Monday announced weekly-offs for police personnel in the Himalayan state from January 1, 2021. Under the initiative, the weekly-offs would be provided to the head-constables and constables posted in the nine hill districts of Pauri Garhwal, Tehri Garhwal, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Champawat, Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Almora and Bageshwar. Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said, the initiative has been started as an experiment in the hill districts in the initial phase. “The move will help in increasing their efficiency and morale while on duty. If successful, this would be extended in the four plain districts of Dehradun, Nainital, US Nagar and Haridwar,” said Kumar. The state police chief, however, informed that the “personnel on weekly-off would not be allowed to leave his police headquarters jurisdiction”. “In case of an emergency situation such as a disaster, an accident or a law and order situation, the personnel may be called to duty if needed by his police station in-charge or police check post in-charge,” Kumar said. The development has come days after Kumar announced a flurry of reforms for the “modernisation and increasing efficiency of the department” after taking charge as DGP of the state. At present, police personnel especially the ones at ground level including head-constables and constables have to serve duty of about 12-14 hours a day with no weekly-offs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-uttarakhand-police-personnel-to-get-weekly-offs-from-january-1/story-tKUY7Pq0k1xsrtbB85uwZI.html
28-12-2020||India||Odisha to repeal over 200 obsolete laws in Budget session next year||Over 40 years after Odisha repealed more than a hundred obsolete and redundant Acts through Odisha Repealing Act 1976, the state government would repeal about 200 such laws.The state cabinet, which met today, gave its approval for repeal of 206 old and obsolete Acts that were passed between 1976 and 2016. Principal secretary of law department Shashikant Mishra said since September this year, 33 departments in the state were asked to list the obsolete laws that can be repealed. “From the initial list of 699 laws, we have decided to repeal 206 laws in the first phase. After the State Law Commission recommended for their repeal, the Cabinet approved it. The laws would be repealed through Odisha Repealing Bill 2021 to be moved in the Budget session of the Assembly,” he said.Among the 206 Acts and laws that the Odisha Repealing Bill 2021 wants to scrap is the Odisha Motor Spirit (Taxationon sales) Amendment Act, 1974, Odisha Entertainment Tax (Amendment)Act, 1975, Odisha Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2010, Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1976 - which regulates black-marketing in cinema halls - and Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1975 - which made it liable for people of an area to pay penalty if they failed to provide timely help in case of destruction of property - have also gone redundant. Similarly, Orissa Prevention of Gambling Act, 1955, would also be repealed.Orissa Eyes (Authorities for use for therapeutic purposes) Act, 1985, that is no longer valid after Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act was passed by the Parliament in 1994, and Orissa Fireworks and Loudspeakers Amendment Act 1979 that empowered the district collectors to stop the display of fireworks and use of loudspeaker in an area for six months, would be repealed. Similarly, at least eight Acts under Bihar Odisha Excise Amendment Act between 1974 and 1998 have become obsolete after the Odisha Excise Act 2005 was passed.The last time Odisha had repealed over 100 old and obsolete Acts was in 1978 when the Janata Party government, headed by the then chief minister Nilamani Routray, was in power in the state. In Centre, the Narendra Modi government has repealed more than 1,400 obsolete Acts after it came to power in 2014. The move came after the Law Commission found that a large number of Appropriation Acts passed earlier still continued.The Odisha Cabinet also approved a resolution proposing quota in medical and engineering courses for students of government-run schools in the state. As per the proposal, students completing their education in state-run schools will have a reservation during admission into medical and engineering courses.A high-powered committee will be formed under the chairmanship of a retired Orissa High Court judge to fix the modalities in three months for the effective implementation of the recommendations from the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-repeal-over-200-obsolete-laws-in-budget-session-next-year/story-XVH4DsPV43AqhEFn4i7ipM.html
28-12-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan takes the ordinance route against ‘love jihad’||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that an ordinance to ban dubious inter-faith marriages would be brought on Tuesday after a discussion in a cabinet meeting. Chouhan’s statement came when journalists asked him whether the government would bring an ordinance on the inter-faith marriages after the state assembly’s winter session was postponed. “The state government will bring the Freedom of Religion ordinance on Tuesday,” Chouhan said.The government could not table the bill - the Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Bill, 2020 - on such marriages called “Love jihad” in the state assembly’s winter session as the three-day session scheduled to be held from Monday was postponed due to prevailing Covid-19 situation after an all-party meeting chaired by the protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Sunday evening. Though the CM did not elaborate on the ordinance, it is likely to have all the provisions of the bills, officials said. Governor Anandiben Patel reached Bhopal on Monday and is expected to sign the ordinance, according to officials. Notably, the bill approved by the state cabinet on Saturday provides for up to 10 years in jail for “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to undergo religious conversion” with a special clause on no punitive action against those returning to their original religion. As per the bill, the marriages solemnised in violation of the law would be deemed null and void and re-conversion to the ancestral religion would not be treated as a conversion and punishable offence. “Love jihad” is an imaginary the right-wing conspiracy theory that Muslim men seduce Hindu women and lure them into marriage with an intention to convert them to Islam.The proposed legislation was supposed to replace the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, according to Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra who briefed journalists after the cabinet meeting on Saturday. According to Mishra, the bill was different from the Uttar Pradesh government’s legislation promulgated through an ordinance on November 25. Unlike the MP bill, the UP ordinance does not provide for parental property rights to children of an interfaith marriage, monthly maintenance and a fine of Rs 50,000 for an inter-religion union without permission of the district magistrate. In UP, the fine amount is Rs 25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-takes-the-ordinance-route-against-love-jihad/story-tmL7LycXW2fO9miQF4CapJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu govt admits using image of saffron-clad Thiruvalluvar was an error, seeks answers||A day after opposition parties criticised the ruling AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu for telecasting an image of ancient Tamil saint-poet Thiruvalluvar in saffron robes on state-run channel, Kalvi TV for school students, the school education department has clarified it was a mistake. The department has also sought an explanation from district-level teachers. “It was not intentional and it is being sorted out,” said a senior official of the department. “A teacher at the district level did not unfortunately understand the right image to use for a figure who is likely to be politicised.” The department convened a meeting on Monday with principals of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) who have been given the task of digital content creation and broadcast material for Kalvi TV. “We have asked for an explanation. We have sensitized our people to be cautious about what they are doing because once it’s on air, we are accountable. The sensitivity of the people should be taken into account,” the official said. Thiruvalluvar is usually attired in white robes which is the image used widely and officially by the Tamil Nadu government. In a segment to explain Thirukkural, which is a collection of 1,330 couplets on life, ethics and morality, written by Thiruvalluvar, the channel had used an image of him clad in saffron with sacred ash on his forehead. Since schools are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students of low-cost private schools subscribe to lectures broadcast on Kalvi TV which was launched last August.This was brought to light after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MLA and former school education minister Thangam Thennarasu released a statement on Sunday condemning the ‘saffronisation’ of Thiruvalluvar. In 2019, a controversy erupted when the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Tamil Nadu unit tweeted a picture of Thiruvalluvar replacing his white robes with saffron drawing the ire of Dravidian and Left parties. “Though they are saying that it is a mistake, it shows the AIADMK in poor light,” said Thennarasu. “Thiruvalluvar’s appearance is known for ages. How does a lower-level staff have the courage to release this image unless the AIADMK is seen as adopting BJP’s thinking? BJP has used this image for political reasons but how can the government use a similar image on an educational channel?” He sought action against the person responsible. Following Thennarasu’s statement, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran tweeted that the ancient philosopher belonged to all notwithstanding religion. A person in the office of the school education minister, K A Sengottaiyan, said that he had communicated to the department to ensure that the ‘mistake is not repeated’. In public functions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often quoted from Thirukkural and in 2019 he released a Thai translation of Thirukkural from Tamil in an event in Bangkok which also showed Thiruvallur in a white dhoti and no holy ash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-admits-using-image-of-saffron-clad-thiruvalluvar-was-an-error-seeks-answers/story-zjX6MupojWdhottXQYiecN.html
28-12-2020||India||Bengaluru police announce night curfew on New Year’s Eve||There will be no public New Year celebrations in Bengaluru involving large groups as the city police have announced curfew on New Year’s Eve. The move was announced by Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant who said that Section 144 of CRPC would be imposed across the city in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.Pant also said that all unnecessary movement of traffic beginning December 30 would be prevented. “I appeal to the citizens to cooperate with the administration in ensuring safe celebrations. The curfew will be in force from 6 pm of December 31 till 6 am of January 1,” he said.Under Section 144 of CRPC assembly of five or more people is barred and the Bengaluru police said that they have advised hotels, malls and other public places to ensure that the laws are respected and followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-announce-night-curfew-on-new-year-s-eve/story-dIppjhY0ByVwT4MQAKXcEI.html
28-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Home ministry asks states to stay alert during new year celebrations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Exercise caution’: MHA tells states in wake of new Covid-19 strain, new yearThe Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued an order extending the Covid-19 guidelines for “Containment, Surveillance and Caution” till January 31 and urged people to exercise caution in the wake of the new variant of the virus recently traced in the UK and new year celebrations. Read moreSwearing-in of newly-elected DDC members held across JammuThe swearing-in ceremony of newly-elected District Development Council (DDC) members was held across Jammu division on Monday, marking the establishment of a three-tier Panchayati Raj system in this part of J&K. Read moreVirat Kohli posts heart-warming ‘thank you’ message after winning ICC honourCaptain of the Indian cricket team, Virat Kohli posted a heart-warming thank you message to all his followers and those who helped shape his career. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan apologises to woman for using her poem without credit: ‘I thought it to be good and posted’Veteran star Amitabh Bachchan is among the busiest actors in Bollywood with multiple movies and a popular TV show in his kitty. On top of that, he also believes in keeping in touch with his fans on social media, sharing regular pictures of himself with some words of wisdom. Read more Xiaomi Mi 11 with Snapdragon 888 SoC, 108MP camera, 2K AMOLED screen launchedWe are three days away from 2021 and in the middle of the holiday season. But, Xiaomi seems to have been working hard and has made its last yet major smartphone launch of the year. The firm today launched its flagship smartphone, Xiaomi Mi 11 in China. Read moreFitness freak Malaika Arora nails Virabhadrasana or Yoga’s Warrior Pose 2 by the poolsidePushing us to get our Yoga mats out and get every muscle working, Malaika Arora dropped a new fitness challenge this Monday. Read moreGoogle tweets #CrackTheCode challenge. Can you solve it?As 2020 is inching closer towards its end, people are taking to various social media platforms to express their excitement to bid adieu to the year. Read more‘In Congress-ruled state...’: BJP claims rural support amid farmer protestUnion minister Smriti Irani hit out at the Indian National Congress party amid protests by farmers in and around the national capital. Irani cited the results of rural body elections in many parts of India to claim unwavering support for the Bharatiya Janata Party. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-home-ministry-asks-states-to-stay-alert-during-new-year-celebrations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8UXXZLlA4Q3fuklJ6Um5bP.html
28-12-2020||India||Govt lifts ban on onion export, permits trade of all varieties from January 1||The Centre on Monday lifted the ban on the export of all varieties of onions with effect from January 1 next year. Anticipating a supply crunch, the government had halted the trade exercise earlier this year in September due to a spurt in prices. “The export of all varieties of onions...has been made free with effect from January 1, 2021,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said in a notification.The government had last banned onion exports on September 29, 2019, after a bad crop crimped output. In December 2019, prices soared to Rs 80 per kg in the national capital. The government had lifted the ban on March 15, 2020.Since the bulb is a common base ingredient of most dishes and widely consumed, consumers are quite sensitive to a rise in onion prices, relative to many other commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lifts-ban-on-onion-export-permits-trade-of-all-varieties-from-january-1/story-1K1glrnH1gocx5lqRFopkJ.html
28-12-2020||India||BJP placates Nitish Kumar, Sushil Modi says he will remain CM||A day after Nitish Kumar said he had no desire to remain Bihar chief minister and that his party JD(U)’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party could make its own CM, his former deputy Sushil Kumar Modi of the BJP, struck a conciliatory note on Monday.Modi said Kumar was reluctant to accept the state’s top post after the recent Assembly elections and relented only after all NDA constituents in the state requested him to lead the state.“It is true that Nitish Kumar had shown reluctance to continue as chief minister after the Assembly polls and said the BJP should stake claim for the top post,” Modi, now a Rajya Sabha member, said.Modi, who is known to have an excellent equation with Nitish Kumar, having worked as the CM’s deputy for long, was responding to queries on the sidelines of a function organised here on the birth anniversary of former Union minister Arun Jaitley.Nitish Kumar, who was elected the NDA leader despite his party winning just 43 seats, had said at the JD (U) national executive meeting on Sunday that he was pressured to become the chief minister. “I didn’t have any intention to become the CM, but was pressured into accepting the post,” he had said.“Whoever becomes the CM, it hardly affects me. I don’t have any urge to continue on this post. I wanted a BJP CM and am ready to cooperate,” he said.Kumar’s statement, which came two days after six JD (U) MLAs defected to the ruling BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, points to a divide developing in the ruling alliance.JD (U)’s national principal general secretary K C Tyagi also expressed anguish over repeated references to the chief minister continuing in his chair despite his party now having far fewer MLAs than the BJP.He underscored that Kumar had initially expressed the opinion that the BJP, on account of its superior numerical strength, should have its own chief minister.He also ruled out the possibility of deterioration in relations between the two parties following the en masse defection of JD(U) MLAs to BJP in Arunachal Pradesh.Modi too expressed similar sentiments. “JD(U) itself has said that events taking place in another state will not affect the party’s tie-up with BJP in Bihar. I am confident that the NDA will rule Bihar for another five years, with Nitish Kumar at the helm, without any problem,” he said. “There is excellent coordination between the two parties.”BJP’s spokesperson Nikhil Anand said that Kumar had been the leader of alliance since 2005 and taken Bihar on roads of development. “He was again elected leader by NDA legislators and we are sure that he will continue to take Bihar forward further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-placates-nitish-kumar-sushil-modi-says-he-will-remain-cm/story-XfzaJouUeiKGmplIGoj7PL.html
28-12-2020||India||Congress seeks Smriti Irani’s resignation over charges levelled by shooter||The Congress on Monday demanded the resignation of Union minister Smriti Irani over charges of corruption levelled against her by an international shooter, and said a thorough probe should be initiated to ascertain the truth.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference that the charges levelled are serious and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order an independent judicial probe to punish the guilty.International shooter Vartika Singh had recently moved court accusing the Union textile minister and two others for demanding money to make her a member of the central women’s commission, days after she was herself named in a police complaint.The MP-MLA court in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur has fixed January 2 for a hearing after which it will decide if the case falls under its jurisdiction, according to her lawyer.The shooter has alleged that people close to Irani issued her a fake letter, appointing her as a member of the central women’s commission, a possible reference to the National Commission for Women.Surjewala said serious charges of corruption have been levelled against the Union minister. If such charges would have been levelled against a minister during the UPA, Smriti Irani would have sat on a dharna outside the Congress office, he said. “Smriti Irani should resign and face an independent probe. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should ask her to resign. Why does he not order an independent judicial inquiry against her, as no ordinary person but an international shooter and a decorated daughter has levelled the charges,” he told reporters.This is also Prime Minister’s test and he should order a judicial probe in the matter. We expect Smriti Irani and the PM to reply to the charges, the Congress leader added. Irani’s legal counsel Kirat Nagra had said the case filed against her by shooter Vartika Singh was based on “the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods” and that “political patronage” was writ large on the matter.Nagra said the case was a concerted attempt to bring disrepute to and defame the minister, adding that she will take legal recourse against the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-smriti-irani-s-resignation-over-charges-levelled-by-shooter/story-NSlZFxPXxqZgsfvAVf8yuL.html
28-12-2020||India||Top Chinese official continues talks, tries to heal rift within Nepal’s ruling party||A top Chinese official met leaders of a faction of the Nepal Communist Party opposed to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Monday even as Beijing called on the leadership in Kathmandu to manage differences and ensure political stability. Guo Yezhou, vice minister of the international department of the central committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC), who arrived in Kathmandu on Sunday afternoon, met separately with former prime ministers Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Madhav Kumar Nepal, both rivals of Oli in the ruling party. The meetings came a day after Guo held talks with President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Oli as part of China’s efforts to broker a rapprochement between the two factions of the Nepal Communist Party, which has been split by Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament and call fresh elections next year. Prachanda’s office said the meeting focused on the political situation, especially the aftermath of the dissolution of Parliament by Oli and unity between the factions of the Nepal Communist Party, according to reports in the Nepalese media. The Chinese delegation urged Prachanda and Nepal to maintain unity within the ruling party, the media reports said. The leaders reportedly told the Chinese delegation that a lot would depend on Oli’s stance, including whether he would be willing to withdraw the dissolution of the House of Representatives. The Chinese officials also met former Prime Minister Jhala Nath Khanal and Speaker Agni Sapkota, and will hold talks with Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba on Tuesday. The Indian side has maintained a studied silence on the visit by a four-member Chinese delegation led by Guo, seen as an old South Asia hand, with people familiar with developments saying on condition of anonymity that New Delhi has decided not to play any role in addressing the political uncertainty in Kathmandu. The external affairs ministry has already said that Oli’s actions were an internal matter and the situation should be handled in line with Nepal’s democratic processes. In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular news briefing that China, as Nepal’s “friend and close neighbour”, hopes that the relevant parties in Kathmandu “can take into account the national interests and the big picture, properly manage internal differences and commit themselves to political stability”. He was responding to a question on whether the Chinese delegation will try to promote reconciliation between the factions in the Nepal Communist Party. Asked about the purpose of Guo’s visit, Zhao said the Communist Party of China has “maintained close and friendly exchanges” with major political parties of Nepal for a long time, and this has “played a positive role in enhancing political mutual trust, deepening mutual learning of state governance, promoting cooperation, and consolidating traditional friendship”. Noting that 2020 marks the 65th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Nepal, Zhao said the Chinese delegation’s visit to Kathmandu is aimed at exchanging views on issues of mutual interest and strengthening cooperation between political parties of the two countries. The Communist Party of China adheres to “non-interference in each other’s internal affairs” in inter-party relations, and stands ready to work with Nepal’s political parties to promote strategic cooperative partnership for the development of the two countries, he added. Guo was despatched to Nepal after Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi didn’t have much success in efforts to engineer a patch up between Oli and Prachanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-chinese-official-continues-talks-tries-to-heal-rift-within-nepal-s-ruling-party/story-vt5qhcLtyJKQhLzqtOK5xM.html
28-12-2020||India||Army chief meets South Korean brass to bolster military ties||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday kicked off a three-day visit to South Korea to bolster military cooperation with the East Asian country, the first by an Indian Army chief, the army said in a statement. This is Naravane’s fifth visit to a foreign country during the Covid-19 pandemic after Myanmar, Nepal, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. “During the first-ever visit of an #IndianArmy #COAS to #RepublicofKorea, General MM Naravane #COAS interacted with Minister of National Defence, His Excellency Suh Wook and discussed issues of mutual interest & defence cooperation,” the Indian Army tweeted on Monday. Naravane also called on the chairman of joint chiefs of staff General Won In Choul and discussed avenues for scaling up the bilateral defence relationship. He also met minister of defence acquisition planning administration (DAPA) Gang Eun Ho and exchanged views on defence cooperation.He will visit the Korea Combat Training Centre in Inje County in Gangwon and the Agency for Defence Development (ADD) at Daejeon. Also read: MHA extends Covid-19 guidelines till JanuaryThe K9 Vajra-T guns in the army’s inventory represent collaboration between private sector defence major Larsen & Toubro and South Korea’s Hanwha Techwin (HTW). In April 2017, the two firms signed a $720-million contract for the Indian Army’s artillery gun programme. L&T has assembled the guns at a facility at Talegaon near Pune in Maharashtra. An improved version of HTW’s K9 Thunder, the K9 Vajra-T has been designed to meet Indian requirements, including those of its desert formations. A Korean firm was also pursuing a programme to build minesweepers in the country under the Make in India initiative but the plan has failed to take off. Another Korean defence firm is looking at the possibility of supplying the Biho self-propelled anti-aircraft defence system to the Indian military.Defence ties between India and South Korea have expanded in recent years due to a convergence of strategic interests, mutual trust and high-level exchanges, officials said. The two sides elevated their ties to a special strategic partnership in 2015, a year after they signed an agreement on the protection of classified military information.During South Korean president Moon Jae-in’s visit to India in 2018, the two sides agreed to explore possibilities to coordinate efforts in defence to benefit from each other’s capabilities and experience, and to enhance military exchanges, training, research and development and defence industry cooperation.Maritime cooperation too has grown through visits by warships joint exercises. During defence minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to South Korea last year, the two countries signed an MoU on extending logistics support to each other’s navies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-meets-south-korean-brass-to-bolster-military-ties/story-nfyHQSgr4vriC9qRSVDFIM.html
28-12-2020||India||CM Mamata pulls up bureaucrats for delay in govt projects in poll-bound Bengal||With less than five months left for the crucial West Bengal assembly elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday seemed to be visibly peeved with some of the state’s bureaucrats and pulled them up over delay in government projects. The chief minister directed the officers to send daily updates on some of the government schemes and services to the chief minister’s office (CMO) at the state secretariat and asked the chief secretary of the state to monitor the developments. The government also launched an outreach program Paraye Paraye Samadhan (solution in every neighbourhood) on Monday to address smaller issues and problems neighbourhoods usually face, which could be fixed at the local level without any major intervention by the state government. But even as the chief minister was launching the outreach program in Birbhum and directing government officials to expedite government services, back in Kolkata a few hundred Self Employed Labour Organisers staged a protest at a program which was attended by three ministers. The SLOs alleged that they were not getting the commission due from the government for the last seven months. Flexes were torn and chairs were hurled at the meet.“The government is repeatedly giving instructions but you are interpreting them in a different manner. People are being turned away. I don’t want to see this. If the lower-level officers do not get proper instructions from the top, how can they be blamed? I want daily reports at the CMO,” Banerjee told the secretary of one of the government departments. The chief minister was holding an administrative meeting in Birbhum district with top bureaucrats from various departments of the state government and district administration. Union home minister Amit Shah, who had held a mega roadshow in the same district on December 20 during his two-day visit to the state to bolster the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election campaign, was impressed with the huge turnout. Banerjee is scheduled to hold a roadshow on the same route on Tuesday. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-member legislative assembly. While the BJP has been targeting the Mamata Banerjee government over lawlessness, stunted development and unemployment in the state among other issues, the ruling Trinamool Congress has been trying to counter them with achievements made by the Banerjee-administration in the last ten years and has launched some outreach programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-pulls-up-bureaucrats-for-delay-in-govt-projects-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-JwObNXQfi2SLjcuKsaqFYM.html
28-12-2020||India||Security forces in Jharkhand foil Maoist ambush, neutralize 22 IEDs||A joint team of district police and CRPF battalions and Jharkhand Jaguar (JJ), a special anti-Maoist police force foiled an ambush by the outlawed CPI (Maoist) extremists on Monday after they detected and neutralized 22 IEDs planted along a jungle track in Jharkhand’s in West Singhbhum district, police said.“We had credible information that the CPI (Maoist) extremists had planted 22 IEDs in the jungles around Regarbera and Arahasa under Goilkera PS area. During the search a joint team of district police, CRPF Battalions 60 and 157 and JJ bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) detected 22 IEDs planted in a series connected with codex wire on Regarbera-Arahas jungle track, covering 120 meters of area. Each of the IEDs weighed 8-10 kg,” Ajay Linda, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said this evening.The incident happened in the afternoon. The SP said this track was used by both the security forces and the local villagers. “The Maoists had planted these IEDs to inflict serious damage and harm the security forces. It could have led to loss of lives of the innocent villagers as well. The JJ bomb detection and disposal squad recovered all the IEDs and defused and destroyed them at a safe location,” said Linda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-in-jharkhand-foil-maoist-ambush-neutralize-22-ieds/story-LPUnszO6FFPGBIrhHCSS5M.html
28-12-2020||India||Dawood’s aide’s fake passport was made in Patna by friend||Jharkhand police were probing the local contacts of Abdul Majeed Kutty, wanted with fugitive underworld don and US designate terror supporter Dawood Ibrahim and gangster Abu Salem, after it came to fore that Majeed’s passport, in his fake name Mohammed Kamal, was prepared from Patna by his friend Mohammed Inam Ali, a resident of Telco Barinagar locality in Jamshedpur, police said on Monday.58-year-old Majeed was arrested near Bari Masjid under Mango police station (PS) of Jamshedpur by a team of Gujarat ATS led by DSP KK Patel and city police team led by Mango officer-in-charge (OC) Vinay Kumar late Saturday evening.Majeed was arrested on charges of smuggling 4 kilograms of explosive material RDX, 130 pistols, 113 magazines, 750 rounds of bullets made in Pakistan and 10 detonators at the behest of Dawood Ibrahim and Abu Salem in 1996. The explosives and the arms were for bomb blasts in Gujarat and Maharashtra on Republic Day in 1997.“Majeed has been hiding here for the past one and half year – first in Telco Barinagar and then in a duplex bungalow in an apartment complex in Mango. He was earlier staying in Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok and Dubai and came after his visa term expired in Malaysia. We are constantly in touch with the Gujarat ATS and investigating Majeed’s local contacts and links,” Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP), said on Monday.Also read: Centre calls farmers for meeting over farm laws on December 30 in DelhiGujarat ATS had lodged an FIR (449/96) in Mehsana Police Station on December 23, 1996, against arrested Md Fazal Mohammad Usman from Ajmer, Anwar Kureshi from Mumbai and Shakeel Ibrahim Kureshi from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.Later, a court in Mehsana had issued an arrest warrant against Majeed, Dawood and Abu Salem in the case. All the three accused were sentenced to life term in jail. Abu Salem is currently in jail, Majeed was absconding for 24 years while Dawood was still hiding in Pakistan.Mango OC Vinay Kumar said they had put the suspect under technological surveillance after getting the tip-off from Gujarat ATS DSP KK Patel. “We have traced the house of Md Inam Ali in Telco Barinagar. We are investigating the links further and act as per the guidance of senior officers,” said Kumar.Md Inam Ali came in contact with Majeed in Dubai and later in Bangkok where the latter stayed till 1999. He helped Majid in preparing his fake passport from Patna in 2000 and provided initial accommodation to Majeed, his third wife Ayesha and three children in his own house in Telco Barinagar in May before Majeed and family moved to Gold Duplex-197 in Sahara City under Mango PS in June 2019.Majeed even bought his Ford car in the name of Md Inam Ali and the latter also helped Majeed in making fake Aadhaar cards and other IDs and documents for him, his wife, his 19-year-old and 16-year-old sons and 12-year-old daughter. He told the police that his other daughter died in March 2019. “He also said that he was doing the export-import business of rice, pulses and dry fruits from Jamshedpur. He rented the duplex through Sakchi-based property agent Sahil,” Majeed said during interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-s-aide-s-fake-passport-was-made-in-patna-by-friend/story-5MWKfNiPYT61HcYJKBLF7I.html
28-12-2020||India||Assam begins two-day dry run for Covid vaccination programme||A two-day dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination programme began in Nalbari and Sonitpur, two select districts of Assam, on Monday, health department officials said.Assam is one of the four states in the country where the dry run is being carried out to check the preparedness of the authorities before launching the actual vaccination programme. The other three states are Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat.Five hospitals in each of Nalbari and Sonitpur districts have been chosen for the exercise, officials said.Management of possible adverse events after vaccination and checks on cold storage and transportation arrangements are parts of the dry run, Nalbari Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Nalini Barman said.A mock exercise for the Covid-19 vaccination programme will begin from Tuesday morning in the five designated hospitals, Barman said.District Immunisation Officer Dr Hemanta Kumar Das said that the dry run programme will provide insights into gaps or bottlenecks which could be checked out before the commencement of the actual vaccination drive.In Nalbari district, five sessions of vaccination mock drill will be held at identified locations with 25 pre- identified beneficiaries for each session on Tuesday, he said.The state surveillance medical officer of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday visited Nalbari district and held discussions on the exercise with health department officials and the Deputy Commissioner Purabi Konwar.Altogether 25 frontline medical staff will give a demonstration on the vaccination programme in Sonitpur district on Tuesday, Dr Kishur Gurung of Tezpur Urban Health Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-begins-two-day-dry-run-for-covid-vaccination-programme/story-HTD1IzsbR9MG5sB5GvwJwO.html
28-12-2020||India||‘300 million doses by July’: SII chief Adar Poonawalla on Covishield||Serum Institute of India’s chief executive Adar Poonawalla said on Monday the rollout of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected in January next year and that they have 40-50 million doses of shot.“You will be hearing some good news from the UK very soon... By January, we should have the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine licensed,” Poonawalla said. “Once we get regulatory approvals in a few days, it’ll be down to the government to decide how much they can take and how fast,” Poonawalla said.Pune-based SII, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India, has already made 40 to 50 million doses of the shot, Poonawalla said. “We have 40-50 million doses of Covishield stockpiled. We will be producing around 300 million doses by July 2021,” he said.Also read | Covishield vaccine trial: Six out of 249 volunteers drop out ahead of second dose in MumbaiHe added that in the initial stage, in one or two months, the offtake will be slow. “Once the logistics and everything work out well we can expect the rollout for Covishield in January,” the SII head said during a media interaction, according to ANI.Poonawalla also talked about concerns surrounding the efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine. “Regulators are evaluating the data...A lot of people keep raising issues. There are no concerns at all. 92 to 95 per cent vaccine efficiency is there,” he said.India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,02,07,871 with 20,021 infections being reported in the last 24 hours and recoveries surged to 9.78 million, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The death toll of the world’s second-worst hit country increased to 147,901 with 279 new fatalities, data showed.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2 million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23, 4 million on September 5 and 5 million on September 16. It went past 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, 8 million on October 29, 9 million on November 20 and crossed the 10 million mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-million-doses-by-july-2021-sii-chief-adar-poonawalla-says-on-covishield-awaits-nod-for-emergency-use/story-puy4z1HiCf9d8bnWHul6RN.html
28-12-2020||India||Rescued from torture 5 years ago, KCR’s adopted daughter Pratyusha marries||A new chapter has begun on Monday in the life of 24-year-old C Pratyusha, whom Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao adopted as his second daughter more than five years ago after she was rescued from miserable conditions at her home. Pratyusha, a nurse, married Charan Reddy, a software engineer, at Lourde Matha Church at Patigadda of Kesampet block in Ranga Reddy district in the afternoon in a grand ceremony.The marriage was attended by several politicians including minister for women development and child welfare Satyavathi Rathod, Shadnagar MLA Anjaiah Yadav, zilla parishad vice-chairman Ganesh, commissioner of women development Divya Devarajan and several officials of the department. On Sunday evening, the chief minister’s wife K Shobha attended the pre-wedding ceremony of Pratyusha held at the IAS Officers’ Association Club in Begumpet. She presented a diamond necklace and other jewellery, besides silk clothes to the adopted daughter and wished her a happy married life. KCR, as the chief minister is known, took personal interest in arranging the marriage. When the women development and child welfare department authorities played matchmaker and selected Charan Reddy as the groom a few months ago, he called him to the Chief Minister’s Office and spoke to him. He attended their engagement ceremony held in October. “I have forgotten the past and am ready to lead a new life. It’s an arranged marriage and I am happy about it. I am really blessed to be the adopted daughter of the chief minister and happy that the marriage has taken place with their blessings,” Pratyusha said. She said she had completed her graduation in nursing and acknowledged that got a job in state-run Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences because of KCR. Pratyusha was rescued by the women development and child welfare department authorities in July 2015 from her house at L B Nagar on the outskirts of Hyderabad under shocking circumstances. Pratyusha, who was 19 years old then, was in a frail condition with cuts, burns and bruises all over the body, when the department authorities rescued her with the support of AP Child Rights Association. The L B Nagar police arrested her father C Ramesh, a BSNL employee and step-mother Shyamala and shifted Pratyusha to a corporate hospital. On coming to know about her pathetic condition, Rao along with his wife and daughter K Kavitha, visited her in the hospital and declared that he was adopting her as a second daughter. After she was discharged from the hospital in the last week of July, Pratyusha was taken to KCR’s residence, where she had lunch with the chief minister and his family members. He gave her Rs 5 lakh and got her admitted in a hostel under the department’s surveillance. Later, the department got her a seat in a private nursing college, where she completed her degree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescued-from-torture-5-years-ago-kcr-s-adopted-daughter-pratyusha-marries/story-9YgNeny4hR7bjGZHjbAGYO.html
28-12-2020||India||No ‘zero night’ celebration on New Year’s eve in Bhubaneswar||There will not be ‘zero night’ celebration on New Year’s eve in Bhubaneswar this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, said the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC).In its order, the BMC said the zero-hour celebration in hotels, clubs, restaurants, and mandaps on the eve of New Year 2021 is prohibited.The decision has been taken in addition to the order issued on November 30, in which the Odisha Government had explicitly prohibited large social gatherings. The city civic body has also banned the New Year’s Eve celebration in any open place coming under it’s jurisdiction. It has advised the people to celebrate the New Year with their family and friends at their private house/establishments by following all the Covid norms.Odisha has recorded 234 new Covid-19 cases, 319 recoveries and three deaths on Sunday, according to the State Health Department on Monday.The total number of positive cases has gone up to 3,28,738 cases, while the number of recoveries stands at 3,24,068. While there are 2,753 active cases in the state, 1,864 persons have succumbed to the deadly virus till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-zero-night-celebration-on-new-year-s-eve-in-bhubaneswar/story-jZeqiQSLQrj40xlS0evNQO.html
28-12-2020||India||People with severe Covid-19, secondary blood infections may have worse health outcomes: Study||People with severe Covid-19 who also had secondary infections in the bloodstream were sicker, had longer hospital stays, and worse health outcomes, according to a study that may lead to new treatment strategies. The research, published in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, is the first to assess the microbiology, risk factors, and outcomes in hospitalised patients with severe Covid-19 and secondary bloodstream infections. In the study researchers from Rutgers University in the US assessed 375 patients diagnosed with severe Covid-19 from March to May 2020. They sampled 128 cases from the group that had secondary bloodstream infections -- 92 percent of which were bacterial infections. “These patients were more likely to have altered mental status, lower percent oxygen saturation, septic shock and to be admitted to the intensive care unit compared to those without bloodstream infections,” said study co-lead author Pinki Bhatt from Rutgers University. According to the scientists, patients who needed more advanced types of supplemental oxygen upon hospital admission had higher odds of secondary bloodstream infections. The researchers said the in-hospital mortality rate for these patients was more than 50 per cent, but added that these deaths were associated with -- not caused by -- the condition. They believe these infections in Covid-19 patients may have contributed to the severity of illness, or it may reflect other underlying physiological and immunological complications of Covid-19. According to the study, 80 per cent of all the patients in the study received antimicrobials at some point during hospitalisation, including those who did not have bloodstream infections. “This likely reflects clinicians’ inclination to administer antimicrobials given the limited information on the natural course of this novel disease,” Bhatt said. However, she added that further studies are needed to better understand when to suspect and treat secondary bloodstream infections in severe Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-severe-covid-19-secondary-blood-infections-may-have-worse-health-outcomes-study/story-Rk97IQ3lWPVf6NrEtGCkkN.html
28-12-2020||India||Assam says neighbouring states encroached on its land 56 times in 2020||The Assam government on Monday informed the assembly that the state has faced 56 instances of land encroachment by the neighbouring states such as Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram in 2020.In a written reply to a query by Leader of Opposition Debabrata Saikia, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said that these 56 cases of land encroachments were reported across 11 districts since January 1 this year.The highest 17 cases were reported from Cachar, which faced violent clashes between the people of Assam and Mizoram, Patowary said on behalf of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who also holds the Home portfolio.One person was killed in clashes in Cachar, he added.Cachar is followed by West Karbi Anglong and Kamrup districts that reported seven instances of land encroachment, the minister said.Other districts where Assam’s land was encroached on are Lakhimpur (six cases), Dhemaji and Karbi Anglong (five each), Jorhat (four), Karimganj (two), and Sadiya, Tinsukia and Sivasagar (one each), Patowary said.To recover the encroached land, the Assam government has written a number of letters to the respective states and the Centre, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-says-neighbouring-states-encroached-on-its-land-56-times-in-2020/story-pEjFQPAuybHeKJgJjdmEqI.html
28-12-2020||India||Bhutanese engineers to train with ISRO for satellite launch next year||Four Bhutanese space engineers arrived in India on Monday to train with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for the launch of their country’s satellite next year as part of New Delhi’s efforts to build space infrastructure under its “neighbourhood first” policy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced during a virtual meeting with his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering on November 20 that India would launch the small satellite next year. Bhutan’s first nano-satellite Bhutan-1, built with Japan’s assistance, was launched on a SpaceX rocket in 2018. The space engineers from Bhutan’s department of information technology and telecom will undergo the first phase of training at ISRO’s UR Rao Satellite Centre in Bengaluru from December 28 to February 25. This training will cover theoretical and technical aspects and include visits to laboratories and test facilities, officials said. The Bhutanese team will also work with ISRO to draw up the second phase of training, which will include activities aimed at developing INS-2B satellite for Bhutan. The launch of the satellite is part of India’s efforts to back Bhutan King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck’s plans to use advanced technology, including ICT and space technology, for developing his country. It also fits in with India’s “neighbourhood first” policy, that has gained fresh impetus amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the border standoff with China. India has been closely working with Bhutan in space technology. In August 2019, Modi and Tshering jointly inaugurated a ground earth station for the South Asia Satellite (SAS) in Thimphu, which was built with ISRO’s support. SAS was launched by India in 2017 for countries in South Asia, and currently provides frees services for television broadcasts and VSATs to members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc). In view of the impact that SAS has on Bhutan’s socio-economic development, especially in areas such as communications and disaster management, the Indian side had offered increased bandwidth on an additional transponder in line with Thimphu’s requirements. The decision to collaborate on the development of a satellite for Bhutan was made during Modi’s visit to Thimphu in August 2019. A joint working group was formed for the project and other activities, including developing a geo-portal system for Bhutan for natural resources and disaster management, using remote sensing and geo-spatial data. “Cooperation in new frontiers such as space technology has been given an impetus by the leadership of the countries and will be bolstered further through the joint development of the small satellite for Bhutan,” the Indian embassy in Thimphu said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhutanese-engineers-to-train-with-isro-for-satellite-launch-next-year/story-x0CZlniVCM9dbV8LdghBuM.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Not stopping our agitation against farm laws’, say Uttarakhand farmers||The intensity of farmers’ protest in Uttarakhand against the three new farm laws is increasing with the protesters insisting that they will march to the borders of New Delhi to join protesters from other states. The intensity of the protest has increased especially in the US Nagar district which has a sizable number of Sikhs, many of whom are farmers. The farmers’ passion was evident on December 25 when more than 1,000 farmers heading towards the Delhi border clashed with a heavy police force that was deployed to stop them at Bazpur. The farmers broke through the barricades on their tractor injuring some policemen. The videos and photographs of the incident made rounds on social media. Later the district police booked about 1,500 unidentified farmers on charges of rioting and stopping police from doing their duty. However, no arrests have been made so far. Many of the farmers who broke through the barricades eventually reached Ghazipur on Delhi’s eastern border where a large number of protesters have already pitched camp.Farmers and Sikh organisations supporting them have now decided to join the agitating farmers near Delhi in larger numbers. “In no way we are going to stop our agitation against the farm laws. After a call by the farmer organisations to head Delhi on December 25, we did that by breaking the police barricades. Now, soon again a similar call is going to be given on which more number of farmers are going to head towards Delhi,” said Gurbaz Singh Virk, US Nagar district president United Sikh Federation who is agitating with the farmers of the district at Ghazipur on Delhi’s border since December 25. Virk said the farmers have drawn a strategy on “how to gather more farmers from all over the state to head to Delhi.” “We have divided all the 13 districts into sectors. From there the farmers would gather in US Nagar and prepare to head to the Delhi border while waiting for the next call of our leaders,” he said. Gurinder Singh Sahni, another farmer from US Nagar agitating against the farm laws, expressed his anger against the government for deploying a large number of police to stop them. “First this government tried to threaten the farmers against the protest by filing a case. Then they deployed a significant police force at the state border with barricades to stop us. What does all this signify? Are we criminals?” said Sahni. Lashing out at the BJP government in Uttarakhand, he said, “When even the Supreme Court had said that the farmers should not be stopped from protesting then why is the government stopping us using the police? We are not going to stop our protest and soon head towards Delhi again.” Sahni said that the Gurudwara management committees or Gurudwara prabandhak committees of the local gurudwaras in US Nagar have also extended their support to the protesting farmers. “We farmers have a very pious relation with Gurudwara because as per Sikhism’s teachings we offer about 10% of our total produce to the Gurudwara’s langar service. Citing this tradition, the Gurudwara prabandhak committee members said that they would fully support us wherever we go,” said Sahni. Amid the ongoing protest by farmers, the Opposition Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Uttarakhand have also put their weight behind the farmers to attack the ruling BJP. On Sunday, Congress state unit in-charge Dushyant Yadav, party state president Pritam Singh and party MLA and All India Congress committee secretary Qazi Nizamuddin joined the agitating farmers at Delhi’s Ghazipur border. The leaders also addressed the farmers’ gathering there. “Since the day the three laws were passed, we have been saying that these are black laws to kill the farmers’ rights. We are against them and fully support the farmers in their protest till they would be repealed,” said Pritam Singh.AAP’s MP from Punjab and senior party leader Bhagwant Mann is scheduled to arrive in Uttarakhand on a two-day tour which begins on Tuesday. He is scheduled to hold a rally and address farmers in US Nagar district where the protest has been intense.The ruling BJP however, accused both the parties of “misleading the farmers and trying to find oxygen for themselves through the farmers’ agitation.” “Both the parties are trying to involve in the farmers’ protest because they don’t have any political ground left in Uttarakhand. Hence, using the protest they are trying to find oxygen for their political lives here,” said Rajendra Bhandari, BJP state general secretary. “As far as the farm laws are concerned, PM Modi on December 25 cleared many misconceptions regarding it. Government is even talking to the farmer organisations on the issue but these two parties are misleading them,” Bhandari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-stopping-our-agitation-against-farm-laws-say-uttarakhand-farmers/story-RENz4Gf5O1v5GTAIgEPUdM.html
28-12-2020||India||Speeds on Delhi roads drop after lockdown as congestion returns: Report||The mean travel speed on some Delhi stretches dipped from 46 kmph during the lockdown period to 29 kmph after it as the reopening of the economy led to a rebound in congestion, the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said in a report on Monday.The report is significant as the level of congestion on roads has a strong bearing on vehicular pollution.“The rebound of congestion post-lockdown indicates Delhi is not prepared for transformational changes to cut down the volume of traffic,” the CSE said.It tracked this change with the help of data from the Google Mobility Report on different categories of visits classified as retail and recreation, groceries and pharmacies, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and residential. It also analysed traffic speed data from Google as a proxy to understand the level of congestion that has a strong bearing on vehicular pollution, which is significant in Delhi. The selected 12 major roads included the MG Road, NH44, Sardar Patel Marg, Outer Ring Road, Dr KB Hegdewar Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, NH 9, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, GT Karnal Rd, Lal Bahadur Sha, Dwarka Marg and Najafgarh Marg.The CSE’s travel speed data analysis shows that the mean travel speed on the selected stretches increased from 24 kmph pre-lockdown to 46 kmph during lockdown -- a 90% increase -- when fewer vehicles came on the roads as only essential travels were allowed.But the mean speed reduced again to 29 kmph post-lockdown, it shows.During peak hours, the travel speed on the selected stretches increased from 23 kmph pre-lockdown to 44 kmph during lockdown. But this again reduced to 27 km per hour post-lockdown, it says. The CSE said the rebound of congestion is happening when the public transport ridership in Delhi is still low due to the fear of contracting the virus and the scale of public transport options is still very inadequate to meet the demand. “Public transport is expected to be further constrained by the social distancing norms. This is already encouraging people to shift to private modes of transport,” it said.“Delhi cannot meet its clean air targets if overall traffic and vehicle numbers are not controlled. Delhi Master Plan 2020-21 had set a target of 80% public transport ridership by 2020 that has been missed,” the report reads.The CSE said an 87% drop was recorded in visits to transit stations for different purposes during hard lockdown as compared to the baseline levels or the pre-lockdown phase.“Trips to grocery stores and pharmacies were reduced by more than 70%, but were still higher than all the other visits, as people were trying to restock and prepare for the lockdown. “Workplace trips reduced by as much as 65% during the weekdays as work from home was widely practiced… The change in traffic pattern has also shown up in the air quality data. In fact, the hourly change in nitrogen oxide levels that are more strongly correlated with the traffic nearly flattened during this period,” the CSE said.“Post-lockdown, the travel pattern was close to normal but did not fully regain the pre-lockdown level. Grocery trips and workplace trips recovered maximum by the end of November and were now only about 15% lower than the pre-lockdown phase,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speeds-on-delhi-roads-drop-after-lockdown-as-congestion-returns-report/story-devPca8zgOJeElkYdR59hN.html
28-12-2020||India||These are the 10 coldest cities in the plains||Fresh movements of western disturbances are likely to influence the northwestern plains of India starting Monday night, as per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Cold to severe cold wave conditions have been projected by the weather bureau in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi while cold wave conditions have been forecasted for Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh from Monday to Tuesday.IMD has also issued warnings for ground frost conditions in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and north Rajasthan for the same period of time.These are the top 10 coldest places in the plains of India on Monday, as per Skymet Weather:1.Narnaul in Haryana was the coldest city in the plains as it recorded a temperature of 1.6 degrees Celsius.2. Punjab’s Ludhiana shivered at 2.1 degrees Celsius.3. Chittorgarh in Rajasthan braved the cold with the mercury dropping to 2.4 degrees Celsius.4. In Rajasthan’s Pillai, the temperature dropped to 2.4 degrees Celsius as well.5. Another coldest city in the plains of India was also in Rajasthan. Sikar recorded a temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius on Monday.Also Read | Dense fog likely over northwest India around New Year’s Eve, says IMD6. Hisar in Haryana was the chilliest on Saturday and on Monday it recorded a temperature of 2.7 degrees Celsius.7. Naliya in Gujarat was also one of the coldest cities as the mercury here dropped to 3.2 degrees Celsius.8. Rohtak in Haryana too recorded a temperature of 3.2 degrees Celsius.9. Another coldest city in Rajasthan on Monday was Ganganagar with the mercury at 3.3 degrees Celsius.10. Haryana’s Karnal recorded a temperature of 3.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-are-the-10-coldest-cities-in-the-plains/story-AUoAptljQnZ9KaKZbHfpJJ.html
28-12-2020||India||India and UK to finalise early harvest trade deals by 2021, ahead of comprehensive FTA||Post-Brexit, India and UK may finalise trade agreements in areas like pharmaceuticals, fintech, chemicals, defence manufacturing, petroleum and food products by 2021, as the two countries are keen on early harvest deals while continuing negotiations for a comprehensive free trade agreement (FTA), two officials said.India and UK have a shared commitment towards a free trade agreement, but such negotiations are complex and could take longer. Meanwhile, the early harvest proposition will help the two partners grab the low-hanging fruits within the framework of a comprehensive trade agreement, they said requesting anonymity.“The two sides are working on the finer details pertaining to about five-six sectors as some announcements are expected during UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s India visit in January 2021,” one of the officials said.Also Read: Brexit: India could gain as of nowJohnson is the chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebration on January 26, which is a significant development in terms of strategic relations between the two countries especially after Brexit, he said.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Prime Minister Johnson on November 27, where the two leaders hoped for a quantum jump in overall India-UK partnership post-Brexit as they saw huge potential for enhancing collaborations in areas of trade, investment, scientific research, energy, defence, security and climate change,” a second official said.The officials mentioned above said that while some key trade deals are expected by 2021, a comprehensive trade deal between India and UK is expected in two-three years.“India is very cautious while signing any FTA because of its past experience. Various FTAs signed in hurry by the previous governments, particularly with the Asean, are under review as these deals are heavily tilted against Indian interests,” the second official said.Co-chairing the 17th Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations on August 29, commerce minister Piyush Goyal had said that FTAs had to be “mutually beneficial”. He had asked for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA) as the trade pact was hurting India’s interest, as HT reported on August 30.According to officials, trade negotiations with UK are based on the principle of mutual benefit and arriving at an agreement is relatively easy because of the bilateral nature of negotiations. Negotiations of multilateral trade deals are cumbersome and time-consuming, they said.Abhishek A Rastogi, partner at law firm Khaitan & Co, said India should be careful of larger and long-term implications of FTAs. “The agreements [with UK] should clearly mention the aspects related to the country of origin of the goods and the percentage of value addition as these issues have been subject matter of debate,” he said.“At the very inception, both the countries should have clear understanding with respect to bilateral investment treaty, which allows for an alternate dispute resolution outside the host state jurisdiction. The relevant clauses should not be legally open ended... [to encourage] investments in both jurisdictions,” he said.Sanjay Aggarwal, president at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said this is the “right time” to move forward with an early harvest deal between India and UK. “India is always keen to move from a bilateral trade agreement to FTA... I believe, post Brexit, the complementarities between the two dynamic economies will rise exponentially,” he said. “The areas such as drugs and pharma, fintech, chemicals, defence manufacturing, food and beverages, petroleum products and natural gas are the most growth promising areas of Indian economy and have strategic competitive advantages in the international market for trade and attracting investments,” he added.The trade relations between the two countries have severely stagnated during the last decade, he said. “The bilateral merchandise trade between India and UK increased only from $11 billion during 2009-10 to around $16 billion during 2019-20. We have to scale up the volume to a trajectory with the exploration of untapped potential,” he said.India’s main exports to the UK are articles of apparel and clothing accessories, power generating machinery and equipment, petroleum, petroleum products and related materials, miscellaneous manufactured articles, textile yarn, fabrics, made up articles, footwear, medicinal and pharmaceutical products, road vehicles and other transport equipment.The main imports from the UK to India are power generating machinery and equipment, non-ferrous metals, ferrous ores and metal scrap, general industrial machinery and equipment and machine, transport equipment, beverages, electrical machinery and appliances and electrical parts, professional, scientific and controlling instruments and appliances, chemicals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-uk-to-finalise-early-harvest-trade-deals-by-2021-ahead-of-comprehensive-fta/story-5uJXlXlae71Xqdg9Zcei6J.html
28-12-2020||India||Problem not with plastic: VP calls for responsible use of plastics||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday asked research institutes like the CIPET to focus on the development of eco-friendly products like biodegradable plastics as durability and longevity of plastics have posed several challenges to the environment.Addressing the faculty and students of the Central Institute for Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology at Surampalli near Vijayawada, the Vice-President noted that avoiding (use of) plastic was not the solution but ensuring its responsible use and recycling were important.He said plastics played a significant role during the Covid-19 pandemic through their wide use in medical protection equipment and PPE kits.“Plastic has been a saviour in preventing the spread (of coronavirus). The disposable plastic syringes, blood bags, gloves and other medical solutions with enhanced features and functionality have proven their worth during this difficult time,” he observed.“The problem is not with plastic. The problem lies in our attitude towards handling plastic. Improper littering habits and lack of awareness on plastics waste management have resulted in many hazards,” he pointed out.The “3Rs” Reduce, Reuse, Recycle with segregation were the key to recycling and realising “waste to wealth,” he said, adding the waste management mark in India was expected to be worth USD 13.62 billion by the year 2025.The plastics recycling market alone was expected to grow at 6.5 per cent to attain a market size of USD 53.72 billion by the end of 2023, he added.Venkaiah Naidu noted that the growth of petrochemicals and chemicals has become inevitable as the demand in India was expected to grow at 7.5 per cent by the financial year 2023.Demand for polymers, an integral part of the petrochemical sector, was also growing at eight per cent.Polymeric materials were also being widely used to create medical tools and devices like insulin pens, catheters, implants and tissue engineering as well.Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Investment Regions were being set up in coastal states like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Odisha to promote the use of polymers and allied materials for various high-end applications, Venkaiah Naidu said.Expressing happiness over the functioning of CIPET-AP, for which he laid the foundation-stone four years ago, Venkaiah Naidu said the premier institute’s pattern already fell in line with the requirements of the National Education Policy-2020 that focused on skill and application-based learning.The research and development wings of CIPET catered to aerospace, automotive, agriculture, construction, healthcare, energy and packaging sectors with a focus on development of sustainable materials, recycling strategies and energy storage.“The R and D wings have close alliance with major players like Boeing, Ford, Pepsi, BEL, HAL, NTPC and others for development, implementation and validation of futuristic ideas. CIPET has so far completed 50 major research projects and 12 patents were filed,” the Vice-President said.State Minister V Srinivas, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals Joint Secretary K N Jha, CIPET Director General S K Naik and other officials were present.On the occasion, the Vice-President inspected an exhibition of products manufactured by CIPET students and lauded their efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/problem-not-with-plastic-vp-calls-for-responsible-use-of-plastics/story-F2pfmQch4xVje6GKHeTQ2H.html
28-12-2020||India||‘One nation, one mobility card’: All you need to know about NCMC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the ambitious National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) service for the Delhi Metro’s Airport Express Line. This latest inauguration falls under the umbrella of the Prime Minister’s ‘One Nation One Card’ initiative. NCMC can be used at all transit locations making all new metro and transit payments interoperable via one card. The idea of NCMC was floated by the Nandan Nilekani committee set up by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The five-member committee under Nilekani, the former chairperson of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIAI) has also proposed a host of measures, including all payments by the government to citizens through the digital mode, to reduce the number of cash transactions in the country.Here’s all you need to know about NCMC:1. NCMC will allow passengers with RuPay debit card, issued in the last 18 months by 23 banks, including SBI, UCO Bank, Canara Bank, Punjab National Bank etc, to be swiped for Metro travel. “This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022,” a DMRC spokesperson said.2. NCMC is an automatic fare collection system. It will turn smartphones into an inter-operable transport card that commuters can use eventually to pay for Metro, bus and suburban railways services.3. NCMC service is slated to cover the entire 400km stretch of Delhi Metro.4. It will allow entry and exit from Metro stations with the help of a smartphone, known as the automatic fare collection (AFC) system. In the upcoming Delhi Metro Phase-IV project, the AFC system will fully accept NCMC, which can also be used in any city across the country. 5. To make AFC compliant indigenous gates for metro stations the government has engaged Bharat Electronics Limited. Eventually, all Metro stations will be fitted with AFC gates.6. The Nilekani committee had suggested that NCMC should contain two instruments – a regular debit card which can be used at an ATM and a local wallet, which can be used for contactless payments, without the need to go back to the server or additional authentication. 7. Banks mandated by the department of financial services have been asked to make their debit cards NCMC compliant, to ensure availability of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-mobility-card-all-you-need-to-know-about-ncmc/story-NafU1DgPbIhScJadOe68EI.html
28-12-2020||India||Ratan Tata turns 83. Here is what the businessman is known for||A Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan awardee, philanthropist and one of the most successful businessmen the country has ever produced, Ratan Tata’s legacy speaks for itself. The business tycoon turned 83 on Monday.Born on December 28, 1937, Tata graduated from the Riverdale Country School in New York City and received a degree in architecture with structural engineering from Cornell University, US. He later enrolled at the Harvard Business School and completed an Advanced Management Program in 1975.He began his journey to the top with Tata Steel division in 1962 and was appointed the director-in-charge of the National Radio & Electronics Company Limited in 1971. Two years after completing his course from Harvard, Tata was moved to Empress Mills, a struggling textile mill under the Tata Group. It was in 1991 that JRD Tata stepped down as chairperson of Tata Sons, naming Ratan Tata as his successor.Under his leadership, Tata Sons’ revenue grew over 40 times and profit over 50 times. He was instrumental in the business’ expansion and conceptualisation of popular cars like the Tata Nano and the Tata Indica. He got Tata Tea to acquire Tetley, Tata Motors to acquire Jaguar Land Rover, and Tata Steel to acquire Corus and in 2004. Tata Motors was even listed on the New York Stock Exchange.As a philanthropist, Ratan Tata’s reputation is unmatched. Sixty-five per cent of his shares are invested in charitable trusts including the Tata Education and Development Trust, an affiliate of the Tata Group which provided a $28 million Tata Scholarship Fund to Cornell University to provide financial aid to undergraduate students from India.Tata donated $50 million to his alma mater, Harvard Business School, for the construction of an executive centre. He also gave Rs 950 million to IIT Bombay, the largest donation received in its history, and formed the Tata Centre for Technology and Design to develop design and engineering principles suited to the needs of people and communities with limited resources. The Tata Group formed the MIT Tata Center of Technology and Design at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to address the hurdles faced by communities with limited resources. It also donated Rs 1,500 crore to help India fight the coronavirus pandemic this year.Ratan Tata has received several major awards including the honorary fellowship of the London School of Economics and Political Science in 2007, the title of Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, in 2009, the Oslo Business for Peace Award by the Business for Peace Foundation in 2010, the Honorary Knight Grand Cross of The Order of the British Empire in 2014, and Commander of the Legion of Honour by the government of France.He showed immense strength and courage when he stood unarmed and alone outside the Taj Hotel during the 26/11 terror attacks and coordinated the activities to help the victims. He also personally visited the families of all the 80 employees who were killed or injured during the attack in 2008.Ratan Tata retired as the chairperson of Tata Sons on his 75th birthday in 2012, giving the reins to Cyrus Mistry of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. Mistry was ousted in 2016 and Tata was made interim chairperson until January 12, 2017, and Natarajan Chandrasekaran was named as Tata Sons’ chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ratan-tata-turns-83-here-is-what-the-businessman-is-known-for/story-rje3y1Nlm0pHemgROQPZWN.html
28-12-2020||India||We want to make India a superpower, says defence minister Rajnath Singh||India has the potential to become a superpower and it needs significant achievements in the fields of education, health and industry to make the cut, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday as he mentioned the country’s glorious history including major discoveries by ancient scientists like Aryabhata ahead of their western counterparts. In an online address at the convocation of IIM Ranchi, Singh delved into India’s rich contribution in the field of scientific research in the classical age of Indian mathematics and astronomy and noted that “Aryabhata confirmed the round shape of the Earth and its rotation on its axis about 1,000 years before famous German astronomer Copernicus did”. “We want to make India a superpower. To make the country a superpower, we need even bigger achievements in the fields of education, health and industry, etc. The potential in these areas is within our country. It is not yet fully utilised,” Singh said. “When we talk about making India a superpower, then we also have to take care of the development potential in all the states of the country,” he added. The defence minister said the youth of the country has the ability to face any challenge and can turn them into opportunities with the help of “invention, innovation and ideas”. Encouraging students to play a key role in making of a ‘New India’, Singh said modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country’s glorious history, adding it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. “Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God,” Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: “He said ‘an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God’“. Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister cited the contributions of renowned ancient Indian scientists and said “no success is final and no failure is fatal”. “India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.,” said Singh. “Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason,” Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the ‘Pythagoras theorem’ years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. “Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century,” said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India’s achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration. “Today, when we are all working for the creation of New India, it is important for all of us to understand our heritage,” he said. Talking about the coronavirus pandemic, Singh said India effectively confronted the crisis despite having limited resources and that the country turned the disaster into an “opportunity” under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asking students to work hard to achieve their goals, Singh said, “We have to understand that the road to success often passes through the streets of failure. There will be no successful person in the world who has never faced failure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-to-make-india-a-superpower-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh/story-mF7c8Q8QDXD3TUdfbzcJRI.html
28-12-2020||India||PM Modi flags off 100th run of Kisan Rail in Maharashtra, congratulates crores of farmers of the country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th run of Kisan Rail in Maharashtra and said the move is a big step toward empowering farmers of the country. The 100th run of the Kisan Rail was flagged off from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal virtually. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal were also present at the event.Currently, of only a handful of trains plying across the India connecting states like Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Nagpur, there are nine Kisan Rail running on nine routes. “I congratulate crores of farmers of the country. Despite Covid-19 challenge Kisan Rail network has expanded in the last four months,” PM Modi said, adding that Kisan Rail is a big step towards empowering farmers and increasing their income.The Prime Minister also said that farmers and farming of every region of the country are being connected by Kisan Rail. “More than 80 per cent of the small and marginal farmers of the country have got great power through Kisan Rail,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister said there is no minimum quantum for farmers as a farmer can also send a parcel of 50-100 kg. “The farmer used to spend a lot on rent for transporting his crop to distant markets. In view of this problem, three years ago our government gave 50% subsidy on transportation of tomatoes, onions and potatoes,” PM Modi said during the launch.Stating that more than 6,000 projects have been approved under mega food parks, cold chain infrastructure, agro-processing cluster under the PM Krishi Sampada Yojana, the Prime Minister said Rs 10,000 crore have been sanctioned for micro food processing industries under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-flags-off-100th-kisan-rail-in-maharashtra-congratulates-crores-of-farmers-of-the-country/story-rB59IIpXQDnd764COiLn3L.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19 centres empty as cases dip in Jammu and Kashmir||Many of the Covid-19 centers in Jammu and Kashmir are emptying out after the active cases in the union territory have reduced to below 3,300, the lowest in the past six months, official data has revealed.Of the total 3,382 beds (excluding ICU) meant for Covid-19 patients in different hospitals of J&K on December 27, some 3,030 are vacant – 1,945 in Kashmir and 1,085 in Jammu.Similarly of the total 284 ICU beds in J&K for severe Covid patients, 219 are vacant while 65 are occupied – 26 in Kashmir and 39 in Jammu. Of the 65 patients in ICU, 45 need no ventilator support.“We get very less Covid patients now. In our Out Patient Department (OPD) we used to get more than 40 patients every day but now that has reduced to 2-3 cases. Similarly at one time we had 100 patients in Covid centre which has now reduced to less than 10,” said a senior doctor of Government Medical College Baramulla in north Kashmir.The highest contributing districts Srinagar and Jammu are the only ones where the patients are present in some measure in the main Covid centres.The total active cases in J&K till December 27 have dropped to 3,282 which account for 3.73 % of the total 1, 20,137 cases. The last time active cases were hovering around 3,200 was in the first week of July after which the cases had shot up.A total of 1, 14,986 people have recovered from the disease while 1,869 people have lost their lives, some 1.55 percent of the total cases.A total of 1,178 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 691 in Jammu.The average cases and deaths have witnessed a significant decrease in December as compared to the past five months. For the past one week the fresh cases have mostly remained below 300 per day.As many as 175 people lost their lives from December 1 to 27 in the pandemic while the month’s cases so far reached 9,913 (at 367 average cases per day) which are much less than 15,434 Covid infections in November and 19,619 cases in October. The month of September had recorded the highest number of cases - 37,372 - which was substantially more than the 17,339 infections in August.Dr Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty with the health department to assist the government with corona mitigation efforts, agreed that most of the Covid centres are empty.“It is because we have very less Covid patients daily now which are mostly asymptomatic and most of the positive patients are put at home,” he said.He said that in very rare cases they have to hospitalize the patient. “Mostly patients who have comorbid conditions and whose oxygen saturation levels dip, are hospitalized,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centres-empty-as-cases-dip-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-Lz0mGwhqyk689j6ilAruDM.html
28-12-2020||India||In Kerala, 41 held for promoting child pornography||In a state-wide crackdown on child pornography, the cyber wing of the Kerala police on Monday, arrested 41 people including IT professionals and registered 339 cases, Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham said. He said 596 locations were raided and 392 computer devices and phones were seized in the last couple of days. Most of those arrested were under observation for some time and in most cases there were exclusive groups on the dark net helping each other. “Our statistics show there has been a sharp increase in child pornography cases during the pandemic. Lockdown has increased digital surfing and this also spiked use of pornography, especially involving children,” he said adding many users often think that use of the dark net will go unnoticed but they are mistaken. “In many cases it looks like sickness and addiction that require medical treatment. And in many cases there are repeat offenders also,” said Abraham, a decorated officer specialising in cyber crime. The cyber wing has nabbed many online cheating cases and ATM frauds recently. He said the cyber wing was planning a directory of repeat offenders. “We have zero tolerance towards such offences. We have tied up with many organisations including the Interpol and International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children to detect child pornographers. It is a big concern that such cases are on the rise. Child security is the responsibility of every member of the society,” he said. The Kerala police had constituted a special wing-- Counter Child Sexual Exploitation Unit-- in last January and started a crackdown on offenders. He said 428 people were arrested and 525 cases registered in a year. Most of the arrested were found to be using all kinds of encrypted handles to upload and download such material and circulating them on social media platforms, he said. He said most of the seized material belong to children between 6 and 15 years of age. Officials have code-named the operation ‘P Hunt 20.2. During the raid it was also found that some of the users format their smart phones every three days to avoid detection. Use of malwares to activate the webcams of the victims and to steal information of children was also detected. “Many obscene pictures, videos inside household, flats etc have been uploaded in recent times, which clearly show that most of the pictures have been taken from Kerala,” he said adding abuse of children locked up in their homes was quite evident in some cases. He said in some cases offenders were married and have children. Watching and sharing child pornographic images, videos and literature are a crime in the country and any offence can invite a five-year jail term and a maximum fine of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-41-held-for-promoting-child-pornography/story-DnTZydkkR5GtAcWHerzKkM.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Not getting GST dues, even BJP-ruled states unhappy’: Hemant Soren||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said his state has issues with the GST but claimed that he was not alone and that even BJP-ruled states have problems with the GST compensation but they are quiet for obvious reasons.Despite the talk about cooperative federalism, Soren, citing his experience as CM over the past year, said that the relationship between the Centre and the state is not healthy. The leader, whose government completes one year tomorrow, also lamented the poor state of opposition in the country and called for “collective responsibility” to take on the BJP.The CM, in an interview to HT’s Vishal Kant, maintained that Jharkhand has done better on mortality and positivity rate ranking in coronavirus management as compared to other states.Admitting that work on the development front has been slow, the CM pointed to restrictions on movement of labour amid coronavirus. Besides mines and mineral sector, the CM stressed that he was looking at other avenues to usher in development in the state.Here are edited excerpts from the interview: Q. You complete one year in office tomorrow. How do you assess your government’s performance during this period, which was also hit by a global pandemic?It was a very challenging period. It was quite a learning experience as in how we should go about handling such a crisis. As a result, it is for all to see that we (state) are in a better position in containing the pandemic. Be it mortality rate due to Covid-19, or the positivity rate, we are placed higher among the states (in terms of Covid management) in the country.Q. And performance on the development work front, despite all the challenges?On the work front, I admit it was very slow paced. If performance is to be analysed on parameters of setting up industry, job creation, then there is nothing much to show. Industry needs labour but there were several restrictions in terms of movement. Therefore, we could not do much there. However, we ran several programmes to ensure people do not get depressed in such a scenario. For example, we performed the best in terms of generating maximum man days under MNREGA as compared to previous years. On an average, we used to generate around two to 2.5 crore man days every year. This financial year we have already generated over 7 crore mandays so far.Q. But some of the new schemes you are talking about did not yield result. For example, the urban job guarantee scheme on the lines of MNREGA.Yes, not many people turned up to avail that scheme. We are reviewing it, identifying the loopholes. These things are related to financial availability as well. We are relooking into the daily wage rates. Also, we need to factor in that even in urban areas most of the labour comes from nearby rural areas. We are relooking into the entire scheme. Q. And how would you compare your current one year with your first stint as CM in 2013-14 when you held the chair for about 14 months?The current term is very different. My first stint was a very short one. In the language of cricket, it hardly mattered then which part of the park the ball was to be hit? It was like playing T20. All we had to do was score maximum runs. This term is like a test match, where we need to dig in and strategise. We are moving ahead with a sustainable model. And in fact, this is what we have done this year. The pandemic year gave us an opportunity to plan to give the state a sustainable direction. Because even after 20 years (of Jharkhand’s creation), we are still dependent heavily on the Centre for finances. We now have a plan how to become self-dependent.Q. Could you elaborate on this further, especially when you say you give a certain direction to the state?A: What I assess, till now all plans for the state only had mining at its core. We are a mineral-rich state, but there are other sectors in the state which could generate jobs as well as revenue. Besides mines and minerals, now we are including other potential sectors in our development plan. For example, education, information technology sector, tourism and sports. We are coming up with the new tourism and sports policy. To add to that, the locals also have had bitter experience in terms of mining activities despite this economic activity going on in this part for around a century now.Q. You came to power with a slew of electoral promises. Despite all challenges, people expect their delivery, be it job creation, unemployment allowance or increased quota for reserved categories.I totally agree with that. People gave us a big mandate. We had an election manifesto as well. However, experience of being in a situation while contesting the election and being in this government is quite a contrast. It’s like black and white; we need finances to deliver on the promises. However, the fiscal health of the state has been an open secret. When we took over, it was difficult to even the salaries. Many times, our treasury pressed the red button that we don’t have funds. The state is heavily dependent on the Centre for finances.Q. GST is a major source of revenue for the state. In the past one year, we have seen lots of words and letters exchanged between the state and the federal government over such issues. A: It is not that only we have issues with the Centre on the GST issue. Even BJP-ruled states have issues. Just that they are not speaking due to obvious reasons. The union finance minister has said it on record that everything is in the hands of god.Q. The DVC issue also came where the funds were deducted from the state’s consolidated fund?If you analyse such issues, we are not getting our GST dues. Cutting dues from our consolidated fund was unconstitutional. Such issues should not be dealt with on the basis of a simple agreement done by the previous government. DVC here often threatens to load shed power supply. We had issues with the coal auction. The Centre did not heed to our suggestions. We ultimately knocked the doors of the court. Based on my experience over the past one year, I won’t hesitate in saying that the relationship between the Centre and the state is not healthy, which is not good in a federal set up.Q. Today’s political space in the country is dominated by the BJP. There are few states where opposition leaders are still standing strong. You are one among them. How do you assess the future course of politics in the country, especially in states where non-BJP parties are ruling?I am not very clear at this stage in commenting on the Central politics. But yes, we can surely admit that the opposition is weak at the Central government level. In such a scenario, state governments and the state leadership have a very critical role to play. I think the opposition needs to move forward with a collective responsibility. If we move collectively, I am confident that we can find a way going forward.Q. Do you advise an anti-BJP front?A: Yes, because every strategy, every decision of the BJP and its government is political in nature. Be it GST implementation, demonetisation, farm laws or land acquisition - all the decisions have been political. GST was implemented with the idea of One Nation One Tax. Every state cooperated and surrendered our backbone in terms of revenue generation. But how has GST been implemented? And see how that has adversely impacted the country’s economy.Q. So, what is your take on the One Nation One Election issue being championed?The blueprint is yet to come out. But the BJP thinks, preaches and practices differently. They have a hidden agenda in everything they do. We need to decipher what they have on offer because they don’t want to listen to alternate voice. They are fond of calling names. They don’t hesitate in branding protesting farmers as terrorists and Khalistsanis.Q. BJP’s state unit has already gone belligerent against you. Its leaders have been repeatedly claiming that your government would fall soon. JMM also filed a case in Dumka against BJP leaders during the bypoll. Now, some personal allegations have also been made against you.They are not trying this only here. From the very next day they lose the election, they start making efforts to come to power through the backdoor. We have already seen that in other states. As far as personal allegations are concerned, it’s an old saying that if you spit into the sky, it falls into your eye. We are already seeing how names of some of their several stalwarts are coming out for being involved in this conspiracy. Q.You are seeing a conspiracy against your government?Absolutely. If we don’t speak, it does not mean that we are in a sleeping mode. I am very much watchful. We believe in the concept of “sau sonar ki ek lohar ki (one powerful blow is comparable to a hundred smaller blows)”. They are hatching a conspiracy, but they won’t succeed. It’s not necessary that people would always fall into their trap. I have an eye on everything.Q. But certain political developments here also raise eyebrows. All legislators of ally Congress came to see you recently and reportedly placed certain demands.No other government in the state in the past has come up with such a big mandate, with so many MLAs in treasury benches. Even the previous government had got numbers due to defections. Since the number is high, few voices here and there are not unnatural. But there is nothing to worry. We are taking everyone along. Q. There are several key appointments pending, like chairman in boards, corporations and information commissioners.All appointments would be made soon. As far as information commissioners are concerned, there is an issue due to non-availability of the leader of opposition. So that’s a making of the BJP that they have not chosen the right person as LoP. Now we are taking legal advice and would make appointments. We will approach the court, if required.Q. Effectively, there are three vacancies in your cabinet as well.Technically, we can’t say there are vacancies now because one seat has been vacant since the beginning. One of our colleagues is unwell and undergoing treatment. We are expecting him to be healthy soon. One vacancy was created due to the demise of one of our ministers. The required changes will be made in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-getting-gst-dues-even-bjp-ruled-states-unhappy-hemant-soren/story-tefPXUVW9tQKUxVUCQLdpJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Centre calls farmers for meeting over farm laws on December 30 in Delhi||The Centre on Monday called protesting farmers for a meeting on Wednesday, December 30, in Delhi to discuss the three contentious farm laws, after the farmers’ unions agreed to restart negotiations with the government in a bid to resolve the stalemate. The invite comes amid one of the largest strikes by the farmers’ unions on the borders of the national capital in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three laws approved by Parliament in September. The farmers have been camping at the borders since November 26.The three laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.As the protests enter their second month with tens of thousands of farmers hunkering down at the Capital’s borders, a glimmer of progress in the standoff came on Saturday last week after the farmers’ union sent a letter to a senior bureaucrat of the Union agriculture ministry in which they agreed to hold delegation-level talks with the central government.The farmers have stated that the talks must be geared toward a repeal of the three laws, which they say will hurt their incomes. Talks between the farmers’ representatives and a team comprising three Union ministers — Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — had run aground on December 8, after the unions’ meeting with home minister Amit Shah.The invite for talks - sixth such - comes after several BJP leaders and Union ministers interacted with farmers at Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had appealed to the farmers to end their protest and hold talks with the government. “I hope they will understand the importance of the new farm laws, and the issue will be resolved soon,” Tomar had said.In its previous letter to farmers’ unions, the government said it was ready to not only discuss existing proposals but also new demands the farmers may have. “If there are any new issues other than the proposals discussed on December 3, then the government is ready to discuss everything with an open mind,” joint secretary Vivek Agrawal of the agriculture ministry had written in a letter to more than 30 farm leaders.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to field other senior ministers, including road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, social justice minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”, who will travel across the country to convince people about the benefits of the new law.A bitter protest was called by thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana - now joined by farmers from across the country last month after the government pushed the three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 – through Parliament in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-farmers-for-meeting-over-farm-laws-on-december-30-in-delhi/story-5mKoHJ4MEAzuqgcWvGNwKK.html
28-12-2020||India||Assam government tables bill to abolish all state-run madrassas||The Assam government on Monday tabled a Bill in the Legislative Assembly to abolish all state-run Madrassas by converting them into general schools from April 1 next year.Despite an united opposition raising objections on tabling of the Bill, Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma introducted The Assam Repealing Bill, 2020 on the first day of the three-day winter session.The legislation proposes to abolish the two existing Acts -- The Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation) Act, 1995 and The Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-Organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutions) Act, 2018.“This bill is not to control and repeal the private Madrassas,” Sarma said, adding inclusion of the word “private” in the ‘statement of objects and reasons’ of the bill was a mistake.The Assam cabinet had on December 13 approved a proposal to close down all Madrassas and Sanskrit Tols (schools) however, the legislation brought in the assembly during the day did not contain anything related to the Sanskrit tols and the education minister also did not mention anything about it.The minister said in the bill that all Madrassa institutes will be converted into upper primary, high and higher secondary schools with no change of status, pay, allowances and service conditions of the teaching and non-teaching staff.There are 610 state-run Madrassas across Assam with the government spending Rs 260 crore annually, Sarma had said earlier.In April 2018, the Education minister had brought many private Madrassas under the government ambit by introducing The Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-Organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutions) Act, 2018.The BJP-led alliance-controlled Assam assembly had enacted the law unanimously in 2018.Regarding Sanskrit tols, Sarma had said in October last that they would be handed over to Kumar Bhaskar Varma Sanskrit and Ancient Studies University and its infrastructure would be converted into centres of learning and research, where Indian culture, civilisation and nationalism would be studied.As soon as Sarma sought permission to introduce The Assam Repealing Bill Monday, Congress and AIUDF members objected to tabling of the proposed law and questioned the intention of the government.Congress MLA Nurul Huda said Madrassas teach Arabic language apart from other general subjects and learning a language cannot be termed communal.Because of learning Arabic, many youths have got lucrative jobs in Arab countries and they are contributing to Indian economy by sending foreign exchanges,” he added.His party colleague Sherman Ali Ahmed said learning of Arabic will open job opportunities in 52 countries and already many Hindus from other states like Kerala are earning lakhs of rupees by working in such places.Another Congress member Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested modernisation of Madrassas and not abolishing them.“I don’t know why this bill is brought. It will change the atmosphere of Assam. This bill is aimed at polarisation of votes on religious lines,” he alleged.AIUDF MLA Rafiqul Islam said Sarma himself had provincialised these Madrassas in 2018 and now “he is killing his own baby”.“Even Modi ji has said there should be computer in one hand and Quran on the other. Yogi (Adityanath) is doing the same in UP and allotted hundreds of crores for Madrassas,” he added.Senior AIUDF member Hafiz Bashir Ahmed said winding up all government Madrassas is a big decision and it should be sent to the select committee of the house for discussion with all the stakeholders.Countering all objections, the Education minister said he also believes in spiritual education like learning of Quran, Gita and Bible, but the proposed bill is not related to stopping such education.“Madrassas teach theology as a subject. If only Arabic is taught, no issue would have been there. But, as a government we cannot allow teaching of the Quran on public funding.“Then tomorrow, Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, Jains and other people will also come seeking support to teach their religious books,” he said.Sarma tried to alleviate fears of stopping Arabic language and said teaching of the particular language will continue once the Madrasssas will be converted into general schools.“Many Islamic scholars have opposed government support to teach the Quran. It was a wrong practice and we want to end this wrong practice,” he added.When Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami allowed to introduce the bill and Sarma tabled it, the opposition created a noisy scene and raised objection by shouting slogans inside the house.However, with the Speaker asking them to raise their points during discussion on the bill Wednesday, the Congress and AIUDF members settled down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-goverment-tables-bill-to-abolish-all-state-run-madrassas/story-XrDnZqSb9N6WPrZqjv4IcN.html
28-12-2020||India||Police foil another terror plot in Jammu, 1 arrested with grenades||The Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Monday that they have arrested a suspected terrorist linked to the banned terrorist organization Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), who was allegedly tasked by his handlers in Pakistan to carry out grenade attacks in Jammu city.The accused identified as Mohammad Ashraf, son of Ghulam Din of Lar, Mahore in Reasi district was arrested at a check post at Narwal bypass Sunday evening.He was currently residing in Peerbagh colony, Sunjwan in Jammu. “Late Sunday evening at 1930 hrs, a man roaming suspiciously tried to flee away from the naka (check post) on seeing police personnel but he was apprehended,” said Mukesh Singh, inspector general of police (IGP), Jammu.The police seized two hand grenades that were concealed in a bag he was carrying, he added. Police have filed an FIR and registered a case under the Explosive Substance Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act at the Bagh-e-Bahu police station.“The arrested person is linked with the proscribed terrorist organization LeT and was tasked by the handlers from across the border to carry out grenade attacks in the city,” the IGP said.“The handler across was in contact with more terror operatives for whom a search is in progress. With the timely action by Jammu police, possible terror attacks in Jammu city have been averted”, he added. This is the second terror module linked with the LeT which has been busted by the Jammu police in the past one week. A similar module linked with The Resistance Force (TRF), an offshoot of the LeT, was busted earlier in which two persons Raees Ahmad Dar of Qazigund and Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh of Kulgam were arrested with one AK assault rifle, two magazines of the rifle and 60 rounds of ammunition, a pistol and 15 rounds of ammunition were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-foil-another-terror-plot-in-jammu-1-arrested-with-grenades/story-PvZUh5wrI5CSmuo47iEf6K.html
28-12-2020||India||Atal Tunnel sees highest single-day traffic, 5,450 vehicles cross from both ends||The strategic Atal Tunnel in Rohtang which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2020 has emerged as a major tourist attraction this season. For the first time since it was opened for vehicular traffic, the tunnel witnessed a record single-day inflow of 5,450 vehicles on Sunday.About 2,800 vehicles travelled towards Lahaul from Manali while 2,650 vehicles came from Lahaul.On Monday, over 5000 vehicles crossed the Atal Tunnel Rohtang (ATR) from both ends.Superintendent of Police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh said that it was bumper-to-bumper traffic on the route. For every thousand vehicles at Manali Bailey Bridge, delay was introduced from the Green Tax Barrier so as to manage the pace and crossing at the Bailey Bridge connecting the left bank“All vehicles going beyond Solang Nala towards the tunnel were compulsorily headed for Atal Tunnel Rohtang South Portal and then U-turns were facilitated there,” said the SP.He said that more than 30 drivers who were overtaking the queue were challaned and fined for disturbing traffic movement. They were allowed to move only after the rest of the traffic was cleared. No overtaking zone was implemented between Palchan and the South Portal.At least 15 people in two vehicles were arrested and fined Rs 40,000 for obstructing the traffic in Atal Tunnel and for violating Covid-19 protocols. Seven of these tourists were from Delhi while eight belonged to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-tunnel-sees-highest-single-day-traffic-5-450-vehicles-cross-from-both-ends/story-fJPyq5Q83R8Xe1425Beb7H.html
28-12-2020||India||La Nina influences 2020 as India records above normal rains, harsher winter, reduced heatwave||La Nina seemed to have played a critical role in influencing the country’s weather in 2020 which was a second consecutive year of above normal rainfall with below normal temperatures in the winter and less occurrence of heatwaves.The year also saw formation of five cyclones in the seas along eastern and western sides. Of the five, four were ‘severe cyclonic storms’ and above.La Nina conditions played an important factor in having a good monsoon and severe winter conditions in parts of north India. La Nina is associated with the cooling of the Pacific waters -- El Nino is antithesis to it. It is generally observed that a La Nina year also receives good rainfall and winter temperatures are lower than normal.December to February are peak winter months in the country. The severe cold day conditions in parts of north India that began in December of 2019 also continued in January this year, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General M Mohapatra said.The trend of cold to severe cold day conditions also continued later in October, November as well December. Several parts of north India recorded below normal temperatures from October to December, he said. On the other hand, the summer also saw few instances of heat waves that affect large portions of the country from April to June, Mohapatra added.He attributed the low frequency of heatwaves to frequent Western Disturbances -- cyclonic circulation that originates in the Mediterranean Sea, traverses across Central Asia, and brings non-monsoon rains to northwest India during the winters.This year, the frequency of western disturbances was unusually high and continued even during the summer. 2020 was also the third to record highest precipitation in the last 30 years.Southwest Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date. The official monsoon season starts from June 1 to September 30. The country received 109 per cent rainfall of the Long Period Average (LPA) with three of four months -- June (118 per cent), August (127 per cent) and September (104 per cent) -- witnessing above normal rainfall, while July recorded (90 per cent) deficient rainfall.Generally, the country receives maximum rainfall in July and August.One of the main features of the monsoon was the rainfall in August. The month saw five low pressure areas (cyclonic circulations) that brought large amount of rainfall over central India.The total number of low pressure days was 28 against the normal of about 15 in August.It caused two-three spells of riverine floods over Odisha, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, south Gujarat and south Rajasthan.The IMD said it was a record rainfall in August 2020, when all-India rainfall was 127 per cent of LPA. It was the highest in the last 44 years, after August 1976 (128.4 per cent) of LPA. It was also the fourth-highest in the last 120 years.Overall, during the monsoon season 2020, a total number of 12 low pressure system formed.Nineteen states and union territories received normal rainfall this year, while nine states and union territories saw excess rainfall. Bihar, Gujarat, Meghalaya, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Lakshadweep islands recorded excess rainfall. Sikkim recorded large excess rainfall.However, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir recorded deficiency. Ladakh recorded large deficiency. Delhi also received deficient rainfall.“Considering the recent years since 1990, the all India seasonal rainfall this year was third highest, after 112 per cent of LPA in 1994 and 110 per cent of LPA in 2019.“It is consecutively for two monsoon years, when India received good rainfall of 9 per cent of the LPA or more. Thus, 2019 and 2020 are the two consecutive above normal monsoon rainfall years, after 1958 (110 per cent of LPA) and 1959 (114 per cent of LPA),” the IMD had said after the end of the monsoon. Southwest Monsoon covered the entire country on June 26 against the normal date of July 8, 12 days before its normal date. The withdrawal was also late. It retreated from west Rajasthan and parts of Punjab on September 28, 11 days after its normal withdrawal date.Overall, the Northeast Monsoon too has been good so far, Mohapatra said. The Northeast Monsoon brings rains to Tamil Nadu, parts of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka from October to December. “The year 2020 was a good rainfall year. The country also received good rainfall during the winter months. The Southwest Monsoon as well as the Northeast Monsoon was good,” Mohapatra added.Three of the storms (Amphan, Nivar and Burevi) formed in the Bay of Bengal and the other two (Nisraga and Gati) in the Arabian Sea. Amphan, Nivar and Nisarga hit the Indian coasts as cyclonic storms.After nearly two decades -- 1999 Super Cyclone of Odisha that killed thousands of people --, the Bay of Bengal saw formation of another super cyclonic storm Amphan in May. However, as it pummelled the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, its intensity had reduced marginally.But will a similar weather pattern continue in 2021? Mohapatra said La Nina conditions are likely to prevail for the next six months.The IMD in its winter forecast for December 2020 and January February 2021 also predicted below normal temperatures in north India.And how will La Nina affect the Southwest Monsoon and the summer? “It is difficult to predict the weather for the entire year at this point of time. But La Nina is generally associated with good monsoon and below normal temperatures during the winters. We are continuously monitoring the situation,” Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-nina-influences-2020-as-india-records-above-normal-rains-harsher-winter-reduced-heatwave/story-4cqKXDxPnK1I2iVqkGXGQL.html
28-12-2020||India||EC preparing for polls next year after Covid safe Bihar elections: CEC||The Election Commission successfully held assembly polls in Bihar, one of India’s most populous states despite the Covid-19 pandemic and is now preparing to conduct polls in states and union territories as per schedule next year, its chief Sunil Arora said summing up 2020.The Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) pointed out that the exercise involved nearly 7.3 crore voters and over 1.06 lakh polling stations.“We were able to conduct a Covid-safe election, with a voter turnout of 57.34%, which was higher than the 56.8% turnout recorded during the previous election in 2015,” Arora told PTI.This was also an election marked by enthusiastic participation of women voters, who outnumbered men at the polling booths, he said.The facility of postal ballots was extended to citizens above the age of 80 years and persons with disability. Besides this, the EC also conducted elections across several states for Rajya Sabha seats, and by-elections for nearly 60 legislative assembly constituencies, he observed.“All this was made possible through the zeal, commitment and dedication of lakhs of officials, security personnel, civil society organisations and individuals, and the support of all stakeholders, including political parties, and above all, the voters themselves,” he said.“As I have already mentioned, it was a leap of faith for the Commission, and not a leap in the dark,” Arora said, referring to the decision of holding polls as per schedule.Some political parties had earlier urged the EC not to hold elections amid the pandemic.Bihar assembly elections were the first full-fledged polls to be held amid coronavirus. Over 4 crore of the total over 7 crore voters exercised their franchise. To ensure distancing norms, the EC restricted the number of voters per polling station to 1,000 from 1,200. This led to the increase in the number of polling stations.Similarly, in West Bengal, where elections are due along with Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry next year, the number of polling stations would go up by nearly 28,000.Details of other poll-bound states are being worked out.In August, the poll panel had come out with broad guidelines to hold polls amid the coronavirus pandemic.When the campaigning was in full swing, it issued an advisory for parties noting that Covid norms and health protocols were not being followed.According to data made available by the Election Commission here and the office of the Chief Electoral Officer of Bihar, 156 cases were registered against “organisers” of rallies and meetings of various leaders and candidates for violating Covid-19 norms. Cases were registered against organisers as they had sought permission to hold rallies or meetings in which following health guidelines was mandatory, explained an official. Ahead of the three-phase elections, the poll panel had made it clear that violation of Covid-19 guidelines during election period would be deemed as a violation of section 144 of the CrPC. Nearly 160 tonne of biomedical waste in the form of gloves, face masks and empty sanitiser bottles used by polling personnel and voters was generated during the Bihar assembly polls held amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The poll authorities also relied on an inexpensive but effective technology used to track EVMs to ensure that the waste reached public health centres for its onward journey to the incinerator.To ensure safety of voters, polling staff and security personnel, the EC had procured 18 lakh face shields, 70 lakh face masks, 5.4 lakh single use rubber gloves for polling and security personnel and 7.21 crore ‘one hand’ single use polythene gloves for voters to press the EVM button and sign the register at the polling stations.This year also saw another interesting development related to electoral reforms.Following a Supreme Court direction in February, the EC in March asked political parties to justify why they chose candidates with criminal history to contest elections.Assembly elections in Bihar were the first full-fledged polls where such details of their candidates were made public by parties.Out of a total of 1,197 candidates with criminal antecedents who contested the recently-held Bihar assembly elections, 467 were fielded by recognised national and state parties, according to the EC.The remaining 730 were either fielded by registered but unrecognised parties or had contested the polls as independents.Meanwhile, the EC has also proposed to the government to extend the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) facility, so far available to service voters, to eligible overseas Indian voters.In a letter to the legislative secretary in Law Ministry on November 27, the Commission said with the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, it is now “confident” that the facility can also be extended to the overseas electors.“The Commission is technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” the poll panel said.But the government is yet to take a decision on allowing the use of postal ballots for eligible overseas Indians to cast their votes as the move will need wider consultations with all stakeholders before a final call is taken, according to sources.They also said that the Election Commission’s proposal to amend election rules to allow the use of postal ballot by overseas Indians, whose names figure in electoral rolls in India, is still at a bureaucratic level and is yet to be discussed with the political executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-preparing-for-polls-next-year-after-covid-safe-bihar-elections-cec/story-vpQbwRt8jDosEMXHqBI13J.html
28-12-2020||India||Dense fog likely over northwest India around New Year’s Eve, says IMD||Along with "cold wave" to "severe cold wave" over northwest India, India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted dense to very dense fog with visibility under 50 metres in some parts of the region on December 30 and 31 and January 1.IMD in its impact-based bulletin released on Monday said dense to very dense fog is likely over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, northwest Uttar Pradesh on December 30, 31 and January 1.“In Delhi, we are expecting moderate to dense fog so visibility may be under 200 metres in some parts of the Capital. The Western Disturbance which was affecting the Western Himalayas has just passed so there is moisture in the air and wind speed is also likely to reduce. It is going to be very cold also, leading to the development of fog,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read: Chilly Delhi on cold wave brink, temperature falls by 1-2 degrees Celsius: IMDGround frost is also likely over some parts of north Rajasthan, according to IMD.IMD in its impact based warning said exposure to dense fog is associated with respiratory complications particularly for people with asthma, bronchitis and other lung conditions. It can increase episodes of wheezing and coughing as dense fog also has high particulate pollution. Dense fog can disrupt road traffic, railway and flight schedules, the Met department has cautioned.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-likely-over-northwest-india-around-new-year-s-eve-says-imd/story-FovPQ0Iizi8B2bV02AR7hJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections: Name missing from voters’ list? Here’s what to do||The State Election Commission (SEC), Uttar Pradesh, has prepared the initial draft of the voters’ list for the upcoming three-tier Panchayat elections. The list will be available from December 28 to January 3 with the assistant electoral registration officer (AERO) or with the booth level officer (BLO). The list can also be accessed on the commission’s official website, sec.up.nic.in.However, it is also possible that some people might find their name missing from the voters’ list despite being registered voters. Here’s what to do in such a scenario:1. On the homepage of the SEC-UP website, click on the section ‘Voter Services.’ In the new tab that opens, there will be a list of services, including one which says ‘Apply For Name Addition.’ Under this, click on ‘Click to Register.’2. Another new tab will open. Fill in the application form and click on ‘Submit.’ However, it is to be noted that any person, who has registered more than once, shall have his/her registration cancelled.3. Alternatively, click on ‘Form 2’ under ‘Offline Voter Form’ on the website. Print/download the form, fill it up and submit it to the AERO or to the BLO. Alternatively, the form is available with either of the officers as well.4. ‘Form 3’ is for modification or rectification of any error in the details while ‘Form 4’ is for the deletion of name from the voters’ list. These forms, just like ‘Form 2,’ are available both online and offline.5. The SEC will review all claims between January 4 and January 11, followed by the publication of the final voters’ list on January 22.Last month, the BLOs had conducted a door-to-door drive to collect details about the voters. During this drive, names of those turning 18 years old on January 21, 2021 were included on the voters’ list. Also, names of deceased and duplicate voters were dropped from the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-panchayat-elections-name-missing-from-voters-list-here-s-what-to-do/story-nL7veuxMhx7oxAaZNsw6TK.html
28-12-2020||India||Forces pressurised Manmohan Singh, Sharad Pawar not to implement farm sector reforms, says Union minister Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that even former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and Nationalist Congress Party supremo Sharad Pawar -- who served as the Agriculture Minister during the UPA government -- wanted to implement reforms in the farm sector but could not due to ‘external forces’. Tomar stated that many Chief Ministers had tried to implement the same farm laws that the Narendra Modi government has formulated for agriculture sector reforms in the country but could not implement them due to these external pressures.While addressing farmer unions on Monday, Tomar said, “Many commissions, ministers, chief minister’s and governments have made an effort to work in the direction of farm sector reform. During the UPA regime Dr Manmohan Singh and Sharad Pawar wanted to implement these reforms. However, due to some pressure, they couldn’t implement these laws.”The statement came a day before the government is set to resume talks with farmers’ unions protesting against three Central farm laws. A joint committee of various farmers’ unions also met Narendra Singh Tomar to extend support to the farm laws on Monday. “Now our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi. His only mission is development. His only mission is the well being of people. Any kind of force or pressure can not pressurise our Prime Minister. When these forces fail, they get frustrated,” the Union Agriculture Minister added.Tomar cited examples of demonetisation, GST, abrogation of article 370 and article 35A and Citizenship Amendment Bill while explaining how various forces and some elements tried to use these to attack and criticise PM Modi.On the issue of farm laws, Tomar said, in Punjab, these ‘forces’ tried to use the shoulders of farmers for their motive. “Prime Minister Modi got 303 seats in Lok Sabha because of your blessings. Can PM Modi make such a decision that will adversely impact farmers and villagers?” the Minister asked.“The Prime Minister implemented demonetisation. There were elements who used to stand in queue and criticise the government. On GST, late Pranab Mukherjee praised the PM. Those forces again came in to being and started saying bad things about Modiji that his days were numbered. People said the BJP would lose Gujarat, which is a state dominated by industrialists. In Surat, GST had the most impact and by this logic we should have lost, people voted for Modi on every seat and for GST,” said Tomar.If 370 abrogation was an election issue, our government would have done it in 2023 and not in 2019, argued the Union Agriculture Minister. He added that during the passage of Triple talaq and Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the country stood in support and anti-India forces remained ineffective. In a clear indication that laws will stay, Tomar said that talks are going on with protesting farmers. “We want to resolve this by discussion. We respect our Annadatas. We will become self-reliant only when farmers become self-reliant,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-pressurised-manmohan-singh-sharad-pawar-not-to-implement-farm-sector-reforms-says-union-minister-tomar/story-A6n6TZpWPk4VKHe7dqAfHK.html
28-12-2020||India||Congress slams BJP, defends Rahul Gandhi’s foreign visit||Defending senior leader Rahul Gandhi on his foreign visit ahead of the party’s Foundation Day, Congress on Monday said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is indulging in “low-level politics”. Party general secretary and communication in-charge Randeep Surjewala had told ANI on Sunday that Gandhi was currently travelling on a short personal trip. According to sources, Gandhi left the country on Sunday morning and will be away for a few days. Speaking to ANI on Monday, Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal said, “Rahul Gandhi has gone to see his grandmother. Is it wrong? Everybody has the right to undertake personal visits.”Venugopal also hit out at BJP and said that the ruling party is “targeting” Gandhi because they want to target only one leader. “BJP is indulging in low-level politics. They are targeting Rahul Gandhi because they want to target only one leader,” the Congress General Secretary said. Earlier today, Surjewala told ANI that Gandhi will be back “very soon”. “We have informed before also that Rahul Gandhi is travelling on a short personal visit and he will be among us very soon,” Surjewala said on Gandhi’s absence during celebrations of 136th Foundation Day of Congress.The statements come after several BJP leaders targetted Gandhi as he flew off to Italy on Sunday amid the farmers’ protest and a day before the party’s foundation day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-bjp-defends-rahul-gandhi-s-foreign-visit/story-5Kirpuwcgha1BOhemqAZpL.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Victory in recent polls shows support, trust for BJP’: Smriti Irani||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) victory in the Bihar assembly election, by-polls in 11 states and 8 local bodies is a testament of the support that people of the country, especially in rural India, have shown for the Narendra Modi government said Union minister Smriti Irani on Monday. The minister, who is also a Lok Sabha MP from Amethi, said the outcome of elections that were held between September and December are an indication that PM Modi and the BJP have been able to secure the trust of the people. The BJP, which is facing criticism from a section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana and the opposition parties over the recently framed farm laws, has been referring to its performance in these elections as evidence of not having lost its popularity. A section of farmers who are upset with the laws have been sitting in protest near the Delhi border, demanding that the laws be repealed. The BJP for its part has blamed the opposition for creating misinformation about the laws and instigating farmers, who it says stand to gain from the new laws. Irani, said support for the news laws and the government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, which was carried out simultaneously with the Modi government’s development agenda has played a key role in scripting the party’s performance. “Ever since the agriculture reform bills have been passed in Parliament the opposition parties have been trying to create misinformation that the people in rural areas are unhappy with the Union government. But the democratic process shows the truth ...how in the rural areas whether it is farmers or ordinary people, especially women have shown their faith in PM Modi and the BJP,” she said. To support her claims she said since September 27, 2020 and till December 22, the BJP won the Bihar assembly elections, by polls in 11 state; and eight local body elections. She said in Arunachal Pradesh of the 242 Zila Panchayats, the BJP tasted victory in 184 Zila Panchayats. “While the Congress has been able to deliver in only 11 such Panchayats in Arunachal Pradesh...in Manipur, Congress could not win a single seat and there was a clean sweep in the state of Gujarat where the BJP won all eight with 55% plus vote share.” She went on to add, “When the by-election was held in Telangana, the BJP won the election by defeating the representative of the state government there. In Karnataka, BJP won the by-election with 51% votes. In Manipur it won the by-election with more than 40% votes.” Irani also referred to the party’s performance in Uttar Pradesh by poll, where the BJP won 6 out of 7 seats and in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation where the party “created history by winning 48 seats up from last time’s 4”. “The DDC election created a unique history on the soil of Jammu and Kashmir. In this election, BJP won 75 seats,” she said to indicate support for the BJP in the union territory that was carved out a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victory-in-recent-polls-shows-support-trust-for-bjp-smriti-irani/story-nl9LwyoKJTaDP0Ks4yPBdP.html
28-12-2020||India||Preparations underway for Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Punjab, AP||Preparations are underway in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh for a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme that will be held in four states on Monday.The dry runs will be carried out on December 28-29 in Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.Dayanand Medical College in Punjab’s Ludhiana and Primary Health Care, Krishna Nagar at Prakash Nagar in Vijayawada district of Andhra Pradesh - the two districts are assessing their preparedness in a phased manner with priority groups- healthcare workers, frontline workers, elderly and population with co-morbidities in the states.“We are testing the preparedness of cold chain, COVIN software, and vaccination programme through 25 beneficiaries,” said Dr Srihari, Joint Director of Andhra Pradesh Immunisation Programme.The Union Health Ministry has said earlier that the dummy drive will include necessary data entry in COVIN, which is the online platform for monitoring of vaccine delivery, testing receipt and allocation, deployment of team members, mock drill of session sites with test beneficiaries as well as reporting and evening meeting.The Central Government is gearing up for the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine across the country and a two-days dry run has been planned in the states considering the geographical locations.The government has already trained participants who will administer the vaccine.The detailed training modules have been developed for different categories of vaccine handlers and administrators including medical officers, vaccinators, alternate vaccinators, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers, ASHA coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels, to strengthen the capacity of human resource for vaccine introduction and roll-out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparations-underway-for-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-punjab-ap/story-EOUYplFECfwxJhvpHULEdN.html
28-12-2020||India||Punjab probes if protesting farmers sabotaged telecom infrastructure||Authorities in India’s northern state of Punjab are investigating whether protesting farmers were disrupting power supply to hundreds of telecom towers, a state official said on Monday, amid ongoing protests against contentious new farm laws.“We have told the police to track all those involved in sabotaging the infrastructure,” a senior official in the Punjab state government told Reuters on condition of anonymity.A senior Punjab state police official said the power was disrupted to several telecom towers in the state, mainly ones owned by Jio, the telecommunications arm of Reliance Industries.Jio could not be immediately reached for a comment.Representative from two of the 31 farmer unions protesting against the laws rejected the allegations when contacted by Reuters. They asked to remain unidentified pending a formal statement from all of the unions.Tens of thousands of farmers continue to camp out on highways near the capital New Delhi in protest against three new laws implemented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government that they fear will dismantle regulated agricultural markets, threaten their livelihood and benefit large companies.But Modi and his cabinet ministers say the laws would increase farmers’ income as it links potential bulk buyers, such as WalMart Inc, Reliance Industries Ltd and Adani Enterprises Ltd, directly with farmers, bypassing wholesale markets and commission agents.Punjab’s state government is opposed to the new farm laws and a seventh round of talks between farmer unions and federal government officials is scheduled on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-probes-if-protesting-farmers-sabotaged-telecom-infrastructure/story-aXVnox2zL25yts1K66kSaJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Petition filed over punishing SBI officials for violating SC’s order||A petition has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings and punish the concerned State Bank of India (SBI) officials, and others, for allegedly and willfully violating the Apex Court’s directions of September 3, 2020.The Top Court had passed the order on September 3 this year on loan moratorium case and said that accounts that have not been declared Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) as on August 31, 2020, cannot be declared as such until further notice.The petitioner, Greenlands (A&M) Corporation, claimed that the respondent, SBI and others, allegedly declared the account of the petitioner as NPA and thus flouted the stay order of the Apex Court of September 3, 2020, and thereby it (SBI) and others committed contempt of court, and the SC should initiate the contempt of court proceedings against the RBI.The respondent, SBI, also sent a legal notice for recovery of dues from the petitioner, and thereby it (SBI) had committed contempt of the order of the Apex Court, the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Vishal Tiwari, and Advocate on Record (AOR) Abhigya Kushwah, claimed.The petitioner also sought a direction from the Top Court that the contemnors should compensate for the damage caused to the petitioner by their “contemptuous act”, the petition stated.The petitioner also sought a direction from the SC that the respondents should grant a grace period of 90 days to the petitioner before declaring its account, NPA, the petition claimed.The respondents, including the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), were duty-bound to promulgate the orders of this Apex court throughout the country but they deliberately didn’t do it. The September 3 order, was operational on all lending institutions and banks throughout the country and was passed in the favour of all borrowers accounts to grant relief from financial stress during Covid-19, the petitioner claimed.The contemptuous act of the respondents has not only disobeyed the court’s order but has also caused “severe irreparable damage” and loss to the petitioner. The petitioner has lost its market value and credit. It cannot make supply, all supplies have been on hold after the account has been turned NPA, the petitioner claimed.“The contemptuous act of the respondents has shaken the confidence of the public and has degraded the trust of the borrowers. In this pandemic, where all borrowers are passing through the worst scenario. That this stay order was operational throughout the nation and was in the Public Interest,” the petition stated.The stay order was operating as the life-saving drug to the petitioner but the contemptuous act of the respondent has brought a major setback to the firm and its survival has become critical, the petitioner claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-filed-over-punishing-sbi-officials-for-violating-sc-s-order/story-lQkGIchcYESdCf9eIREv9J.html
28-12-2020||India||Centre identifies 10 labs for monitoring genomic variations in Sars-CoV-2||The Centre has identified 10 advanced regional laboratories to serve as regional hub laboratories for genome sequencing as part of its surveillance strategy to monitor the genomic variations in the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The union health ministry’s guidance document on genomic sequencing released on Monday.The ministry has also established Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) which will oversee the surveillance work on a regular basis and also assist in developing potential vaccines in future.All the genomic sequencing data will be maintained in a national database at two sites, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani (West Bengal), and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Also Read: Centre forms genomic surveillance consortium to check spread of new coronavirus variantApart from ascertaining the current status of the new variant of Sars-Cov-2 virus, the project also aims to establish sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implications and to determine genomic variants in unusual events or trends such as super-spreader events.While it is known and expected that viruses constantly mutate leading to the emergence of new variants, preliminary analysis based on epidemiological and mathematical models in the UK suggests that this variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated potential to increase the reproductive number (R0) by 0.4 or greater with an estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70%.However, there is no experimental evidence or indication at this point of increased infection severity associated with the aforementioned new variant. Also, few cases with the new variant have to date been reported by Denmark, Netherlands and Australia.Belgium has also reported the new UK variant of Sars-Cov-2, according to some unconfirmed reports.“Also, very recent media reports revealed the emergence of a second variant in UK (contacts with travellers from South Africa) and a third variant in Nigeria, suggesting continuous virus evolution,” said the health ministry document.“In case the UK variant or any other variant mutation is detected in any sample, it will be sent to any of the two notified Covid virus repositories at RCB, Faridabad or NIV, Pune for isolating and culturing. This can then be shared as per notified guidelines for development of assays, which will help in validation of diagnostics and also testing of the vaccines under development…,” it said.National Centre for Disease Control’s nodal unit will maintain a database of all samples of the new variants of public health significance. The data will be epidemiologically analysed, interpreted and shared with states for investigation, contact tracing and planning response strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-identifies-10-labs-in-india-for-monitoring-genomic-variations-in-sars-cov-2/story-1a4hiaVuOFkYFsiqRMMfzJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid +ve Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat flown to Delhi for treatment||Coronavirus positive Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was flown to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Monday, following a mild infection in his lungs. Rawat, who tested positive on December 18, was admitted to Doon hospital in Dehradun on Sunday evening. Accompanied by his physician, CM Rawat was flown to Delhi in a chopper at 10:45 am today, said the CM’s media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat. “After the mild infection was detected in Rawat’s lungs, we spoke to doctors at AIIMS Delhi and it was decided that he should be brought in for check-up and treatment. His condition is stable,” said the CM’s media officer. According to Rawat’s personal physician, Dr NS Bisht, chief minister’s health is fine and his fever has also come down to some extent. “The CM has got a mild infection in his lungs. After consulting with AIIMS doctors, they advised he be brought to Delhi for tests,” he said. Dr Anurag Agarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Doon hospital, said. “His health condition is fine but as a precaution, we had advised him to get admitted.”. Earlier, the CM was in home isolation. In September, Rawat had isolated himself after his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) had tested positive for Covid-19. That time the CM himself had tested negative, but as a precaution, he had decided to isolate himself. Earlier on August 26, the chief minister had gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier this year on June 1, Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers had decided to quarantine themselves after cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19. Rawat had attended a cabinet meeting with Maharaj. Later on June 6, Rawat had tested negative for Covid-19. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 8,9000 Covid-19 positive cases and 1,483 Covid deaths. The positivity rate in the state stands at 5.20% and case fatality rate at 1.65 %. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 26,806 Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ve-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-flown-to-delhi-for-treatment/story-NKXaoRbL1FkSNF8HhsBj6L.html
28-12-2020||India||Delhi is capital of major global, strategic power and this glory must reflect, says PM Modi||Delhi is the capital of a major global, financial and strategic power, that has a population of over 130 crores and this glory must reflect, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. He also assured that the government will make lives of the people of Delhi better and the city advanced.“Delhi is the capital of a major global, financial and strategic power that has a population of over 130 crores and this glory must reflect. I believe that we all will continue to work together and make the lives of the people of Delhi better and the city advanced,” said PM Modi during the inauguration event of India’s first-ever driverless train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line.He also said, by 2025, metro train services will be expanded to over 25 cities across the country.“The first metro in the country was started with the efforts of Atal Ji. When our government was formed in 2014, only five cities had metro services and today 18 cities have metro rail service. By 2025, we will take this service to more than 25 cities,” said PM Modi.“Make In India is very important for the expansion of metro services. It reduces cost, saves foreign currency and provides more employment to people,” he added.“We noted that the expansion of the metro, modern modes of transport should be used according to the needs of the people of the city and the professional lifestyle there,” the PM added.This is the reason why work is being done on different types of metro rails in different cities, he said.Today, four big companies are manufacturing metro coaches in the country and dozens of companies are engaged in the manufacture of metro components. This is helping Make in India as well as the campaign for self-reliant India, the Prime Minister stated.“We are also using a braking system in which 50 per cent of the energy goes back into the grid when the brakes are applied. Today 130 MW of solar power is being used in metro rail, which will be increased to 600 MW,” said PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-is-capital-of-major-global-strategic-power-and-this-glory-must-reflect-says-pm-modi/story-EElTbQ6g10lmjPg4DpemKK.html
28-12-2020||India||Army chief Gen Naravane leaves for South Korea on a three-day visit||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday kicked off a three-day visit to South Korea to bolster military cooperation with the east Asian country, the army said in a statement. This is Naravane’s fifth visit to a foreign country during the Covid-19 pandemic after Myanmar, Nepal, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. The army chief will hold talks with South Korea’s senior military and civilian leadership during the visit (December 28-30). Apart from laying a wreath at the National Cemetery and War Memorial at Seoul, Naravane’s itinerary will see him call on the Korean defence minister, army chief, chairman of joint chiefs of staff, and minister of defence acquisition planning administration (DAPA) where he will discuss avenues for enhancing India-South Korea defence ties, the statement said. Also Read: India calls for holding early talks on LACHe will also visit the Korea Combat Training Centre in Inje County in Gangwon and the Agency for Defence Development (ADD) at Daejeon. Watch l Army Chief General Naravane on 3-day South Korea visit: All you need to know The K9 Vajra-T guns in the army’s inventory represent the collaboration between private sector defence major Larsen & Toubro (L&T) and South Korea’s Hanwha Techwin (HTW). In April 2017, the two firms signed a $720-million contract for the Indian Army’s artillery gun programme. L&T has assembled the guns at a facility at Talegaon near Pune in Maharashtra. An improved version of HTW’s K9 Thunder, the K9 Vajra-T has been designed to meet Indian requirements, including those of its desert formations. A Korean firm was also pursuing a programme to build minesweepers in the country under the Make in India initiative but the plan has failed to take off. Another Korean defence firm is looking at the possibility of supplying the Biho self-propelled anti-aircraft defence system to the Indian military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-kicks-off-3-day-south-korea-visit-to-bolster-military-ties/story-1Wu1oj57EDHWU3Vgq8Tq6I.html
28-12-2020||India||Delhi airport’s Terminal 3 installs new passenger tracking system||Delhi airport’s Terminal 3 has installed a new passenger tracking system that would help manage the flow of people, reduce waiting time and ensure social distancing.“The Xovis passenger tracking system (PTS), a queue management system, displays live waiting time, taken at various processes like check-in, security check etc., on screens put up at various places,” said a press release by Delhi airport’s operator DIAL.Since flight operations are currently less than pre-Covid levels, only Terminal 2 and Terminal 3 of the Delhi airport are handling aircraft movement. In this PTS, passengers are counted and tracked anonymously using the ceiling-mounted sensors. The PTS receives data streams from the sensors and provides the airport operator with valuable key performance indicators (KPIs) such as waiting times, process times and passenger throughput.“The KPIs are visualized on an intuitive dashboard, enabling airports to quickly identify crowded areas and bottlenecks,” the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said.The operator has put PTS display screens at various points of Terminal 3: check-in hall, arrival pier junction, etc.The DIAL said it has installed Xovis PTS after successful trials to “ensure better management of passenger flow and adherence to social distancing norms as a part of Covid-19 protocol”. The Civil Aviation Ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, airlines are permitted to operate maximum 80 per cent of their pre-Covid flights. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic.However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-s-terminal-3-installs-new-passenger-tracking-system/story-6Xt3ofxJ5OkAoKzCA125IM.html
28-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amit Shah pays tributes to Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah pays tributes to Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversaryUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday unveiled a statue of Arun Jaitley and paid tributes to him at the Arun Jaitley Stadium, formerly known as the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium, on the occasion of the late minister’s 68th birth anniversary. Read more Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat being shifted to AIIMS DelhiUttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who tested positive for coronavirus on December 18 and was admitted to Doon hospital in Dehradun after developing a mild fever on Sunday evening, will be shifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, chief minister’s office said. Read more Covid-19 vaccination: 4 states to conduct two-day dry run from todayThe Centre has chosen eight districts in four states to conduct a two-dry run of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination that begins today. Read more You may need vaccine passport for travel next year: All you need to know about itAs nations start rolling out the coronavirus vaccines, hopes are high for a return to normalcy by next year. Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), that has infected over 80 million people worldwide and killed 1.76 million, has changed the way of life across nations. Read more Yearender 2020 special: How Delhi laid the base for India’s EV revolutionA lot can change in a year and a lot has. ‘Electric Vehicles’ has been an important subject of the year 2020. It has been a year for propelling the push towards clean mobility. Read more Umesh Yadav taken for scans after hobbling off the field with calf injuryIndia suffered another injury blow on this Australia as fast bowler Umesh Yadav hurt his calf muscle while bowling during Day 3 of India vs Australia Test match in Melbourne. Read more Apple Car may not see the light of day until 2028, says analyst Ming-Chi KuoApple Car rumours have been doing the rounds for years. They re-emerged earlier this month after a Reuters report said the company is moving fast with its autonomous car project with a “breakthrough battery technology.” Read more Shraddha Kapoor is all about modern fairytales in corset high-waisted dress worth Rs 1.8 lakhWe always take a moment to look and swoon whenever Shraddha Kapoor steps on a red carpet. The actor, who has rarely made a fashion faux pas, has an impeccable style sense that always manages to hit the mark. Read more Watch| ‘Shivraj Singh Chouhan is expert in media politics’: Kamal Nath||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amit-shah-pays-tributes-to-arun-jaitley-on-his-birth-anniversary-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CPfdrqeQm7dS4VctFlakhP.html
28-12-2020||India||Metro services to reach over 25 cities by 2025, says PM Modi||By 2025, metro train services will be expanded to over 25 cities across the country, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while adding that “Make In India” is essential for the expansion. “The first metro in the country was started with the efforts of Atal Ji. When our government was formed in 2014, only five cities had metro services and today 18 cities have metro rail service. By 2025, we will take this service to more than 25 cities,” said PM Modi. “Make In India is very important for the expansion of metro services. It reduces cost, saves foreign currency and provides more employment to people,” he added. The Prime Minister inaugurated India’s first-ever driverless train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line and launched National Common Mobility Card on the Airport Express Line today, via video conferencing.“We noted that the expansion of the metro, modern modes of transport should be used according to the needs of the people of the city and the professional lifestyle there,” the PM added.This is the reason why work is being done on different types of metro rails in different cities, he said. “Delhi-Meerut RRTS will reduce the distance of Delhi and Meerut to less than an hour. MetroLight - In cities where passenger numbers are less, work is being done on MetroLite version. It is prepared at 40 per cent cost of the normal metro,” said PM Modi. “Work is also being done on Metro Neo in the cities where the ridership is less. It is built at the cost of 25 per cent of the normal metro. Similarly, water metro - this is also an example of out of the box thinking,” he added. Today, four big companies are manufacturing metro coaches in the country and dozens of companies are engaged in the manufacture of metro components. This is helping Make in India as well as the campaign for self-reliant India, the Prime Minister stated. “We are also using a braking system in which 50 per cent of the energy goes back into the grid when the brakes are applied. Today 130 MW of solar power is being used in metro rail, which will be increased to 600 MW,” said PM Modi. “Providing the same standards and facilities for modernisation is very important. The Common Mobility Card at the national level is a major step in this direction. Wherever you travel, whichever public transport you travel, this one card will give you integrated access,” he added. Today, by consolidating all the systems, the strength of the country is being increased. Like One Nation, One Mobility Card, our government has done many things in the past years to integrate the systems of the country, the Prime Minister said. “One Nation, One Fastag has made travel seamless on highways across the country. One Nation, One Tax i.e. GST has ended the tax net across the country. One Nation, One Power Grid, is ensuring adequate and continuous power availability in every part of the country. Power loss is reduced,” said PM Modi. One Nation, One Gas Grid, is ensuring Seamless Gas Connectivity of the parts where gas-based life and economy used to be a dream earlier, the Prime Minister said. One Nation, One Health Assurance Scheme i.e. millions of people from Ayushman India are taking advantage of this anywhere in the country, he further stated.“Citizens moving from one place to another because of One Nation, One Ration Card, have got freedom from the cycle of making new ration cards. Similarly, the country is moving in the direction of One Nation, One Agriculture Market with new agricultural reforms and arrangements like e-NAM,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-services-to-reach-over-25-cities-by-2025-says-pm-modi/story-sCEwFthsog2tByYmd2O1SK.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Took urbanisation as opportunity not challenge’: PM Modi on India’s first driverless Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off India’s first driverless train on the Magenta Line of Delhi Metro. Delivering a virtual address at the ceremony, which also witnessed the launch of the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), PM Modi said that this was possible because “we took urbanisation as an opportunity, not a challenge.”“Today’s ceremony is an attempt to turn urban development, urban ready and future ready,” the prime minister said. He, however, added that till a few years ago, when it came to urbanisation, no attention was paid to its future needs, people worked half-heartedly and there was confusion all around. “Urbanisation was taking place rapidly but our cities were not equipped at the same speed to deal with its after effects,” PM Modi said, adding that this led to a huge gap between the demand for urban infrastructure and its delivery.He then recalled how it was only under his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart and former prime minister Atal Vihari Vajpayee that Delhi’s first-ever Metro was flagged off in 2002. PM Modi also noted how when his first government came to power in 2014, only five cities had Metro services as compared to 18 today. “By 2025, we will expand Metro services to more than 25 cities,” he vowed.PM Modi then compared Metro-related statistics from today to those earlier. “This isn’t just an infrastructure made of bricks, stones and concrete. This, in fact, is the evidence of the fulfilment of the ambitions of the country’s middle class,” he remarked.How did this change come about when the bureaucracy and the people are the same, PM Modi questioned. This, he said, was because his government treated urbanisation not as a challenge, but as an opportunity. “In our country, there was never a policy for the Metro,” the prime minister remarked.India’s first driverless Metro will run on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line, between Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden. Monday’s inauguration also came just days after PM Modi laid the foundation stone of the construction work of the Agra Metro, in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-urbanisation-as-opportunity-not-challenge-pm-modi-on-india-s-first-driverless-metro/story-jRXZFqB9DRjJ5ZrCBeDbgI.html
28-12-2020||India||Amit Shah pays tributes to Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversary||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday paid tribute to Arun Jaitley in Delhi. He also unveiled a six-feet statue of the late Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader at the Arun Jaitley Stadium, formerly known as the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium, on the occasion of his 68th birth anniversary.“He made a lasting contribution to Indian polity and served the nation with great passion & devotion. My heartfelt tributes,” Shah said, adding that it was a matter of honour for him to be at the stadium which has witnessed historic cricket moments in the past.Other leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid tributes to Jaitley. “Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary. His warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. He worked tirelessly for India’s progress,” PM Modi tweeted. BJP president J P Nadda remembered the former finance minister as an “articulate orator” and a “capable strategist”. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that Jaitley will always be remembered for his contribution to India’s public life and his role in strengthening the party.Jaitley was the president of the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) for 14 years from 1999 to 2013. He passed away on August 24, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/honoured-to-be-here-amit-shah-at-ferozshah-kotla-stadium/story-YOZ7IP030hdknpj4IjzFKK.html
28-12-2020||India||Four eclipses in 2021, two to be visible in India||There will four eclipses in 2021, including one total solar eclipse and one total lunar eclipse, but only two will be visible from India, Ujjain-based Jiwaji Observatory’s Superintendent Dr Rajendraprakash Gupt said on Sunday.He told PTI that the first of these events will be on May 26, and will be seen in parts of West Bengal, coastal Odisha and in the north-eastern states, except Sikkim, as the moon is visible earlier in these places than other parts of the country.“The earth will cover the moon by 101.6 per cent during this astronomical event,” he said.A total lunar eclipse occurs when the earth comes between the sun and the moon.Gupt said the annular solar eclipse on June 10 will not be visible in India, and in this event, the moon will come between the sun and earth, leading to the sun getting covered 94.3 per cent and being seen as a ‘ring of fire’.He said the partial lunar eclipse, on November 19, can be seen from Arunachal Pradesh and some parts of Assam for a very short period.“At the peak of this event, 97.9 per cent of the moon will be seen covered by the earth’s shadow. The total solar eclipse on December 4, the last of 2021, will, however, not be visible from India,” he added.This year, there were two solar and four lunar eclipses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-eclipses-in-2021-two-to-be-visible-in-india/story-WXAcKi6FJfWIQBvy2PzAhI.html
28-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat being shifted to AIIMS Delhi||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who tested positive for coronavirus on December 18 and was admitted to Doon hospital in Dehradun after developing a mild fever on Sunday evening, will be shifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, chief minister’s office said. According to his physician Dr NS Bisht, infection has been detected in his chest.Dr Anurag Agarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Doon hospital, said on Sunday that there is no reason to worry as Rawat’s health condition is being continuously monitored.The CM had been in home isolation after he tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18. In September too, he had isolated himself after his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) had tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier on August 26, he had gone into home isolated after three of his staffers tested positive for Covid-19. On June 1 too, Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers had decided to quarantine themselves after cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand has so far reported 89,218 Covid-19 positive cases and over 1,400 fatalities. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases (26,806).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-being-shifted-to-aiims-delhi/story-AMax8NdseG6o5hUfSVey5L.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries: India’s journey from 100,000 to 9.7 million||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 10,207,871 on Monday, as the Union health ministry reported that the country had logged a total of 20,021 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. However, of India’s total tally of cases, more than 9.7 million or nearly 96% patients have defeated the disease, making its active caseload, as well as the recovery rate, among the highest in the world.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs of Monday, a total of 9,782,669 patients have recovered from Covid-19, as per the health ministry’s dashboard. India had crossed the 9.7 million recovery mark on December 25, with the total recovered cases being 9,717,834 on the day. This means that the country reported nearly 65,000 or 64,835 recoveries between December 25-28. Earlier in the day, the health ministry shared a graph, showing India’s progression from 100,000 to 9.7 million recoveries. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/y3LjQ3oTKvThe graph shows that India reached 100,000 recoveries on June 3. The country crossed the 1 million mark on July 30, 2 million on August 19, 3 million on September 4 and 4 million on September 17. The 5 million mark was achieved on September 28, followed by the 6 million, 7 million, 8 million, 9 million, and, finally, the 9.7 million mark on October 11, October 24, November 11, December 9 and December 25 respectively. The country’s total Covid-19 tally on the day it reached 100,302 recoveries was 207,615, which meant a recovery rate of 48.31%. On the day the recovery mark reached 5,016,520, the total tally was 6,074,703 or a recovery rate of 82.58%.Also Read | 20,021 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to 10.2 million; death toll at 147,901Despite India being the world’s second worst-hit country, as well as the second to cross the 10 million Covid-19 case mark-in both cases after the United States-the government has repeatedly pointed at the country’s overall recovery rate. Now, with India on the verge of starting vaccination drive, the recovery rate might just improve further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-india-s-journey-from-100-000-to-9-7-million/story-rppTQ4S876G2aFg0IZSMQM.html
28-12-2020||India||50 panchayat body representatives resign over 2 BSF camps in Chhattisgarh||At least 50 representatives of panchayat bodies, including 38 sarpanchs, have resigned protesting against the opening of two Border Security Force (BSF) camps in Koliabeda area of Kanker district on Sunday. They have been protesting against the camps since Wednesday. Thousands of people from about 103 villages started a protest in Pakhanjore in Kanker, demanding that the BSF camps be moved out. The tribals allege that the area falls under the Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act and permission of gram panchayat was not taken by the government before establishment of these, also that it encroaches upon the place of local tribal deities. “Since Wednesday, we have been protesting here but nothing positive came out. Senior officials came for talks but they have not given any assurance. On Sunday, at least 38 sarpanchs, seven Janpad panchayat members, one deputy sarpanch and one zila panchayat member submitted their resignations and demanded action,” Tillu Ram Usendi, a tribal leader, told HT. The villagers claimed that they have no problem with the camps, but they are being put up at a place where their deities reside. “The camps of Katgaon and Kamdera are affecting the tribals’ faith. We are demanding that the camps should be removed from the area because it comes under the PESA Act and permission of villagers is needed,” said Lachhhu Gavade, a villager protesting in Pakhanjur. The villagers also submitted a memorandum to the Governor and local administration, demanding removal of the camps. Bastar police claimed that the Maoists are forcing the innocent tribals to protest against camps because they are losing their ground. Senior officials said that in the year 2020, the government established 16 new base camps in the erstwhile stronghold areas of Maoists in Bastar Range. The BSF camps in Katgaon and Kamdera are among these 16 newly established camps, which they say would be a game changer for peace and development of the region. “Out of fear of losing ground in the core area, Maoists try to misguide the local population and pressurise them to protest against the security forces. But people have started realising that the security forces are there for the well being of the native population. During camp establishment, we take care of all local sentiments and gradually bridge the gap between the security forces and the local population,” said IG Bastar Sunderaj P in a statement issued to the media. “Surely people for whose ‘security’ these camps are ostensibly set up should have a say in the matter? The protesters are right in reminding the government that their land falls under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution of India and the spirit of the PESA Act of 1996 clearly gives them a right to say ‘No’ through gram sabhas,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist, based in Bastar. Kanker Collector Chandan Kumar said the issue would be resolved soon and claimed that “prima facie, it seems the villagers have been staging protesting under pressure from “violent forces”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-panchayat-body-representatives-resign-over-2-bsf-camps-in-chhattisgarh/story-PReGZdRc31HXFu5OsdSkEP.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccination: 4 states to conduct two-day dry run from today||The Centre has chosen eight districts in four states to conduct a two-dry run of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination that begins today.The states that will witness the two-day dry run on December 28-29 are Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.“The dry run is being conducted to mobilise all elements involved in the Covid-19 vaccination drive that is planned for next year to test the vaccine delivery machinery. All elements except for the vaccine will be mobilised,” said a senior official in the union ministry of health and family welfare, requesting anonymity.Also Read: You may need vaccine passport for travel next year: All you need to know about itFive session sites in each district are likely to be established for the purpose of conducting the dry run.“Two districts each from all four states have been identified to conduct this dry run simultaneously on these two days,” confirmed another official in the health ministry, who did not want to be named either.The dry run will include testing for cold storage and transportation arrangements for the vaccine, managing crowds at session sites with proper physical distancing, and defining the role of vaccinators and other staff on vaccine-related duty.The states will focus on checking how possible adverse events following immunisation will be dealt with as each session site will have a designated health care facility for those who feel uneasy post vaccination.States will also check for adherence to infection control practices during vaccination so that the site doesn’t become ground zero for disease transmission.To supervise and assist in Covid-19 vaccine delivery process, a multi-level governance mechanism has been established across all states and union territories. There are three types of committees: two at the state level and one at the district level. All these committees have been meeting regularly to chalk out the vaccine delivery plan at the ground level.Specific training modules have been drafted for medical officers, vaccinators, alternate vaccinators, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers, Asha coordinators and all others involved in the implementation process at different levels.As per current estimates, the Centre will be using 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41, 000 deep freezers, and 300 solar refrigerators across the country for the storage and delivery of vaccines. All the equipment has already been provided to states based on their individual requirement.“This is going to be one of the largest vaccination drives, with a lot at stake. It is important to have all checks and balances in place before the actual process begins,” said the first official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccination-4-states-to-conduct-two-day-dry-run-from-today/story-haDwyRcBbzQzxBejZJcfuI.html
28-12-2020||India||PM Modi flags off India’s first driverless train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the country’s first ever fully-automated driverless train service on the Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro.With the commencement of these new-generation trains, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has entered the elite league of “seven per cent of world’s Metro networks” which can operate services without drivers, according to DMRC.“This shows how fast India is progressing towards a smart system. The Delhi metro is now connected through National Common Mobility Card (NCMC),” PM Modi said on the occasion.“A few years ago, there was not much focus on smart systems. There was lackadaisical approach, so we saw a huge difference between urbanisation and technological development. Our government changed that,” he added.PM Modi further said that urbanisation should be considered as an opportunity to fulfil the goal of ease of living.NCMC, dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, is an inter-operable transport card that allows the holders to also pay for their bus travel, toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money.These innovations are going to herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility for the residents of Delhi and other cities in the National Capital Region.The commercial operation of these new-generation trains, set to be a major technological feat, will begin later the same day, after the event, news agency PTI quoted a DMRC official as saying.This was the first major event of Delhi Metro in 2020 which saw an unprecedented lockdown in the earlier months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation on the Yellow Line from September 7 after being closed for over five months. Its currently operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including Noida-Greater Noida line).Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC’s first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-flags-off-india-s-first-driverless-train-on-delhi-metro-s-magenta-line/story-jJlgY4dOiCf7wmK6Wme5SJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare threatens to launch his ‘last protest’ for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his “last protest”.Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said had been holding protests for cultivators since the last three years, but the government has done nothing to resolve the issues.“The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government)...Let’s see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my huger strike protest. This would be my last protest,” the 83-year-old said.On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee’s recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted.Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre.Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agri laws.Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anna-hazare-threatens-to-launch-his-last-protest-for-farmers/story-XHpFqEXPhqtSFkjMCAxABL.html
28-12-2020||India||Bihar government ends subsidy on 63 farm implements||Farmers in Bihar will have to refresh their list of farm implements to purchase under the government’s subsidy programme as the state government has delisted as many as 63 equipment for this fiscal.A senior officer of the agriculture department, familiar with the matter, said that the state government has approved 17 farm implements, against 81 last year, on which farmers would be given subsidy.“This year’s farm mechanisation drive focuses on waste management to curtail the challenges of stubble or husk burning that often led to a prolonged air pollution in the state,” he said.The stubble burning has been a major issue that Bihar has been grappling with for the past few years. The state government has initiated strict action against 900 farmers in the last three months post paddy harvesting season by blocking government incentives and subsidies paid through direct benefit transfer( DBT) for three years in 11 districts.Bihar is the only state in India where such a system has been put in place since last year, linking government incentives for farmers with compliance to the ban on stubble burning – seen as a major contributor to air pollution.The officer also said that the huge cut in subsidy was also attributed to the financial strain the state was suffering due to the impact of coronavirus pandemic.“The state plan head size for subsidy on farm mechanisation has been reduced to Rs 23.69 crore in 2020-21 against Rs 163 crore in the last fiscal. While the state government is offering subsidy on 17 equipment, the central government is providing subsidy to farmers on 16 other implements under different schemes,” said the officer.The state government has already discontinued subsidy on combine harvester, which left the straw on the field after cropping of wheat. Now, farmers would not be getting the financial support to purchase power tillers, power threshers, etc. However, subsidy would continue on purchases of brush cutter, super seeder, happy seeder, self-propelled ripper, straw ripper, straw management system and mini rice and oil mills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-government-ends-subsidy-on-63-farm-implements/story-8mUX6e9QDgmLRIpXl3YTgJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Chilly Delhi on cold wave brink, temperature falls by 1-2 degrees Celsius: IMD||Just a day before the forecast by the weather department, cold wave knocked in Delhi with the temperature falling by 1-2 degrees Celsius in Delhi and other parts of northern India.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature has fallen by 1-2 degrees Celsius over Punjab, Haryana and Delhi and by 3-5 degrees Celsius over Rajasthan in the last 24 hours.“Lowest minimum temperatures recorded at 8:30 am today is 0.6 degrees Celsius over Churu followed by Narnaul and Ludhiana having temperatures 1.6 degrees Celsius and 2.1 degrees Celsius respectively,” the IMD further said in its bulletin on Monday.The weather department had earlier forecast cold wave condition in North India from Tuesday. “Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from December 28-29. Ground frost and dense fog is likely in isolated pockets in the region,” the IMD had said on Sunday.It said that a western disturbance led to rise in temperature in the region, but once it withdraws, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions will prevail in the region.“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh; scattered rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on 27th-28th December,” the IMD said in its all-India weather bulletin on Sunday.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-knocks-in-delhi-and-parts-of-north-india-temprature-falls-by-1-2-c-imd/story-L5TMsvC3rLeYIxDrClLqpM.html
28-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi leaves for Milan a day before Congress foundation day||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi has left for Milan, Italy, a day ahead of the party celebrating its 136th foundation day on Monday. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala confirmed that Gandhi has left the country, but did not disclose the location. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has left for abroad for a short personal visit and will be away for a few days,” Surjewala told PTI. Also Read: Congress foundation day: Show of solidarity with farmers’ protest, ‘Tiranga Yatra’ on the cardsParty functionaries, however, told Hindustan Times that Gandhi had left for Milan. This is not the first time the Congress leader has left the country. Gandhi’s visit comes amid criticism from all corners, including within his own party, that the leader does not respond to political crises seriously. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party questioned the timing of Gandhi’s visit. So much of noise was made for farmers protest by the opp, where is #RG now? Short holiday? Seriously? If you are so concerned about the farmers, you should have been out there on the streets with them n not holidaying. #RGTumSeNaHoPaayega @CTRavi_BJP @BJP4India @blsanthoshBJP leader Khushbu Sundar tweeted, :So much of noise was made for farmers protest by the opp, where is #RG now? Short holiday? Seriously? If you are so concerned about the farmers, you should have been out there on the streets with them n not holidaying.”However, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal, responding to the criticism, said, “Rahul Gandhi has gone to see his grandmother. Is it wrong? Everybody has the right to undertake personal visits. BJP is indulging in low-level politics. They are targeting Rahul Gandhi because they want to target only one leader.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-leaves-for-milan-a-day-before-congress-foundation-day/story-JOd1IeemznQ7CnE2axqoFO.html
28-12-2020||India||11,000 litres of milk, curd poured in foundation pit for Rajasthan temple||Huddled around a dug up pit, scores of men were seen holding up big cans and pouring milk, curd and desi ghee (clarified butter), totalling 11,000 litres, for the foundation ceremony of Devnarayan temple to be constructed in Ratlai region of Jhalawar district on Saturday.“We collected 11,000 litres of milk, desi ghee and curd from the Gujjar community members and even others for the foundation ceremony of the Devnarayan temple as a mark of reverence for deity Lord Devnarayan,” said spokesperson of the temple construction committee Ramlal Gujjar.Out of the 11000 litres, there was 1500 litre of curd and 1 quintal of desi ghee while rest was milk and its total cost was nearly Rs 1.50 lakh, he said.We had appealed to the Gujjar community members a day before the ceremony and the people gave generously, he said.When asked if it is a mandatory tradition of the Gujjar community to pour milk for such ceremonies, Ramlal said that it is not compulsory but it has been done a few times in the past as well. He maintained it was nothing in comparison to what lord gives us.“It is not at all a waste as in Gujjar community we pour some milk on deity Devnarayan as it protects our cattle,” said Ramlal on being quizzed if the exercise did not seem like a gargantuan waste of resources.We owe everything to the lord so we donated milk products to him for the foundation ceremony, he said.The temple, being built at a cost of Rs 1 crore, will be ready in two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-000-litres-of-milk-curd-poured-in-foundation-pit-for-rajasthan-temple/story-VKjZ05LZ3llF6IqHY9nIQP.html
28-12-2020||India||Expert panel may convene this week to examine Oxford vaccine emergency-use authorisation||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is likely to meet sometime this week to examine Serum Institute of India’s (SII) emergency-use authorisation (EUA) application for Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to government sources.SII, which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, last week had submitted additional data to the national drugs regulator that it had sought for its EUA application in its last meeting on December 9. “The subject expert committee is likely to be convened this week to go through the application. Since Pfizer had also sought a fresh date to present its case on its EUA application of its anti-Covid-19 vaccine, the committee is likely to give them time the same date,” said an official in the government in the know of things, requesting not to be identified. Also Read: Shot will be effective against Covid-19 variant: AstraZenecaThe UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is also considering data for grant of EUA to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and its approval for the vaccine candidate will provide an added advantage to receiving the regulatory approval in India.It is likely that Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate may be the first anti-Covid-19 vaccine to be granted emergency-use approval in India. Pfizer may be asked to conduct a small bridging study among the Indian population to know the vaccine candidate’s effect among local population. “Since Pfizer has not conducted a clinical trial in India for its vaccine candidate, the company may be asked to do that first. They could also get a waiver from trials as they already have EUA from other national regulators such as in the US and UK. The ultimate call, however, will be of the experts,” the official added. CDSCO’s SEC had last convened on December 9 to examine three applications for grant of EUA—SII and Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate as well as the Bharat Biotech-Indian Council of Medical Research vaccine candidate.During the last meeting, the SEC indicated it may wait till MHRA’s assessment was complete and it had decided on whether to clear the vaccine in UK before the data presented by SII was reviewed. The SEC asked the Hyderabad-based company to present efficacy data, which is likely to take longer to derive since its late stage trials began in mid-November. Bharat Biotech is yet to reply to the regulator, the official quoted above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cdsco-expert-panel-may-convene-this-week-to-examine-covid-vaccines-emergency-applications/story-JiRqmhI0Ii2sQSGV7pGJJP.html
28-12-2020||India||PM Modi to flag off 100th Kisan Rail today as anti-farm law protests enter day 33||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday virtually flag off the 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ service at 4:30 pm. This comes on a day when protests against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws entered day 33.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal - two of the three central ministers who have represented the Centre in its talks with the farmers’ unions - will also be present on the occasion.“Kisan Rail has been a game-changer in ensuring fast transportation of agricultural produce across the nation. It provides a seamless supply chain of perishable produce,” the prime minister’s office (PMO) had noted in a statement on Saturday. The 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ will run between Sangola in Maharashtra and West Bengal’s Shalimar and, the PMO statement said, will carry vegetables such as cauliflower, capsicum, cabbage, drumsticks, chillies, onions, and fruits like grapes, oranges, pomegranate, bananas, custard apples etc.The first service of the “multi-commodity” Kisan Rail was launched on August 7 by Tomar via video conferencing. The service was launched between Maharashtra’s Devlali and Danapur in Bihar and was later expanded to Muzaffarpur in the eastern state following a good response. Also, it was made a weekly service instead of the initial thrice a week frequency. Since its launch, the Kisan Rail service has transported 27,000 tonnes of agro-services. The Centre has also extended a subsidy of 50% on the transportation of fruits and vegetables.The launch of the 100th Kisan Rail comes a day before the sixth round of talks are likely to take place between the government and the farmers’ unions. The unions on Saturday proposed that the talks take place at 11 am on December 29, in their response to the government’s invitation to hold the dialogue at a time and date of their choosing. Earlier, the unions had rejected the government’s initial proposal in this regard.Five earlier rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-100th-kisan-rail-today-as-anti-farm-law-protests-enter-day-33/story-8Yraulabg0sC0ikkkG4PMN.html
28-12-2020||India||Will snatch Rae Bareli as well in 2024: Smiti Irani warns Congress||The BJP will snatch Rae Bareli too in the next Lok Sabha elections, declared Union minister Smriti Irani in Uttar Pradesh while she was visiting her constituency Amethi - where the BJP leader proved to be a giant slayer when she beat Rahul Gandhi during the 2019 general elections.Irani, who began her three-day Amethi tour on Friday, made a quick visit to Rae Bareli, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s Lok Sabha constituency since 2004.The minister had also visited Lucknow for a meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath before heading back to her constituency to make the statement about “wresting Rae Bareli”.“Remember, if you continue to harass BJP workers, then in 2024 we will snatch Rae Bareli, too,” Smriti said at a public meeting.Keeping up the attack on the Gandhi family, Irani dared Rahul Gandhi for a debate on the farmers’ issue and raised questions about Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s proposed Kisan Yatra in UP, describing it as a stunt. The union minister for textiles and women and child development also tagged a tweet by BJP chief JP Nadda to question Rahul Gandhi’s opposition to farm laws. She tweeted that Amethi’s farmers, fed up with the Congress, voted for the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls.The farmers, camping on the Delhi borders for a month, have been demanding a total repeal of the new reforms-oriented laws that provide for setting up of private markets outside of designated mandis, allow contract farming without government regulation and also lift stockholding limits for farm produce.The Congress termed Irani’s statement as political posturing. Local BJP leaders said her statement reflected it had the backing of the top party leadership.Congress lawmaker Deepak Singh, who hails from Amethi, released a letter to Smriti Irani, seeking her response to five queries that included charges against her family. “Unless you respond to these queries, it would be presumed that all the charges against you are true,” Deepak Singh wrote to Smriti.The Congress MLC had previously described Smriti as a “political tourist” in Amethi. The union minister also spoke of projects rolled out for Amethi since she became the local MP in 2019 but party leaders said that the Yogi Adityanath government had sanctioned big ticket projects for Rae Bareli, too. Apart from AIIMS-Rae Bareli, the Ganga Expressway, which would connect Meerut to Prayagraj, will pass through Rae Bareli. Pacts with private investors for fabricators and feeder factory for rail coach, a spice park for research on mint have been sanctioned for the only surviving Congress bastion in the state, party leaders said. This was evident when deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who also heads state’s public works department (PWD), dedicated schemes worth Rs 79.5 crore for Amethi even as Smriti Irani pushed for more roads worth Rs 112 crore for her constituency. After Amethi, Maurya visited the Bachhrawan assembly segment, part of Rae Bareli Lok Sabha constituency, and announced schemes worth several crore rupees. This assembly segment was won by the BJP in 2017 polls.The minister ended her visit by listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme Mann ki Baat in the Salon assembly segment of Rae Bareli. Like Bachhrawan, Salon too was won by the BJP. Of the five assembly segments that make up Rae Bareli, the BJP had won three in the 2017 UP polls before Smriti Irani’s impressive victory in Amethi two years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-snatch-rae-bareli-as-well-in-2024-smiti-irani-messages-congress/story-nB2TkK8gKKKotcOIutrV5J.html
28-12-2020||India||‘We leave walkie-talkies on at night too... ours is a 24x7 job’: How Devinder Singh ensures farmers’ stir keeps going||Devinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr in Punjab, has been camping at the Singhu border from Day One of the protest. He is a part of the 30-member stage management committee at the protest site. For Singh, the day starts at 4 am when the committee members gather and start setting up the stage for the day. They first lay down the carpets on the stage and the sitting area in front. He also checks microphones, speakers, and lights around the stage.All the team members carry walkie talkies throughout the day to stay connected and help each other in managing the work efficiently. “Our friends who sit near a mall (situated at the highway) keep on informing us about the celebrity speakers or prominent personalities visiting the protest site via walkie-talkie. We then facilitate their entry into the stage area as it is not open to everyone. If anyone wants to address the gathering from the stage they can also approach us. We ask them about their political affiliations and the content they intend to speak about before allowing them to go to the stage,” he said.After 7:30 pm, he and his team members wind up the work. They roll up the carpets with the help of volunteers, remove all the microphones, lights, and chairs. “We make sleeping space for farmers on the stage and provide blankets. While some of the committee members sleep inside the tent set up behind the stage, many of us go back to our trolleys. Even during the nights, we keep our walkie-talkie on so that any of our team members can reach out to us in case of emergency. Ours is a 24*7 job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-leave-walkie-talkies-on-at-night-too-ours-is-a-24x7-job-how-devinder-singh-ensures-farmers-stir-keeps-going/story-Iet3cbe8ELzkmRtZvRXSSO.html
28-12-2020||India||Cold wave likely to grip North India from Tuesday, IMD issues health warning||An approaching western disturbance (WD) is likely to cause snowfall over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; scattered snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand on Monday. There are likely to be thundershowers over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh also.When the WD moves away, under the influence of the consequent strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly or northerly lower level winds, "cold wave" to "severe cold wave" conditions are likely to be re-established over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi from Monday night or Tuesday and over Rajasthan from Tuesday or Wednesday.Also Read: Greater Noida most polluted city; Noida, Ghaziabad air in ‘severe’ zone again"Cold wave" conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh from December 30. Northern parts of Saurashtra and Kutch are also likely to experience cold wave conditions on Monday and Tuesday.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains.Ground frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh between December 29 and 31.Dense to very dense fog is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi till December 31.Most towns and cities in northwest India recorded "very poor" to "poor" category air quality on Monday morning with Delhi recording an air quality index reading of 336 in "very poor" category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-likely-from-tuesday-imd-issues-health-warning/story-jp4rIn5gOSG6rf6AhoBCZM.html
28-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: With three daughters and son, Paramjit Kaur look out for anti-social elements at Singhu border||She wasn’t born in a farming family, but marrying into one taught her sowing, harvesting and staying up at night to water the crop at the right hour. For the past one month, however, Paramjit Kaur is using this experience to guard protesting farmers at Singhu border with her three daughters and a son.“My husband is at our home in Kaithal district of Haryana looking after our fields...I joined the demonstration right at the beginning and will be here till the end,” said Kaur, who helps at a “tent city” set up near a petrol pump at the Singhu border. Around 150 waterproof tents have been provided by a non-government organisation (NGO) to function as night shelters for protesting farmers.Also Read | A month on, farmers have made highway their homeKaur keeps vigil during the night. “We stay up talking to one another and look out for mischievous elements which may want to disrupt the protest in some manner. In addition to this, we also help the elderly farmers with food, medicines, water, or whatever they need,” she said.During the day, she also participates in kirtans and helps with distributing food sent to them by various langars, or community kitchens.In addition to dozens of volunteers like Kaur, a group of around 20 members is tasked with looking after and coordinating security arrangements. Those wishing to volunteer for night security, are made to submit their details including name and address and a copy of ID proof to the central team, following which they are asked to be alert throughout the night, look for miscreants or locals engaging in brawls, and ensure there are no disruptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-we-look-out-for-elements-who-may-try-to-disrupt-the-protest/story-UU7Ej4X9JjCIzEfkSHvHwL.html
28-12-2020||India||Snowfall at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine; rains lash Jammu||The famous cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi atop the Trikuta Hills in Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi district witnessed its first snowfall this season on Sunday, officials said.There was no disruption in movement of devotees, they said. Many high-altitude areas in the Union Territory witnessed snowfall, while the plains, including Jammu city, received intermittent rains amid heavy cloud cover during most part of the day.  #WATCH: Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Katra, Jammu and Kashmir received snowfall today. pic.twitter.com/TE2YeZicy2The snowfall on the Trikuta Hills, including at the ‘Bhawan’ (sanctum sanctorum) of started around 5.30 pm and lasted for nearly half-an-hour, the officials said.They said the weather at the shrine remained cloudy with intermittent spells of rainfall earlier during the day. The pilgrimage to the shrine continued and the devotees were also seen enjoying the snowfall, the officials said.Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine, recorded a maximum of 14.8 degrees Celsius against the previous day’s 19.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature settled at 5.7 degrees Celsius. Jammu also recorded a dip of two notches in the day temperature which settled at 17.2 degrees Celsius – 1.8 degrees below the normal, a spokesman of the MeT department said.He said the night temperature in Jammu was 4.2 degrees Celsius which is also 3.2 degrees below season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-at-mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-rains-lash-jammu/story-mL8ju574AbSz6CcKB5RpGM.html
28-12-2020||India||Cold wave: IMD issues health warning, suggests action in case of prolonged exposure||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that North India will witness severe cold wave along with dense fog from Tuesday. The forecast comes at a time when several places in the region, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, are recording minimum temperature below the five-degree Celsius mark.Though the mercury rose slightly in Delhi due to a western disturbance, the department said the relief will be short-lived as cold and dry northerly and northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas are likely to bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius.The IMD has issued health warning and suggested action to minimise the impact of severe cold.According to the weather department, the likelihood catching illnesses like flu, running nose or nosebleed will increase in case of prolonged exposure to cold. It further said that in case the body starts shivering, it is not something to be ignored and the affected person should immediately get indoor.“Frostbite can occur due to prolonged exposure to cold. The skin turns pale, hard and numb and eventually black blisters appear on the exposed body parts such as fingers, toes, nose and or earlobes. Severe frostbite needs immediate medical attention and treatment,” the IMD said in its health warning.And in case a person is exposed to severe cold, here are the actions suggested by the IMD:• Moisturise your skin regularly with oil/cream• Eat vitamin C rich fruits and vegetables and drink sufficient fluids, preferably warm fluids to maintain adequate immunity• Don’t drink alcohol, it reduces your body temperature• Avoid or limit outdoor activities• Keep dry, if wet, change clothes immediately to prevent loss of body heat. Wear insulated/water-proof shoes• Warm the affected area of the body slowly with lukewarm water; do not rub the skin vigorously• If the affected skin area turns black, immediately consult a doctor• Maintain ventilation while using heaters to avoid inhaling toxic fumes• Take safety measures while using electrical and gas heating devices||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-imd-issues-health-warning-suggests-action-in-case-of-prolonged-exposure/story-ZIlppiQGN3TDIa9mRylssJ.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Locals shouldn’t be disgusted’: How farmers are keeping Singhu border neat and clean during protests||Accompanied by about 15 people, Jugraj Singh Jaggi begins cleaning the Singhu Border protest site at 10 am and continues till 5 pm every day. Jaggi and the others have continued the sanitation drive everyday for the last fortnight, but he understands that the effort may not be enough. “I am trying to ensure that when we leave the place one day, local residents don’t look at us with disgust for leaving the road in a mess,” said Jaggi, who belongs to Mundh village in Punjab’s Jalandhar. Also Read | A month on, farmers have made highway their homeJaggi and his friends took up this task when they realised that the while langars were being organised on a large scale, the farmers were not doing anything about the garbage. “Local residents had begun complaining,” said Jaggi. So, he and his friends procured brooms, dustpans and large blue dustbin bags and donned half jackets of matching colours to begin the exercise. But the task wasn’t like anything they expected. “On the first day we brought 500 large dustbin bags, but they were grossly inadequate. Next day we had to equip ourselves with 1,000 bags,” said Jaggi, adding that the cleaning exercise involved fixing these bags outside trucks and trolleys to ensure farmers did not dump garbage on the roads. Jaggi and the others have divided them into small groups and divided zones among themselves to ensure cleaning of larger areas. “We have also arranged trolleys to take away the garbage and dump them in designated dump yards, some as far as 10 kilometers from here,” said Jaggi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-shouldn-t-be-disgusted-how-farmers-are-keeping-singhu-border-neat-and-clean/story-Erv1bGyw14YLdpACXTzU9J.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Seven months after fleeing lockdown, migrant worker says ‘don’t have courage to go back to city’||It’s almost seven months since B Ajurm Patro fled Chennai for her home in Manapalli village in Odisha’s Ganjam district with her three-year-old daughter and husband. Patro accompanied her husband B Ghana Patro to Chennai, accompanied by 30 other women of Manapalli in February this year. Ghana and the couple’s 20-year-old son Kailash worked at a construction site.Ajurm lifted bricks and carried mixture of cement and sand for Rs 350-400 a day in a construction site in KK Nagar area of Chennai. Her mason husband earned Rs 700 and son another Rs 400 as a painter.When the lockdown was clamped on March 25, all three lost their jobs. Worried for their survival and the health of her three-year-old daughter Smrutilekha, the couple pooled in their life savings and paid Rs 9,000 for two seats on a bus back home in May.Covid-19 cases have abated considerably across India, but Ajurm and Ghana aren’t keen to go back, despite their depressed incomes back home. “Life is tough here with all the money that we make working in others fields spent on filling our stomach. But I don’t want to go back to Chennai where life is tougher. The money that we made in Chennai was more than what we earn. But I don’t think I am ready to go there with my three-year-old daughter to an alien city,” said Ajurm.Ghana was the first migrant worker in the family who, in 2015, travelled to Ahmedabad for work at a construction site, then moved to Mumbai and finally Chennai. His son Kailash joined him after finishing high school in 2019. Since their return from Chennai, the landless Patro couple work in fields as sharecroppers. The share of harvest that they get is barely enough for the family. Besides, work is not available every day. “Not much NREGS [National Rural Employment Guarantee Act] work is available too. Though some women and men from my village have gone to Chennai and other places after lifting of lockdown, I don’t have the courage to go back again after the frightful experience of May,” said Ajurm, referring to the national rural jobs guarantee scheme.Kailash, who took a flight back to the state in September to attend his uncle’s cremation, is also not in a mood to go back.“I went to Chennai to supplement my family income. But frankly I never liked painting walls in buildings like other migrant workers from my village. I want to join Odisha police or do some government job that would give me some stability. I will try hard to get a job in Odisha police over next 12 months,” said Kailash. He now worries that his savings of Rs 50000 might run out soon.In case, a government job does not materialise, Kailash wants to open a small shop like other migrant workers of his village. “I am not sure what to do next. Everything depends on my family’s financial stability. If I am not able to do anything next year, I may have to migrate elsewhere,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-seven-months-after-fleeing-lockdown-migrant-worker-says-don-t-have-courage-to-go-back-to-city/story-L1kPK926JLtoMYQgEXuEEO.html
28-12-2020||India||Congress foundation day: Show of solidarity with farmers’ protest, ‘Tiranga Yatra’ on the cards||The Indian National Congress (INC) will observe its 136th foundation day on Monday. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) members have instructed party state units to organise ‘Tiranga Yatra’ and run a social media campaign ‘Selfie with Tiranga’ in order to engage with the youth. They have also issued instructions to follow social distancing protocols in the view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The INC, formed on December 28, 1885, conducted its first session in Mumbai from the aforementioned date to December 31 of that year under the chairmanship of lawyer Umesh Chandra Banerjee.“December 28, 2020, marks the 136th year of the foundation of INC. On this day, the PCCs are requested to observe the party foundation day in state and district headquarters and instruct office-bearers, MPs, MLAs/MLCs to participate in the functions,” the AICC said in a press release. ”Tiranga Yatras and other such innovative campaigns may also be organised following the necessary social distancing protocols,” it added.The party, which has been speaking up in support of the farmers agitating against the three farm laws on the borders of the national Capital, will also focus on extending solidarity with them as part of its foundation day celebrations. “The PCCs are also requested to pay solidarity to our fighting farmers who are sitting in an indefinite protest against the farm laws,” the release read.“INC has been at the forefront in the efforts to forge a secular, democratic and united India, an India which is a world leader in all fields and has always put India first despite all odds and obstacles. The INC fought for and won India’s independence, forged the constitutional idea of India, built up the nation from one of the poorest (when India gained independence) in the world to a global superpower,” AICC said.Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will not attend the programmes organised by the party as he will be on a personal trip abroad. Party general secretary  Randeep Surjewala confirmed this on Sunday. ”Rahul Gandhi is currently travelling on a short personal trip,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-foundation-day-show-of-solidarity-with-farmers-protest-tiranga-yatra-on-the-cards/story-EclBDjKn0ITFxrxF8wEwuK.html
28-12-2020||India||‘Covid crisis pushed us to the very limit’, says the woman who took the pandemic head on||In her maroon and yellow salwar kameez, Laxmipriya Sahoo is an unlikely fighter against the Covid pandemic. The 36-year-old from Bhubaneswar’s Subas Nagar slum in Dumuduma area is one of the state’s 150,000 anganwadi workers manning the 72,000-odd anganwadi centres that function as the nodes of healthcare and education for the poor.Mother to a seven-year-old girl , Sahoo spent 2020 fighting the twin battles of undernutrition and the virus, all at a paltry monthly salary of Rs 7,500. In normal times, Sahoo and her colleagues have their hands full. They distribute eggs to families, take a ration of Chhatua(a powder of roasted Bengal gram, wheat, groundnut and sugar), suji halwa, maize halwa, ragi halwa, jaggery laddoo and besan laddoo to the newborn, those between 3 and 6, and pregnant and lactating women. After March, Sahoo and others were asked to join a new battle: Against Covid-19. “While the work at anganwadi centre was challenging enough, Covid-19 pushed us to the limit,” she said.With anganwadi centres shut in the nationwide lockdown from March 25, Sahoo had to go to the houses of children and pregnant mothers to distribute ration and eggs. “Babies were still being born, pregnant women needed regular health check-ups, and new mothers needed to be supported with breastfeeding and feeding young children,” added Sahoo, who works as an anganwadi worker in Ward No 65 of Dumuduma area under Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation.As the months went by, the workload piled up as they were designated Covid warriors and asked to supervise quarantine centres and containment zones. Earlier, work at the anganwadi centre used to finish by 3 pm, leaving Sahoo enough time to look after her small family. But once the pandemic started, she could couldn’t take a break even as her family income dwindled after her husband’s betel shop shut during the 68-day national lockdown.“After the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation started containment of areas where more and more Covid cases were reported, I had to visit each of the houses in my area to check on suspect cases. I had to inform the BMC about any person entering the area from outside, meet that person and advise them to stay in quarantine for 14 days. This did not go well most of the time as people fought with me,” said Sahoo.Sahoo’s work was anything but smooth. In March, soon after she was deployed on Covid-19 duty, a 26-year-old man from her area tested positive for the virus. As a frontline worker, she was supposed to locate him and help BMC officials admit him to hospital. But the man had intentionally misrepresented his address and age. Sahoo was further alarmed after she found the man participated in a community feast after developing Covid-19 symptoms. The address he provided turned out to be an abandoned site, but when Sahoo traced his real home and reached there to get the family quarantined, they fought with her and accused her of misappropriating government money. Luckily, no one from his family tested positive, though seven of his friends developed symptoms and had to be hospitalised. Sahoo said she was lucky compared to other anganwadi workers, such as Rama Sundari Panda in Jajpur district, who was thrashed when he attempted to put some people under quarantine. Sahoo’s other challenge was ensuring a regular supply of provisions in a local containment zone for 14 days and also look after the quarantine centre. Especially sticky was ensuring people didn’t jump quarantine.“Many people jumped quarantine centre for which we had to lodge complain before the police. Many times, the stickers that we put up in front of the house of Covid positive patients were torn . We had another problem in distribution of rice and pulses that was announced for people during lockdown. People who had ration cards got the rice and pulses. But those who did not have cards verbally abused me accusing me of gobbling up their share of rice and dal,” said Sahoo. In the middle of this crushing schedule, she had to visit the houses of 72 children to train their mothers on starting pre-formal education and carrying on the vaccination drive.Sahoo alleged that despite the dedication and commitment, they did not get masks and sanitisers regularly. “We had to buy our own masks and sanitisers. In Odisha, 18 anganwadi workers died while doing Covid duty…I had my husband, daughter and mother at home and would feel scared when I returned home after doing Covid duty,” said Sahoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-pushed-us-to-the-very-limit-says-the-woman-who-took-the-pandemic-head-on/story-Bs0ShISmjixMYPCTAlEx2N.html
28-12-2020||India||7 killed, 20 injured as bus rams into truck in Assam||Seven people were killed and 20 others injured after a passenger bus collided head-on with a truck on National Highway-17 in Assam’s Kokrajhar district on Sunday, police said.The accident happened at Chataguri near Panbari area under the jurisdiction of Bogribari police station.“Local people and a police team rescued the passengers from the mangled vehicles and sent them to hospitals. We have got reports that seven people lost their lives,” a senior police officer said.He said that 20 others were injured in the accident and they were being treated at various hospitals in the area and Guwahati.The bus was travelling from Sapatgram to Dhubri, while the truck was on its way to Guwahati, they added.Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal condoled the loss of lives in the accident and wished speedy recovery of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-20-injured-as-bus-rams-into-truck-in-assam/story-nTGIgPPciavbkJtrOFnEVK.html
28-12-2020||India||Loan apps fraud: Chinese woman among 3 arrested by Telangana police||In continuing crackdown on instant app-based lenders, the Telangana police on Sunday said it has busted a Pune-based call centre allegedly used for harassing borrowers of online app firms for recovery and arrested three people, including a Chinese woman.The trio was arrested based on a complaint by a city- based person that he was harassed by the online loan app firms over repayment with higher rate of interest, police said.The action comes close on the heels of the arrest of four people, including a Chinese national, here on Friday for allegedly using coercive methods to recover dues from defaulters who had used 11 instant loan apps developed by them and availed loans.The crackdown against instant money lending apps firms has been launched after three cases of suicides, including that of a software engineer, due to harassment by such companies were reported in Telangana in the last one month.Those arrested in the latest action were the Director of the call centre in Pune, his wife a Chinese national, who is assisting him in running the company affairs, besides an HR Manager,Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat said.Presently around 650 employees were working in the call centre who are instructed to use their personal mobile numbers to call the borrowers, their relatives, friends and insisting on repayment along with interest, police said.According to police, the lending companies through instant loan apps offered loans to individuals and levied huge interest and processing charges among others and resorted to systematic abusing, harassing, threatening of the defaulters through the call centres.They even blackmail the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members.Cases have been registered in various police stations in the state based on several complaints that these firms allegedly obtained sensitive data such as contacts, photographs from the mobile phones of the customers and using them to defame or blackmail to get the loan repayment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loan-apps-fraud-chinese-woman-among-3-arrested-by-telangana-police/story-CNCb3XNUTTUWjbCSEGMwFN.html
28-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Assembly’s winter session put off due to Covid-19||The winter session of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, which was scheduled to begin on December 28, has been postponed in view of the “Covid-19 situation”, an official said on Sunday, hours after protem speaker disclosed that 61 employees and officials of the Assembly secretariat and five MLAs have tested coronavirus positive.The decision to put off the three-day session was taken at an all-party meeting held here in evening, he said.“The three-day session has been postponed due to the Covid-19 situation. The three days (of the session which will be now washed out) will be added in the Budget session, which would be a lengthy one,” Legislative Assembly’s Principal Secretary AP Singh told reporters.The all-party meeting was attended by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Home Minister Narottam Mishra, state Congress unit president Kamal Nath and others.Meanwhile, former Union minister Arun Yadav said the Congress will continue to hold protests against the three farm laws passed by the Centre.The Congress had earlier announced that the party leaders will reach the Assembly campus on Monday on tractors to protest against these laws.Earlier in the day, Assembly Protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma told reporters that 61 employees and officials of the state Assembly secretariat have tested coronavirus positive so far.“Besides, five MLAs were also found infected as per the reports received till now,” he said, after taking stock of the preparation for the session.Sharma also said the MLAs and their personal staff had been asked to undergo coronavirus test before the session began.“So far, the test reports of 20 MLAs have been received. The reports of several other legislators are still awaited. Reports of more employees and officials are also yet to come,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-assembly-s-winter-session-put-off-due-to-covid-19-situation/story-sGqEG3K8K8TcJZAwnYeTcI.html
28-12-2020||India||2020: A year of great volatility in commodity and financial markets||2020 saw perhaps the most bizarre economic event in the history of modern capitalism when the price of the futures contract for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, the benchmark for US crude oil prices, turned negative on April 21. To be sure, WTI crude falling below zero that day had a technical aspect to it. “The price plunge was partly due to the way oil is traded. A futures contract is for 1,000 barrels of crude, delivered into Cushing, where energy companies own storage tanks with roughly 76 million barrels of capacity. Each contract trades for a month, with the May contract due to expire on Tuesday (April 22). Investors holding May contracts didn’t want to take delivery of the oil and incur storage costs, and in the end had to pay people to take it off their hands”, a Reuters story explained. This otherwise bizarre event is also the best illustration of the importance of future expectations in a lot of transactions in commodity and financial markets in today’s world.As the global economy moved between bouts of pessimism and optimism in a pandemic-ravaged year, driven by developments on the virus and vaccine fronts and the policy response to the pandemic, expectations and markets also suffered great volatility. Here are four charts which capture these swings.2020 was the most volatile year for oil prices since 1987US Energy Information Administration (EIA) has daily data on Brent crude prices since May 20, 1987. An HT analysis of this data shows that 2020 saw the highest intra-year variation – the minimum and maximum daily price in a year – of 670.3% in oil prices during this period. This is more than twice the second highest intra-year fluctuation of 326.8%, which happened in 2008, the year when the global financial crisis broke out. 2020 also saw the highest number of instances when inter-day movement in Brent crude prices was more than 5%. To be sure, the EIA data excludes the period of the oil-shock of 1973, when oil prices jumped in a big way. Indian stock markets suffered their biggest inter-day fall in 2020The BSE Sensex, India’s benchmark stock market index, suffered its biggest ever inter-day fall of 13.15% on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown. The Sensex fell from its previous day’s close of 29,915.96 to 25,981.24, the lowest value since 26 December, 2016. The year 2020 included 3 trading sessions -- 12, 16 and 23 March that saw among the top 10 biggest inter-day falls in the index history. Daily BSE indices are available from April 3, 1979 on the BSE’s website.Markets were quick to recover though. By March 26, the BSE Sensex was back at the March 22 level. It maintained its upward trajectory since then and crossed the pre-lockdown all-time high of 41,952.6 on January 14, 2020 by closing at 42,597.4 on November 9, 2020. The BSE has increased further since then and was at an all-time high of 46,973.5 on 24 December 2020.The largest inter-day gain in BSE was seen on 18 May 2009 when it rose by 17.34%. For 2020, the highest inter-day rise was on 7 April 2020 when the index values gained 8.97% which was also the 10th highest historically. Apart from these two instances of high inter-day increases, all the other top 10 biggest inter-day gains for the BSE Sensex are from 1992 or earlier years. There were nine days in 2020, when the inter-day change in the BSE Sensex was 5% or more. The most volatile year on this count was 2008, the year of the global financial crisis. A comparison of intra-year variation of high and low values at the BSE puts 2020 at the ninth rank, with 2008 topping the charts once again.Volatility in US Stock marketsBloomberg has daily data for the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), US’s primary equity index, since 30 January 1895. The DJIA suffered its fourth highest inter-day fall of 12.9% on March 16 this year. It is the biggest inter-day fall since the Black Monday crash of 19 October 1987, when it fell by 22.61% which was also its biggest inter-day fall in the history of the DJIA. Like in India, equity markets recovered quickly in the US as well. The DJIA closed at 30,303.37 on 17 December 2020, its highest ever value. If one were to look at the intra-year variation in the DJIA’s values, 2020 is ranked 11th. However, except in 2008, all other years of higher intra-year variation happened before the Second World War. Global Policy Uncertainty also peaked in 2020While commodity and financial markets are driven by speculation to a large extent, not all of the volatility in 2020 can be blamed on profit-driven speculation. The Global Economic Policy Uncertainty Index, which quantifies newspaper coverage of policy-related economic uncertainty, reached an all-time high of 423.84 in May this year. This suggests that the uncertainty in markets and policy-making circles perhaps fed into each other. While it has come down significantly since then, the latest available value for October, 2020 was still higher than what it was in the end of 2019 or beginning of 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-a-year-of-great-volatility-in-commodity-and-financial-markets/story-ZYKrcwAQlLX8shKWW3YsRM.html
28-12-2020||India||Green activists must work on reducing Carbon footprint||In the last five years, Indian middle-class environmentalism has been amplified significantly. You’ll see this trend on social media and in many mainstream news reports. The question I ask is this : how do these campaigns shift the needle to reduce climate change and leverage social justice?Research by Jemyung Lee and others, and the Research Institute for Humanity and Nature, Japan, published, in the Journal for Environmental Change suggests middle class environmentalism will serve the planet best by reducing its own carbon footprint. The paper examines 203,313 households in 623 districts of India. Consider this finding : “Almost a tenfold difference is observed between the highest carbon footprint district, Gurgaon (2.04 ton CO2/capita), and the lowest carbon footprint district, Baudh (0.21 ton CO2/capita)”Today, Gurgaon’s most privileged residents are fighting for protecting the Aravallis and preventing a waste-to-energy plant. Both are important campaigns. Yet, this demographics likely causes untold harm elsewhere to maintain lifestyles. This is likely harming the poor whose access to clean water, open lands for grazing and other resources are often compromised by projects to service the wealthy.Gurgaon is not unique in its over-consumption. “Residents in Mumbai (1.76 ton CO2/ capita), New Delhi (0.98 ton CO2/capita), Bangalore (1.13 ton CO2/ capita), Chennai (1.11 ton CO2/capita), or Kolkata (1.56 ton CO2/capita) have a carbon footprint above the national average (0.56 ton CO2/ capita),” underscores the research.Charity begins at home, they say. Contradictions of middle class green action must be addressed by consuming much less, to scale, quickly.The writer is the founder and director of Chintan Envronmental Research and Action Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-activists-must-work-on-reducing-carbon-footprint/story-1QfbexaXqeT4tndGfwfo6H.html
28-12-2020||India||Terror plot to attack temple in J&K’s Poonch foiled; 3 militant associates arrested||The Jammu and Kashmir Police Sunday said it has arrested three Pakistan-linked militant associates and recovered six grenades from them, foiling a terror plot to attack a temple in the border district of Poonch and disturb communal harmony. Poonch Senior Superintendent of Police Ramesh Kumar Angral said the arrested persons were planning to carry out a grenade attack on a temple at the behest of their Pakistani handler to disturb peace and communal amity in the district. The officer told reporters in Poonch that the ploy was revealed after Special Operations Group (SOG) of the local police along with troops of the 49 Rashtriya Rifles detained two brothers -- Mustafa Iqbal Khan and Murtaza Iqbal of Galhuta village -- from their vehicle near Basooni in Mendhar sector at around 8 pm on Saturday.He said their interrogation was conducted at the 49 Rashtriya Rifles Battalion headquarters, Basooni, and it was found that Mustafa had received a call from a Pakistani number and was directed to execute the grenade attack. “On being questioned further, he admitted to have been tasked with throwing a grenade at a temple in Ari village. A video on how to use a grenade was also found in his phone,” the SSP said.The SSP said it came to light that Mustafa was involved in militant activities, and on his confession two of his associates -- Mohammad Yaseen and Rayees Ahmad of Dabbi village of Balakote near the Line of Control (LoC) -- were also apprehended. Another police official said the three were arrested later, while Murtaza Iqbal is still in custody and is being questioned. The SSP added, “Vital clues were obtained during the questioning of the trio and searches were conducted in the house of Mustafa from where six grenades, some balloons with Pakistani marking and a few posters of hitherto unknown J&K Ghaznavi Force were recovered.” He said the arrested persons were in regular contact with their handlers in Pakistan who were instructing them to carry out terror strikes.Terming the arrest of the trio as a “major success” for the security forces, Angral said a terror plot to incite communal violence has been averted with their arrest.“If they had succeeded in their designs, we would have faced a lot of problems because they were intending to harm the brotherhood and communal harmony in the district,” Angral said. Asked about the link between the arrested persons and the December 13 encounter in Dogrian village of Poonch which left two Paksitani terrorists dead, he said it is the follow-up of that very operation. “We are investigating the route which they (the slain terrorists) used (to enter into this side from across the LoC) and the persons whom they had contacted. Whether these persons have any direct link with them is part of the investigation,” he said. Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said that with the arrest of the terrorists, the security forces have unearthed a nexus involving local terrorists which were involved in ferrying war-like stores and narcotics after smuggling them from across the border. “It was an intelligence-based well-coordinated joint operation of the Army and police. The apprehended terrorists are likely from terror outfit Jammu and Kashmir Ghaznavi Force,” he said, adding the search operation is still on. “These terrorists were likely to carry out a blast with the intention to disrupt the communal harmony prevailing in the region. Their connection to Pakistani handlers is also being probed,” he said. Other officials said some posters of Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen terror outfit were also recovered during the operations, threatening to intensify attacks on the security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-plot-to-attack-temple-in-j-k-s-poonch-foiled-3-militant-associates-arrested/story-8HfZ1cYtVpb1tMhf2xNUjM.html
28-12-2020||India||Migrant crisis holds lesson for Covid-19 vaccination, PDS effort||She pedalled across north India with her injured father in tow, making international headlines and becoming the face of the plight of migrant workers struggling with a raging pandemic and a nationwide lockdown. Today, cycle girl Jyoti Kumari and her family are worried again. The money they received from politicians and philanthropists is dwindling, a film deal is stalled, her school education hasn’t resumed, and no one in the family has a permanent job. “I am worried. I want to continue my education, but I am uncertain about the future,” said the 17-year-old, a resident of Sirhulli village in Bihar’s Darbhanga village. On May 8, Kumari jumped on her purple cycle, put her father, e-rickshaw driver Mohan Paswan, on the carrier seat and started pedalling from Gurugram. He couldn’t walk due to a road accident in January and their rations were fast dwindling because of the lockdown. With help from another group of migrant workers, short lifts from truck drivers and food from local people along the way, they reached their village in the impoverished northern fringes of Bihar around 9pm on May 17. A tweet from Ivanka Trump and national media attention brought her accolades, an offer of a biopic and a trial at the cycling federation of India. It also improved their social status in a village where caste hierarchies are invisible but sharp, and the Dalit families live in a backward cluster. “Our family has a new social acceptance, which we did not have earlier,” Kumari said. Earlier, higher-caste people would avoid the family in public spaces. Now, they often invite their guests to the Paswan house and refer to the teenager as the pride of the village. “Those who never bothered to visit us, now come over for tea. There is a big change in their attitude and the manner in which they treat us now,” said her mother Phulo Devi, 40, an anganwadi worker. Kumari is scared of Covid-19, but knows little about the infection except that it is highly contagious; she wears a mask, but almost no one else in the village does. She has heard almost nothing about a vaccine. “I don’t know about it. I am not sure if we will get it,” she said. She rejected the cycling trial and has now joined a coaching institute to clear Class 10 examinations that she failed once before. Her film deal is stuck in contract complications. With her cash rewards and presents – many of which are locked in a steel trunk – her family has paid off debt, financed Paswan’s medical treatment, added a second floor to their house and inscribed her name in big gold fonts on the gate. But with no one in the family of seven working, Paswan fears he may have to go back to Gurugram soon. “With no job in the village, I am facing immense financial hardship …I could not even complete the construction work of our house as funds dried up,” said Paswan, 45.Reverse migration in distress The Paswans are the best-known example of the millions of migrant workers who poured out of India’s cities shortly after the lockdown was announced on March 25. They walked for miles, took buses, hitched rides on trucks, and finally took trains back to their countryside home, their plight spotlighting the perils and precarity of economic migration in India. The tragedy held crucial lessons for the country’s public and policymakers. It showed the uneven pace and geographical spread of economic development, and made even clearer by the routes taken by 3,800 Shramik Special trains, announced for migrant workers from May 1, from cities in the west and south to the eastern and northern districts. Even the return of workers starting in August showed that there still weren’t any real jobs to tie them to their homes in the countryside. The crisis also showed the problems with social security and the public distribution system and how workers didn’t feel at home despite living in the cities for decades. In a moment of great stress and crisis, they chose their traditional networks of family and community over institutional delivery. To resolve this, the government announced a raft of measures, including priority credit, jobs in rural districts and bolstering village infrastructure. But the most important among this, according to author and Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad professor Chinmay Tumbe, is the “one nation-one ration” card programme that promises holders to draw benefits from any fair-price shop in the country regardless of their home state. “This is a big deal and its policy architecture is coming in place. It has to be better communicated, that you can get the benefits anywhere. The portability of social security benefits is a longstanding demand and it needs to be fast-tracked,” he said. The programme is expected to be rolled out in the first quarter of 2021. “We can be more ambitious. It is now about PDS but we should be able to access public health services anywhere in India,” Tumbe said.Jobs vanish The crisis also underlined a dearth of data. Eight months after the first migrants appeared on highways, there is little data on their exact number and estimates vary between 30 and 150 million. The labour ministry has ordered a survey, whose fieldwork is expected to start in February. The economic contraction – 23.9% in the April-June quarter and 7.5% in the July-September quarter -- also meant that many jobs vanished, especially in the informal sector. So the neighbourhood carpet seller or the chatwallah in the corner didn’t come back to the city from their villages. Tumbe believes this is temporary and the economy will rebound. But key to accelerating the recovery process will be a robust vaccination programme targeting migrant workers. “The key is for migrant workers to be vaccinated. Its important to think of them as a target group because they will keep going back and forth, and if anyone is affected, it can spread the virus,” said Tumbe. Three separate vaccine candidates are seeking regulatory approval in India and the government has announced plans to vaccinate at least 300 million high-risk people by July, including about 30 million health care and frontline workers, in the first phase. But Tumbe believes migrant workers should also be considered a target category, and logistics tweaked accordingly – both in the home and destination state of the labourers. “There needs to be a foolproof mechanism. For example, if Bihar says vaccines are free, what do millions of Bihari workers outside the state do? There needs to be a clever way.” With literacy and Covid-19 awareness low among many migrants, building communication channels and boosting trust in the efficacy of vaccines will be key. In the West, prominent politicians and celebrities have taken the shot to dispel myths, and India should follow suit. “There is a role for the government to actively step in and target migrants,” added Tumbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-crisis-holds-lesson-for-covid-19-vaccination-pds-effort/story-njkZfhDvAsQwit524fxqQO.html
28-12-2020||India||How India was governed in 2020||India’s governance paradigm has often functioned in a somewhat paradoxical manner on the ground. On one hand, the State is heavily present in regulating everyday life, but on the other, the State is often absent, leaving citizens to their own devices for survival. The Covid-19 pandemic brought both these features to the forefront in 2020 — marking both the absolute centrality of the State, as well as its staggering absence. And it was in between these two extremes that citizens had to find a way to navigate the most devastating pandemic in a century. First, the presence of the State. If there was any doubt about how government and politics affects your life, 2020 should dispel all doubts. And this is not necessarily a negative feature, for those governments which stepped back from fulfilling their responsibilities at a time of a grave health and economic emergency saw adverse results. The United States is a primary example of this grave irresponsibility. In India, it was the State that decided that the country would be locked down to curb the spread of the pandemic; it decided international and domestic travel would be prohibited; it decided which organisations and units, as “essential services” could continue working and which would shut down; it decided how educational institutions would function and when examinations for millions of students from schools to colleges would be held; it determined when mobility would be allowed and when it would be constrained. But it was not just the manner of how one lived that was dictated by decisions of the political leadership and the bureaucracy. It was the manner in which one coped with the health and economic emergency. The State decided what would be the protocol for testing citizens for Covid-19, who would be prioritised in terms of treatment, what would be the manner of differential treatment, who got admission to hospitals and who had to wait. It ramped up health infrastructure (critics have pointed out this was delayed and India should not have had such a deficit of hospital beds, personal protective equipment, ventilators in the first place) and it is now close to determining which vaccines would get approval and which citizens will access vaccines first. It is the State which decided the nature and sequence of economic relief, providing free ration and cash assistance to those it identified as vulnerable, credit to sectors which it believed needed it most, and framing rules and regulations about the kind of economic activity that would be permitted. And therefore, 2020 was the year when it became clear that the governance structure in India was integral to everyday life in ways that citizens had perhaps never experienced before. Governments in India are extraordinarily powerful — a moment of crisis like the one presented by the pandemic allows them to exercise this power and make choices with long term implications. Within the State, it is the Centre that remains way more powerful than the states, the executive that remains way more powerful than either the legislature or the judiciary, and often, the local bureaucracy that is more powerful than the local elected institutions. In 2020, the State also displayed that its coercive power was firmly intact, based on a degree of democratic consent and voluntary cooperation of citizens — only this mix of coercion, consent and voluntarism could have helped sustain the lockdown for as long it as lasted. But there was another side to India’s governance story of 2020 — the life of citizens was not just marked by the presence, but also the absence, of the State. The abiding memory of India’s pandemic will actually not be the images from the hospitals or testing labs. It will not be the data-point of over 10 million people infected over the year. It will the image of citizens — millions of India’s poorest and most vulnerable citizens — walking hundreds of kilometres, on the highways, with their families, clutching their negligible belongings, surviving on a meal or two for days, to return home. It will be the story of the biggest internal migration the country has witnessed in decades, if not since the Partition. And there was only one reason for it — the fact that for these millions of citizens, it was not the sarkar, the government, but their samaj, the community, back home which inspired hope. The government, to be fair, had a genuine dilemma — enable people to return home and risk the spread of the infection, or seek to confine people to wherever they were at the time of the onset of the lockdown. The State veered towards the latter option, but it did little to assure citizens that it would provide then the security — both emotional and financial — that required them to stay away from home at a moment of great panic. This was then not tenable and citizen pressure meant that 36 days after the lockdown, the government had to open up trains to allow migrants to return home. It would always be a blot on the record of the Indian State that this indecision, poor planning and delayed execution meant a large scale exodus of citizens in distressing circumstances from India’s cities, particularly in the west and south and urban centres such as Delhi, to the hinterland in India’s north and east. While the State was present when it came to providing ration, free gas cylinders, income assistance, additional employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and ensuring the portability of the ration card (after much delay), it was absent when it came to actually putting money where it said it would. As Avani Kapur of the Centre for Policy Research has shown, in many key areas, public expenditure in India dipped in this crucial period. The fiscal stimulus was less a stimulus and more a credit guarantee scheme. The problem of low demand persisted, which in turn, had a multiplier negative effect in disrupting profitability of firms, supply chains, and livelihoods. And the government’s conservative fiscal stance — despite assurances that it would not take a hawkish position on the deficit — continued to keep the economy tied to the ability of the private sector to spend. Those in the private sector who did survive — and even flourish — did so either because the disruption made their sectors even more crucial (think digital services) or because of liquidity infusion in the markets or because of severe wage cuts. The government was able to do little to those who lost out in this process of destruction, which was not all that creative. 2020 brought to the fore both the strength and weakness of India’s governance structures. The State is powerful. The State can achieve what would seem unattainable if it puts political will, coercive instruments, resources and energy into achieving a particular aim. But this is also a State that is often unable to anticipate the hopes and fears of its citizens, plan accordingly, and provide the cushion that it needed to help Indians live through difficult times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-was-governed-in-2020/story-FSuseNyUmMXCHiwXf3RN2N.html
28-12-2020||India||A month on, farmers have made highway their home||At 11am last Tuesday, Inderjit Singh Khullar loaded his truck with firewood and headed out of his village in central Punjab’s grain bowl of Moga for the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu. He had with him three other men who made the same 330km trip seven times before in the past 30 days, each time with different loads: Food, water, milk, or blankets. They drove through the day, stopping only for short durations in makeshift community kitchens, or langars, set up on the highway linking Punjab to Delhi. All farmers, the four men took turns to drive and fought sleep by talking about the protests against three recently enacted farm laws. “In our village, everyone only talks about the protests. They say it is our final stand, it is do or die,” said the 30-year-old.At 2am, their truck pulled up at the protest site on National Highway 44 that links Srinagar to Kanyakumari. They had driven through Haryana, where last months, groups of farmers clashed violently with security forces, braving water cannons, tear gas and lathicharge en route to Delhi, throwing police barricades into the river and driving their tractor-trolleys over ditches dug on highways.But the truckers found little resistance on their way. “In the initial days of the protest, we used to be stopped at checkpoints. Now, they have softened their stance and allow us to pass by. They have also understood,” Khullar said.His friend, Gurpreet Singh from Ferozepur district, said almost half his village was at Singhu, and the rest were at home but eagerly following the protest. They get minute-by-minute updates through the many Punjabi accounts on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp broadcast that have mushroomed over the past month. “Sometimes they are even better informed than us,” Singh joked.Back home, the families have formed a system to take turns on work on fields that need sowing, tilling of weeding. If someone’s family members are at Singhu, others are pitching in. “Our political differences have dissolved. This is our united fight,” said Singh. The four men slept in the truck, woke up early on Wednesday and maneuvered through a narrow strip of the highway kept open by farmers for supply vehicles and visitors. As they chatted and unloaded the supplies, people gathered around them for the wood, essential for cooking and bonfires during the chilly December nights.The men stayed on for a few days, checking with people what supplies the protesters are running low on, before leaving again. “We want to stay here but someone also has to work back home on the fields of these farmers and ensure they have all that they need here,” Khullar said, wiping sweat off his brow. The four men are part of an intricate but informal network of workers who have sustained the month-long protest by farmers at Singhu by replenishing dwindling rations, cooking for thousands, sweeping roads, distributing woolen socks free-of-cost, cleaning toilets, organising security patrols, buying tens of thousands bottled water, and even keeping up morale with displays of community pride or chanting religious hymns.Together, these groups have helped farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere in northern India put up a largely united stand in their deadlocked talks with the government to press for the repeal of the three agriculture reform laws. “This is our seva for this cause,” said Khullar.LIVING ON A HIGHWAYProtests began in Punjab and Haryana shortly after the government pushed the three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 – through Parliament in September.The laws did away with a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets, allowed businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called mandi system, permitted private traders to enter the market and laid down new rules for contract farming.But many farm groups rejected the new legislation, saying the reforms left them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and eroded the government’s procurement and price support system. The possibility that state-run market yards known as agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) – of which there are about 585 in 16 states and two union territories -- could shut down also fuelled anger.The government has repeatedly assured farmers that market yards will not be abolished, and minimum support prices will continue but farmers have rebuffed the offer. PM Modi has promised that the reforms are for the welfare of farmers.Driving tractor trolleys and stocked with food, water and diesel, the farmers arrived at Delhi’s borders by November 27 at four spots: Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla. They quickly set up tenements, building a main stage and ancillary platforms, spreading carpets on the highway and opening community kitchens.But as talks dragged on with the government – negotiations are at an impasse after six rounds – the protesters realised they needed a system to coordinate with families back home for grain and other resources. They converted tractor-trolleys into makeshift homes, using quilts to line the floor and saris to block off separate sleeping spaces for women. Every village set up a committee comprising five to six men for supplying essentials like milk and vegetables. “We fixed a system where only one village arranges for supplies for a day. This way, the responsibilities are divided equally. We have a team back home and they only have to be told what we need. Following this, they coordinate with villagers and deliver the supplies here the next day,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Siddhupur). He has a team of 300 people from seven villages in Mohali camping with him. FOODOne of the most visible part of the protest are the hundreds of cooks making meals for the protesters in tandem. Satyender Kaur is one of them. The 50-year-old woman, along with a group of five women, came from Chandigarh to help the protesters. “How could we sit at home and not feed them?” she asked, kneading dough in a large vessel.Behind her, smoke rose from large kadais as groups of men and women sat around the fire, chopping large mounds of vegetables. Others sorted the line of hungry incoming into neat files, seated them on carpets and served them food in small steel buckets. Large pots of tea boiled nearby.Such langars are run not just by organisations and Sikh charities but also small groups of women and men. There are at least two dozen such langars on the highway, churning out no less than 6,000 plates of food every day.The mass cooking has even upended gender norms as many men, who never entered the kitchen back home, now helm the process. “We never needed to cook. We would spend our time working on the fields and our wives would provide the meals,” said Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district.It took him 10 days to get the taste right. “Since we have elderly protesters who may have high blood pressure, we use less salt and serve pickles with the food. That too enhances the taste. We try to keep a diverse menu,” he said.The menu ranges from parathas stuffed with paneer, radish or potato, to curries of peas and carrots, and the Punjabi delicacy of sarson-da-saag and makki-di-roti. Large cups of tea, cakes and packaged drinks are offered alongside. In the evening, there are pakodas, snacks, biscuits and local desserts such as pinni, jalebi, and kheer. At night, they serve tall glasses of milk infused with spices and turmeric.“Farmers send supplies like milk and water to everyone. We often keep an eye out so that they don’t give us extra,” said Lakhwinder Singh. There are no fridges around, so special care is taken for milk. “If the milk gets sour, we make paneer and stuff it in the parathas the next day,” said Gurjant Singh, a resident of Mohali, who has been at Singhu since November 27. The farmers use gas cylinders and wood for cooking the meals, refilling the cylinders every day at a nearby market. An inventory team has also been set up at the Kessel Grand Mall –around four kilometres from the main stage at the protest site. “Since there are jammers around the area and the network is intermittent here, we have also arranged for 31 walkie-talkies assigned to main volunteers handling security, logistics, stage, and other managerial positions,” said 26-year-old Nirmal Singh Cheema from Jalandhar, who is participating in an agitation for the first time.“My parents had asked me to come back home for my sister’s wedding on Friday but I told them that I could not go back unless the laws are repealed. So I watched her wedding online.”WATER AND ELECTRICITYA bigger challenge than food is electricity and water supply. Sukhpreet Sukha Lambar, a former state kabaddi player from Punjab, is among a group of wrestlers and kabaddi players at the Kessel Grand Mall who provide laundry facilities. “We are in touch with the mall authorities and pay them for using their electricity and water facilities for cooking, cleaning, laundry, and other requirements,” said Lambar. Other farmers drive their tankers to the mall, and use a makeshift water pump to fill it up. Others use water tankers provided by the Delhi government, walk to nearby tube wells or have struck deals with local residents to use the submersible water pumps at local factories and shops. Raghav Chadha, DJB vice-chairman, “Around 25 water tankers carrying 125,000 litres of water have been deputed at the protest site along with 44 personnel to manage the distribution. The tankers have been evenly distributed in the area so that it is accessible to all people and they get filled multiple times during the day.”Most of the drinking water at the site is bottled and come from farmers and volunteers in Haryana and Punjab. Ravinder Singh, a resident of Karnal, gets up at 6am everyday and drives his mini truck to Singhu with bottled water and vegetables, then spends the day managing the crowd at the langar, before packing up around 5pm and going back home.The source of electricity is local too. The farmers have carried large batteries and use their tractors to power inverters. During the day, some farmers have also set up solar panels on the roof of their tractor-trolleys for charging mobile phones and powering LED bulbs. Organisers said the electricity required to operate the speakers and light on the main stage were sourced from a local resident.“Since we cannot get an electricity connection, we have got a temporary connection from a local shopkeeper. The electricity is used to operate sound and the LED screen at the stage area along with loudspeakers. We will pay them for the usage,” said Devinder Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba). But not all residents are supportive of the protests. Anand Singh, a sand supplier and resident of Kundli, has let the farmers use his water pump and godown but is resentful of the losses his shuttered business has suffered. “They came and asked if they could use the motor. How can we refuse if someone needs water? I have made a loss of Rs 3 lakh but there is nothing we can do,” he said. TOILETS AND SANITATIONBy far, the biggest problem facing the farmers is that of sanitation and toilet facilities.The municipal corporations of north Delhi and Sonipat have deployed sanitation staff for sweeping roads and removing garbage, but hundreds of thousands of disposables is being generated as solid waste every day – a big langar easily uses over 20,000 disposable plates a day and 10,000 plastic bottles or cups. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation sanitation staff comes in three shifts of 12 workers each. Around 25 additional workers are deployed for sweeping roads in the morning. Three supervisors of the rank of Sanitary Inspector and Assistant Sanitary Inspector supervise the work, and the sanitary superintendent of Narela zone looking after the work.From Haryana, workers make 10 trips to the nearby dumpyard. Ravi, a sanitation worker employed with Sonipat Nagar Nigam, said, “We are a team of 60 workers deployed at the spot and are divided equally between day and night shifts. Earlier, the job had fixed hours, but now sometimes we end up making 12 spots to the field nearby where we are required to dump the waste.” But mounds of garbage piled up along the highway underline that this effort is not enough. This has prompted many farmers to start sweeping roads, segregating waste, and emptying waste bins at designated spots. Amanpreet Singh, a young farmer from Dhadday village in Kapurthala district of Punjab, regularly cleans the sludge-soaked road. “A woman slipped and fell here in the morning. Since the drains often get clogged, the water from cleaning utensils and other activities gets accumulated at the spot. So my friends and I asked for spade, broom, and buckets from farmers and got to work,” he said.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board has set up 300 portable toilets at the spot along with 15 cleaners working round the clock. Several private organisations and Haryana authorities have also set up portable toilets. Yet, it is not enough.Farmers often relieve themselves in the field or use the shops and homes of locals. “Men can relieve themselves in the portable toilets or toilets of nearby locals, women cannot do the same due to safety and privacy concerns,” said Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib District, said. “The women in our village want to join the protests but cannot due to the issue around washrooms. So they only stay for a few days.” WARM CLOTHES AND MEDICINEThe influx of crowds from across the Capital to the site has birthed a vibrant street market where local merchants on tarpaulin sheets hawk their wares ranging from Nehru jackets and sweaters to percussion instruments, earphones and toys. Zameer Ahmad, 40, is one of them.A resident of northeast Delhi’s Bhagirathi Vihar who supplied Nehru jackets to shops in Sonipat, Ahmad decided to come to Singhu after the blockade shut his business. “As these farmers are sleeping in the open, I thought it would be good for business,” he said, adding that 20 jackets priced between Rs 200-300 is sold every day. Other popular items are disposables, plastic sheets, and dry fruits.With the mercury dipping and many elderly men and women among the farmers, a recent requirement is that of woolens and thermal wear. The farmers have tied up with charitable organisations in Punjab, who often drive down with their cars filled with warm clothes bought at wholesale rates. “We bring 10,000 mufflers, socks, blankets and women’s wear twice a week from Hoshiarpur. We are a group of five people who volunteer on own our. It is our fight too,” said MS Gill, a businessman from Hoshiarpur.Some of the busiest people at the site are the 15 members comprising the so-called ‘IT cell’ of Singhu who coordinate between 30-40 groups and host meetings in a designated room 3-4 kilometers from the main stage before every round of talks with the government. It is a difficult task, explained Harinder Singh, a PhD student from Rajasthan who is a part of the coordinating team.“We are connected with the farmer groups on their WhatsApp. Throughout the day they send us videos on the farm laws, explaining how this is harmful for the country, and we share this on our social media platforms. In the coming days, we are planning to host Live sessions with agriculture and economy experts on the issues plaguing the farm sector,” he said.There are also makeshift medical camps every few kilometers where farmers gather round as doctors check their blood pressure, pore over old prescriptions and give out strips of medicines. Dr. Sandeep Kaur, 28, a resident doctor from Jalandhar accompanied four of her colleagues to Singhu.“My relatives and friends have been participating in the agitation since the beginning. Most elderly complain of diabetes, blood pressure, cold, body ache, indigestion, headache, and fever,” she said, while her colleague requested a farmer to not ask for more than four tablets. “We won’t have enough for all paaji,” she added.Of course, Covid-19 is a constant worry, especially with few wearing masks or maintaining distancing. But they don’t seem worried. “Wahe guru will save us,” said Gurjant Singh.CULTURE AND ENTERTAINMENT In many ways, the toughest task for the organizers was to keep up the morale of thousands of people through the long winter and hundreds of kilometers away from home. They have achieved this through three things. One is to imbue the protest site with cultural markers of the Sikh community. A bus has been made into a makeshift gurdwara, and holy men have come down from Punjab to lead the prayers morning and evening. Crowds gather around the men, some dressed in traditional blue robes, lead kirtans and draw the audience with stories and songs in praise of the Sikh gurus.Then, there are the Nihangs, an armed Sikh order who roam the site and are the informal security team. “We reached here on December 1 and have been at the forefront because we don’t want our farmer brothers to be lathicharged or tear-gassed again. If the Centre attacks us again, they have to go through us first,” said Gurbaaz Singh, dressed in blue tunic with a sword hanging from it.And, finally, there are the horses with young boys on them ambling about. The horses hold a special space in Sikh tradition and are seen as a key instrument that helped the 10th Sikh guru, Gobind Singh, triumph in battle. Nirmal Singh, a resident of Behbal Kalan who has brought four horses and spends 5kg of fodder daily on each, hopes the show of strength will embolden the farmers. “These horses are with us in every battle. We will triumph over Delhi’s rulers too,” he said.The spot has also emerged as a space for poetry and debate. A library and cultural space is teeming with young people, and elderly farmers read a newspaper every day. Organisers pay for 5,000 copies of Punjabi language newspapers to reach the spot every morning. At a tattoo parlour run by young men from Ludhiana, farmers get maps of Punjab, or holy scriptures of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of Sikhism, inked on their arm. “Everyone from Punjab is contributing in some way to the movement. We thought of using our art form to motivate people and leave them with a souvenir of the protests,” said Chetan Sood, the main tattoo artist.Some of the most active volunteers are children. Gabinpreet Singh, 12, has sat alongside his father Surinder Singh at the spot for a month. He serves food at the langar in the morning, then focuses on online classes on his smart phone, before joining his parents for the nightly security vigil as “pehredars”. He is far from his friends and home in Patiala, but stressed that he couldn’t think of leaving his family and not being a part of the agitation. “We will only go back once the government repeals the farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-month-on-farmers-have-made-highway-their-home/story-mT6X6AcqsDap3vWOC9NfzK.html
28-12-2020||India||BJP, Congress in war of words as Nadda shares old Rahul Gandhi video||Attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for opposing the new agricultural laws , Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Sunday posted an old video on social media that shows the Wayanad MP speaking in favour of weeding out middlemen so that farmers get fair remuneration for their produce. The BJP and the Congress have been at loggerheads over the contentious farm bills that farmers from northern India are demanding be repealed, saying they would reduce the bargaining power of cultivators and leave them at the mercy of corporate entities..The BJP has accused the opposition party of politicizing the issue and criticising measures the Congress itself had proposed when it was n power. In the video posted on microblogging site Twitter, which is from a portion of a speech made by Gandhi in the Lok Sabha in May 2015, the Congress leader is seen supporting the removal of middlemen and allowing farmers to sell directly to buyers. “A few years back, during my trip to Uttar Pradesh, a farmer asked me to explain the magic behind a packet of potato chips costing Rs 10 while they sell potato for Rs 2 per kg. I asked what they thought was the reason for this; the farmer said factories are located very far from us and if we could sell our produce directly there, we will get all the money without middlemen earning any cut,” Gandhi is heard saying in the video and explaining the rationale for setting up a food park. Using the video to alleged double-speak by the Congress leader, Nadda tweeted: “What is this magic happening, Rahulji? What you were earlier advocating, now you are opposing. You have nothing to do with the interest of country or farmers. You want to play politics. But your hypocrisy will not work... the people and the farmers have realised your dual character.” The Congress said the video did not show the speech in its full context. Congress leader Ravneet Singh Bittu told a television channel that Gandhi was talking about states such as Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, where minimum support prices were not paid to farmers. “…This is what we have been saying that in states such as Bihar, FCI does not buy (farm) produce; this is what we are trying to tell Mr Nadda. FCI gives proper rates for produce in Punjab, in Haryana and some parts of UP,” Bittu said. FCI is short for the Food Corporation of India, the government’s food procurement agency.Thousands of farmers have camped on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the farm laws that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-in-war-of-words-as-nadda-shares-old-rahul-gandhi-video/story-CBGf1BMozUf0T3i9h8QYiJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The number of countries that now have Covid-19 cases where the infection is caused by the new variant first spotted in the UK in September has increased. In addition to the UK, and assuming the variant in South Africa is entirely different, the list now includes Japan, France, Spain, Sweden, Canada , Germany, Singapore and Denmark. Once India tightened its screening process for passengers flying in from the UK, it identified a bunch of positive cases — one of whom jumped into a train after testing positive and was finally apprehended in Rajamundhry, Andhra Pradesh — but the genome sequencing of these cases was still underway on Sunday as this article was being written.There is growing evidence that the new variant is more infectious than the older version of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Last week, scientists, including some from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine published a study (under the aegis of the institute’s Center for Mathematical Modeling of Infectious Diseases; the study is yet to be peer reviewed) that showed the new variant to be 56% more infective. But there is still no evidence of it causing more severe Covid-19 cases, or resulting in more deaths.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageTo repeat something I wrote last week, given that most of the coronavirus disease cases in the UK are now being caused by the new variant, and given that there have been around 70 flights a week between India and the UK since May— they were temporality halted last week, and will not resume before the end of the year — it is very likely that the variant is already here.This columnist learns that India may have made the mistake of going slow on sequencing viral genomes over the past four months, with a majority of the whole viral genomes sequenced in the country dating back to earlier in the pandemic’s run. That will now change with India deciding that at least 5% of all positive cases from every state and Union territory will undergo genome sequencing. And much like the UK, India has finally formed a consortium of several Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) laboratories and institutions and the National Centre for Disease Control, called Insacog, and put it in charge of the country’s genomic surveillance efforts. A country with over 10 million cases of the coronavirus disease should have sequenced more than the few thousand cases India has, although, as Dispatch 232 pointed out on December 24, India isn’t the only laggard when it comes to this — the US, with close to 20 million cases is also one.Now that India has addressed the question of genome sequencing — it still has to follow up; a previous ICMR guideline, on weekly antibody tests across each of India’s 700-plus districts has been ignored — it should also turn its attention to other questions related to the pandemic’s run in the country.Primary among these is one on India’s unique trajectory of Covid-19 infections. To date, it is among the only countries to have seen a significant number of cases, to not witness a second wave of the pandemic. Interestingly, even large gatherings in India in recent months have not turned into superspreader events of the sort seen in the US and Europe. And October, November, and December have been the coldest in years, even decades, in North and Northwest India (in the northern hemisphere, cases were expected to surge as winter set in, and that was what happened in the US and Europe). Understanding why this hasn’t happened in India is just as important as celebrating the fact that it hasn’t. And it may just provide some insights on managing the pandemic in the months ahead as India embarks on its vaccination drive.It’s been clear for a long time that more science, not less, is needed to address the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-14rri4dSyCKB4eGjmXXeVN.html
28-12-2020||India||PM invokes Sikh gurus, calls for self-sufficiency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged Indian manufacturers to measure up go global standards as the country focuses increasingly on enhancing self-reliance and boosting domestic production at the end of a pandemic-ravaged year. In his last monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, of 2020, Modi said manufacturers should make products that have a “zero defect,” and again reached out to the Sikh community amid the ongoing farmers’ protest against a set of three contentious farm laws.“Vocal for local is reverberating in each and every household,” the prime minister said. “in such a scenario, it is time to ensure that our products meet global standards. Whatever is the global best; we should make it in India and prove it. For that, our entrepreneur friends have to come forward. Startups too have to come forth,” he said. Also Read | ‘Time to ensure our products are world class’: Modi on last ‘Mann ki Baat’ of 2020In an attempt to to give a fillip to indigenous production and help the poor cope in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the government announced a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package under the AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan (Self-Reliant India initiative). The PM has also urged the nation to go “vocal for local” to reduce dependence on imports. A growing trend of customers demanding India-made toys, for instance, marks a transformation of the traditional mindset, Modi said. “A huge change has begun in the minds of our countrymen…that too within a year. It is not easy to gauge this change. Even economists would not be able to assess it on their parameters,” he said. Geographical Indication, or GI tagging for agricultural products will also aid in the making of a self-reliant India, the PM said, citing the example of saffron from Kashmir. “After obtaining the GI Tag, Kashmiri Saffron was launched in a super market in Dubai. Now its exports will get a boost. This will further strengthen our efforts to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”The PM also referred to the need to preserve India’s culture and heritage and recalled how the sons of the Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh, Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, sacrificed their lives to protect the country’s “millennia-old culture, civilization and traditions from the cruel misdemeanours of tyrants and tormentors,” a reference to the Mughal rulers.. “The tyrants wanted sahibzade to renounce their faith, abandon the teachings of the great Guru tradition. But our sahibzade showed amazing courage and determination even at that tender age. During the immurement, as stones began piling up, gradually raising the height of the wall, death staring them in the face. Despite that, they did not budge even a bit. It was on this day itself that Guru Gobind Singh ji’s mother -Mata Gujari attained martyrdom,” he said. He also referred to his visit last week to Gurudwara Rakabganj in New Delhi where he paid tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur. The visit came in the midst of the ongoing protests by a section of farmers from Punjab and Haryana against three contentious agricultural laws. “During this very month, inspired by Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji, many people sleep on the floor. People reminisce about the supreme sacrifices made by family members of Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji with immense reverence,” he said. Farm unions protesting against the agricultural laws on Saturday agreed to restart negotiations with the government, ending a stalemate in talks to resolve a month-long, politically challenging agitation by tens of thousands of farmers.Farm unions, who have hunkered down at the capital’s borders, on Saturday sent a letter to a senior bureaucrat of the agriculture ministry in which they agreed to hold delegation-level talks with the central government on December 29 at 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-invokes-sikh-gurus-calls-for-self-sufficiency/story-PnsfQofP023qd5UWuxIzkK.html
28-12-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s daily cases, deaths hit lowest level in half a year||The rate of daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has dropped to the lowest level in over 200 days, or since early June, while the rate of new infections is at the lowest since early July, shows data analysed by HT.These statistics indicate a slowing of the outbreak in the country, and come at a time when states have scaled up efforts to trace if a new and more transmissible virus variant from the UK has reached Indian shores.In the past week, India has, on average, reported 299 new Covid-19 deaths a day, and 21,785 new infections daily. The last time India’s daily death rate was below this mark was on June 9, or 201 days ago, while the last time the case rate was this low was on July 6, or 173 days ago, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIndia’s infection rate peaked in the middle of September, with the seven-day average of daily cases touching 93,617. This means that currently the case rate has dropped over 76% from the peak level.This drop in the spread becomes particularly apparent when seen with new cases and deaths reported on Saturday – 18,595 new cases and 284 new deaths were reported. On Sunday, 20,346 new cases were reported in the country, while 276 new fatalities were lodged, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.While the last two days’ figures may be attributed to lower-than-usual testing levels on account of the Christmas holiday and the weekend, the larger trend cannot be explained by a drop in testing. India is conducting more than four times the number of daily tests than it was doing in the first week of July, when cases were this low previously – in the past week, over 986,352 samples were tested for Covid-19 on average in the country, while this was 228,920 tests a day for the week ending July 6. Daily recoveries, meanwhile, have outnumbered new infections over the past month, data shows. The last time daily cases were more than daily recoveries was on November 27. On Sunday, 21,117 patients recovered across the country. The total number of cases in India on Sunday stood at 10,208,712, the death toll at 147,953, while 9,781,856 people have so far recovered, according to the data.Also Read | Covid-19: These states have renewed restrictions ahead of new year celebrations “The exponential rise in recoveries in tandem with lower daily new cases has resulted in consistent decline in the active cases and low mortality… India’s cumulative recoveries are highest in the world. The rising recoveries have also improved the recovery rate to 95.8%,” said the Union health ministry in a statement on Sunday.Meanwhile, states across the country are tracing travellers from the UK who have entered India in the last few weeks to test them for Covid-19 and carry out genome sequencing to determine if anyone has been infected with the new viral strain that is believed to be more infectious.India has imposed a temporary halt on flights from and to the UK from December 23 till December 31 following the detection of the new virus strain.The government has kicked off a massive exercise to track all UK passengers who have arrived in India in the past four weeks. All samples of passengers who arrive in India from the UK that test positive are being re-tested through a spike gene-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test over the past week to look for the new virus variant, according to the Union health ministry. Separate isolation facilities have been created for those who test positive after returning from the UK.While a combined official figure of the number of passengers from the UK who have tested positive was not released as of Sunday night, several states have identified such infections and have reported numbers – 21 people who recently returned from the UK have tested positive in Delhi, 18 infections were detected among UK returnees in Telangana, 16 in Maharashtra, 13 in Tamil Nadu, four in Andhra Pradesh and three in Karnataka, based on data released by the respective state governments.On Saturday, the Union health ministry said that at least 50 samples were undergoing genome sequencing to check for the new variant in several laboratories across the country; none have so far tested positive.“As part of the strategy that has been put in place to detect and contain the mutant variant detected in the UK, five per cent of the positive cases of Covid-19 from all states and UTs will be tested for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS),” the health ministry said on Saturday after a meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-daily-cases-deaths-hit-lowest-level-in-half-a-year/story-OF3IB9zjPfuiV5J3ryvleJ.html
28-12-2020||India||Amit Shah hails ILP as Modi’s ‘biggest gift’ to Manipur||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had extended the Inner Line Permit ( ILP) to Manipur as a gift because depriving the benefits of the ILP system would be an injustice to the people of the state.The Inner Line Permit (ILP) is an official travel document issued by the state government to allow inward travel of citizens of other states visiting Manipur for a specific duration.Shah was given a warm welcome in Imphal on Sunday for his role in extending the ILP to Manipur. He arrived in the state on Sunday to lay the foundation stones for various development projects. On his arrival at Imphal international airport, Shah was received by chief minister N Biren Singh,minister of state in the Union ministry of development of north eastern region Jitendra Singh, speaker Y Khemchand and others who presented him a bouquet and the Lengyan,a traditional stole, each.Recalling various initiatives taken up by the Modi government since it came to power, Shah said: “Inner Line Permit was the biggest gift to the people of Manipur by the Prime Minister Modi as he felt that it would be injustice (to the people of Manipur) as other surrounding states had it.”In his speech, Shah said the development of the northeast was a priority of Modi. Recalling the time when Manipur was known for insurgency, blockades and strikes, he said:”In the last three years, we’ve not seen any Bandh. I would like to congratulate chief minister Biren Singh as he has given the state a new face of progress.”The visiting minister was also welcomed and greeted by artistes performing cultural dances on his way from airport to the Hafta Kangjeibung grounds where he laid foundation stone for seven projects including a medical college and an information technology special economic zone. He also inaugurated the Rs 1,998 crore Thoubal multi-purpose project and Rs 475 crore Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-hails-ilp-as-modi-s-biggest-gift-to-manipur/story-vNJePU03rSyorQKroYInIL.html
28-12-2020||India||Govt expedited reforms by Narasimha, says vice-president Naidu||Hyderabad Affirming that the reforms initiated by late former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao were irreversible, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Sunday that the process of economic policy changes had been accelerated by the Narendra Modi government.Rao and then-finance minister Manmohan Singh in the early 1990s initiated the reforms that dismantled the so-called License Raj of approvals and red tape that stifled businesses for much of the first four decades of independence, and opened India up to foreign investment. “The bold economic reforms launched by Rao had accelerated the country’s development on various fronts. It was during his regime that reforms in agriculture sector were introduced and restrictions on transportation of foodgrains were removed,” Naidu said, releasing a book titled Viplava Tapasvi  PV, written in Telugu by senior journalist A Krishna Rao on the different facets of the former Prime Minister. The name of the book translates as Revolutionary Sage PV The reforms process was carried forward by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government later and is now being implemented even more vigorously by the Modi government, Naidu said. “He {Rao} had removed license raj, took up banking reforms, electricity privatization, telecom modernization and took steps for boosting exports and attracting foreign investment. He facilitated the entry of India into the World Trade Organization,” Naidu said. The vice president said Rao had a firm belief that the government should not be in business, but focus on the welfare and development of the nation. “The objective of the economic reforms was to involve private sector in the development process. He liberalised the economy and involved the private sector in key areas,” he pointed out. He noted that when Rao took over as the Prime Minister in 1991, the country was experiencing a severe economic crisis and political uncertainty. “He surpassed the expectations of many political pundits and effectively steered the country through many challenges during his tenure,” Naidu said. Describing the former Prime Minister as a multi-faceted personality, he said Rao was a great scholar and litterateur who knew multiple languages. “Unfortunately, he did not get due recognition in his own party and also as an administrator,” Naidu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-govt-expedited-reforms-by-narasimha/story-vXgPng715QFwS1DERiEjHM.html
28-12-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: Farmers bang plates to drown out PM’s speech||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders against a set of contentious new agricultural laws enacted by the government marked Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat monthly radio address on Sunday by clanging utensils -- the way in which the PM had asked people to show their gratitude to medical personnel and other staff at the frontline of the fight against Covid-19 on March 22, the day of the Janata curfew.At the Singhu and Tikri borders, farmers picked up and banged steel plates, used tin cans and canisters and even metal pots used for cooking. “We did not want to hear the prime minister’s Mann ki Baa’. By beating plates, we ensured no one would hear his talk,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Dakonda (Punjab) unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. To protest against the government for not repealing the three farm laws, many farmers’ group gathered on Delhi’s borders had earlier announced that they would clang utensils when the PM makes monthly radio address. The farmers last Sunday had given a call for the plates to be beaten during the PM’s radio programme to drown out the speech. The farmers said this may be the first time that they greeted the programme that way, but certainly not the last. “As long as we stay here, we’ll greet his programmes the same way,” said Balwinder Singh, president of the Majha Kisan Sangharsh Committee. Sunday’s protest at the borders was also marked also by loud slogan chanting against the government. “We knew the timeframe from when the prime minister’s speech would be delivered. We didn’t even need to switch on the radio. We kept beating the metal items. We had enough utensils and sufficient wooden logs here to go about the clanging and raise our protest,” said Harbhajan Singh, a farmer from Agwan village in Gurdaspur, who is camping at the Tikri Border. Jagmohan Singh said that while a dialogue with the government is scheduled for Tuesday, the farmers will organise a procession of tractors from Delhi’s borders to places like Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and Palwal in Haryana.Thousands of farmers have camped on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the three farm laws that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-farmers-bang-plates-to-drown-out-pm-s-speech/story-ZOJV21DOVX6XosyqWAhysI.html
28-12-2020||India||Pejwara seer has a theory about PM Modi’s growing beard, hair||The seer of Udupi’s famed Pejawara Matha (monastery) Vishwaprasanna Teertha has said that the reason for the prime minister’s growing beard and hair is a ‘Sankalpa’ or a pious vow to get the Ram mandir construction completed.Swami Vishwaprasana Teerthan, who is one of the 15 people on board of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, was speaking to media in Bagalkote in Northern Karnataka.Responding to questions on the temple trust, the seer said, “Apart from doing Shilanyas for the construction of the temple, PM Modi has taken full responsibility of ensuring its execution. Naturally, customs dictate that one should not cut their hair when executing the Sankalpa and that (maybe) the reason for his (long) hair.”Also read: 136th foundation day of Congress - Rahul absent, farmers’ protest in focusStating that the entire temple construction project and development of the place may take about three and a half years, Swami Vishwaprasanna Teertha said that the current estimate of the total cost is around Rs 1,500 crore. “This includes about Rs 500 odd crores for the temple itself and the rest for developing the surrounding area,” he added.The Pejawar Matha is among the Ashta Mathas (eight monasteries) established by Saint Madvachaarya. It is held in high esteem especially by Sangh Parivar leaders. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior BJP leader Uma Bharati even used to consider Swami Vishwaprasanna’s predecessor Swami Vishvesha Theertha as her spiritual guru and father figure who gave her ‘Sanyasa Deeksha’ (initiation into monkhood).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pejwara-seer-reveals-secret-behind-pm-modi-s-growing-beard-hair/story-Va6qyDvuFEyR0Jjm4FcOAI.html
28-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: New farm laws will snatch away farmers’ land: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Several farmer groups on Saturday wrote a letter to the Union agriculture ministry and thereby accepted the central government’s invitation for dialogue in order to end the ongoing agitation against the government’s three agriculture reforms. The farmer groups proposed December 29 as the date for the sixth round of talks. Earlier, five meetings were held between Union ministers and farmer groups which remained inconclusive. The farmer groups also placed four point agenda on Saturday and asked the government to adopt the modalities for the removal of the reforms and incorporate changes in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 so that the interests of the farmers are protected. They further warned that a tractor march will be held from the Singhu border on December 30 if the government does not talk of removing the reforms during the December 29 meeting.Also Read: Agitating farmers from western UP stay put in Noida at nightIt has been over one month, since farmers have been camping at border points in Delhi and protesting against the agriculture reforms passed by the Parliament in September. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava visited the Singhu border on Saturday to take stock of the law and order situation at one of the largest protest sites in the national capital. “The law and order situation at the Singhu border is normal. There is no anticipation at this stage that something (untoward) will happen, but we are careful and adequate force is deployed at the border,” he said. Meanwhile, in a major relief to Delhi-Ghaziabad commuters, the Delhi Traffic Police announced that National Highway (NH)- NH-9 and NH-24,passing through the Ghazipur border were reopened for traffic movement. Follow live updates here:‘Urging Centre with folded hands these are our people,’ says Kejriwal as he visits SinghuDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday visited Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last four weeks against the three agriculture laws passed by the Centre in September. The Punjab Academy of the Delhi government organised a kirtan durbar on Sunday at Singhu border. Kejriwal and Sisodia paid a visit to the musical event and were seated among the audience during the kirtan.Farmers camping at Delhi borders not for holiday, but to seek answers from govt: Hannan MollahFarmers camping at various Delhi borders are here not for a “holiday” but to seek answers from the Centre to their grievances, farmer leader Hannan Mollah said on Sunday as he criticised the government for a lack of response to their proposal for talks on December 29. Farmer groups protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws have proposed a meeting with the government at 11 am on December 29, but they are yet to receive any response from the government, he claimed. Previously, five rounds of talks between the farmer unions and the government have failed to break the deadlock.Protesters stay put at Delhi borders amid harsh weather conditionsWith the protests against the farm reforms completing over a month, thousands of famers stayed put at their protest sites near the national capital amid dropping temperatures. Security remained tight at the border points in Delhi and neighbouring areas with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri.Protesters use Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari to grow cropsProtesting farmers camping at the Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari were seen growing crops at the premises. “Since we have been sitting idle for a month during protests, we thought of growing onions as we can use it for our daily cooking. We will grow more crops on Burari ground,” a farmer told news agency ANI.  Delhi: Protesting farmers say they're using Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari to grow crops."Since we've been sitting idle for a month during protests, we thought of growing onions as we can use it for our daily cooking. We'll grow more crops on Burari ground," says a farmer. pic.twitter.com/hvNOHwVF31Rahul Gandhi tweets poem to slam Centre over farmers’ protestsCongress leader on Sunday hit out at the Centre over the ongoing agitation against the farm reforms by saying that farmers should keep walking and not be scared of the government. Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader tweeted a poem which was a modified version of Dwarkaprasad Maheshwari’s “Veer Tum Badhe Chalo.”  वीर तुम बढ़े चलोधीर तुम बढ़े चलोवॉटर गन की बौछार होया गीदड़ भभकी हज़ार होतुम निडर डरो नहीं तुम निडर डटो वहींवीर तुम बढ़े चलोअन्नदाता तुम बढ़े चलो! pic.twitter.com/MqsuS9QxEjBKU farmer leader receives threatening call, FIR registeredA senior police officer said that an FIR was registered on Saturday after a complaint was filed alleged that Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been participating in the ongoing stir received a death threat on his phone. The phone number mentioned in the complaint in under surveillance and efforts were in to identify the caller, the officer told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-dec-27-2020/story-w4qxvQtDhtvmJXRCW7IilN.html
28-12-2020||India||12 years, 50 victims: The making of a molester||In one corner of eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand lies the pilgrim hub of Chitrakoot, whose name translates as “the hill of many wonders.” Temples dot the banks of Mandakini river that flows through Chitrakoot, which finds a mention in the Hindu epic Ramayana as the place where Ram, his brother Lakshman and wife Sita lived for much of their 14 years of banishment. . Roads in the town of 70,000 people are narrow and auto-rickshaws, sometimes carrying as many as a dozen passengers, are the principal means of transport. Men and women line the streets, hawking wares spread on tarpaulin sheets. Incomes are low and monkeys are everywhere.In a corner of the town lies SDM colony, formerly an enclave of government officers that grew in the past decade as the district headquarters drew workers from the poorer hinterland. A narrow road just ahead of the bridge over Mandakini leads to the colony, home to roughly 100 lower-middle class families. Walk down a dusty, unpaved lane wide enough for a small car and you reach a pair of imposing black gates with faux gold engraving. They enclose a two-storey house whose first floor is unfinished. Inside, the rooms are separated by a long and dimly lit passage that leads to a courtyard in the back, and a place to house cattle.For the last eight years, the house was occupied by Ram Bhavan Singh, who worked as a junior engineer in the UP irrigation department and rented the place from a local doctor.Singh, 40, lived with his wife Durgawati and was known to the neighbours as a quiet man who stuck to his schedule: Leaving for office at 8am in his Bolero and coming back at 2pm for lunch. “His schedule was like clockwork,” said a neighbour on condition of anonymity.They only remember one thing vividly: Groups of poor children playing in front of his house, and him inviting them in. “I heard he gave them mobiles to play games and make TikTok videos,” said a second neighbour.On November 16, it became clear why. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested Singh for allegedly sexually abusing at least 50 children, a majority of them boys between five and 16, and filming and selling child sexual abuse material (CSAM) on the dark web to racketeers across the globe. It is by far the biggest child abuse scandal to hit UP and one of the largest organised child abuse rackets ever busted in India.“Nithari was a case of necrophilia or someone attracted to corpses; here we were onto someone preying on male children, and frankly no one thought of the scale it was on,” said a senior CBI official, referring to the 2006 serial murders in Noida. In conversation with 30-odd friends, teachers, local government, child protection and police officials, HT traced his decades-long journey of impunity, the many times he came close to getting caught and the toxic cocktail of new-age technology and old-school social power he wielded.THE BEGINNINGSingh was born in 1980 in Naraini, a small town famous for its rock sculptures. His father, Chunna Lal, was a mason of high repute and an expert in fashioning temple columns. He has two older brothers, Ram Kishore and Raja Bhaiyya, who joined his father’s profession. Singh was encouraged to study. “He never failed in any subject and kept clearing classes,” said the family doctor who didn’t want to be named. After finishing high school in 1998, Singh moved to Attara, a larger town, for college studies. After graduating, he started tutoring school students for extra cash while preparing for government exams. He also enrolled himself in a civil engineering course at a polytechnic in Banda, a much larger town an hour’s bus ride away.The first complaint against Singh came in 2008 from a student he was tutoring. The boy told his parents that Singh sexually abused him. Furious, the parents met Singh’s father. “Singh’s father managed to convince the family not to press charges, and he went on an overdrive to find a suitable match for his son,” said a close family friend of Singh’s, requesting anonymity. CBI confirmed the incident and said it was looking to convince the victim to join the investigation.In 2009, Singh married Durgawati and was appointed in the irrigation department. Singh’s wife remained at home, and he moved into a two-room tenement for Rs 6,000 close to his office. In 2010, there was a second complaint. “I got a complaint from a couple that their son was harassed by him. I asked him to leave and told them to inform the police; they never did,” said Kakkoo Singh, his then landlord.The next year, local officials said, there was another complaint. That, too, was not legally pursued, but pressure from neighbours forced Singh to move house.After this, relations between him and his father were strained. “He forced Singh to keep his wife with him in Chitrakoot,” said the family doctor cited above. Lal died in 2014, snapping Singh’s ties with the family. His brothers said he never visited the home after that and communication was minimal. “We led our separate lives,” said Ram Kishore.In the winter of 2012, Singh and his wife moved to their home in SDM Colony. Throughout his stint, Singh never asked for the government accommodation he was entitled to, said Santosh Kumar, an official at the irrigation department. The office of the executive engineer of Chitrakoot division, Arvind Kumar, confirmed this.THE HIDDEN WEBShortly after moving into the SDM Colony house, Singh began dabbling in the dark web, helped by some people the CBI is yet to charge. By most accounts, the dark web represents a large subset of the internet just like anything else we are familiar with: forums, blogs, shops. But there is one crucial difference: everything is anonymised so no one can be tracked, and therefore, nothing is indexed on search engines we are familiar with. Accessible through special browsers such as Tor, the dark web today is used by people who want to dodge surveillance. “The primary value of dark web is its anonymity. Typically you are given a link to a forum or group for your interest and you find more people there to take your business forward,” said Yash Kadakia, founder of ShadowMap, a digital risk management company that tracks the dark web.For more sensitive and illegal transactions, one needs three things: a personal introduction, a financial commitment and a strategy to win the trust of other criminals or consumers.“You have to do a lot of social engineering and win their trust by buying or selling something. This process often takes weeks and months,” said Ritesh Bhatia, a Mumbai-based cyber crime investigator.Investigators assume someone introduced Singh to the dark web, and he used his cache of CSAM to gain followers and entry into a more exclusive crime forum. “In many cases, we have seen these criminal activities starting on Facebook, telegram groups where CSAM is exchanged, and then someone suggesting a dark web forum,” said Ritesh Bhatia, a Mumbai-based cyber crime investigator.What further helped Singh, investigators think, was the lowered barrier to access the dark web. “In India, dark web has become incredibly easy to access. Adding someone on Telegram or any other chat app is about as easy as how to get on the dark web today. It’s as easy as installing any app on your phone,” explained Kadakia. LURING THE CHILDRENSingh developed a two-pronged modus operandi.The first was to target low-income families, luring children with gadgets and electronics, and paying off or pressurising their parents not to file a police complaint. A member of the government-appointed Child Welfare Committee (CWC) who spoke to the victims and their parents on behalf of CBI investigators said Singh first began preying on the children of a friend. He then moved on to young boys who played outside his house. “Those children visiting his house told that he had an expensive gaming console at his house. He would encourage the children from his locality to play games on this console, which he had in his room with a double bed,” said the CWC member, requesting anonymity. “He would often pay the children’s school fee and gave the parents money to keep a lid on his activities.”Singh made sure to rent houses near low-income neighbourhoods, said the investigating officer quoted above.HT spoke to two of Singh’s alleged victims, aged six and eight – one loves to play PUB-G and the other is a pro at making TikTok videos. They said they visited the house almost daily, and Singh’s wife showered kindness on them. “We always get the mobile he used to keep in the house for us; everyone of us played at least an hour a day,” said the older child.Their aunt, who takes care of them after their father died in a freak accident in 2017, said Singh would often visit their shack and watch the children bathing. Durgawati was with Singh whenever the children were in the house, she said.The second step was to leverage his position as a government official in a small town where a government car, and a permanent job are signs of power.Singh chose two sites he was overseeing as project manager to prey on the children of poor labourers engaged in construction work. At one of these spots, CBI identified two boys, 8 and 12, who live with their parents in a makeshift hut.The older brother said he recognised Singh as the one who brought a laptop with him and taught them to play video games and gave them a mobile phone, before inviting them to his house. He insisted they call him sahib, the boy added. Both irrigation projects assigned to Singh are running years behind schedule.ZEROING INIn September, a small, five-member unit of CBI was alerted about some CSAM of Indian origin floating on the dark web. An anonymous source directed the 13-month-old Online Child Sex Abuse Exploitation, Prevention and Investigation (OCSAE) to the videos – many of which were paywalled.In a month, the team found embedded geo-location on the videos and photos that helped them track the CSAM to Chitrakoot. Some other transactions listed a phone number registered to Singh and an address in Banda district. In a few of the videos, Singh’s face was partially visible.In the second week of October, the team reached Chitrakoot. They used cell phone numbers and IP addresses to triangulate Singh’s location, and identified him through the partial grabs from videos. “We didn’t know we were on the cusp of busting such an enormous case; we thought it was limited to 2-3 children,” said a second CBI official.With the help of local officials, CBI began reaching out to local children and identifying which of them appeared in the videos. Midnight knocks on the doors of many of Singh’s colleagues, and multiple interviews of his driver Abhay helped them gain more evidence. By then, the team had 100 videos, 679 pictures and testimonies of 25 alleged victims.On November 16, Singh was arrested under the Indian Penal Code, Information Technology Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Investigators found Rs 8.27 lakh in cash, 10 mobile phones, two laptops, six pen drives, six memory cards, one digital video recorder, a spy cam and sex toys. “The real scale emerged only when we reached out to the children,” said a third CBI official.CBI found 10 empty boxes of mobile phones in the house and is certain these were used to lure children. Singh drew a salary of around Rs 60,000 and also leased his car to the department for another Rs 22,000 – most of this income appears to have been used to buy gadgets and phones, said investigators.Legal experts say the proceedings in the case can set a precedent for child abuse cases in a country where a crime against a child is committed every four minutes, according to 2019 statistics of the National Crime Records Bureau. Singh also mirrors a trend seen among 90% of child sexual abuse perpetrators, according to the NCRB report – they are known to their victims.“We know that there is a problem in POCSO cases, that parents don’t like to reveal such complaints from children, for fear of a bad name. There is little reporting,” said Karnika Seth, a Supreme Court advocate and expert on cybersecurity and children.She pointed out that social media and rising internet penetration, along with poor digital literacy, had made it more easy for young children to be exploited. “This is problem especially in rural areas where communication and knowledge may be much less,” she added, pitching for training of the police and judiciary, secure and confidential dealing with children and counselling to mitigate harm.What investigators are still unclear on is the role of Durgawati – children confirmed she was present in the house when they visited but also describe her as a warm person. A local official said it was unlikely that over seven years, she wouldn’t have known what was going on. She has refused to leave the house in SDM Colony, but hasn’t stepped out since November. “I will speak about the case at the time and place of choosing,” she said. Singh’s lawyer Anurag Singh Patel said CBI’S charges were trumped up. “I ask what is his crime, where are the children he abused, where are their statements indicting him?” he said. “We will fight tooth and nail.”But CBI is confident. “CBI is searching his victims and the list is getting longer each day. They will all come to the court if need be,” said a member of the agency’s legal team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-years-50-victims-the-making-of-a-molester/story-wEsrnvcJxX67MywtS0dW0L.html
28-12-2020||India||One limb is good enough to shoot for the stars: Pooja Agarwal||It was New Year’s Eve the next day. The newly married woman, totally in love with her bright lipsticks and waist long hair had gone to New Delhi railway station to see off her husband. As she was walking on the platform, a crowd she had never harmed suddenly pushed her towards the railway track. Within seconds, Pooja Agarwal was crushed by a roaring train. Three of her limbs had to be amputated to save her life.It has been eight years to the accident. Pooja now sports a short flip haircut. On a bright winter morning, she meets us near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, flashing a brilliant smile. She tells us her day started at 4:30 am with yoga and exercise, and she is feeling quite energetic. In a few hours, she will leave for Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range in Tughlakabad to begin her shooting practice.Pooja Agarwal, 35, is a para shooter who currently ranks 14th in the world and 11th in Asia. “I want to win a medal for India at the Paralympics someday,” says Pooja, who won her first International medal at the World Shooting Para Sport World Cup in Al Ain, UAE in 2017, a silver for the 10m air pistol event. When the pandemic struck, Pooja had to stop training for a few months. Employed as a probationary officer in a bank, she was working from home. That’s when she came up with the idea of launching a Youtube channel that could help specialty-abled people do tasks that they thought were impossible. “I had learnt using my right hand for everything. So I decide to demonstrate through videos how someone who has just one hand can easily do everything from chopping vegetables to yoga,” says Pooja, as we settle down for a long chat. Pooja was 27 when the tragedy struck. After finishing Masters in Information Technology, Pooja was working as a lecturer in a college in Meerut. In December 2012, she had come to Delhi where her husband worked. She had been married for six months. After the train accident, Pooja was admitted in ISIC (Indian Spinal Injuries Centre). After the saving triple amputation, Puja came to her in-laws’ home. Her mother moved in with her to help her with daily chores. Soon, Pooja sensed a drastic change in the behaviour of her in-laws and husband. They became so indifferent towards her that she could no longer bear to live with them. Within months, her marriage fell apart. She separated from her husband and filed for divorce.Pooja moved into a rented accommodation in the city along with her mother. Confined in her room, she found it excruciating to carry out day to day activities. Pooja had to cut her waist long hair as it was becoming tough to manage. “I had learnt to tie perfect plaits as a kid…I loved long hair, so my mom had told me to learn making plaits to be independent. Now, once again, I had to be independent, so I had to cut my hair short,” she says with a tinge of pain.But instead of accepting that destiny had mercilessly written her off, she fought back. “The teacher in me gradually motivated me to move forward in life with whatever I was left with. I realised that I still had my right hand with me, so everything was only going to be right,” she says.Pooja started preparing for competitive exams and struggled to fit into her prosthetic limbs. Soon, she managed to walk without bleeding. She prepared for IBPS and cleared the exam. Pooja got a job in Allahabad bank as a Probationary Officer. “I badly needed a routine, a job and financial independence to get a grip on life,” she says. An athlete friend encouraged Pooja to get into sports. “I got to know that I could take part in para sports. I began with table tennis but soon lost interest. And then I took up shooting in 2016 and there was no looking back. I had found just the sport that kept me totally hooked,” she says. She borrowed shooting equipments and a shooting wheel chair from others to fulfil her dreams and made a place for herself in the sport. In the pandemic, her YouTube channel - Pooja Agarrwal PCreations, took shape. One of her school friends who lives in the US encouraged Pooja to shoot videos to help out so many others who could be facing challenges due to amputation. “I had no idea how to go about it. My mom who had never ever taken a photo before learnt how to record videos using the phone. Sometimes, I shot the videos myself and I also learnt how to edit them,” she says. Pooja’s videos show how the specially-abled can do most of their day-to-day tasks independently. How to exercise at home, fold clothes, chop onions and tomatoes, peel almonds, sew with one hand – there’s a lot that Pooja teaches people through her videos to make their lives easier. “One subscriber recently asked me to demonstrate how to shift from the wheelchair to the bed with ease. It feels great to be able to help out others,” she says.Every pain leaves you with a lesson that helps bring out the best in you, believes Pooja. “It’s for you to turn the mess into success. One you decide you won’t sink into gloom despite how unfair life has been to you, you see that so many doors open up for you. You just have to make a beginning,” she says. Pooja’s inspiring journey vividly exemplifies this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-limb-is-good-enough-to-shoot-for-the-stars-pooja-aggarwal/story-Vbz4BXKrrZDERnK8q8QEQP.html
28-12-2020||India||Addressing pre-Covid issues to be crucial for India’s recovery||The Covid-19 pandemic has infected at least 6 million people and killed over 395,000 across the world. It has also created a huge economic disruption. An April 2020 estimate by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said global gross domestic product (GDP) would contract by 3% in 2020. Even in 2009, the year after the global financial crisis, world GDP contracted by only 1.7%. The economic pain of the pandemic will be felt the world over. But it will play out differently. How it does will depend on three factors. First, the economic situation before the pandemic hit. Second, how the pandemic interacts with existing economic and social fault lines. And third, the policy response to the pandemic.What will be the pandemic’s impact on India? The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the Indian economy to contract in the current fiscal year. But given the recent release of GDP numbers for the quarter ending March 2020, a big-picture analysis may be needed. In a three-part data journalism series, of which this is the first, HT attempts to do exactly that. The first part will look at the economic situation before the pandemic and dwell on its nature and causes. The second will look at the immediate effects of the crisis and their macroeconomic consequences. The third part will argue that the existing policy response may not be enough. ALSO WATCH | Modi govt’s mega MSME boost: First step to self-reliant India?Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndia’s GDP growth has been declining since 2017-18. Such a prolonged slowdown is unprecedented in India . Why did this happen? Will this affect our ability to deal with the economic disruption caused by the pandemic? Any modern economy is a giant market. Everybody is a buyer or a seller. Workers sell their labour, businesses their products and services. Essential and non-essential spending decisions feed into each other. And everything is linked.Consider an economy made up of shirt sellers and hoteliers. If all shirt sellers do not take a vacation, the hotel industry will face a severe squeeze. If the hotel business enters bad times, its workers will not buy shirts. This will hurt the shirt sellers. If the crisis in the shirt and hotel industry is prolonged, it will lead to a fall in demand for sewing machines (used in making shirts) and bed linen (used in hotels). If left unaddressed, this will unleash a vicious cycle of sorts. This is what makes the role of the government important. So what should be done to prevent a cascading impact of shirt sellers’ decision to not take vacations? The answer depends on the nature of the problem confronting the shirt industry. Economists classify all such problems into two categories: demand side versus supply side, and structural versus cyclical.In the demand-supply binary, if all people who were buying shirts suffered a pay cut, or worse, lost their jobs, they would buy fewer or no shirts at all. This is a demand-side problem. Any resolution has to be focused on boosting the incomes of those who buy shirts.But if the shirt factory is using old machines and does not have enough money to buy modern ones; it cannot supply enough shirts to the shirt seller. This is a supply- side problem. What is needed in this case is cheap credit to make the modern machine affordable. It is important to get the intervention right. A problem of fewer shirts being produced cannot be solved by a government payout to shirt buyers. This will only lead to more competitive bidding for shirts. Shirt prices will go up further. Similarly, availability of cheap credit will not help if shirt buyers do not have money to buy shirts. The shirt factory will either not take credit, or accumulate more debt, as revenue remains stagnant. Then there is the structural vs cyclical aspect. A shirt seller might suffer a slowdown in sales during winters. The demand will revive once summer starts. The shirt seller might need some short-term credit during winters. However, if climate change were to lead to a prolonged winter, then annual shirt sales may suffer a permanent hit. Waiting for summer will not fix the problem. A short-term loan will only make matters worse.Why did India’s economy start slowing? At an event in December last year, chief economic advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian claimed that “the current (economic) slowdown is a lot more on the cyclical side”. We now have GDP data up to 2019-20. The Indian economy has been losing growth momentum for three consecutive years beginning 2017-18. GDP growth was 8.3% in 2016-17. It fell to 7% in 2017-18, 6.1% in 2018-19 and 4.2% in 2019-20. The economy has never lost growth momentum for three consecutive years since 1991-92. And it has happened only twice before. Between 1989-90 and 1991-92, and before that from 1970-71 to 1972-73. The year 1990-91 saw massive disruptions due to the first Gulf War. And 1971 was the year of the Bangladesh war. These are extraordinary shocks. To be sure, the Covid-19 pandemic did disrupt economic activity towards the end of the last quarter of 2019-20. However, even earlier estimates had projected slower growth for the year than 2018-19. That India’s growth momentum slowed for three years without an external shock, raises doubts on the validity of claims of a cyclical slowdown. (See Chart 1)  The government’s policy response until 2019-20 was largely a supply-side response. In September 2019, the government slashed corporate tax rates. This was expected to promote investment and boost the economy. RBI has mostly either reduced interest rates or kept them stable. This was expected to reduce the cost of capital and promote investment. The investment component of the GDP, gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), has been contracting for three consecutive quarters now. A comparison of capacity utilisation levels with GFCF shows why. Capacity utilisation levels in industry have been significantly lower since the last decade. They touched an all-time low in December 2019, the latest period for which data is available. Investment demand follows capacity utilisation levels. Firms will only invest if they can utilise the existing capacity. The trend in the last few years shows that businesses did try to invest even when capacity utilisation levels were low. Such investments have proved to be unwise. Demand did not grow and capacity utilization levels plummeted further. The fact that core (non-food, non-fuel) inflation has been slowing during this period, suggests that even with falling capacity utilisation, there is no scarcity of goods in the market. (See Chart 2) That misplaced optimism in investing might have extracted a cost from companies. In a paper published in March in the Economic and Political Weekly, Zico Dasgupta from Azim Premji University has highlighted the deteriorating financial health of Indian companies. Dasgupta used the Centre for Monitoring Economy’s Prowess database to calculate interest coverage ratio (ICR) for India’s non-financial firms. ICR is the ratio of a company’s profits and interest payments. If profits are not enough to even cover interest payments, ICR falls below one. In December 2019, this ratio was less than one for almost a fourth of India’s listed non-financial firms. The corresponding proportion, till March 2013, was less than 10%. The paper argues that the current policy regime has been trying to relax the solvency condition of firms through various measures such as corporate tax cuts and interest rate reductions.Meanwhile, consumer sentiment seems to be weakening, dragging down demand. RBI’s consumer confidence surveys show that current perceptions on income and non-essential spending have collapsed in the recent period. (See Chart 3) All this suggests that the Indian economy was likely facing a demand-driven, perhaps even structural slowdown before the pandemic. The policy response most likely misjudged it for a cyclical supply-side problem. To be sure, RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee pointed to weak demand as a problem in its resolutions last year. Unfortunately, the only policy tool available to the committee, interest rate cuts, can do little to boost demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/addressing-pre-covid-issues-to-be-crucial-for-india-s-recovery/story-KA18SAGU9Uvt0X4pCqAi6H.html
