29-12-2020||India||TWo children among six with new Covid strain||Two of the six people in India who were confirmed on Tuesday to have been infected with the new coronavirus variant that originated in the UK are children, a two-year-old girl and a six-year-old girl, reinforcing concerns that the mutation may have made the Sars-Cov-2 more adept at infecting the young, who till now have been less susceptible to the virus. The new variant of the coronavirus – called VOC-202012/01 – has been established by experts in the UK to be more transmissible and, although it does not seem to cause more severe disease, more cases could mean more number of people who require hospitalisations. The first clues that these could also have an implication for children were disclosed by authorities in UK. “There is a hint that it has a higher propensity to infect children,” said Neil Ferguson, a professor and infectious disease epidemiologist at Imperial College London and also a member of the UK government’s New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG), on December 21.The variant carries 17 changes from the virus that first began spreading from Wuhan last year, including a change known as N501Y, which enhances the pathogen’s ability to bind to host cells. The virus uses a doorway called ACE-2 receptors through which it enters cells and N501Y is believed to make the spike protein more capable of binding to ACE-2.Wendy Barclay, also from Nervtag and Imperial College London, said the mutations to the virus appeared to be making it easier to walk through these doorways. “Therefore children are equally susceptible, perhaps, to this virus as adults,” she said, according to BBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-children-among-six-with-new-covid-strain/story-wMWXlfqhc1x5CYma2ZYwoJ.html
29-12-2020||India||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan nominated to board of vaccine alliance GAVI||Union minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday was nominated by the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) as a board member.“Dr Harsh Vardhan will be representing the South East Area Regional Office (SEARO)/Western Pacific Regional Office (WPRO) constituency on the GAVI Board. The seat is currently held by Mr MyintHtwe of Myanmar. Dr Harsh Vardhan will be representing India from 1st January 2021 until 31st December 2023,” Union health ministry said in a statement.GAVI is an international organisation that was created in the year 2000 to improve access to new and underused vaccines for numerous vaccine-preventable diseases for children who live in the world’s poorest countries.The GAVI Board normally meets twice a year in June and November or December and holds an annual retreat, normally in March or April. All these meetings are normally attended in person.Also read: ‘Chinese air force heavily deployed in Ladakh theatre in support of PLA’ - IAF chiefThe GAVI board is responsible for strategic direction and policy-making oversees the operations of the Vaccine Alliance and monitors programme implementation.With membership drawn from a range of partner organisations, as well as experts from the private sector, the board provides a forum for balanced strategic decision-making, innovation and partner collaboration.GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance as part of its mission to save lives, reduce poverty and protect the world against the threat of epidemics, has helped vaccinate more than 822 million children in the world’s poorest countries, preventing more than 14 million future deaths.Dr NgoziOkonjo-lweala currently serves as chair of the GAVI Alliance Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-nominated-to-the-board-of-vaccine-alliance-gavi/story-7N3z2Ti7rPuz3DMIcZiVcL.html
29-12-2020||India||TN man gets double death penalty for rape, murder of 7-year-old girl||A Mahila court in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district on Tuesday awarded a double death sentence to a 25-year-old man, Samuel alias Raja for the rape and murder of a 7-year-old Dalit girl in June.The court awarded death penalty to the convict on charges of aggravated penetrative sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) 2012 and section 302 (murder) under the Indian Penal Code. He was also awarded life imprisonment for kidnap and murder under the scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. “He has been lodged in the Trichy prison,” said Annadurai, the liaising police officer to the court for the case. “Investigations were completed in three months after the case was registered.”On June 30, Raja, a flower seller who was the girl’s neighbour in Embal village of Pudukkottai district had taken her to an isolated spot and committed the crime. The girl’s body was found the following day with injuries to her face. The district police arrested Raja on July 2 and began investigations into the case.Pattali Makkal Katchi founder S Ramadoss tweeted that his party welcomed the verdict. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami in July had announced a compensation of Rs five-lakh to be given to the girl’s parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-man-gets-double-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-of-7-year-old-girl/story-3n8yX6Pl6FVtZhObBEL0aM.html
29-12-2020||India||Heavy China air force presence in Ladakh: IAF chief||NEW DELHI: Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday said that China had heavily deployed the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) to support its army in the Ladakh theatre along with a large number of radars and missiles, even as he listed the possible Chinese objectives for its actions om the northern border. The air chief said the likely reasons for Chinese actions could include a planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theatre forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach. At an event organized by the Vivekananda International Foundation, Bhadauria said China’s aim could also possibly be fine-tuning its strategy to enhance its military technologies and recognize and fill gaps to get its forces to synergise in the structures the Chinese military has created over the last two decades. “In any case, all of the above (possible objectives) appear to have happened irrespective of what was the starting objective. It could also be a totally military-dominated misadventure that escalated given the rapid decrease in trust deficit in post-Covid secenario… and possibly due to the loss of face (for the Chinese), the action later continued to escalate,” Bhadauria said. “The important issue is that we recognize what they (China) have really achieved and whatever four or five points I mentioned have been actioned in the real sense,” the Indian Air Force chief said. Responding to a question, he said the frontier PLAAF was deployed fully to support the Chinese army and it also had a large presence in the “second tier.” “Their deployment has been very strong. We have taken every action that we were required to take and cater to such situation and be sure that we will handle it,” Bhadauria said. The IAF chief said that the air force’s robust actions in the Ladakh theatre had “stopped the Chinese in their tracks and they remained there.” He said India’s most important national security challenge was to understand China, its possible game plan and the deepening and evolving Sino-Pakistan relationship. “We are aware that China’s main aspirations are clearly on the global front and regional domination is part of the route to global leadership. Any serious India-China conflict is not good for China at the global front. If Chinese aspirations are global, then it does not suit their grand plans and therefore is important to understand what could be their possible objectives for their actions in the north (Ladakh sector),” he said. He said the evolving uncertainties and instability on the global geopolitical front provided China with a chance to demonstrate its growing power and also revealed the inadequate contribution of major powers to global security. He said budgetary constraints were an issue for the military. “While we have our needs, we have factored in the current constraints and we are aware that it will take a while for the economy to get back and for us to have the kind of budget we had earlier…We can’t expect we will have some unlimited budget even with the security scenario in the north. The current budget will not be a constraint for us in the north,” he said. He said Sukhoi-30 fighter jets equipped with the BrahMos missile had significantly increased the reach of the air force and no territory in the so-called string of pearls area was out of the IAF’s reach. China’s string of pearls refers to strategic attempts to surround India with facilities that can be upgraded to military bases.On the Ayni airbase in Tajikistan that gives India a strategic footprint in central Asia, the IAF chief said: “It’s an area that gave us a huge capability in terms of being able to operate from there…it has resulted in not only a lot of goodwill but also has a lot of strategic importance and it is going well.” On the possibility of joint air exercises between the air forces of India, the United States, Australia and Japan (their navies carry out the Malabar drill), the IAF chief said: “Quad as an execution hasn’t happened so far for the air forces but as a plan of action, it is possible that it will come up soon. At the trilateral level, exercises have happened….between air forces of two Quad countries and observers from a third.” China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-china-air-force-presence-in-ladakh-iaf-chief/story-dkmdycA7E3qAtko50xc6kJ.html
29-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee, Suvendu Adhikari face off at back-to-back mega rallies||Political heat in West Bengal soared on a cold December day on Tuesday when Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee and her follower-turned -challenger Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s newest heavyweight entrant in the poll-bound state, held back-to-back rallies in three districts where lakhs millions turned up.Adhikari addressed a Bajrang Dal rally at Nandigram in East Midnapore district, his home turf, in the morning and a second one at Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district, 150 km away, in the evening. He unleashed a scathing attack on the chief minister and her nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and called for their ouster in the interest of Bengal. In a significant move, Adhikari declared at the second rally that members of his family will soon join the BJP and said he will make the lotus (the BJP’s symbol) bloom in the Banerjee family as well. “You (Abhishek) asked at a recent rally whether I feel ashamed to live in a house where the other members are still with the ruling party. Bhaipo (nephew) let me tell you that the lotus will bloom in my home. Wait for Ram Navami and Basanti Puja. And, I will enter your home too. The lotus will bloom in your home. Mark my words,” said Adhikari. Amid loud applause, Adhikari spoke in Hindi and referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s famous quote on hitting Pakistan inside its territory after the Pulwama terror attack. “Ghar main ghus ke maar diya,” he said. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are the TMC’s Lok Sabha members from Kanthi and Tamluk constituencies respectively. Both of them refused to comment on Adhikari’s remark. The family’s youngest son, Soumendu, who headed the Kanthi municipality, was removed from the post by the government on Tuesday evening. In between the two BJP rallies, Mamata Banerjee led a grand roadshow and addressed a rally in Birbhum district’s Bolpur town, where Union minister Amit Shah led a roadshow on December 20, a day after welcoming Adhikari into the BJP. Reiterating that the BJP is a party of “outsiders,” she alleged that Visva-Bharati, Bengal’s only Central university that Rabindranath Tagore had set up in Bolpur, has turned into a centre of dirty politics. The Prime Minister is the de-facto chancellor of Visva-Bharati and he virtually addressed the institution’s centenary celebration programme last week. Shah also visited Visva-Bharati on December 20 and spent time in the rooms used by Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi, who was a visitor. Visva-Bharati has been in the news for several months over vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s attempts to set up a security zone around the open-air campus. The authorities hit the headlines last week for accusing Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen of illegally occupying some land. Banerjee has extended her support to Sen, saying he has become a target for speaking against the BJP. Sen’s maternal grandfather, educationist and writer Acharya Kshitimohan Sen, was a follower of Tagore and taught at the university since its inception in 1921. “Visva-Bharati has become the centre of dirty politics over blind religious faith. The dirty politics has been imported. Those who are importing this hatred do not know the Hindu religion,” said Banerjee. “The vice-chancellor is a marked stooge of the BJP. Didn’t they (the Centre) find any other person for the post? Why are BJP leaders visiting Visva-Bharati so frequently? What business do they have on campus? I do not do politics on Calcutta University campus,” said Banerjee. Her statement came amid reports that BJP national president J P Nadda may visit Bengal on January 9 and visit Bolpur. Without naming Adhikari, the chief minister alleged that the seven TMC legislators who joined the BJP on December 19, were purchased. “You can spend money and buy a few legislators but you cannot purchase Bengal. Win 30 seats if you can. TMC will fight till the end and win the election,” said Banerjee, indirectly hitting out at Shah who has declared that his party will win more than 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats in the polls due in about five months. In a bid to strike a chord with the masses, Banerjee drew a connection between the 2021 elections and the martyrs’ day the TMC observes on February 21. “Ekush (21 in Bangla) will show the way. Ekush will liberate Bengal,” she said. In a veiled reference to Modi, who has grown his beard and hair, Mamata Banerjee tried to mock the Prime Minister at the olpur rally. “One or two of the leaders coming to Bengal are looking like Rabindranath Tagore,” she said.At Adhikari’s morning rally, Banerjee drew flak for cancelling her scheduled rally at Nandigram on January 7. Nandigram, where a three-year-long violent struggle against acquisition of farm land for industry played a key role in helping Banerjee oust the Left Front government in 2011, was the assembly constituency of former minister Adhikari till he resigned from the state assembly. “Those who talked of holding a rally in Nandigram have suddenly vanished. But I keep my word. I will hold a rally on January 8 and there will be more than one lakh people,” Adhikari said. The reason TMC leaders cited on Monday for cancelling Banerjee’s January 7 rally was that Akhil Giri, the legislator from the district’s Ramnagar constituency and the event’s organiser, had tested positive for Covid-19. Reacting to Adhikari’s statement that his family will join the BJP, Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member, said, “It will not make any difference to the TMC. We successfully held a rally in Kanthi, their hometown, last week without anyone from the Adhikari family.” The BJP rally at Barrackpore was attended the local Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh, BJP’s youth front president and Lok Sabha member Saumitra Khan and Union minister of state Babul Supriyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-suvendu-adhikari-face-off-at-back-to-back-mega-rallies/story-BkkuCahZuTdsrfoIJlyg5H.html
29-12-2020||India||Vardhan nominated to board of Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has been nominated by the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) as a member on its board, according to an official statement on Tuesday.The GAVI Board is responsible for strategic direction and policy-making, oversees the operations of the Vaccine Alliance and monitors programme implementation.Vardhan will be representing the South East Area Regional Office (SEARO)/Western Pacific Regional Office (WPRO) constituency on the GAVI Board. The seat is currently held by Myint Htwe of Myanmar, the Union Health Ministry said in its statement.The Union health minister will be representing India at the board from January 1, 2021, until December 31, 2023, it said.The board normally meets twice a year in June and November-December and holds an annual retreat, generally in March or April. All these meetings are normally attended in-person.With membership drawn from a range of partner organisations as well as experts from the private sector, the board provides a forum for balanced strategic decision-making, innovation and partner collaboration, the statement said.GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance as part of its mission to save lives, reduce poverty and protect the world against the threat of epidemics, has helped vaccinate more than 822 million children in the world’s poorest countries, preventing more than 14 million future deaths.Dr Ngozi Okonjo-lweala presently serves as Chair of the GAVI Alliance Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vardhan-nominated-to-board-of-global-alliance-for-vaccines-and-immunisation/story-CzBFNvKTAnuCIm4B9y7EsM.html
29-12-2020||India||Mumbai records lowest Covid-19 deaths since May, toll rises to 11,094||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 537 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and six related deaths, the lowest single-day fatalities since May, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Mumbai had reported five Covid-19 related fatalities on May 1 and the city had seen seven deaths on a single day earlier this month.The civic body’s data showed that the tally of Covid-19 cases in the capital of Maharashtra mounted to 292,008 and its death toll rose to 11,094. India’s financial capital has reported less than 600 cases of the coronavirus disease for the fifth day in a row even as 486 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, BMC said.Also read | 12 Maharashtra cities and districts record 5 or less Covid cases on MondayAccording to the data, the number of recovered people increased to 2,71,870, around 93 per cent of the tally, with 486 more people getting discharged from hospitals. The city has 8,186 active Covid-19 cases.The civic body said that Mumbai has a Covid-19 doubling rate of 365 days, while the growth rate is 0.21 per cent. It also said that with 13,860 more Covid-19 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the number of samples examined so far increased to 2,325,363. Also read | Mumbai civic body turns to corporators for help in finding volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trialThe BMC data also showed that the city has 290 containment zones and 2,561 sealed buildings at present. The civic body seals a building or declares a containment zone after one or more patients from there test positive for the viral infection.Also read | UK Covid-19 variant reaches India, govt rushes to control outbreak: All you need to knowThe civic body also said that schools and colleges in the city will not reopen till January 15, 2021. BMC said in a fresh circular on Tuesday that it has decided to keep all government and private schools and colleges closed till January 15 due to the second wave of Covid-19 in other countries and the situation in some states in the country. BMC had decided to keep schools and colleges closed till December 31.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-lowest-covid-19-deaths-since-may-toll-rises-to-11-094/story-8Cqf0Eo0m2nIYjYuZvtcaM.html
29-12-2020||India||KCR announces salary hike for over 9 lakh govt employees, raises retirement age||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday announced an increase in salaries of all the state government employees as per the Pay Revision Commission recommendations and also raised their retirement age from existing 58 years. The new pay scales and retirement age will be decided soon.An official statement from the chief minister’s office said that Rao also decided to fill the backlog of vacancies in all government departments soon. KCR, as the chief minister is known, described the decisions as New Year gifts to the employees. The statement said the chief minister has appointed an official committee led by chief secretary Somesh Kumar and comprising principal secretary (finance) K Ramakrishna Rao and principal secretary, water resources development Rajat Kumar as members, to work out the modalities for implementation of these decisions. In the first week of January, the committee will study the pay revision commission’s (PRC) report. In the second week, the committee will meet representatives of employees’ unions. “Based on the discussions, the committee will recommend to the government a percentage of salary hike, extent of enhancement in retirement age of employees, revision of service rules, revised policy for promotions and strategy to be adopted to overcome legal problems for implementing zonal system etc. Later, the state cabinet would meet and take the final decisions,” the official statement said. The chief minister directed that the salary hike be extended to all the government employees, grant-in-aid employees, work-charged employees, daily wages employees, full time contingent employees, part-time contingent employees and pensioners among others. “In all, the salary hike would benefit 9,36,976 employees. If need be, the financial burden on the Telangana state road transport corporation (TSRTC) due to salary hike would also be borne by the state government,” the official note, quoting the chief minister said. The CM also declared that a recruitment drive would be launched in February after identifying all the vacant posts in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-announces-salary-hike-for-over-9-lakh-govt-employees-raises-retirement-age/story-tWWWJc1KsOTKJsQkPMypjJ.html
29-12-2020||India||INS Kiltan reaches Cambodia with 15 tonnes relief material for flood victims||Indian Naval Ship (INS) Kiltan reached the Sihanoukville Port in Cambodia on Tuesday with 15 tonnes of disaster relief items for the flood-affected people of the country, the Defence Ministry here said.Around 8 lakh people have been affected and at least 42 people have died in Cambodia due to floods that ravaged the region during October and November.The Defence Ministry said the disaster relief items would be handed over to Cambodia’s National Disaster Management Committee (NDMC).“The current visit (of INS Kiltan) seeks to fortify the bilateral cooperation between the two countries and contribute towards security and stability in the region,” the ministry said.This operation of INS Kiltan is part of Mission Sagar-III under which humanitarian assistance and disaster relief is being provided to friendly foreign countries during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the ministry added.Mission Sagar-III reiterates India’s position as a dependable partner, and the Indian Navy as the preferred security partner and first responder, it said.“INS Kiltan arrived at Sihanoukville Port, Cambodia on 29 December 2020 as part of ongoing Mission Sagar-III,” the ministry said. This assistance is reflective of the deep people-to-people connection between the two friendly countries, the ministry noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-kiltan-reaches-cambodia-with-15-tonnes-relief-material-for-flood-victims/story-WPs0as392Yo1zgCVRrMUmN.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Chinese air force heavily deployed in Ladakh theatre in support of PLA’: IAF chief||Indian Air Force Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday said that China has heavily deployed the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) to support its army in the Ladakh theatre along with a large number of radars and missiles, even as he listed out the possible Chinese objectives for its actions at the northern border. The air chief said the likely reasons for China’s actions along India’s northern borders could include planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theater forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach. Speaking at an event organised by the Vivekananda International Foundation, Bhadauria said China’s aim could also possibly be fine-tuning its strategy to enhance its military technologies and recognize and fill gaps to get its forces to synergise the structures the Chinese military has created over the last two decades. Also read: New variant of Sars-Cov-2 not impediment to vaccine development, says CCMB“In any case, all of the above (possible objectives) appear to have happened irrespective of what was the starting objective. It could also be a totally military-dominated misadventure that escalated given the rapid decrease in trust deficit in post-Covid scenario… and possibly due to the loss of face (for the Chinese), the action later continued to escalate,” Bhadauria said. “The important issue is that we recognize what they (China) have really achieved and whatever four or five points I mentioned have been actioned in the real sense,” the IAF chief said. Responding to a question, he said the frontier People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) was deployed fully to support the Chinese army and it also had a large presence in the “second tier.” “Their deployment has been very strong. We have taken every action that we were required to take and cater to such situation and be sure that we will handle it,” Bhadauria said. The IAF chief said that the air force’s robust actions in the Ladakh theatre had “stopped the Chinese in their tracks and they remained there.” He said India’s most important national security challenge was to understand China, its possible game plan and the deepening and evolving Sino-Pak relationship. “We are aware that China’s main aspirations are clearly on the global front and regional domination is part of the route to global leadership. Any serious India-China conflict is not good for China at the global front. If Chinese aspirations are global, then it does not suit their grand plans and therefore it is important to understand what could be their possible objectives for their actions in the north (Ladakh sector),” he said. He said the evolving uncertainties and instability at the global geopolitical front provided China with a chance to demonstrate its growing power and also revealed the inadequate contribution of major powers to global security. He said budgetary constraint was an issue for the military. “While we have our needs, we have factored in the current constraints and we are aware that it will take a while for the economy to get back and for us to have the kind of budget we had earlier… We can’t expect we will have some unlimited budget even with the security scenario in the north. The current budget will not be a constraint for us in the north,” he said. Also read: RJD tries to lure Nitish Kumar as PM candidate, JD (U) says it is rubbishHe said Sukhoi-30 fighter jets equipped with the BrahMos missile had significantly increased the reach of the air force and no territory in the so-called ‘string of pearls’ area was out of the IAF’s reach. China’s ‘string of pearls’ refers to strategic attempts to surround India with facilities that can be upgraded to military bases.On the Ayni airbase in Tajikistan that gives India a strategic footprint in central Asia, the IAF chief said, “It’s an area that gave us a huge capability in terms of being able to operate from there… it has resulted in not only a lot of goodwill but also has a lot of strategic importance and it is going well.” On the possibility of joint air exercises between the air forces of India, the United States, Australia and Japan (their navies carry out the Malabar drill), the IAF chief said, “The Quad as an execution hasn’t happened so far for the air forces but as a plan of action, it is possible that it will come up soon. At the trilateral level, exercises have happened… between air forces of two Quad countries and observers from a third.” China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-air-force-heavily-deployed-in-ladakh-theatre-in-support-of-pla-iaf-chief/story-duR2XbH4hNKlfGAgl9RwhN.html
29-12-2020||India||Gujarat govt announces new solar power policy||The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced a new solar power policy comprising provisions to encourage small and medium scale solar projects on residential, commercial and industrial premises.Under the new policy, the state government has scrapped the condition that the installed capacity of a solar project needs to be 50% of the sanction load or contract demand.Now, an individual or industry can produce solar power in their premises as per their requirements and without any limit on the capacity, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said, while unveiling the “Gujarat Solar Power Policy 2021”.The policy will remain in effect for five years and solar projects, which come up during this period will be eligible for various benefits for a period of 25 years, a government release about the policy stated.“Under this policy, people can even give their terraces or premises to other developers on lease and earn an income on it. With no limit on the installed capacity, industries can produce more solar power and bring down their overall production cost,” Rupani said.This policy will make Made in Gujarat products more competitive globally, he said.To encourage people to opt for solar panels, the state government has also announced that additional electricity from roof-top residential projects and captive MSME units will be purchased at Rs 2.25 per unit for a period of five years, it was stated.Moreover, a group of industries can also come together to set up a captive solar project at one place and distribute power as per their share in the investment, state energy minister Saurabh Patel said.At present, solar project developers need to pay a security deposit of Rs 25 lakh for each megawatt of installed capacity to distribution companies under the Power Purchase Agreement, he said.Under the new policy, the deposit amount has been slashed to just Rs 5 lakhs for a megawatt, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-announces-new-solar-power-policy/story-MAPUUeMI1lKlHNZYfSUCHN.html
29-12-2020||India||Cong asks Nitish Kumar to intervene as doctors’ strike hits health services||After former chief minister and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) Jitan Ram Manjhi’s appeal, the Congress party too asked Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to intervene and end the junior doctors’ strike that entered its seventh day on Tuesday.The health services in all the nine medical colleges and hospitals across the state continued to be badly hit due to the strike.About 1,000 junior doctors are demanding a raise in monthly stipend for PG courses to Rs 80,000, Rs 85,000 and Rs 90,000 in the first, second and third year respectively. At present, the junior doctors get monthly stipends of Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000 and Rs 60,000 respectively.The Junior Doctors Association (JDA), Bihar claims that the government while revising the stipends on May 9, 2017, had agreed for a revision every three years.While justifying the demand of the junior doctors, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha said the inflation rate had risen exorbitantly during the NDA regime, so the doctors demand was reasonable seeing the rising expenses.“Nitish Kumar should get a study conducted of the stipend paid to junior doctors in neighbouring states and pay them accordingly. The state government should take urgent steps to end the strike, because of which thousands of people have been suffering,” Jha said.Manjhi on Monday had appealed to the chief minister and health minister Mangal Pandey to intervene and end the strike of junior doctors.Meanwhile at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), patients have vacated most of the wards, while many, in absence of enough financial resources, preferred to stay outside the hospital buildings. The patients complained that the claim of the state government that senior doctors would take charge seems to be false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-asks-nitish-kumar-to-intervene-as-doctors-strike-hits-health-services/story-RIgPFJBOhF8O773LHs0pxL.html
29-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mamata says BJP using Visva Bharati for dirty politics and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata says BJP using Visva Bharati for dirty politicsTrinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a grand rally in Bolpur in Bengal’s Birbhum district, alleging that Visva-Bharati, Bengal’s only Central university that Rabindranath Tagore had set up in the town, has turned into a centre of dirty politics. Read more‘Uttarakhand aims to certify 31% of agricultural land as organic in 2021’: MinisterThe Uttarakhand government has a target to certify 31% of the total agricultural land as organic in 2021 to expand the area under organic farming, said state agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal on Tuesday in Dehradun. Read moreIndian Railways completes speed trial of Vistadome coachIndian Railways has successfully completed the 180kmph trial run of the new Vistadome tourist coaches, minister of railways Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. Goyal shared pictures of the luxurious coach, manufactured by the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai, on Twitter. Read moreStrong earthquake strikes Croatia: Here’s what we know so farA second strong earthquake hit Croatia on Tuesday, in as many days, damaging buildings and prompting authorities in Slovenia to shut down a nuclear power plant. The temblor was felt throughout the country and in neighbouring Serbia and Bosnia. It even was felt as far away as Graz in southern Austria, the Associated Press cited the Austria Press Agency as reporting. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘191, 195 and 200, that’s not batting in Test cricket,’ Ricky Ponting slams Australia after MCG defeatRicky Ponting feels Australia’s defeat to India mostly stems from their batting fragility, with the former captain believing that home team needs plenty of areas to tick if they are to have a chance of winning the Test series. Read moreApple AirPods Max arrive in ‘pure gold’ variant, cost ₹79.25 lakhApple released the AirPods Max headphones earlier this month at a price of $549 or ₹59,900 in India. If that figure isn’t hefty enough for you, here’s another: $108,000. Read more Charu Asopa addresses sis-in-law Sushmita Sen’s boyfriend Rohman Shawl as ‘jiju’ at Christmas party in Dubai. WatchActor Sushmita Sen has been dating model Rohman Shawl for a while now and their fans keep asking them to tie the knot. Looks like even their family may want the same for them. Read moreMasaba Gupta tries aerial Yoga for the first time to cure back injury and not be ‘nazuk’, here are its benefitsAs the Covid-19 lockdowns slowed our rat race down, many were seen finally prioritising their health and Masaba Gupta was no different. If you are looking out for some workout motivation to make you hit the grind in the New Year 2021, the ‘Queen of Prints’ has loads to share as she recently added Inverted Natarajasan aka Dancers Pose of aerial Yoga to her fitness regime. Read more5th grader’s 2010 prediction for how 2020 will be goes viral. Here’s what it isIt is safe to say that 2020 has been an unprecedented year. The past 12 months have panned out very differently than what many would have hoped for or even expected. More specifically, the year turned out to be almost the exact opposite of what this particular 5th grader, named Kevin Singh, predicted. Now, a quote stating Singh’s forecast for 2020 from his 2010 yearbook has gone viral on the Internet. Reading it may leave you with mixed emotions. Read moreWatch: Captain Rahane Vs captain Kohli: Ravi Shastri explains differenceIndian cricket team’s head coach Ravi Shastri has said that the knock played by Ajinkya Rahane in the 1st innings of the 2nd test was the turning point of the match. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-says-bjp-using-visva-bharati-for-dirty-politics-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RwRAtRaRAYTfhJRhFysVYK.html
29-12-2020||India||RJD tries to lure Nitish Kumar as PM candidate, JD (U) says it is rubbish||Trying to leverage the acrimony between the BJP and JD (U) after six of the latter’s MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh defected to the saffron party, the main opposition in Bihar, the RJD, has tried to lure Nitish Kumar in an effort to form the government in the state.The party has offered to project Kumar as Prime Ministerial candidate for 2024 Lok Sabha polls provided he hands over the reins of Bihar to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was the Mahaghatbandhan (Grand Alliance) chief ministerial candidate in the recently concluded assembly election.The JD (U) has rejected the idea by terming it as “rubbish.”Senior RJD leaders, Uday Narain Chowdhary, a former Speaker and Vijay Prakash while floating this idea said, “Nitish Kumar will be projected as well as supported as PM candidate of opposition parties.”Chowdhary, however, put a pre-condition for that. “Nitish Kumar should back Tejashwi as CM of Bihar,” he said, while talking to journalists. The former’s Speaker suggestion was backed by another party leader Vijay Prakash, who suggested that Kumar should go to Delhi and make way for Tejashwi in the state.The RJD’s offer, which came amid the bitterness between BJP and JD (U) after the defections in Arunachal Pradesh, shows that the main opposition party has not stopped its effort to form government in the state. The offer was, however, rejected by both the alliance partners – JD (U) and the BJP.“This shows their dejection. They have not been able to digest their defeat yet. The verdict has dashed their dreams. They are talking rubbish,” said JD (U) state president Bashistha Narain Singh and advised the RJD to wait till 2025 and make a fresh effort.The BJP called it daydreaming by the RJD. “Chowdhary’s proposal is a joke. They are daydreaming. The RJD should introspect on its relationship with the Congress,” said BJP’s spokesperson Nikhil Anand.The Congress too called it a non-serious offer. “Is this the party’s official line? This is an uncalled for and a non-serious talk,” said Congress leader Premchandra Mishra. “The question of projecting Kumar as PM candidate does not arise. We have Rahul Gandhi as our candidate. Moreover, as long as Kumar is in NDA, the question of such talks doesn’t arise,” he said.Nitish Kumar had forged an alliance with the RJD in 2015 and returned to power with a thumping majority. However, mid-way, he walked out of the GA and formed a government with the BJP’s support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-tries-to-lure-nitish-kumar-as-pm-candidate-jd-u-says-it-is-rubbish/story-rZI6V1blXtCKmaoJZxTxgI.html
29-12-2020||India||Contagious variant of Covid-19 found in Andhra woman who returned from UK||A 47-year-old woman, who returned to Rajamahendravaram in Andhra Pradesh on December 23, was found to have contracted the new mutated strain of coronavirus but the state health department maintained that there was no spread of the fresh strain in AP. Of the 12 UK-returned passengers who tested positive for Covid-19, only the woman had the new strain, state Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said, citing a report of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad. “Her son tested negative while another person who came in contact with her also did not contract any virus,” Bhaskar said in a release.The woman, who returned to India on December 21, managed to give the slip to authorities in New Delhi and reach AP by train but was picked up from Rajamahendravaram and admitted to a hospital along with her son. Eight passengers who travelled by the same first AC coach on AP Express, as the UK-returned woman, from New Delhi to Visakhapatnam had tested negative for Covid-19. Health authorities conducted RT-PCR tests on these passengers, including two children, upon their arrival in Visakhapatnam as they shared the coach in which the woman travelled after testing positive for coronavirus, though she was found to be asymptomatic. The Health Commissioner said here on Tuesday that there was no trace of the new UK strain’s spread in the state. “We are constantly monitoring the situation and there is no need to panic.I appeal to people not to believe in rumours,” the Commissioner added. Bhaskar said 1,423 peoople came to the state from the UK in recent days and 1,406 of them have been traced. RT-PCR tests revealed that 12 had tested positive for Covid-19. Also, 12 out of 6,364 of the UK returnees primary contacts also tested positive for the infection. “We have sent all these samples for genomic examination to the CCMB in Hyderabad.We are awaiting the results of 23 samples,” the Health Commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contagious-variant-of-covid-19-found-in-andhra-woman-who-returned-from-uk/story-ZCQ6aMS6ZoJlHW8BeMiK9O.html
29-12-2020||India||New variant of Sars-Cov-2 not impediment to vaccine development, says CCMB||Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology on Tuesday said that the new variant of Coronavirus Sars-Cov-2 is not more dangerous than its original variant and is not an impediment to the vaccine development. “The new variant of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 (B.1.1.7) disease is 71% more transmittable than the other variants. The mutations do not worsen the symptoms or the disease outcomes,” CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra said. He said the mutant form of Sars-Cov-2 was not an impediment to the vaccine development and the testing protocol also remained the same. “The measures to avoid infection still remain the same. Using masks when in presence of others, avoiding crowded places, maintaining physical distancing are the most effective and feasible ways for avoiding this virus, including the new variant,” he said. He said it was now very important to launch an extensive genome surveillance of the virus to assess the extent of the spread of the new virus. “We should also keep an eye on other variants that might emerge independently, as India houses the second largest population infected with this virus, at present,” Dr Mishra said. First reported in the UK in September 2020, this variant makes up for 60% of all coronavirus infection there. Many countries including India have temporarily banned flights from the UK. By tracing and testing 33,000 passengers who have flown in to India from the UK, India has confirmed the presence of this new variant in the country. CCMB, a CSIR institute, is one of the ten research institutes in India that is tracing the new variant of the virus here. “We needed to expedite the viral genome sequencing efforts, and check for the presence of the new variant in India. We have used both, the traditional Sanger sequencing method as well as the modern Next-Gen Sequencing tools,” Dr Divya Tej Sowpati, who leads the Coronavirus genome sequencing efforts at CCMB, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-variant-of-sars-cov-2-not-impediment-to-vaccine-development-says-ccmb/story-hQnH8422YiHH7cD0SqV5RO.html
29-12-2020||India||Indian Railways completes speed trial of Vistadome coach||Indian Railways has successfully completed the 180kmph trial run of the new Vistadome tourist coaches, minister of railways Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. Goyal shared pictures of the luxurious coach, manufactured by the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai, on Twitter“Ending the Year on a Great Note: Indian Railways’ successfully completed 180 kmph speed trial of new design Vistadome tourist coach. These coaches will make train journeys memorable for the passengers & give further boost to tourism,” Goyal wrote. Ending the Year on a Great Note: Indian Railways' 🚆 successfully completed 180 kmph speed trial of new design Vistadome tourist coachThese coaches will make train journeys memorable for the passengers 🛤️ & give further boost to tourism 🚞 pic.twitter.com/3JxeVbQClgMostly run on India’s tourist and scenic rail routes, the Vistadome coaches are made with see-through glass rooftops and wide windows that offer a panoramic view especially built for the indulgent sightseeing experience. Indian Railways has 13 Vistadome coaches that are currently operational in select routes in India, namely, Dadar and Madgaon, Araku Valley, Kashmir Valley, Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, Kalka Shimla Railway, Kangra Valley Railway, Matheran Hill Railway and Nilgiri Mountain Railway.Along with observation windows at one end, the coaches are also fitted with controlled opalescence in glass roof lookout, rotatable seats, passenger information system, automatic sliding doors, a mini pantry and wide doors for persons with disabilities, according to the railways ministry. The cost of manufacturing a single Vistadome coach is approximately Rs 4 crore, according to a statement from the ministry in June.In addition to the standard safety measures provided, other measures such as glasses that are shatter-resistant and film coating for passenger safety have been used in the manufacturing of Vistadome coaches.Goyal also announced the resumption of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway services in Tamil Nadu and the successful trial run of an electric locomotive on a newly electrified rail line between Bangaon and Petrapole in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-completes-speed-trial-of-vistadome-coach/story-T9tpYtaaga0jrqTdyGrK1H.html
29-12-2020||India||India likely to extend ban on UK flights, vaccine cold-chain being prepared: Hardeep Puri||India is likely to extend the suspension of flights from the UK in a bid to contain the spread of a new strain of coronavirus, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. He also said that the aviation ministry is also preparing a cold chain for the transportation of Covid-19 vaccine. On December 21, India joined a growing list of countries to seal off access to people who have been to the UK, suspending all flights to and from the country between December 23 and December 31 in order to stop the arrival of a new strain of the coronavirus Sars-Cov-2 that is feared to spread faster.“I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” Puri said at a press conference on Tuesday.India has been operating international flights through bilateral transport bubbles with 24 countries including the UK since calling off scheduled overseas flight operations when it announced the lockdown in March.The minister said passengers who arrived from the UK on December 21 and 22 were made to undergo RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 at the airport, with only those who tested negative being allowed to go home, where they were told to do mandatory home isolation for seven days. Anyone who tested positive was taken to institutional quarantine.“We went one step further. We went back till November 25 and any passenger who had come directly or indirectly from the UK, we did some contact tracing and we did some Genome sequencing. As per the latest figures that I have...I believe a total of 6 cases out of at least around 2,000 passengers coming in have shown the new strain,” he said.The aviation ministry is also coordinating with the ministry of health and department of pharmaceuticals for preparing the cold-chain for the Covid 19 vaccine transportation, civil aviation secretary Pradeep Kharola said.“In the administration of the vaccine transportation is going to be a very important component. This vaccine has to be moved from the place of manufacturing to all the corners of the country. The movement of the vaccine will be multi-modal, it cannot be merely civil aviation, it will be a combination of different modes. For our part we are coordinating with the ministry of health and pharmaceutical. We have also had meetings with airports and airlines regarding the transportation plan of the vaccine,” Kharola said.The aviation ministry has held a round of meetings with airlines to discuss logistics issues. The central government has started preparations for setting up a cold storage chain for the Covid-19 vaccine that will eventually be approved for use in India, HT had reported on December 7.“The most important factor for the vaccine’s transportation will be temperature regulation for the entire cold chain that is being made. From the place of manufacture to the place of consumption is a long chain and there will be different modes; there will be road travel, air travel, there will be storages, there will be distribution and then there will be administration of the vaccine. This entire process is being prepared on war footing,” Kharola added.Puri said that 30 crore Indians will be vaccinated against Covid-19 by July 2021, for which at least 60 crore doses will be needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-extend-ban-on-uk-flights-vaccine-cold-chain-being-prepared-hardeep-puri/story-7H4brYMgE8oJubpKySOqAL.html
29-12-2020||India||Scientists quell Covid-19 variant fears, say staying cautious sufficient||Standard defense mechanisms such as masks, sanitisation and physical distancing will work to contain the coronavirus strain detected in six people who came from the UK, scientists said on Tuesday, giving assurance that the mutant is not clinically more severe and there is no need to worry. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said six people who returned to India from the UK recently have tested positive for the new mutated variant called VUI-202012/01, sparking worries that India’s fight against the disease has gotten more complex just as its daily Covid-19 count was falling.According to the Health Ministry, the SARS-CoV-2’s UK variant genome was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Several scientists stepped in to assuage concerns and said there is no evidence yet that the variant is more deadly. Anurag Agrawal, director of New Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) was one of them.   “Staying cautious and following good practices should be sufficient (to tackle the variant),” Agrawal told PTI, adding that the UK, where the variant was identified first, has not reported any clinical indication of the variant being more severe. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) has said preliminary modelling results communicated by the UK on December 19 suggest the variant is 70 per cent more transmissible than previously circulating variants. However, it also said there is no indication of increased infection severity observed related to the variant with multiple mutations in the spike protein.The spike protein comes in contact with human cells to enter the body and infect.Virologist Upasana Ray agreed with the assessment that there is no cause for alarm because there is nothing so far to back concerns that the variant is more deadly. The senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, went a step further and said, “It has been said the transmission rate is more. However, for that also there is no laboratory based evidence.” Ray also noted that a check on travel has already been suggested and said tests have been recommended for anyone entering the country from the UK.“The most important step required is implementing the basic precautions like using masks (that many people have stopped using) social distancing etc. A watch on the variant is also important to monitor its transmission and pathogenicity,” Ray told PTI. There should be no concerns on the vaccine front as well.Asserting that it has so far not been found that the new variant increases the severity of the disease, the government’s Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan said at a press conference, “There is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against Covid-19 variants reported from UK or SA.” “Most vaccines do target the spike protein in which there are changes in the variants but vaccines stimulate our immune system to produce a wide range of protective antibodies,” he said.Rakesh Mishra, director of Hyderabad’s CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Microbiology added that there is no surprise to find the new variant of the virus in some of the samples tested in India.According to him, large-scale testing is required, and people need not worry too much about the new strain.“It  (new strain of Covid-19) is just fresh, otherwise, it is the same virus and not much of an issue. Same symptoms, mortality, everything is the same… we just have to take precautions,” Mishra told PTI. Though the new variant is more transmissible, it has not shown to cause more severe infection compared to other mutants, agreed Divya Tej Sowpati, a scientist at CSIR-CCMB.   “Please note that though more transmissible, this strain is not shown to be clinically more severe. Also, the same defences work to contain the UK strain too - masks, sanitization, and social distancing,” Sowpati tweeted on Tuesday.Immunologist Satyajit Rath said the variant is likely to be a cause for concern in terms of policy responses to Covid-19, but not in terms of individual risk of serious illness.“However, the basis for this concern remains somewhat circumstantial at this point, since it is based on the correlation between the increasing prominence of this variant with growing case numbers in southern England over the past few weeks.“More direct evidence, if any, is still awaited,” Rath from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII) said. He also expressed doubts about whether the new variant will have any impact on the accuracy of the standard RT PCR diagnostic tests for Covid-19 being conducted in India.“It is true that some tests are based on detection of regions that are a bit different in this variant, but those differences are not large enough, I think, for the tests to be affected to any substantial extent,” he explained.Agrawal concurred with Rath, saying “no sweeping changes were needed” in RT-PCR diagnosis due to the new variant. A total of 16,432 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in little over six months, while the death toll increased to 1,48,153 with 252 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,07,569 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.92%, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate is 1.45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-quell-covid-19-variant-fears-say-staying-cautious-sufficient/story-zjqeqJp3fp2RH4LWJCOUeL.html
29-12-2020||India||Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal meet Amit Shah ahead of crucial talks with farmers||Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal on Tuesday met home minister Amit Shah in the national capital ahead of the crucial sixth round of talks with farmers agitating over the three farm laws. The key representatives from the government discussed and finalised the government’s position for their talks with the farmers, news agency PTI reported.The meet comes just a day before the government is set to negotiate terms with the farmers who are protesting the three contentious farm laws cleared by the government in what critics said was in a hurried manner. At least 40 protesting farmers’ unions have been invited for the next round of talks on Wednesday on all relevant issues to find a “logical solution” to the current impasse.Also read: Centre calls farmers for meeting over farm laws on December 30 in DelhiA bitter protest was called by thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana - now joined by farmers from across the country last month after the government pushed the three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – through Parliament in September.Holding momentum for over a month now, the stir by farmers is the largest strike by the farmers’ unions on the borders of the national capital in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three laws. If not heard, the farmers have threatened to intensify their stir in the coming days.So far, five rounds of formal talks have remained inconclusive. The last round was held on December 5, while the sixth round of talks originally scheduled for December 9 was called off a day after an informal meeting of home minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-tomar-piyush-goyal-meet-amit-shah-ahead-of-crucial-talks-with-farmers/story-h0vYhRYmPJysQKgRK68zlJ.html
29-12-2020||India||‘No space for unilateral attempts to change status quo in free Indo-Pacific’: Japanese ambassador||There is no space for unilateral attempts to alter the status quo by coercion in a free and open Indo-Pacific region, be it in Ladakh or the East China Sea, Japan’s ambassador to India, Satoshi Suzuki, said against the backdrop of concerns in both countries about China’s actions.Japan perceives India as the “most natural strategic partner” to promote a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific, and this year’s Malabar naval exercise was an example of efforts by the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad to ensure the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, and uphold freedom of navigation and overflight, he said in an interview.Suzuki also said it is important to involve other countries in efforts by Japan, Australia and India to create resilient supply chains, following the launch of this initiative through a ministerial meeting in September. This trilateral initiative is also part of the Japanese government’s efforts to help Japanese industries diversify supply chains and become more resilient.Also read: ‘Agriculture can’t be run sitting in Delhi’ - Sharad Pawar slams Centre for ‘bulldozing’ farm lawsAsked specifically about the India-China border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and China’s aggressive actions within Japan’s territorial waters, Suzuki replied, “In a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific where the rule of law prevails, there is no place for any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by coercion. “Be it in Ladakh, in the East China Sea, or in the South China Sea, Japan stands firm to uphold the principles that underpin a rules-based international order. I think this is also the best example where we have seen growing strategic convergence in both countries’ thinking.”Japan, which was among the first countries to call for maintenance of status quo on the LAC, has been grappling with the activities of Chinese official vessels in its territorial waters near the disputed Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea.Suzuki said, India has been Japan’s “most natural strategic partner” to promote the vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their first phone conversation on September 25 that his administration will “continue to attach significance to this vision”.Following the presence of all four members of the Quad – Japan, India, Australia and the US – in this year’s Malabar exercise, Suzuki said he looked forward to seeing the four maritime forces continuing to operate together in future. “These four countries, or the Quad, share a common vision of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in which the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity are ensured, and all countries enjoy freedom of navigation and overflight. The Malabar exercise this year was a great example of our joint efforts to this end,” he said.While speaking of the Japanese government’s efforts to help the country’s companies diversify their supply chains and the backing for two pilot projects and feasibility studies in India, Suzuki said a “further improvement of business environment is important here (in India)”. He added, “To make India more attractive to investors, predictability and stability of business environment are critical, including the continued free flow of goods, such as intermediary goods which are indispensable to fulfil ‘Make in India’ objectives.”Suzuki also said Japan remains committed to the flagship Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project, with tenders for important packages, including the largest civil package, having been successfully made. Japan also wants to explore more collaborations in third countries with India after their successful efforts in building roads and bridges in Bangladesh and working on the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in the Maldives, he said.Apart from supporting the Indian government’s efforts for post-Covid recovery through 50 billion yen (about Rs 7,500 crore) budget support and 1 billion yen (about Rs 150 crore) grant assistance, Japan also backs the concept of a patent pool, to which India has expressed support, to promote voluntary licensing of intellectual property to enable emerging countries to have access to vaccines and medicines, Suzuki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-space-for-unilateral-attempts-to-change-status-quo-in-free-indo-pacific-japanese-ambassador/story-JkDlE8NEouYslTqtdQrnCN.html
29-12-2020||India||SP to form next govt in UP, will withdraw cases against CAA protestors: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said his party would return to power in Uttar Pradesh in a “historic change” in 2022 and would then withdraw all cases lodged against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) protestors.He said his party was against CAA and NRC right from the start. “There will be a historic change in 2022. The Samajwadi Party will form the government. And we are making that road to return to power clear by shaking hands with smaller parties,” Akhilesh said at a press conference he held at his party office here where Sumaiya Rana, daughter of famous Urdu poet Munawwar Rana, former BSP Lok Sabha candidate from Gonda Masood Alam Khan; former MLA and BSP chief coordinator Ramesh Gautam and over two dozen leaders and many of their supporters joined the SP.A poetess herself, Sumaiya Rana was one of the leaders of last year’s anti-CAA-NRC protest at Ghantaghar in Lucknow.Akhilesh said a large number of people from other parties were joining the SP and many more would become SP members in the near future. “This trend of leaders joining the SP is another sign of the SP’s return to power,” he said.Attacking the BJP government, the former chief minister said the saffron party cannot stand any voice of dissent. He alleged that in order to suppress the voice of the people and the opposition, the BJP government was framing cases against them. “Even if you raise your voice against adulteration of milk, you may have a case filed against you,” he said.He also criticized the recent farm laws that have triggered massive protests by farmers on Delhi’s borders. Terming the new farm laws a death warrant for farmers, Akhilesh said his party had consistently played an active role in farmers’ campaigns. There was no political party in the country against whom so many cases were filed by a government. However, SP will continue to support the farmers’ struggle, he said.Akhilesh also said the MSP (minimum support price) for an agriculture produce should be fixed in a manner that it doubles the farmers’ income. “The BJP government had promised that it would double the income of farmers by 2022. So, MSP should be fixed accordingly,” he demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-to-form-next-govt-in-up-will-withdraw-cases-against-caa-protestors-akhilesh/story-l0qupbGWyn8gpPmdm24pzO.html
29-12-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti accuses Centre of disrespecting Constitution||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday asserted that the Gupkar alliance was striving to achieve the restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir “within the Constitution of the country”.She also criticised the BJP-led central government over the three agri laws which have triggered protests by a section of farmers.“The government brought farms laws, but the farmers are out on the roads protesting in chilly winter. If the laws are not accepted by the farmers, can they be beneficial to them. If you bring laws which are not acceptable to people, you are disrespecting the Constitution of the country,” she said while addressing a party function here.She also accused the Centre of disrespecting the Constitution by repealing the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.The former chief minister, who was an ally of the BJP from 2015 to 2018, said the mainstream political parties in Kashmir were working to achieve their goal of restoration of special status “within the Constitution of the country”.“National Conference talks about autonomy, it is within the Constitution. We (PDP) talk of self-rule, open borders, reconciliation ... how long can you maintain peace through the barrel of the gun?” she asked.The PDP president said that the resolution of the Kashmir issue was a cause close to her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s heart.“Even from his death bed (in December 2015), he asked me if (Prime Minister) Modiji had gone to Lahore (Pakistan). He (Mufti) said now some way could be found for a resolution,” she said.“We want peace, but we are not the ones to raise the white flag,” she added.Mehbooba said her party’s struggle is not against the people of the country but the party and the government that “humiliated Jammu and Kashmir” by repealing its special status.“PDP is going nowhere till it plays its role in restoring what has been snatched from us,” she said.Mehbooba claimed that the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) had led to frustration in the ruling party and referred to the recent detention of some leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-accuses-centre-of-disrespecting-constitution/story-N04YQPNdR26OsSnZRO9kxM.html
29-12-2020||India||SC hears plea seeking prevention of circulation of fake Covid-19 vaccine||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Supreme Court on Tuesday by lawyer, Vishal Tiwari, seeking a direction to the Union of India (UoI) and others, to issue strict guidelines and regulations under the Disaster Management Act by constituting a special committee to prevent the chances of sale or circulation of fake and counterfeit Covid-19 vaccine by any organisation, company or online apps.The petitioner in his PIL sought a direction that the respondents, including the Centre, be directed to run an awareness programme for the safety of the citizens against the danger of counterfeit vaccination of coronavirus.Tiwari, in his petition, sought a direction that the respondents be directed to enact a strict law against the criminal act committed by selling or circulating counterfeit coronavirus vaccine by any organisation or individual.The petitioner cited that the pandemic took the entire world into its captivity. He further stated in his plea that all countries started research for its cure. After several months of research, some countries have been successful in inventing the vaccine against Covid-19.The United Kingdom (UK) pioneered the anti-coronavirus vaccine programme for its citizens. It authorised drug-maker Pfizer for anti-coronavirus vaccination. The Right to Health care, Right to Safe Health and Right to Life enshrined under Article 21 guarantees the protection from fake treatment during this pandemic, the petition said.The petition further said Interpol has issued an orange notice to member countries and has warned that now along with the corona vaccination programme, several criminal organisations will be active and will circulate and sell counterfeit or fake vaccine.This criminal act will be carried out through the physical as well as online modes. Many websites will be active in committing such fraud, the petition filed by Tiwari stated.People can be easily be attracted by them (illegal and anti-social elements) as the present pandemic has created a situation of fear and uncertainty. So, people with an intention of saving their lives from the deadly virus can easily fall prey in the hands of such criminal organisations who intend to sell forged vaccine and make huge profit, the petition added.India is a vast country having huge population. It can be a big place of profit for criminal organisations and companies as it can be made a market for selling counterfeit and fake corona vaccine. Such organisations adopt a very smart technique of publicity, which can attract several innocent citizens of our nation for buying the vaccine, Tiwari in his petition claimed.The lawyer further raised the issue of online fraud in his PIL and said the Centre and the states are bound by the Disaster Management Act to take steps for the safety of the citizens.Online fraud has become a regular criminal act and our nation is also facing this challenge. Under the Disaster Management Act, both the Centre and states have power to prevent the epidemic and take necessary steps for the safety of the citizens. The protection of citizens from fake and counterfeit anti-corona vaccine is also a task covered under this act, Tiwari in his petition said.If the criminal organisations succeed in committing such acts then it may lead to chaos and big imbalance as it will affect the vaccination programme of government negatively and instead of cure it will bring more disastrous effects, the lawyer stated in his petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-hears-plea-seeking-prevention-of-circulation-of-fake-covid-19-vaccine/story-REVLKsExXjSctdPArzM5BJ.html
29-12-2020||India||BJP govt crossed all limits of injustice, atrocities; farmers will bring them down: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the protesting farmers will bring down the BJP government at the Centre and predicted his own party’s victory in the next Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Yadav attacked the government in tweets and at a press conference after Urdu poet Munnawar Rana’s daughter Somaiyya Rana, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Masood Alam and former MLA Ramesh Gautam joined his party. He repeated that the SP is keeping its doors open for smaller parties and will take everyone along. He also referred to West Bengal and accused the BJP of trying to break leaders away from other parties. “The BJP government has crossed all limits of injustice and atrocities. Whoever raises their voice, the government muzzles it. Democracy will be safe only when this government goes,” the SP chief said. Akhilesh reiterated support to farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three new central agri-marketing laws. He accused the central government of putting off a planned round of talks while farmers camped out in bitter cold. “The BJP is constantly disrespecting farmers. Farmers will bring the arrogant BJP government down to the street,” he tweeted in Hindi. He claimed there had never been so much corruption under any other government, and accused it of harming the economy. Yadav cited the coronavirus lockdown and demonetisation as “examples”. Yadav claimed that over 90 workers died while walking to their homes from the cities during the lockdown, “but the government did not help anyone”. He accused the BJP of poaching leaders from other parties and instigating fights among them. “It is doing the same thing in West Bengal. It did the same in Uttar Pradesh before the assembly elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-crossed-all-limits-of-injustice-atrocities-farmers-will-bring-them-down-akhilesh-yadav/story-1cUxaUB1Cpmv0Kxn7D40KN.html
29-12-2020||India||How an essential worker experienced a pandemic||Long hours of work in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and erratic sleep rhythms have caused the under eyes of Dr Naman Jain, 35, to turn puffy. Other marks have faded. “While wearing the PPE suit, I had to tape the second mask which I wore above the N-95 mask under my eyes so that it would stay in place. While taking it off, the skin under my eyes would often tear,” says Dr Jain, of the critical care department at Fortis Hospital in New Delhi’s Vasant Kunj.It’s a drill he has now become better at. It would take him around 10 minutes to wear the PPE suit, which includes six articles of protective gear to be worn in a certain sequence; he now does it in three.Delhi is the state with the fourth highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in India; the first confirmed case was detected on March 2. At the beginning, the Delhi government designated Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital as the only Covid-19 care facilities. Fortis, like many other private hospitals, began to attend on patients of the viral disease only in April. Dr Jain has been on Covid-19 duty since April.In pre-pandemic times, he either worked the 9am-5pm shift or the 5pm-9pm shift with a weekly day off, when he would stay home with his wife Shilpi. “From April, I’ve been working seven days and then spend seven days in quarantine. I’ve to completely isolate myself in this period. The first two months, April and May, I did not return home and quarantined in a nearby hotel in Vasant Kunj.”That the health crisis would pose a huge challenge to health-care professionals dawned on him gradually. “Like everyone else, I had heard the news on TV. But there was no question of not being mentally prepared. This is what we do. There was no question of not going out or staying back home no matter what the risk. I telephoned my mom and told my wife it is possible I may not escape infection and survive. Had my wife not been brave, it would have been difficult to carry on my tasks if I had to fight on both fronts,” says Dr Jain. “With time, I think I know how to keep myself safe”. But he always adds this caveat; there are no guarantees.This is also what he tells patients and their attendants. “Medical illiteracy is one of the challenges right now,” he says. “Every doctor faces difficult questions from families who at times turn on us. It’s almost a year since the crisis broke over all our heads, people should know that overnight things can turn serious in Covid cases, especially if a patient is aged and has comorbidities. If the patient gets into a cytokine storm where the body’s immune system turns hostile and multiple organs get affected along with the lungs or there is massive pulmonary embolism, there is not much a doctor can do. The medical field has its limitations.”Being a doctor in the ICU, death is not new to Dr Jain. “It is always hard losing a patient, it’s just that now you are losing a person faster. And that does cause stress”. But lessons have been learnt on the job. “Daily, we get new studies that help us understand the disease and its progression,” he says. With time, he has also learnt how to “carry on for long periods without food and water, or having to relieve myself to take a toilet break. This is not to say that it isn’t hard or that there aren’t bad days.”Initially, the stress was overwhelming when colleagues too started getting infected. So far, he has known fear, he says, only twice. “When a colleague in the ICU who was working on the same shift as I was got infected. And another time when as my breath was fogging the mask and clouding my vision, I had to remove my shield to intubate [the process of inserting a tube through the mouth and then into the airway so as to put him on the ventilator] a patient so I was in direct contact with the patient. But the effort paid off as he walked out of our hospital alive,” he says.There is also on-the-job pressure when relatives get admitted. “To make my 76-year-old uncle understand his condition was a hurdle. He survived.” Even his own family got the same line, Dr. Jain says. “I had told them there were no guarantees that he would come out alive, but we will try our best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-an-essential-worker-experienced-a-pandemic/story-TndWdnxqU022N1TTnY4voO.html
29-12-2020||India||Union Territory of Ladakh gets its own meteorological centre||A meteorological centre was inaugurated in the Union Territory of Ladakh on Tuesday which would provide localised weather forecasts thus strengthening weather-related early warning system for the region.At 3,500 metres, this meteorological centre is the highest such facility in India, Union Earth Sciences Minister Harsh Vardhan said at the inauguration of the facility.He said it will provide short range (three days,) medium range (12 days) and long range (one month) forecast for the two districts -- Leh and Kargil -- of the Union Territory.The region is unique in terms of weather, climate, culture, topography with extreme temperatures, ranging from minus 40 degrees Celsius in Drass to scanty average precipitation of 10 centimetres annually, which makes the region a distinct cold desert, he said.Ladakh also experiences various kinds of extreme weather events like cloud bursts, flash floods, glacial lake outbursts, avalanches and drought.“To avert losses due to such weather events in the future, the Government of India felt the need to establish a meteorological Centre at Leh to strengthen weather-related early warning system in Ladakh. At 3,500 metres, Meteorological Centre, Leh, will be the highest meteorological centre in India,” Vardhan said.The centre will also give weather forecasts about tourist places such as Nubra, Changthang, Pangong Lake, Zanskar, Kargil, Drass, Dha-Baima (Aryan valley), Khalsi, he said.Some important services are highway forecast, forecast for mountaineering, trekking, agriculture, flash flood warning, information on gusty winds, low and high temperatures.“Keeping in mind the geo-strategic importance, harsh environment, changing climate and vulnerabilities to various natural hazards and disasters affecting the region adversely, the government felt the need to open a state-of-the-art meteorological centre in Leh,” the Union Minister added.IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said the new centre will help augment the weather services. Ladakh has four Automatic Weather Stations (AWS), two each in Leh and Kargil, of which one is at Drass, the coldest place in India. To improve the network of observations, IMD plans to install more AWSs next year at the remotest of places like Nubra, Zanskar, Changthang, Parkachik and others, thus covering the whole of Ladakh, Mohapatra said. To begin with, the India Meteorological Department established a surface observatory at Leh for reporting daily meteorological parameters like pressure, humidity, temperature, snowfall, etc. With the availability of quality data from Ladakh, IMD will generate city-specific forecasts based on numerical models, the MeT department sad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-territory-of-ladakh-gets-its-own-meteorological-centre/story-jxr58IMIxSeJG5qDarN9OM.html
29-12-2020||India||Amid tourist rush to ring in new year, Uttarakhand braces for cold wave||The India Meteorological Department on Tuesday predicted that cold wave conditions are likely to prevail in Uttarakhand for the next three days. In a weather bulletin for December 30-January 1, the MeT department predicted, “Cold wave conditions are likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. Moderate to dense fog is likely to occur in some parts of the plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Ground frost is likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand.” Meanwhile, there has been a tourist rush in the hill towns of Mussoorie and Dhanaulti after the latter reported the season’s first snowfall on Monday. Lal Tibba in Mussoorie witnessed a brief spell of snow on Monday accompanied by hailstorm and intermittent rain. Sanjay Bhasin, a tourist from Delhi said, “We had expected snowfall during this weekend and were fortunate enough to witness a couple of inches of snow while on our way to Dhanaulti.” Souvik Chatterjee, a tourist from Delhi said, “We did not find snow when we reached Mussoorie but we have extended our stay for a few days and are hopeful that we will be able to witness a fresh spell of snow on new year.” The police in Mussoorie have planned traffic diversions in view of an expected rush of tourists for the new year. Devendra Aswal, police station in-charge of Mussoorie said, “We have deployed additional police force near Jaypee bend to manage the traffic heading towards Dhanaulti. We have prepared a detailed traffic plan and will introduce a one-way traffic system at Gajji bend and divert the traffic to Cart road during new year celebrations and in case of heavy spells of snow.” Rajat Agarwal, president of Mussoorie traders’ association said, “The first spell of snow has brought tourists to the town but the administration should ensure clearing of snow immediately to avoid traffic congestion.” Manish Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate Mussoorie said that all departments concerned have been instructed to stay alert and act immediately by implementing the traffic plan and clearing snow from the roads in case of heavy snowfall in the future. He added that the administration is also following strict Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tourist-rush-to-ring-in-new-year-uttarakhand-braces-for-cold-wave/story-pCO9vA7GVDplaVTX7WExnO.html
29-12-2020||India||Kerala extends education scholarship, wedding grant for transgenders||With an aim to bring the transgender community into the forefront of society, the Left government in Kerala has announced a slew of programmes, including extension of scholarship for third gender students and financial aid for legally married transcouples. Announcing the initiatives on Tuesday, Minister for Social Justice K K Shylaja said the Social Justice Department has sanctioned Rs six lakh for the scholarship of the marginalised group students in the current financial year. The scholarship scheme is targeted at the trans students, studying from seventh standard to colleges in the government, aided and self-financing educational institutions. “It is part of the drive to bring the marginalised and generally isolated transgender community into the mainstream of society,” the minister said in a statement. Under the scheme, Rs 1000 per month would be given to each third gender student studying in Class 7 to Class 10 for a period of 10 months. The scholarship would be Rs 1,500 per month for transgender students studying in higher secondary and Rs 2,000 per month for those pursuing diploma, degree, professional and post-graduate courses for a 10 months, the minister explained. As an educationally backward group, there was need for giving more care and consideration for transgender community members,the minister said detailing the circumstances that prompted the government to launch such a scheme. Besides this, a recent survey had found that 58 per cent of transgender students drop out of educational institutions in the state without being able to complete even basic education, the minister added. The Department also decided to extend Rs 30,000 financial aid for trans couples who enter into wedlock legally, in the current financial year also. “A total of Rs three lakh has been sanctioned for the same. Through this, Rs 30,000 each can be given to 10 trans couples,” she said, adding that the scheme was aimed at helping trans people build up a social life through marriages. Applications for the grant can be submitted six months after the marriage and up to one year, the minister added. Incidentally, Kerala was the first state in the country which unveiled the Transgender Policy to end the societal stigma towards the sexual minority group and ensure them non- discriminatory treatment and justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-education-scholarship-wedding-grant-for-transgenders/story-9EqNL672y0JsW8C2VoNRWL.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Agriculture can’t be run sitting in Delhi’: Sharad Pawar slams Centre for ‘bulldozing’ farm laws||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday criticised the Centre for excluding state governments and not consulting them on the three new contentious farm laws, which has triggered protests by farmers since the last one month. The clearance of the laws has prompted thousands of farmers to camp on the borders of the national capital since November 26.In a stinging remark, the NCP supremo said that the agriculture sector of the country cannot be run sitting in Delhi. “Agriculture can’t be run by sitting in Delhi as it involves hard-working farmers in villages and a bigger responsibility for this subject lies with state governments,” Pawar told news agency PTI. Pawar also countered the charges by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has said that the NCP leader wanted to introduce the same legislation during the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government but couldn’t do so, owing to the political pressure. “I and Manmohan Singh also wanted to bring some reforms in the agriculture sector but not in the same way as the current dispensation did. That time the agriculture ministry held long deliberations on the proposed reforms with agriculture ministers of all states and experts of the sector,” Pawar said.“So, when a majority of agriculture ministers had some reservations, it was the duty of the central government and mine to take them in confidence and resolve their issues before moving ahead,” Pawar said.Attacking the arrogance posed by the government while introducing the three farms law, Pawar said, “How can a government say in a democracy that it won’t listen or it won’t change its line? In a way, the government bulldozed these three bills.”Had the Centre consulted state governments and taken them in confidence, then such a situation wouldn’t have arisen, Pawar said. The NCP chief, whose party is a one-third stakeholder in the Maharashtra government, has also alleged that farmers are not a priority for the government. “If farmers would have been the priority of the government, this problem would not have continued for so long. Then they say there are farmers only from Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh who are protesting,” Pawar said.“Have they not contributed to the overall food security of the country?” Pawar asked.Pawar’s remarks come following the Centre’s invite to protesting farmers for a meeting on Wednesday in Delhi to discuss the three farm laws after farmers’ unions agreed to restart negotiations with the government in a bid to resolve the stalemate. The invite comes amid one of the largest strikes by the farmers’ unions on the borders of the national capital in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three laws approved by Parliament in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-can-t-be-run-sitting-in-delhi-sharad-pawar-slams-centre-for-bulldozing-farm-laws/story-3hWHnTPR19uSjTbsmpHxnK.html
29-12-2020||India||J&K: Highest number of ceasefire violations by Pak in 2020 since 2003 truce||There were 5,100 instances of ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in 2020 in Jammu and Kashmir, the highest in nearly 18 years, that claimed 36 lives and left more than 130 people injured, according to security officials.They said the “very heavy” shelling and firing by Pakistani troops virtually made the 2003 India-Pakistan border truce “redundant”.“Pakistani troops repeatedly targeted forwards posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border (IB) to create fear among the people and destabilise the peace along the borderline,” a senior police officer said.“Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire 5,100 times in 2020 with an average of 14 cases daily,” an official source said. In these ceasefire violations, 36 people including 24 security personnel were killed and 130 injured, according to the compiled data. Fifteen of the soldiers died along the LoC in the Jammu region.There were 3,289 ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army along the Indo-Pak border in 2019, they said. Of these, 1,565 ceasefire violations took place since August 2019, after the Indian government abrogated Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories.In 2018, Jammu and Kashmir had recorded 2,936 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan with an average of eight cases daily, in which 61 people were killed and over 250 injured.The number of ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops in 2020 was over five times that of 2017 when 971 cases were reported in which 31 people -- 12 civilians and 19 security forces personnel -- were killed and 151 suffered injures.Before the ceasefire agreement, as many as 8,376 incidents of shelling and firing by Pakistani troops were reported in 2002. For three years - 2004, 2005 and 2006 - there was not a single such violation on the border. However, there had been a gradual increase in ceasefire violations by Pakistan since 2009. People living near the border in Jammu, Kathua, Kupwara and Baramulla, Samba, Rajouri and Poonch districts were also severely hit by firing and shelling by Pakistani troops during the year.The officials said that due to shelling and firing incidents, people had to migrate to safer places three times which affected education and farm activities.To protect border residents in the wake of increasing ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir, the central government sanctioned Rs 415 crore for constructing over 14,400 underground bunkers along the LoC and the IB.As many as 7,777 bunkers have been constructed under the programme in Rajouri, Poonch, Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts and tenders have been floated for more such shelters, the officials said, adding the rest would be constructed soon.Giving details of the ceasefire violations, they said that in 2015, 405 cases of ceasefire violations were reported while 583 such instances were recorded in 2014.The corresponding figures for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 347, 114, 62, 44, and 28. There were 77 violations in 2008, 21 in 2007 and three in 2006, according to official data.The Indian government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into the ceasefire agreement with Pakistan on November 26, 2003.India shares a 3,323-km border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-highest-number-of-ceasefire-violations-by-pak-in-2020-since-2003-truce/story-TJ7teyXb88dheysDqEgWCN.html
29-12-2020||India||Mohan Bhagwat inaugurates media studies and research centre||Rashtriya Swayam Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday inaugurated ‘Kesari Media Studies and Research Centre’ at nearby Chalappuram and said the new generation should remember the struggle through which the organisation marched forward.Bhagwat said ‘Kesari’, a Sangh Parivar affiliated weekly which started publishing in 1951, is a product of certain thoughts “focused on the upliftment of Bharat”.“Kesari is a product of certain thoughts focused on the upliftment of Bharat and the new generation should remember the struggle through which the organisation marched forward despite all odds,” Bhagwat said after inaugurating the centre by lighting the traditional lamp.The RSS chief said the journey of ‘Kesari’ during the past 70 years has not been a comfortable one and this fact should be understood by the present generation.“There was a time when truth needed some permissions to be published. But a faith in truth and striving hard would get you to be victorious of truth and today is one among such,” Bhagwat said.He said the objective of ‘Kesari’ was to establish the way of ‘Dharma.“The objective of Kesari was to establish the way of ‘Dharma’, no matter if we achieved some victories. In spite of all odds, we should strive to achieve our goals to attain dharm”, the RSS chief added.Bhagwat released eight books including “RSS in Kerala: Saga of a Struggle” on the martyrs of the RSS and BJP, authored by Dr AKM Das and compiled jointly by Dr Das, VM Gopinath and Shabu Prasad.Later, he inaugurated the library at the centre.Organising Committee President, P R Nathan, noted Hindu religious scholar Swami Chidananthapuri, Ramakrishna Ashram regional chief Narasinhananda Saraswathi, Chinmaya Mission regional head Swami Tejomayananda and O Rajagopal, MLA, were among those who were present at the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohan-bhagwat-inaugurates-media-studies-and-research-centre/story-nVSSPiCF8trzeARdkTjUeI.html
29-12-2020||India||Not the time to disco this NY’s eve, say DJs||Partying on the tunes of celebrity disc jockeys from Delhi and Mumbai, tight schedules of city-based DJs and premium packages have been a routine in the pre-Covid era. But, even as the world waits with bated breath to welcome the ‘year of hope’ 2021, the end of 2020 may not be musical for many city DJ’s.Some of them — mostly working on monthly-contracts with hotels, discs and lounges — confirmed bookings for the New Year-eve bashes. However, a larger chunk reported a low-key end to the year. Reeling under less work in bare minimum remuneration, the DJs are hoping for last-minute bookings for private bashes or at commercial places who are undecided to hold the year-end celebrations or not.Low key, few queriesCity’s leading DJ Moni said that every year they used to have at least 14-15 events in Lucknow, Kanpur and Delhi-NCR. “This year, till now, I have only one confirmed booking at a city lounge and my jockey will go and play. They are not paying my desired prices so I will better skip and stay back at home,” says Moni who has a lot of DJs who play for him.He has been getting queries but is not getting any confirmation. “For quality work, you need to pay a certain price. We have got a lot of queries but after we quote our rates, which certainly are down to previous years, there are no confirmations. Let’s hope fence-sitters make a move,” says Moni.Low budgetDJ Karan says that the organisers are in no mood to shell out money they used previously. “Standard rates for DJ used to be in the range of Rs 50,000. Even if we are quoting Rs 20,000 we are getting feedback that someone is doing in Rs 8,000. For us, half of the price goes to sound and equipment guys, so economics is not working out. The sound and equipment guys are hiring boys to play music for them and spoiling the market as they also are without any work,” he adds.Moni added that till last year they charged Rs 3-10 lakh as a package including band where for just DJ it was Rs 1 lakh but people are not ready to shell out even half of that price.Unclear guidelinesHotels, lounges and discs are still not sure about the last-minute guidelines that may arrive. “As per the current scenario technically, there cannot be music after 10-10:30 pm. We are not sure what will be the guideline for the New Year eve. When a guest comes to bash, they visit with a mindset to enjoy past midnight. That is the reason people are not confirming their parties and skipping bigger events. Many of them are holding gala dinners instead of big bashes,” said DJ Dub Monster. He is based in Chandigrah but is frequent to Lucknow and has played here on NY-eve twiceSmaller partiesDJ Rony, who plays at Club Momentz, under a monthly contract, has taken over the charge of the event. “Since the gatherings are small, we are not calling a celebrity DJ from Delhi or Mumbai. Instead, our in-house DJ took over the four small events that will be held at our club,” said Jugal Sachdeva.Due to Covid protocols and standard operating procedures, everyone is organising smaller events at their places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/not-the-time-to-disco-this-ny-s-eve-say-djs/story-yp0BulYcKvPyN4s8TAN6GM.html
29-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health ministry concludes two day Covid-19 vaccine dry run and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two-day Covid vaccine dry run concludes smoothly: Health ministryThe Centre’s two-day dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday and Tuesday in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, and Gujarat concluded smoothly with minor hiccups that are being addressed, the Union health ministry said. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 2nd Test: ‘Probably the toughest day to bat,’ Ravi Shastri names the ‘turning point’ of the matchIndia managed to turn around the series after winning the second Test match convincingly against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. They were on the backfoot after the debacle in Adelaide and did not have the services of their captain Virat Kohli. Read moreKangana Ranaut visits Siddhivinayak, Mumba Devi temples, says she feels ‘protected and welcomed’. See picsActor Kangana Ranaut, who landed in Mumbai recently, has shared pictures from her visit to Siddhivinayak and Mumba Devi temples in the city. She also said that she felt “welcomed and protected” after visiting the temples and seeking blessings. Read moreNissan admits long list of ageing vehicles has set it back in global auto raceNissan had hit a rough patch much before Covid-19 pandemic emerged as a big threat to the global automotive industry. And even as this industry gradually returns to some sense of normalcy, the Japanese car maker may still not be out of troubled waters. Read moreAmazon announces the Mega Salary Days sale: Here are the top dealsThe year 2020 is coming to an end. Ahead of the new year celebrations, Amazon India has announced one last surprise for its customers. Read moreWoman gifts this to specially-abled sister, her reaction is beyond wholesome. WatchThe bond between two siblings is indeed a special one and several videos on the Internet attest to that notion. This Reddit video of two sisters, however, deserves a special mention and may just be the right content to spread cheer in these last few days of an eventful year. Read more‘Those who vandalise country’s infrastructure…’: PM Modi amid farmer protestPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor via video conferencing.PM Modi lashed out at the government for delaying the project and said that it showed the work culture of those in power. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-health-ministry-says-two-day-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-concludes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zbE54ZlU4pDr38ugxN7nVM.html
29-12-2020||India||Tripura ‘best performing state’ in northeast under central scheme: Official||Tripura has been adjudged the ‘Best Performing State’ in the north-eastern region and hilly states category under the Centre’s flagship Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) scheme, officials said.The awards were announced by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, and communicated through a letter to Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, they said.In more accolades for the state, the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) was selected as the ‘Best Performing Municipal Corporation’, and the Belonia Municipal Council in South Tripura district the ‘Best Performing Municipal Council’, under the scheme.The awards will be bestowed upon Tripura by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference on January 1, the officials said.Modi, along with Deb, will also lay the foundation stone for the Light House Project, which comprises 1,000 ready-to-stay flats.The ministry has introduced a Technology Innovation Grant of Rs 4 lakh per house, which is over and above the existing grant of Rs 1.5 lakh per flat under the scheme, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-best-performing-state-in-northeast-under-central-scheme-official/story-Pjd1rNbfs2H2VYdzbUa6zL.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Disappointed’, says Kamal Haasan after Rajinikanth drops political plans||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan said on Tuesday he was disappointed with co-star Rajinikanth’s announcement he will not join politics over his health. Rajinikanth’s decision came a day after he left the hospital in Hyderabad where he was being treated for high blood pressure.“I will meet Rajinikanth again after my election campaign. Like his fans, I too have been disappointed but his health is important to me,” Kamal Haasan of the Makkal Needhi Maiam said, according to news agency ANI.Superstar Rajinikanth said he will not take a plunge into politics and start a party as announced earlier, citing his frail health. “Therefore, I inform with great regret I am unable to come to politics by floating a political party. Only I know the pain behind making this announcement,” he said in a statement. He, however, said he will serve people in whatever ways he can without entering electoral politics.Also read | MGR, Rajinikanth to Kamal Haasan: Matinee idols and Tamil Nadu politicsThe 70-year-old had announced earlier this month that he will launch his political party in January and make the details public by December 31. He had first announced in 2017 that he would indeed enter politics ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in 2021 and field candidates from all 234 seats in the state.Rajinikanth’s elder brother has backed the Tamil superstar’s move to withdraw his decision to launch a political party. The 77-year-old R Sathyanarayana Rao said it’s his brother’s wish and one can’t force him to change his mind.Unlike Rajinikanth, Haasan launched Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in 2018 in Madurai and fought the Lok Sabha elections last year with a vote share of 3.7 per cent. Haasan is in the second leg of his campaign before he heads to shoot a film in January.Kamal will be contesting against the DMK, the AIADMK and their national partners the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It’s also the first state election after the deaths of the AIADMK’s J Jayalalitha and M Karunanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disappointed-says-kamal-haasan-after-rajinikanth-drops-political-plans/story-K1mK4kuZNuozlU34HZCkZL.html
29-12-2020||India||8 Maoists surrender in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Dantewada||Eight Maoists, including four allegedly involved in the killing of a BJP MLA Bheema Mandavi in April 2019, surrendered in Dantewada district of Bastar region citing their disappointment in the ‘hollow ideology’ of CPI (Maoist), the Chhattisgarh police said on Tuesday. Police said that the surrendered Maoists were given immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 each and will be provided other facilities under the Chhattisgarh government’s surrender and rehabilitation policy. “Eight Maoists surrendered on Monday evening under our drive which is called ‘Lon Varratu’. Out of these eight, Bhima Barse (28), Sona Tati (20), Madka Barse (21) and Pitte alias Bhima Mandavi (35) among who were among the Maoists involved in the killing of MLA Mandavi,” said Dantewada’s Superintendent of Police (SP), Abhishek Pallava. The others who surrendered are Aytu Bhaskar (25), section commander in platoon number 13 of Maoists, Raju Karam (25), head of Chetna Natya Mandli and Mahesh Kumar Dodi, the SP added. “We have started a drive “Lon Varratu” which has been very successful in Dantewada district and till now a total of 226 Maoists have surrendered in the district,” said the SP. Under “Lon Varratu”, which in local Gondi language means ‘Return Home’, about 50 hypersensitive Maoist villages have been selected and pamphlets about the details of the left-wing rebels have been put in the village by the villagers with an appeal to surrender. The initiative was launched in June.However, tribal leaders allege that in “Lon Varratu” drive, the common tribals now find themselves trapped between police and Maoists. “Who has given rights to the police to declare a person as Maoist? Have they submitted the list of Maoists to the court? Common people who are farming in their village are declared as Maoist under this campaign,” said Soni Sori, a tribal leader of Bastar. She further said that on one hand, the tribals are pressurized to surrender and on the other hand, Maoists torture them for cooperating with police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-maoists-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-s-insurgency-hit-dantewada/story-zHeV5taRPkeGkjWPQTw2iL.html
29-12-2020||India||Two-day Covid vaccine dry run concludes smoothly: Health ministry||The Centre’s two-day dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday and Tuesday in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, and Gujarat concluded smoothly with minor hiccups that are being addressed, the Union health ministry said. The drive is slated to begin early next year. The mock exercise was aimed at end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination process and included planning and preparations as per the operational guidelines. It involved the creation of facilities and users on Co-WIN application, session site creation and mapping of sites, health care workers data upload, receipt of vaccines and vaccine allocation, session planning, deployment of vaccination teams, and logistics mobilisation at session sites.There was also mock drill of conducting vaccination and reporting and review meetings at the block, district and state levels.Also Read: Experts believe Covid-19 vaccine will work on the new coronavirus variant as tests continue“The objective of dry the run is also to undertake and confirm field implementation of IT platform Co-WIN and guideway forward prior to actual implementation. District collectors, with the engagement of district and block task force, were made responsible for conducting the dry run and it was expected to provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks during the actual conduct of vaccination,” the ministry said in a statement.The dry run was undertaken in Krishna (Andhra Pradesh); Rajkot and Gandhinagar (Gujarat); Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Punjab); Sonitpur and Nalbari (Assam).Specific teams were formed for various tasks by the district administrations. Activities like uploading of dummy beneficiary data, session site creation, vaccine allocation, communication vaccination details to vaccinators and beneficiaries, and beneficiary mobilisation were carried out.Field feedback on the first day of the dry run was also reviewed on Tuesday. “All states expressed satisfaction in terms of the operational approach and use of IT platform to ensure transparency and effective monitoring of vaccination processes expected to cover a large number of people across the country. Additional suggestions on IT platform were also noted for further enhancement of Co-WIN platform,” the ministry said.It added detailed insights and feedback so obtained will help enrich the operational guidelines and IT platform and will strengthen the Covid-19 vaccination rollout plan.“Backed with the experience of rolling out Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) and conducting nationwide multiple wide-range injectable vaccination campaigns such as measles-rubella (MR) and Adult Japanese Encephalitis (JE) campaign, required steps are being undertaken to vaccinate priority population groups such as health care workers, frontline workers and people above 50...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-day-covid-vaccine-dry-run-concludes-smoothly-health-ministry/story-d6pXdS4mvFylEVkOyPiAaK.html
29-12-2020||India||CM Palaniswami resumes poll campaign day after no to coalition govt||Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami resumed his 2021 assembly election campaign on Tuesday from Namakkal district, a day after ruling out the possibility of the AIADMK heading a coalition government after the 2021 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. However, he maintained that all constituents of the AIADMK-led alliance that fought the 2019 Lok Sabha elections are together. The AIADMK partnered with the BJP and other regional parties to fight last year’s general elections. “As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, people will not accept a coalition Cabinet. That is the AIADMK’s stand,” Palaniswami had said on Monday after landing at the Coimbatore airport addressing for the first time the question of power sharing. Though the national ally hasn’t contradicted the AIADMK’s decision, it is yet to formally reciprocate on the continuing alliance and Palaniswami’s candidature. BJP state leaders had in previous months made comments on running a coalition government and picking the next chief minister of Tamil Nadu. AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate Palaniswami, launched the party’s campaign Tuesday titled, “Vetrinadaipodum Tamilzhagam’ (Tamil Nadu’s victorious march) by meeting people door-to-door and addressing the public. He will present a ‘report card’ of the party’s achievements over the last ten years since it has been in power and a vision for the state. December 19 was Palaniswami’s first day of campaigning which he kicked-off from his home constituency in Salem as the AIADMK seeks a third consecutive term in the ensuing assembly elections. When asked about BJP not formally endorsing him as the chief ministerial candidate, Palaniswami had told reporters Monday that the AIADMK made the announcement (in October) as they were starting the election campaign. BJP’s state president L Murugan had met Palaniswami at the state secretariat on Monday morning to submit 50-lakh signatures they received in support of the New Education Policy. Following the meeting, Murugan told reporters that the AIADMK-BJP alliance was strong and that all questions on the alliance will be answered in two-three days. This came after AIADMK’s public meeting on Sunday in Chennai when AIADMK’s deputy coordinator K P Munusamy had lashed out against critics of the Dravidian rule and national parties. “There is no scope for a coalition government and there is no need for it. If any party comes to us with that intention, I urge you to rethink,” Munusamy had said on Sunday.Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam had announced in November in the presence of union home minister Amith Shah that their alliance with the BJP will continue. Since then the BJP’s state leaders have said that it is procedure only for their national leadership to take decisions and make public announcements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-palaniswami-resumes-poll-campaign-day-after-no-to-coalition-govt/story-TnAkuf7J29hEcDNGNaKzUK.html
29-12-2020||India||Mathura: JSPL Foundation supports reconstruction of century-old girls school||JSPL Foundation has extended its support for the reconstruction of a century-old school for girls at Mathura, Sri Kishori Raman Girls’ Inter College. The new building of 30,000 square feet with all new amenities can house approximately 5,000 girl children.The foundation laying ceremony/Bhumi Pujan for the construction of the new building was held on December 27, 2020, according to an official release. The Chairperson of JSPL Foundation, Shallu Jindal attended the ceremony through virtual mode, according to a media release. The dilapidated old building of Sri Kishori Raman Girls’ Inter College, Mathura would be replaced with a new building.“Empowering the girl child with education is the best and the wisest option a nation could have in empowering itself. With the construction of the new building of the historic 114-year-old Kishori Raman Girls’ Inter College, we are partnering for the promotion of girls’ education and contributing to expanding the horizon of equitable and inclusive development of India,” said Shallu Jindal. The ceremony was held in presence of District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Gaurav Grover, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Kranti Shekhar, Social Activist Priyal Bhardwaj, and various other dignitaries.Sri Kishori Raman Girls’ Inter College is a century-old school in Mathura spearheading the education of girl children, especially from the economically weaker, lower and lower-middle strata of the society in the region.The new anti-seismic school Building will have approximately 30,000 sqft of construction area, with all new amenities, good quality toilets, a grand entrance to the school, and a Ramp for divyang. It can house approximately 5,000 girl child in two shifts.The new school building has been designed after considering school management requirements, with being sympatric to availability of ample daylight and crosses air ventilation, better sanitation, and sewerage system, and good Vastu principles, with safety, and a grand iconic image. This new building will be three-storied and is being constructed aligned to the ancient local wisdom.This will provide employment to locals especially during the present Covid-19 induced distress in the region.This building is being designed, detailed, and executed with technical inputs fromJSPL Architecture-Construction and JRL Sonipat, a building and construction wing of JSPL. The construction work of the building is expected to be completed within one year time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-jspl-foundation-supports-reconstruction-of-century-old-girls-school/story-FkANjRTR62P7MA6s6fpJKI.html
29-12-2020||India||CAPFs to provide assistance in waste disposal during Covid-19 immunisation||The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have been asked to be prepared in providing assistance in safe disposal of medical waste that will be generated during the Covid-19 vaccination drive, expected to be rolled out soon, official sources said.The forces that render a variety of internal security duties in the country, apart from border guarding, will also play a “vital role” in assisting the medical system in organising camps and creating awareness about the availability and safety of getting a vaccine shot, they said.Broad contours on the role of the police forces, especially the central ones, in the coronavirus vaccination drive was discussed during the recently concluded annual conference of police chiefs that was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.“The central police organisations and the CAPFs have been asked to prepare their manpower in case they are required to assist the healthcare system of the country in the safe disposal of the huge medical waste that will be generated during the country-wide coronavirus vaccination drive expected in 2021.” “These forces have also been asked to identify their medical staff and other personnel who can help the healthcare system in the process of creating awareness about the safety of the vaccine and also in organising logistics for the drive,” an officer told PTI.The medical waste that will be generated during this drive includes syringes, vials, cotton swabs, wrappers, gloves, sanitiser bottles and some other medical equipment.As the healthcare workers are burdened with various Covid-19 duties since the outbreak of the pandemic, they can be helped by these forces in rendering auxiliary tasks, the officer said.The CAPFs will ensure that the waste generated in their campuses or in their surroundings is properly disposed off. They will be prepared to act as and when required, he said, adding the forces have also been directed to prepare a database of their personnel who will be among the first to get the vaccine.Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) Director General S S Deswal had told PTI in an interview last month that the CAPFs will play a major role in the anti-coronavirus vaccination programme in the country and their healthcare facilities will also be part of this drive.These forces, with an estimated strength of about 10 lakh personnel, include the BSF, CRPF, CISF and SSB apart from two other central forces NDRF and NSG.A mock drill for administering the Covid-19 vaccine was carried out by the government on Monday in some select districts of four states to test the systems deployed and find out pitfalls before the commencement of the actual drive.Another official said apart from Covid-19 measures, at the annual national conference of directors general and inspectors general of police action plans have been formulated for preparing a robust cyber security plan for their organisations and personnel.It was also decided during the meeting, held virtually between December 2-5, that police organisations should prepare a record on how various challenges they faced were tackled and what solutions were deployed.“This would help in better planning to tackle future challenges in the internal security, terrorism, left wing extremism, criminal investigations and border security domain. Every police organisation has been asked to prepare their record-sheet as per the task they render and expertise,” the second officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capfs-to-provide-assistance-in-waste-disposal-during-covid-19-immunisation/story-hI1cKeFlPbn6L9HP4WtwuL.html
29-12-2020||India||Ex-CM Shanta Kumar’s wife Santosh Shailja dies of Covid; +ve son lights pyre||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar’s wife Santosh Shailja died of Covid in the early hours of Tuesday. She was 83. She was undergoing treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda and suffered a cardiac arrest this morning.Shanta Kumar and his whole family had tested coronavirus positive last week. Shailja was tested positive on Thursday and was immediately shifted to RPGMC while Shanta Kumar, his son, daughter-in-law and grand-daughter were tested positive on Friday. Shailja was cremated as per Covid protocol. Her son lit the pyre. Kumar is undergoing treatment at RPGMC. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the demise of Shailja. He prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the family to bear the loss. Shailaja, born on April 14, 1937 in Amritsar, completed her post graduation in Hindi from Delhi and also taught in a government school. Shailja and Kumar got married in 1964 and lived in Palampur thereafter. Like her husband, Shailja was also a writer, her first stories appeared in Saptahik Hindustan, Dharmayuga, Sarika, Kadambini. She has penned over a dozen books and novels: “The Autumn Comes”, “Glimpses of Glory”, “Tinni, Pinni Chinni”, “Deepshikha”, among others. On Saturday when Shanta Kumar was moved to RPGMC for treatment, he penned an emotional note on his Facebook page. “My whole family is standing at the turning point amid the Carona crisis. Not only I but the whole world is struggling with this unprecedented tragedy and don’t know when this crisis will be over. “My wife has been hospitalized at RPGMC for three days. Today, I am by her side and she smiled after three days. We saw each other with moist eyes. Her treatment is going on. For about an hour both of us sat near each other, could not say much, but as they say silence speaks volumes,” wrote the former union minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-cm-shanta-kumar-s-wife-santosh-shailja-dies-of-covid-ve-son-lights-pyre/story-PNkW92WuNgIOCfz1Qg1PyL.html
29-12-2020||India||India may extend ban on flights from UK, says Hardeep Singh Puri||India is likely to extend the ban on flights from Britain in a bid to contain the spread of a new strain of coronavirus, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. “I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” Hardeep Singh Puri said.India had suspended all flights from Britain last week until the end of the month as the new variant of the virus detected in the United Kingdom triggered widespread concern and travel restrictions across the world. “Considering the prevailing situation in the UK, the government of India has decided that all flights originating from the UK to India shall be temporarily suspended till December 31, 2020 (11.59pm). This suspension will start from 11.59pm, December 22, 2020,” the ministry had announced.Also read | Covid-19: 18 UK returnees to Kerala test positive, samples sent to NIV Pune for studying variantThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday all international passengers who have arrived in India during the last 14 days - from December 9 to December 22 this year, if symptomatic and tested positive for the coronavirus disease will have to undergo genome sequencing.The variant of the coronavirus, which could be up to 70% more transmissible, is spreading rapidly in Britain and is not thought to be more deadly or to cause more serious illness, according to prime minister Boris Johnson and his board of scientific advisors.Governments around the world are also taking action as a fast-spreading variant sweeps through South Africa, with the UK banning flights from that country. Hong Kong banned all recent travellers from South Africa and extended a mandatory quarantine for most other visitors in an attempt to prevent a spread of Covid-19 cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-extend-ban-on-flights-from-uk-says-hardeep-singh-puri/story-Nuz1fLlxe6vFqrTlaLI37M.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19: 18 UK returnees to Kerala test positive, samples sent to NIV Pune for studying variant||Eighteen people who have returned to Kerala from the UK have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), health minister KK Shailja confirmed on Tuesday and said the government has made arrangements for their quarantine at home. In order to test and analyse the Covid-19 strain, the Kerala government has sent samples of eight people who have tested positive for the virus to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for genomic analysis.“As many as 18 UK returnees have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Arrangements had been made to quarantine at home those who had come back from the UK after the new variant of the virus surfaced,” Shailja told news agency PTI.The minister warned the elderly and people with existing comorbidities should be vigilant and exercise all safety protocols as six people in India have tested positive for the new UK variant. The new variant of the virus detected in Britain has triggered widespread concern and travel restrictions across the world.The variant of the coronavirus, which could be up to 70% more transmissible, is spreading rapidly in Britain, although it is not thought to be more deadly or to cause more serious illness, according to the prime minister Boris Johnson and his board of scientific advisors.Kerala has already strengthened surveillance at the state’s four international airports. A total of 743,563 cases of Covid-19 has been recorded in Kerala this year so far and 2,990 fatalities have been recorded due to the viral contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-18-uk-returnees-to-kerala-test-positive-samples-sent-to-niv-pune-for-studying-variant/story-VKLbF2zxyXK3lH02bnhYWP.html
29-12-2020||India||Thousands march to Governor’s house in Patna against farm laws, lathicharged||Police resorted to mild lathicharge and fired water canons on the farmers who had assembled in the state capital for their march to Raj Bhawan on Tuesday. The agitating farmers, who broke the lock of Gate number 6 of the historic Gandhi Maidan and began their march to Raj Bhawan via busy Dak Bungalow crossing were stopped midway. The farmers are protesting the three controversial farm laws passed by the Centre in September.Eyewitnesses said thousands of farmers, under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and other Left parties, had assembled in Patna since early morning and began their march from the historic Gandhi Maidan.The farmers at about 10 am broke lock of Gate number 6 of the Gandhi Maidan and also the barricade near the maidan and began marching towards Raj Bhawan via Dak Bungalow crossing to which police objected and resorted to mild lathicharge. Police also fired water cannons on the marching farmers. The busy Dak Bungalow crossing witnessed chaotic scenes when the protesters ran helter skelter. The protesting farmers carrying banners and placards raised slogans against the Centre and the state government.Earlier, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Mahasabha, affiliated to CPI (ML), state secretary, Ramadhar Singh, said besides the farmers the sharecroppers also participated in the Raj Bhawan march. He said the huge assembly of the farmers showed their second revolution against the government. “In the first protest against the zamindari system the farmers had shown their unity and now against these three controversial laws the farmers of the whole country are up in arms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-march-to-governor-s-house-in-patna-against-farm-laws-lathicharged/story-AGl4Uvi435WLKM51S9WamL.html
29-12-2020||India||Video of teen pleading with cops to let him bury his father sparks outrage||A video of a teenager pleading with police officials to allow him to bury his father has triggered outrage in Kerala after the clip went viral on social media.The boy’s parents had ‘accidentally’ immolated themselves on December 22 in Neyyatinkara in Thiruvananthapuram after police came to their house to evict them following a court order.Fighting serious burns, the father died on Sunday and the mother on Tuesday.When the son was digging the grave for his father, the police prevented him, saying it was against the court order. “You were responsible for the death of my father. He asked me to bury him here only. Let him rest peacefully for now,” the 16-year-old is heard saying on video.According to local people, the family was staying in a two-room shanty which was allegedly built on an encroached land. The father was engaged in litigation with a neighbour for five years and a local court in Neyyatinkara had ordered him to evacuate the land in June.On December 22, when police and revenue officials arrived at his house, he poured kerosene on himself and his wife and threatened to light themselves if they were forced out.His children later said it was only a threat and police officials aggravated the situation and in the scuffle that followed their bodies had suddenly caught fire.A police officer also received minor burn injuries while trying to save them. In the dying declaration, the boy’s father told a magistrate that he was “only threatening and police officials were responsible for the accidental fire”.Local people said despite his poor background he used to distribute free food for urchins in the area almost every day.Though police denied any involvement, saying the couple burnt themselves accidentally, the embarrassed government has ordered a probe into circumstances that led to their deaths. The state human rights commission has also asked the police to submit a report. The government said a new house will be built and it will bear the education expenses of children, aged 16 and 19.The high court had stayed the lower court’s order on evacuation but it did not reach the family in time. State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has asked the government to take action against erring police officials who allegedly drove them to death.Many organisations and leaders have pledged to help the children. The mother will be buried near the same grave later in the day.State police chief Loknath Behera has asked Thiruvananthapuram rural police superintendent B Ashokan to submit a report at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-teen-pleading-with-cops-to-let-him-bury-his-father-sparks-outrage/story-EiG2sGScx8u19kqJZsOXIL.html
29-12-2020||India||Air India pilots ask management for details of UK virus strain||Air India pilots have demanded the airline’s management provide them with details of the distinct phylogenetic cluster of Sars-CoV-2 that has been discovered in the United Kingdom (UK). In a letter to its director of operations on Tuesday, the frontliners pointed out that Air India, from the beginning of the pandemic, has taken the lead on relief missions, ferrying essential cargo, and operating evacuation and repatriation flights across the globe. Therefore, the pilots require all the information that can be provided to them regarding the new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to health experts, the new variant can be transmitted 70% faster.The letter read, “The company is duty-bound to procure and disseminate information pertaining to Covid-19. In this regard, we demand that the company procure information from the labs and promptly inform all pilots who have tested positive as well as pilots who may test positive in the future if they are infected with this deadlier variant of Sars-CoV-2.“We demand this in the interest of the country, the frontline workers of Air India and their families to ensure that this deadlier lineage does not get a foothold into our homes and are hopeful that the company and the government will not hesitate in promptly providing this crucial information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-ask-management-for-details-of-uk-virus-strain/story-Lv4dsIQ377mLFwVFedKNIN.html
29-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cabinet gives nod to ordinance on freedom of religion bill||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave nod to an ordinance on the bill against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators.The ordinance on the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, has been sent to state Governor Anandiben Patel for approval, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters.“Several ordinances including Freedom of Religion Ordinance were approved in the virtual cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday,” he said.He said these bills could not be presented in the state Legislative Assembly as the session was deferred due to the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-gives-nod-to-ordinance-on-freedom-of-religion-bill/story-Lr6lHAmBTjnAD1O8Jkyx9L.html
29-12-2020||India||BJP Bharuch MP Mansukh Vasava resigns from party||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bharuch Lok Sabha MP Mansukh Vasava has resigned from the party. “The BJP has given me more than I can handle. For which I would like to thank the party and the central leaders of the party. I have been as loyal to the party as I could be. The party values, the values of life are also carefully implemented,” Vasava stated in his resignation letter. “Ultimately, I am also a human being and mistakes happen unknowingly. I resigned from the party so that my mistake does not harm the party. For which the party forgives me. I will also meet the Speaker in person during the budget session and resign from the Lok Sabha membership,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bharuch-mp-mansukh-vasava-resigns-from-party/story-ps0HBMI7XkZEzpS6rhnqtO.html
29-12-2020||India||Work, reconnecting with family will be two key reasons to travel in future: Survey||Work and reconnecting with family will be the two key reasons to travel in the future, budget airline IndiGo claimed in a survey conducted in December with 23,000 travellers.“Visiting friends or relatives (46 per cent) and business (29 per cent) will be the key reasons to travel, followed by leisure (9 per cent) and work vacation (7 per cent),” stated the survey released on Tuesday.It said 69 per cent of the passengers said they planned to travel again in the next three months. In its June survey, this figure stood at 54 per cent.Forty-seven per cent of the respondents want to travel solo in the future, followed by 43 per cent with family, the survey said.Air transport is considered the safest mode by a wide margin for inter-city travel, it observed. Fifty-five per cent of respondents said they felt air travel safe. Thirty-seven per cent of them found driving was safe, and eight per cent picked train travel.William Boulter, Chief Commercial Officer, IndiGo said, “There has been a 16-point rise in passenger confidence in IndiGo from 65% in June to 81% in December 2020.” “We are pleased to see that we have gained customer confidence over the last six months on the back of our safety measures and customer initiatives,” he added.Indian carriers are permitted to operate not more than 80 per cent of their pre-COVID flights.India resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25, after a gap of two months. However, at that time, carriers were allowed to operate maximum 33 per cent of their pre-COVID flights. This figure has been gradually increased and stands at 80 per cent currently.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic.However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-reconnecting-with-family-will-be-two-key-reasons-to-travel-in-future-survey/story-po5ZrsQhBcdfVAE8fgo0KI.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Rajini’s wish, can’t force him to change mind’: Kin on superstar’s U-turn on political debut||Rajinikanth’s elder brother on Tuesday backed the Tamil superstar’s move to withdraw his decision to launch a political party. The 77-year-old R Sathyanarayana Rao said it’s his brother’s wish and one can’t force him to change his mind. When pointed to “lot of expectations” that people had on Rajinikanth’s planned political debut, Rao said: “We too believed that (he would launch the party)”. “He (Rajinikanth) has cited health reasons. So, we can’t force him. It’s his wish (not to launch party). Whatever decision he has taken, that’s definitely right”, Rao told PTI.ALSO WATCH | ‘Only I know the pain’: Rajinikanth won’t enter politics, cites health reasons  He said he spoke to Rajinikanth on Monday enquiring about his health. Earlier this month, Rajinikanth paid a visit to his brother in Bengaluru, where he grew up. The 70-year-old had sought the blessings of his brother, who wished him good health and a long life. Rao had recalled that Rajinikanth spent his childhood in the city, where he was born, and lived here till the age of 22 before shifting to Chennai. “He (Rajinikanth) has ‘gurukripa’ (grace of the guru)”, he had said. “He (Rajinikanth) is a man of his word. He definitely does what he says. He always keeps his word.” Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced that he will not take the political plunge and start a party as announced earlier, citing his frail health. Discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, the top actor expressed fears over those accompanying him in his possible political journey facing “mental and economic” problems in the due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajini-s-wish-can-t-force-him-to-change-mind-kin-on-superstar-s-u-turn-on-political-debut/story-dIu0oGRTQjx7eLNdzbAG3O.html
29-12-2020||India||Cold Moon 2020: All you need to know about the last full moon of the year||Cold Moon, or the last and the highest full moon of 2020, will be visible on December 29. The 13th full moon of this 2020, this will also be the last celestial event of this year.The Cold Moon comes following the celestial event of Christmas Star or the Great Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. The sky sees Jupiter and Saturn in a rare double planet alignment during this Christmas Star event.Here is all you need to know about the Cold Moon:- The Cold Moon will be the highest full moon in the entire Gregorian year. It will be visible on two different days. - According to ‘The Old Farmer’s Almanac’, a reference website for weather forecasts and moon phases, the peak illumination of the full moon is supposed to take place at 7.54pm IST on December 29 and at 8.57pm IST on December 30. - “This particular Cold Moon will rise accompanied by Mars, which will be high in the southern skies just after sunset, as well as Jupiter and Saturn...”  according to space.com.- The Cold Moon also called the ‘Long Night Moon’ as it occurs on one of the longest nights of the year, around the winter solstice. - For the next three days after this event, the moon will appear to be full-blown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-moon-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-last-full-moon-of-the-year/story-7ns1xjDnwBQYraet0hIM1J.html
29-12-2020||India||Customs officer accused of molesting Uzbek nationals forced to retire||The government has compulsorily retired a customs superintendent posted at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport for allegedly molesting two woman passengers from Ukbekistan, a finance ministry official said.“The superintendent was first suspended for his alleged misconduct and later on December 21 he was served the notice of compulsory retirement under the Fundamental Rule (FR) 56(j),” the official said, requesting anonymity. FR 56(j) deals with premature retirement of senior officers.The action was taken against the officer on the basis of an incident on the night of May 2, 2019. That night two women Uzbekistani passengers arrived from Tashkent. One of them was taken outside the CCTV coverage area upon reaching the green channel and was detained for an hour. Later she was allowed to leave as there was no seizure of any contraband, the official said.Also Read: From child marriage to revenge porn: 10 set-backs for women in 2020The second Uzbekistani passenger was similarly detained for over 30 minutes and then she, too, was released without any seizure of contraband, he said.“Both the passengers were confined alone in a room with the superintendent without the presence of any woman customs officer and both the passengers were allegedly subjected to sexual harassment and molestation,” he said.Later, one of the passengers testified in front of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) and identified the officer, accusing him of molestation and obscene sexual acts in the preventive room, he added.“On the basis of inquiry and analysis of video footage, the official was given compulsory retirement. Further inquiries and criminal proceeding will, however, continue,” he said.The department of revenue (DoR), an arm of the union finance ministry that also controls the customs department, suspended the official while the matter was investigated under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. “The committee held detailed enquiries and finally recommended his compulsory retirement under FR 56(j) on charges of ‘gross misconduct’, ‘sexual harassment of grave nature’ besides ‘acute adverse impact on the image of the department’ and lowering the morals of the officers of the service,” the official said.“Taking a holistic view of the record of the officer, the committee concluded that his (accused) conduct is such that his continuance in service would be a menace to public service and injurious to public interest,” he said.Notwithstanding the order of compulsory retirement, the departmental inquiries and criminal proceedings, if any, against the superintendent will continue, he said. “Appropriate action may be taken by the disciplinary authority as and when the charges are proved as compulsory retirement under FR 56(j) is not a punitive measure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-officer-accused-of-molesting-uzbek-nationals-forced-to-retire/story-defhZknsqMJ4eotUkUPZ1L.html
29-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Srinagar-Jammu highway closed after parts of J&K witness snowfall and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parts of J&K witness fresh snowfall, Srinagar-Jammu highway closedThere was fresh snowfall in parts of Jammu and Kashmir including in summer capital Srinagar on Tuesday, leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway, officials said.Read more. Officer who sexually molested and harassed Uzbek women at IGI airport ‘compulsorily retired’The government has taken strict action against a former customs superintendent for sexually harassing and molesting two Uzbekistan nationals. The officer, Devender Kumar Hooda, has been “compulsorily retired”, a government notice said.Read more. PM Modi inaugurates New Bhaupur-New Khurja stretch of Eastern Dedicated Freight CorridorPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the 351-km ‘New Bhaupur- New Khurja section’ in Uttar Pradesh of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor(EDFC) via video conferencing. During the event, he also inaugurated the EDFC’s Operation Control Centre (OCC) at Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh.Read more. ‘Only I know the pain’: Rajinikanth apologises for not launching political partyActor Rajinikanth announced on Tuesday that he will not be launching his political party, for which the announcement was scheduled to be made on December 31. In a three-page statement that he posted on Twitter, the actor has apologised for not launching the party.Read more. Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli lead the way as Twitter goes wild after India defeat Australia in MelbourneLegendary India cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and regular captain Virat Kohli led the way as Twitter was flooded with congratulatory messages for Team India after they beat Australia comfortably by 8 wickets in the second Test match in Melbourne. Stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane(27*) and debutant opener Shubman Gill(35*) helped India chase down the 70-run target set by Australia on Day 4 to level the four-match series 1-1.Read moreRanveer Singh and Deepika Padukone take off on romantic New Year getaway. See photos, videoRanveer Singh and Deepika Padukone will ring in 2021 together at an undisclosed location. The two took off on a romantic holiday to celebrate New Year. They were seen at the Mumbai airport on Tuesday morning, as they walked hand-in-hand to the terminal.Read more. Apple testing clamshell design for its foldable iPhone, says leaksterRumours of Apple working on a foldable iPhone have been doing the rounds for quite some time. Throughout the year, we have come across multiple leaks around the elusive foldable iPhone. Now, prolific leakster Jon Presser has more to add the rumours around the device.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-parts-of-j-k-witness-fresh-snowfall-srinagar-jammu-highway-closed-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3daUs9kx7zJ5imflt6to0O.html
29-12-2020||India||Officer who sexually molested and harassed Uzbek women at IGI airport ‘compulsorily retired’||The government has taken strict action against a former customs superintendent for sexually harassing and molesting two Uzbekistan nationals. The officer, Devender Kumar Hooda, has been “compulsorily retired”, a government notice said.“The officer’s continuance in service would be a menace to public service and injurious to the public interest,” it further said.Hooda was held guilty of indulging in obscene sexual acts in the preventive room where the foreigners were confined and detained over suspicion of carrying contraband. The incident took place in May 2019.Hooda was served the notice on December 21 after a detailed inquiry by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC), people aware of the developments said.According to officials, two female passengers, who arrived from Tashkent on the intervening night of May 2 and May 3 last year were detained and confined on the suspicion of carrying contraband. Both the passengers were confined alone in a room with Hooda and were allegedly subjected to sexual harassment and molestation. Later, one of the female passengers gave testimony to the ICC and identified the officer (DK Hooda) accusing him of “molesting”, and indulging in obscene sexual acts in the preventive room.The department also concluded that the departmental inquiries and criminal proceedings against Hooda will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officer-who-sexually-molested-and-harassed-uzbek-women-at-igi-airport-compulsorily-retired/story-1sULtw0ydKifwTiVhiLtCK.html
29-12-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates New Bhaupur-New Khurja stretch of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the 351-km ‘New Bhaupur- New Khurja section’ in Uttar Pradesh of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor(EDFC) via video conferencing. During the event, he also inaugurated the EDFC’s Operation Control Centre (OCC) at Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh.While counting the innumerable benefits of the dedicated freight corridors, PM Modi attacked the opposition and said that the lack of investment in developing the infrastructure of the railways “shows how the previous government before us used to work”. “The plan to develop the dedicated freight corridors have been on paper since 2006 but the work started after 2014. Zero kilometres of the corridor was constructed in eight years, while in the last six to seven years we have built 1100 Kms,” he compared.The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor is a 1875-km stretch that connects Punjab’s Ludhiana to Dankuni in West Bengal. The project is aimed at decongesting the railway lines and to make the transportation of goods smoother without any delays. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who was also present during the virtual inauguration of the project also claimed that the speed of freight trains will double from 25km/hour to 75 km/hour.Talking about the modern and technologically advanced OCC at Prayagraj, PM Modi said that the Made in India state-of-the art structure shows the strength of new India. He added that the government has always focussed on infrastructural development for the growth of the nation. The boost in connectivity with the development of the freight corridor will also help Kisan Rail and farmers to transport their harvest on time. The OCC, which will be the command centre for the entire route, is said to be one of the largest control centres in the world. Apart from EDFC, the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor is also being developed. The 1506 km stretch will connect Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh’s Dadri.Adding to the list of benefits, the Prime Minister said that the dedicated corridor will reduce the logistical cost of the railways network thus influencing the price of the goods. It will also increase the ease of doing business and attract greater foreign investment, PM Modi added.He also talked about Atmanirbhar Bharat and gave the example of Raebareily modern coach factory that has till date produced 5000 rail coaches and has now begun exporting too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-new-bhaupur-new-khurja-strtech-of-eastern-dedicated-freight-corridor/story-DtoU5Mg9u3q6d0PKYqOdOI.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Only I know the pain’: Rajinikanth apologises for not launching political party||Actor Rajinikanth announced on Tuesday that he will not be launching his political party, for which the announcement was scheduled to be made on December 31. In a three-page statement that he posted on Twitter, the actor has apologised for not launching the party.“Only I know the pain of announcing this decision,” he said, adding that he will serve people without entering electoral politics. The 70-year-old actor was expected to float his political party in January 2021, ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. pic.twitter.com/bUzAYURjdvEarlier this week, he was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad with ‘severe hypertension and exhaustion’. He was discharged on December 27 after his blood pressure stabilised and was advised a week’s rest by doctors.ALSO WATCH | ‘Only I know the pain’: Rajinikanth won’t enter politics, cites health reasons He was told to be in complete bed rest with regular monitoring of his blood pressures “in view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age,” Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, said a statement. He has also been counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting Covid-19, the hospital added.Doctors had advised the actor against a hectic lifestyle since he underwent a kidney transplant in 2016, but earlier this month, he said that though there were health concerns, he was ready to sacrifice his life for the people of Tamil Nadu and made two appointments for his party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-backs-out-from-launching-political-party/story-vjNdZr4XtqRRYRANMb9JBP.html
29-12-2020||India||Need 4 more days: Sena’s Sanjay Raut on summons to wife in PMC bank scam case||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife, Varsha Raut, has sought more time to appear before the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the investigation in the multi-crore scam in Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. She was issued summons to appear before the central agency on Tuesday. Talking to the media, Raut, who is also the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, said more time has been sought. “We have asked for about four more days,” said Raut. “I have still not seen the notice but will reply to it as, despite differences, we respect the central agencies. It is an action out of political vendetta and everybody knows it. I am a Rajya Sabha MP and a lawmaker. I will respect the law despite some people holding it hostage and managing it to evade action,” he added. Taunting the BJP, the Sena leader alleged that those indulging in financial scams tend to join the BJP. “We have committed no wrong and we are not afraid,” he underlined. According to sources, Varsha Raut has sought time till January 5 next year.Reacting to the new development, BJP leader Kirit Somaiyya said such delay exposes Raut. “This is a third notice to Varsha Raut. Why is she not appearing before the agency and disclosing the facts,” said Somaiyya. “They will have to return the money as it was related to the scam,” he added. The ED has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, who was arrested recently. Guruashish is a subsidiary of Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), whose other directors Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan have already been arrested in connection with the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-4-more-days-sena-s-sanjay-raut-on-summons-to-wife-in-pmc-bank-scam-case/story-mRf1rF4SyqoT4hu02AObJM.html
29-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir shivers as areas witness fresh snowfall: In photos||Kashmir saw moderate snowfall at most places on Tuesday. Snowfall started in Srinagar around 7 am, several hours after it had begun in neighbouring Budgam and Pulwama districts, officials said.Kulgam and Anantnag districts of south Kashmir also witnessed snowfall on Monday morning. The ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded seven inches of fresh snowfall, while Pahalgam resort in the south and Sonamarg resort in central Kashmir received around three to four inches of snowfall each, officials said.Gurez in north Kashmir recorded three inches of fresh snowfall, officials said. There are reports of snowfall in other areas in the upper reaches of the Valley as well. The area around the Jawahar Tunnel – on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway – also received snowfall. The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — was 0 degree Celsius on Monday night.The snowfall ahead of the new year has seen many domestic tourists and locals rushing to Gulmarg and Pahalgam. Gulmarg saw more then 1,200 domestic tourist arrivals on Monday, while over 2,500 locals from various parts of the Valley were also in the skiing resort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-shivers-as-areas-witness-fresh-snowfall-in-photos/story-DpzPe8eTda96tivMwm9HTO.html
29-12-2020||India||Congress’ Rajasthan saga continues, Pilot maintains distance from Jaipur on Foundation Day||Months after falling out with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, former Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot attended the party’s 136th foundation day programme in Delhi, maintaining a distance from Jaipur.On Monday, Congress celebrated its 136th foundation day programme at the central office in Delhi and at all other state headquarters across the country, but the strain in the Rajasthan unit of the party was once again visible when Pilot chose to attend the function in Delhi, ditching the party celebration in Rajasthan.The AICC had invited Congress Working Committee members and MPs for the Foundation Day programme at the headquarters and Pilot who doesn’t fall in any category attended the programme.According to sources, Pilot didn’t want any controversy to emerge.Notably, Congress has deputed a committee of senior leaders including the AICC in-charge Ajay Maken to resolve the differences between the Gehlot and Pilot camps.“Several organisational appointments and political appointments are on the cards for the state body of Congress and are likely to be announced soon. A shortlist will be announced shortly and then later a detailed list will be out,” said a source.State in-charge Ajay Maken is holding meetings with leaders and party workers, and for this, he had met Pilot recently in Delhi.While Pilot is skipping events in Jaipur and reaching out to Delhi, it can be seen as a halt in the state’s political storm or there is another storm brewing that is making Pilot maintain the silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rajasthan-saga-continues-pilot-maintains-distance-from-jaipur-on-foundation-day/story-z5dqqXdVpTKBMo2WW8QqIO.html
29-12-2020||India||India-China military talks on standoff paused due to change of guard in PLA||The ninth round of military dialogue between India and China is expected to take place once the newly-appointed PLA Western Theatre Commander Gen Zhang Xudong completes his military familiarisation and troop deployments on the Indian border. Gen Zhang, who has never served on the Indian border or Tibet, took over from Tibet veteran Gen Zhao Zongqi on December 21. Gen Zhao was the principal implementer of Bejing agression in Doklam in 2017 and in East Ladakhin May 2020. According to senior officials, the December 18 meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) ended on a positive note but the ninth round of military talks are crucial as both sides are expected to work towards working out a written disengagement and de-escalation agreement. “ It is work in progress and till such time a firm agreement is not chalked out, India is holding positions on East Ladakh,” said a millitary officer.As for the dates for the ninth round are concerned, the Indian understanding is that this could be due to the new PLA Western Theatre Commander taking over as military leader of Tibet and Xinjiang. The process of induction of a new military commander takes time as Gen Zhang is expected to visit key deployments and receive his operational briefings about the situation along the 3488-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC).For now, Indian officials said they expect the new military commander to take a similar line against India as the last one since Beijing appeared to be pulling the strings to keep the East Ladakh in stand-off mode to achieve its strategic objectives during the 100th year of Chinese Communist Party in 2021.Also Read: Donald Trump defies Chinese warning, signs off on law on next Dalai LamaPresident Xi is expected to project China as the global economic and military power ahead of the Communist Party of China’s main centenary celebrations in July next year. It was in this context that President Xi had, in his speech at the Central Economic Work Conference earlier this month, skipped any negative references to the challenges ahead for the economy, a contrast from his speech at the forum last year when he had spoken of “downward economic pressure”.As part of this script in East Ladakh, the PLA is expected to keep up the pressure, notwithstanding the fact that the entire bilateral relationship with India has been put to stake on a piece of mountainous land between finger 4 and finger 8 on the north banks of the frozen Pangong Tso.The Chinese propaganda media, on its part, is, as usual, blaming India and right-wing nationalism for hyping up the threat from the Middle Kingdom and using it to decouple economic ties. The Communist Party mouthpiece has reminded India of military power differential between two neighbors even though it is unproven and untested. It has also tried to ridicule Indian Army Chief Gen MM Naravane December 23 visit to the Ladakh front-line on southern banks of Pangong Tso by saying that the troops who accepted sweets from the military commander will be the ones to “get dragged down” in case India does not withdraw.The Indian Army dominates the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline on Kailash Ranges after specialised troops on August 29-30 pre-empted a Chinese plan to force the 1959 line on the southern banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-talks/story-9MxucWK9WPx3J8bTuD2sgM.html
29-12-2020||India||Karnataka council deputy chairman SL Dharme Gowda found dead near railway track||The body of Karnataka Legislative Council deputy chairman S L Dharme Gowda was recovered from a railway track at Gunasagar village of Kadur Taluk in Chikmagalur district of the state, said police on Tuesday. Gowda, say police, is suspected to have died by suicide. The police are examining an alleged death note found near his body. According to police sources, Gowda had asked his official gunman and escort to leave him alone on Monday evening. He had left his home in Shakarayapatna in an old personal Santro car with his driver and came to Gunasagar at around 6 pm. He then asked his driver to leave him as he had to meet someone.His last call is said to have made enquiries about train timings from a friend in Kadur. When Gowda did not return home even late at night, his family is said to have alerted authorities who mounted a search. Based on cell signals, they located his body on the Mankenahalli railway track. The head was separated from the body.His body has been sent for autopsy to Shivamogga and according to his brother Bhoje Gowda the last rites would be held at the Madagadakere farmhouse that the family owns in Shakaryapatna.The JD(S) MLC is said to have been distressed over the way he was treated by some members during chaos in the council. During the one day proceeding of the council, Gowda was pushed and shoved by angry Congress members who said that only the Chairman can preside over the House. CM Yediyurappa, leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah, KPCC President D K Shivakumar, JDS Chief Deve Gowda and Kumaraswamy apart from various other political leaders have expressed shock and grief at the death of Gowda.“It is shocking to learn the news of Deputy Speaker of State Legislative Council and JDS leader SL Dharmegowda’s suicide. He was a calm and decent man. This is a loss of the state,” news agency ANI quoted HD Deve Gowda, former PM and JDS leader, as saying. A close associate of JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy, Gowda hailed from an influential political family. His father SR Lakshmaiah was a three-time MLA from Birur assembly constituency and Gowda himself had once been elected from there in 2004. Gowda’s brother SL Bhoje Gowda is also an MLC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-council-deputy-chairman-sl-dharme-gowda-found-dead-near-railway-track/story-52y0BNnQF1BrhwwCH7x07H.html
29-12-2020||India||6 UK returnees test positive for new mutant virus strain: Health ministry||The new UK variant genome of Sars-Cov-2 virus has made its way into India, with six UK returnees testing positive for the new variant, according to the initial results of genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) labs on Tuesday.“A total of six samples of six UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome. 3 in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, 2 in CCMB, Hyderabad and 1 in NIV, Pune,” said union ministry of health and family welfare in a statement. All these persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been quarantined.Also Read: Sydney on alert after ‘mystery’ Covid-19 cases detected outside current clusterComprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other samples is currently going on.From November 25 to midnight, December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from UK.All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19.Of all the samples tested, 114 samples have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. These positive samples have been sent to 10 Insacog labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, CCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi, NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to Insacog labs,” the health ministry statement further said.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-new-mutant-virus-strain-health-ministry/story-PNUOR4sf570sV9eqVLR2oK.html
29-12-2020||India||Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune: Where India found samples of UK returnees positive for new coronavirus strain||A total of six persons who returned to India from the United Kingdom were found positive for the new coronavirus strain discovered there, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said in a statement on Tuesday. Of these, the ministry said, three samples were found positive in Bengaluru, two in Hyderabad and one in Pune.Also Read | 6 UK returnees test positive for new mutant virus strain: Health ministry“A total of six samples of six UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome. 3 in National Institute of Mental Health and Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, 2 in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad and 1 in National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” the ministry’s statement noted on Tuesday morning. The statement further said that those who have tested positive have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments, adding that their close contacts, too, have been quarantined.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMentioning that the situation is under careful watch, the statement also said that states are being advised regularly for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to 10 Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) labs, including the three where the six samples were found positive with the new coronavirus strain.Of the six who have tested positive for the new variant genome, one is from Tamil Nadu, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. Of the two samples found positive in CCMB Hyderabad, one each is from Warangal (Telangana) and Nellore (Andhra Pradesh).On December 21, the Union ministry of civil aviation had announced a temporary ban on flights from the United Kingdom, from 11:59 pm on December 22 till December 31. The ministry had also directed that passengers arriving in India from any international flight from the UK be subjected to “mandatory” RT-PCR tests, and had also issued detailed SOPs in this regard.The new coronavirus strain, which is reported to be 70% more contagious than the current one, has led to several countries putting a ban on flights from the UK. It was discovered in the country in September. The presence of this new variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-uk-returnees-found-positive-for-new-coronavirus-strain-says-government/story-xgIF9Uvvs3eJfX8LltwKBI.html
29-12-2020||India||India records 16,432 new cases of Covid-19, recoveries cross 9.8 million||India recorded 16,432 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, according to Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning. With this, the nationwide tally reached 10,224,303.The number of active cases dropped to 2,68,581, according to health ministry’s update at 8 am, while 98,07,569 patients were cured/discharged from hospitals.The country also recorded 252 new fatalities due to the infection, which took the overall death toll to 1,48,153.The government is carrying out vaccination dry run to prepare the infrastructure before the expected rollout of Covid-19 vaccine in January. The dry run will also help health authorities identify the shortcomings and sort out the issues before vaccines are administered to people.The two-day dry run is being held in four states.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Monday that India’s recovery rate has increased to 95.83 per cent.It also said that India’s Covid-19 cases per million population are among the lowest in the world (7,397) and the global average is 10,149.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Monday wrote a letter to chief secretaries of all states to instruct the concerned authorities for their active support to the health ministry in identification, preparation of database, vaccine delivery, storage, security, shipment and vaccination of beneficiaries.The Centre on Monday maintained the Covid-19 restrictions on various activities, noting that while there has been a continuous decline in active cases in India, there is a need for surveillance, containment and caution due to a surge globally and the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the UK.In a statement, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said that it has issued fresh guidelines for surveillance with regard to Covid-19 that will remain in force till January 31, as it asked the states and union territories to keep a strict vigil to prevent any rise in cases during the New Year celebrations and the winter season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-16-432-new-cases-of-covid-19-recoveries-cross-9-8-million/story-LDIIsi2QbHsEo24IMPV2AI.html
29-12-2020||India||Delhi Airport says it’s ready for Covid vaccine distribution challenge||Distributing vaccines around India will pose plenty of logistical headaches given the size of the country, its vast population and number of coronavirus cases, now at more than 10 million.For its part, India’s busiest airport is “completely ready” to handle Covid-19 vaccines, according to Delhi International Airport Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, but there could be issues elsewhere considering more remote areas may not be equipped with sufficient equipment and containers. “One of the key challenges will be the availability of cold chain across India,” he said.New Delhi’s airport -- Indira Gandhi International -- will be a main handling point and has facilities to store 2.7 million vials of vaccine at 2-to-8 degrees Celsius, as well as cooling chambers that can keep temperatures as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius, Jaipuriar said.“As soon as we get an indication on what’s going to be the flow, we will do the final tune up and then we will be ready to go,” Jaipuriar said in an interview with Bloomberg News during a tour of the airport’s facilities on Dec. 22. He said there was also capacity to potentially export vaccines to nearby countries.India is relying largely on two domestically made vaccines from Bharat Biotech International Ltd. and the Serum Institute of India Ltd., which has partnered with AstraZeneca Plc to produce at least one billion doses. Ultra-cold storage requirements for Pfizer Inc.’s shot make it an unlikely choice for widespread use given India’s patchy health networks and infrastructure, especially in rural areas where the bulk of the country’s nearly 1.4 billion people live.According to Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking, a measure of the best places to be in the Covid-19 era, India is a long way down the list, ranked No. 39 out of 53 economies in December, below even the U.S. and Brazil. New Zealand -- with its closed borders, vaccine deals and elimination of the virus in the community -- remains No. 1.India, along with China, the world’s most-populous nation, both slipped in the ranking versus November. While both countries have secured over two billion shots with multiple developers, that’s less per capita coverage than many smaller places.“This is a huge logistics exercise that needs to be worked out in detail for the vaccine to reach every nook and corner,” Jaipuriar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-says-it-s-ready-for-covid-vaccine-distribution-challenge/story-9AHCVXtZwhbOv3lF2lh4DK.html
29-12-2020||India||5 killed, 6 injured as SUV overturns on highway in Rajasthan’s Kota||Five persons were killed and six others injured when an SUV turned turtle on Baran-Kota National Highway No 27 on Monday evening.The Kota rural police informed that an SUV carrying 14 passengers was on its way to Kaithoon town of Kota from Baran when it overturned on Baran-Kota National Highway no 27 near Karadiya village under Seemliya police station of Kota.Ramlal Sharma, SHO, Seemliya police station, said that the vehicle slipped down the highway into an agricultural field after which four persons died on the spot while seven others were injured.One of the injured died while being moved to the Government MBS Hospital of Kota for treatment, said the officer.The accident occurred due to tyre bursting at high speed, he added.Among those injured, three are said to be critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-6-injured-as-suv-overturns-on-highway-in-rajasthan-s-kota/story-hQKqUhQtXf3mEVUwS8l7BO.html
29-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Dummy vaccination to be carried out on day 2 of dry run today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Dummy vaccination to be carried out on day 2 of dry run todayIt is the second day of the vaccination dry run in four states where necessary infrastructure and processes are being tested before the expected rollout of Covid-19 vaccine in January. Read more Delhi shivers as minimum temperature dips to 3.6° Celsius todayDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 3.6 degrees Celsius at 8.30am on Tuesday. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 5.6 degrees Celsius. Read more PMC Bank scam case: ED asks Sanjay Raut’s wife to appear before it todayThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha to appear before it today in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank scam case. Read more Influential figures who passed away in 2020Along with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis that has killed over 1.8 million people worldwide, destroyed economies and brought to the fore the inadequacies of health systems, the world will remember the year 2020 for the death of many influential figures. Read more iPhone 12 rival, Samsung Galaxy S21 goes up for pre-registration ahead of launchSamsung is tipped to launch its next-generation Galaxy S21 series smartphones in January 2021. Ahead of the official launch, the upcoming smartphone series is up for pre-orders in the Samsung Shop app. Read more Rishabh Pant administers the laughter sledge in tense MCG TestWhen Rishabh Pant was picked for the Boxing Day Test against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, it signalled two things—India wanted to boost their batting after a record low 36 in the first Test. Read more Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan plays guitar, sings Charlie Puth’s Attention. Watch viral videoShah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan has a musical talent that the world does not know about. In a new video shared online, he is seen strumming a guitar and singing Charlie Puth’s Attention. Read more People say this pic by NASA looks like a Van Gogh painting. What do you think?Space can be a wondrous place and this recent Instagram post by NASA proves that yet again. The mesmerising image shows the magnetic fields in galaxy NGC 1068. Read more Watch: Shikhar Dhawan on India’s chances against Australia in Test series||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dummy-vaccination-to-be-carried-out-on-day-2-of-dry-run-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LXj6AxfzpBGWCbEgz4D7dM.html
29-12-2020||India||Kin of journalists who died of Covid-19 may get up to Rs5 lakh||The Centre will provide up to Rs5 lakh compensation each to the families of journalists, who have lost their lives to Covid-19 in the line of duty, officials aware of the matter said. The information and broadcasting ministry’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) has compiled a list of around two dozen journalists for the purpose and asked its regional units to send lists of cases that may have not come to its notice.“The PIB has a Journalist Welfare Fund [since 2019] under which a support of up to Rs5 lakh can be extended to the family of a journalist who has lost his or her life in the line of duty,” said an official, who did not want to be named. The official added compensation has been offered in a couple of cases.A second official said the department is prepared to provide support to more families once the reports from states are received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-journalists-who-died-of-covid-19-may-get-up-to-rs5-lakh/story-nHrUsEMJqC6Locr8JOl2iI.html
29-12-2020||India||Resolve medical, provident fund issues before privatisation: Air India union||As Air India is set to be privatised, there are increasing concerns among its employees over their fate once the private owner takes control of the loss-making airline. Amid these concerns, one of its employee unions, Air India Employees Union (AIEU), has written to the civil aviation minister, seeking an urgent appointment to discuss various pending staff issues, including provident funds, medical and welfare facilities.The letter dated December 26 urged the minister to let their medical scheme continue as is for serving and retired employees. They also appealed for their provident fund trusts to continue even after Air India is privatised. Also Read: Air India pilots upset over cut in pay rollback, won’t work after duty timeSeeking urgent attention on their issues, the letter stated, “AIEU would like to place on record that there is a practice of availing the benefit of leave encashment at the time of retirement. Several employees depend on this benefit to lead a decent retired life. Several employees will suffer huge financial losses. Therefore, AIEU would like to propose that the employees should be paid leave encashment allowances till March 31, 2021.” The union also demanded that their charter of demands that has been pending since January 2002 must be settled before disinvestment, and arrears should be paid to all the employees. In January this year, the government invited bids for selling 100% of its holding in Air India and its international budget arm Air India Express Ltd, and 50% in the ground-handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.Air India had a total of 14,032 employees, including 9,426 permanent and remaining on contract as on November 1, 2019, as per the Preliminary Information Memorandum issued on January 20 this year. The airline reported a total loss of Rs60,074 crore as on March 31, 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resolve-medical-provident-fund-issues-before-privatisation-air-india-union/story-Rct9OTMpJUeTXOf3lHKVAM.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Dummy vaccination to be carried out on day 2 of dry run today||It is the second day of the vaccination dry run in four states where necessary infrastructure and processes are being tested before the expected rollout of Covid-19 vaccine in January.The two-day end-to-end dry run is being carried out in Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, Rajkot and Gandhinagar in Gujarat, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) in Punjab and Sonitpur and Nalbari districts in Assam.While Monday’s exercise included mock registration of volunteers, officials said that Tuesday is when they will be called for the vaccination drill.District Immunisation Officer of Nawanshahr, Dr Davinder Dhanda, said that each centre has a waiting area, an injection room, and an observation room where the person undergoing “dummy vaccination” on Tuesday during the dry run would be kept for half an hour.Prior to the dry run, a special training workshop of personnel was held on Monday. Yesterday’s exercise also tested the functionality of Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring the delivery of Covid-19 vaccine, deployment of team members, checking cold storage, transportation arrangements and other arrangements while following all necessary protocols.The dry run was being carried out in five locations with 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) for each session.“We have recorded this in the Co-WIN App and sent SMSes to the chosen patients. We have monitored the time taken for different processes and the logistics involved. This will be used in real-time simulation,” Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiyaz told reporters.Officials said that these SMSes will be treated as identity proof for patients’ entry into their allotted centres on Tuesday. Each centre is equipped with a team of five doctors.A report on the dry run listing the issues involved will be submitted by the states to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare besides the State Task Force for necessary action.The exercise comes at a time when drug regulators are expected any day to take a decision on giving emergency approvals to pave way for the first shots to be given. The country targets to deliver doses, likely to be in a regimen of two, to 300 million people by the summer - one of the largest logistical exercises to be undertaken outside of the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dummy-vaccination-to-be-carried-out-on-day-2-of-dry-run-today/story-1WVXEcJHbFMtJHJd0V9hWI.html
29-12-2020||India||PMC Bank scam case: ED asks Sanjay Raut’s wife to appear before it today||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha to appear before it today in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank scam case.News agency ANI reported that this is the third summons sent to the Sena leader’s wife. She had skipped the earlier two summons citing ill health, ANI further reported.In September last year, the RBI had capped the withdrawal limit and restricted the activities of the PMC Bank after an alleged fraud of Rs 4,355 crore came to light.The Enforcement Directorate had later seized and identified movable and immovable assets worth more than Rs 3,830 crore owned by Housing Development Infrastructures Ltd (HDIL) in connection with the case. Raut, meanwhile, called the summons an act of cowardice.“Targeting women of a household is an act of cowardice. We are not scared of anyone and will respond accordingly. ED needed some papers and we have submitted them in time,” Raut said at a press conference on Monday.“In the last one year, Sharad Pawar, Eknath Khadse and Pratap Sarnaik got notices and now all of you are discussing my name. All these people are crucial for government formation in Maharashtra. These are pieces of paper, nothing else,” he added.The Shiv Sena leader also claimed that he has a list of “120 BJP leaders who are fit case for a probe by the ED for money laundering”.Yuva Sena president and state minister Aaditya Thackeray termed the ED action “politically motivated”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-scam-case-ed-asks-sanjay-raut-s-wife-to-appear-before-it-today/story-ztf0TSz6O1Wlafsc4woPzM.html
29-12-2020||India||Farmers protest updates: Farmers’ groups accept invitation to talks on December 30||Farmers’ agitation on the outskirts of Delhi against the three contentious agricultural laws entered day 34 on Tuesday, on a day when the sixth round of talks between the government and the farm unions were expected to take place. However, on Monday, the government wrote to the farmers, inviting them for talks at 2 pm on December 30. On Saturday, the unions had proposed that the sixth round of talks take place at 11 am on December 29, in response to the government’s proposal to hold dialogue at a date and time of the unions’ choosing. The farmers, though, had rejected the initial proposal in this regard.Also Read | Farm laws stir: Govt, farmers to resume talks on WednesdayAlso on Monday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed the police to take action after several towers of Reliance Jio were vandalised allegedly by farmers protesting against the farm laws. Earlier in the day, in what was seen as yet another outreach by the Centre towards the farmers, prime minister Narendra Modi virtually flagged off the 100th service of the Kisan Rail, which will run between Sangola in Maharashtra and West Bengal’s Shalimar. Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on the 136th foundation day celebrations of the party, said that it was a “sin” that the government was using for the farmers the kind of words it has, adding that it should reach out to the farmers and repeal the laws. In West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, demanded that the “draconian” laws be taken back and expressed solidarity with the farmers.Also Read | UPA couldn’t bring in farm reforms due to pressure: Agri minister TomarHere are the updates from day 34 of the anti-farm law protests:Union ministers Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal meets with Amit Shah ahead of December 30 meetingAhead of the December 30 meeting with the farmers organizations, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal met with home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Click here to read moreFarmers’ organisations accept invitation to talks on December 30, stays firm on demandsFarmers’s organizations have written to the secretary of Agriculture ministry accepting the invite to hold talks at 2pm on December 30. They have also demanded that the talks include repealing the farm laws and legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP), reports ANI. AAP announces will provide free wifi to protesting farmers“Aam Aadmi Party will provide wifi for farmers at protest sites. First hotspot to be activated in 24-48 hours,” announces party MLA Raghav Chadha. आम आदमी पार्टी किसानों के लिए प्रदर्शन की जगह पर Wifi लगाएगी। पहला हॉटस्पॉट 24 से 48 घंटे के अंदर शुरू होगा। परिजनों से बात करने में दिक्कत होने के कारण किसानों ने मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी से Wifi लगाने की मांग की थी।- श्री @raghav_chadha pic.twitter.com/2WgS0nLFEFIf the opposition was strong, wouldn’t have to agitate: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait“If the Opposition were strong, what was the need for farmers to launch the agitation,” says Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.Farm unions hold march towards Bihar governor’s residenceMembers of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and other Left organisations hold protest march to the Bihar governor’s House over Centre’s three farm laws, in Patna. Patna: Members of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and other Left organisations hold protest march to the Governor's House over Centre's three farm laws#Bihar pic.twitter.com/6zMvfURdRCMembers of farm unions, other left organisations march in protest to Governor’s House in PatnaMembers of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and other Left organisations hold protest march to the Governor’s House in Patna over Centre’s three farm laws, reports ANI.Power towards more than 1,500 mobile phone towers disrupted in PunjabCM Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the police to take action after protesting farmers allegedly vandalised or disrupted power supply to more than 1,500 mobile phone towers in the state.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Cellphone connectivity hit as power to 1,561 towers disrupted in PunjabSituation at blocked Delhi borders unchangedTraffic moving from Delhi to Noida at Chilla border is smooth but the other carriageway remains blocked. Delhi-Meerut expressway towards Delhi open but blocked from the other side. Singhu and Tikri borders remain completely closed.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blockedSocial activist Anna Hazare says will launch agitation in January 2021Social activist Anna Hazare says will launch protest in Delhi in January if his demands concerning farmers are not fulfilled “in time.” Social activist Anna Hazare says he will launch a protest in New Delhi in January 2021 if his demands concerning farmers are not fulfilled in time. pic.twitter.com/fOIBAuSC7PNo talks between govt-farm unions today, postponed to WednesdayThe sixth round of talks between the government and the farm unions will take place on December 30, after the Centre on Monday sent a letter to the unions in this regard. On Saturday, responding to the government’s second proposal to hold talks at a time and date of the farmers’ choosing, the unions had suggested that the dialogue take place at 11 am on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-29-2020/story-39BXrgWuxroxw012HTiZAK.html
29-12-2020||India||Last surviving bodyguard of Dalai Lama dies in Minnesota||Anen Dawa, the last surviving personal bodyguard of Tibetan spiritual leader who escorted him during the 1959 escape to India, died at the age of 83 in Minnesota, US, a report on exile Tibetan government’s official website Tibet.net says.He died peacefully with his family by his side, it added.Born in 1939, Anen Dawa was only 15 when he joined the personal army of the Dalai Lama in Norbulingka, Tibet. After four years, he was formally inducted in the army and continued to serve as personal guard to the Dalai Lama through his schooling in Sera, Drepung and Gaden monasteries for the next 4 years,In the most critical turn of events in March 1959, when the Tibetan uprising was crushed and the threat of Chinese military attacks was ever-growing, on the fateful night of March 17 1959, Dalai Lama accompanied by tens of thousands of Tibetans fled into exile to India.Dawa was the one of the guards who accompanied the Dalai Lama. On arriving safely in India on March 31, the accompanying personal bodyguards and a group of volunteers returned to Tibet to mount a resistance against the Chinese forces.At the time as the youngest of them, Dawa and another bodyguard were asked by the spiritual leader to accompany him to Mussourie where he established his first residence.In accordance with the Dalai Lama’s instructions, he joined the Tibetan Homes School founded in Mussourie as one of its first 50 students and later served in the Central Tibetan Administration as a translator and facilitator for Tibetan refugees arriving in Nepal.He then pursued his further studies in the US. He immigrated to Minnesota through the resettlement policy in 1966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-surviving-bodyguard-of-dalai-lama-dies-in-minnesota/story-pKzZMvcgQP0apT8ERprH2H.html
29-12-2020||India||Post-Covid economic recovery: Can the rich also hurt growth?||Although it sounds counter-intuitive, this question is important from a macroeconomic perspective. There are two ways in which this can happen. Because the rich save more, they bring in the bulk of domestic sources of investment, especially equity and debt. Equity markets in India are extremely overvalued if the current price-to-earnings multiple is any indicator. To be sure, this rally has also been aided by a surge of inflows from advanced countries, where interest rates have plummeted to an all-time low and investors are looking for more attractive options globally. This inflow has led to a surge in India’s foreign exchange reserves. Because these dollar reserves can move at a very short notice, they cannot be invested in long-term productive purposes and must be held in risk-free and highly liquid forms. In an Indian Express column on December 15, Jahangir Aziz, the chief emerging markets economist at JP Morgan, underlined the economic headwinds these reserves have created for India by undermining the fiscal space (https://bit.ly/2M4BwaG). “Consequently, despite the apparent lack of fiscal space at home, RBI has been funding other countries’ fiscal deficits. Since April this year, RBI has bought $70 billion of foreign assets, presumably mostly US government bonds. That’s roughly 2.7 per cent of GDP. Put differently, while the government has limited its support to the domestic economy, it has, via RBI, invested almost 3 per cent of GDP in foreign assets just in the first half of this fiscal year”, Aziz wrote. If the Reserve Bank of India were not to hold these reserves in this manner, rupee appreciation could make Indian exports lose their competitiveness. To be sure, imposing controls on movement of such money could get rid of these policy pressures, but it would also mean that stock market rallies like the one we are witnessing currently, and the income growth they bring for the rich, would be far more muted. Another way in which an income distribution in favour of the rich adversely affects growth is the trade route. The rich, because they consume more sophisticated products, tend to have a higher import-propensity of demand than the poor. All things remaining the same, a shift in income distribution from the poor to the rich, can lead to a rise in imports, bring down net exports and therefore GDP. To be sure, this process has been underway in the Indian economy for a long time now. A 2015 Economic and Political Weekly paper by Zico Dasgupta and Subhanil Chowdhury looked at this question by examining India’s imports (https://bit.ly/2WEuI5w). The paper found that the rise in India’s current account deficit was because of an increase in import-GDP ratio driving up the trade-deficit. The paper disintegrated “the rise in the import–GDP ratio in terms of three main commodities—gems and jewellery, capital goods and petroleum” and found that “the rise in the imports of commodities is a result of the demand pattern in the economy”. “Even with an increase in inequality, the rise in the (GDP) growth rate is seen to be mainly because of higher consumption by the rich. This consumption being mainly driven by import-intensive commodities, there is an increase in imports” the authors noted. Granted, both the tendencies explained above are not new in the Indian economy. However, if income inequality were to increase further due to the pandemic, which is what the evidence suggests so far, one would expect these headwinds to growth to become stronger. Important to guard against missing the woods for the tress This doesn’t mean absolute gloom and doom in the Indian economy going forward. It is entirely likely, as Neelkanth Mishra, the co-head of Asia-Pacific strategy and India equity strategist for Credit Suisse, has pointed out, that the economy will see patches of brilliance in sectors where the rich deploy their accumulated savings to compensate for pent-up or even transformed demand. People opting for bigger houses as work from home becomes a norm could be an example of the latter variety. A Bloomberg Quint story using CIBIL data showing that housing loans are leading the revival in personal loans, supports such anecdotal accounts (https://bit.ly/2M58KGV). However, it is important to keep in mind that it will take some time for the overall macroeconomic picture to emerge clearly. Given the widespread consensus on the damage to the incomes and employment for the non-rich, it would be premature to write-off long-term damage to the economy.This is the second of a two-part series. The first part (https://bit.ly/3mRPFo7) discussed whether the rich can drive economic growth in post-covid India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-covid-economic-recovery-can-the-rich-also-hurt-growth/story-nx1StPvrCMGG1QNsdgV5HK.html
29-12-2020||India||Hanumantha Rao demands police protection citing threat to life from Revanth Reddy’s supporters||Senior Congress leader V Hanumantha Rao on Monday requested the Telangana Police to provide him security alleging that he has a treat to his life from the supporters of party leader Revanth Reddy.In a letter to the Telangana Director General of Police (DGP) Mahender Reddy Gar, Rao said that he started getting calls from an unknown number from the afternoon of December 25.“A call came to me around 3.30 pm (December 25). The caller was using filthy and vulgar language. He questioned me as to why I was opposing Revanth Reddy becoming TPCC President. The caller himself made the conversation viral on social media wherein my photograph and Revanth Reddy’s photographs were displaying. I brought the matter to the notice of the Commissioner of Police, Hyderabad. He told me to lodge the complaint with the Commissioner of Cyberabad since the incident happened there. Then I wrote a complaint and gave it to the ACP He has forwarded it to the Inspector, Raidurgam,” he wrote in the letter.The senior Congress leader said that in his 42-year political career he opposed many leaders across party lines, but never received such threats in his life, and requested the DCP to provide him sufficient protection (security).Notably, Rao on December 25, threatened to resign from the party, along with other party leaders, if Revanth Reddy, who has a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) background, is made the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hanumantha-rao-demands-police-protection-citing-threat-to-life-from-revanth-reddy-s-supporters/story-5GNPvPufU87WiHVw9cjJEN.html
29-12-2020||India||Congress’ Sonia Gandhi hits out at ‘black’ farm laws||The Congress celebrated its 136th foundation day on Monday, with interim president Sonia Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra using the occasion to extend their support to the farmers’ protest against a set of contentious agricultural laws, but Rahul Gandhi’s decision to skip it for a quick overseas visit cast its shadow on the event. Party veteran A.K.Antony hoisted the party flag at the Congress headquarters in New Delhi to commemorate its 28 December, 1885 foundation. Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi, who left on Sunday on a visit abroad, weren’t present on the occasion.Sonia Gandhi, who has been avoiding public functions in recent weeks, extended her warm wishes to party workers and backed the farmers’ protest in a 3-minute, 45-second video message. She asserted that “black laws” were being imposed on the farmers. “We have to strengthen the Congress party at the ground level. … let us take a vow today that we will uphold the constitution and democratic values that our country represents,” she said. The Congress celebrated its foundation day against the backdrop of a protest by thousands of farmers, mainly from northern India, who have massed on Delhi’s borders in the winter cold since November 26 to protest against the three farm laws enacted in September by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government.The protestors are demanding that the Centre revoke the three laws, which essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates known as minimum support prices (MSPs).Priyanka Gandhi, who was present at the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters, said the government, which has accused the opposition parties of misleading the farmers, should listen to the protestors.“To say that this is a political conspiracy is wrong. I feel that the words being used for farmers are a sin. The government is answerable to the farmers and the government should talk to the farmers and take back the laws,” she said. She said soldiers protecting India’s borders are the sons of farmers and the government should understand that farmers are the “annadatas” (food givers) of the country.Farmers’ leaders, who ended negotiations with the government claiming a stalemate after meeting home minister Amit Shah on December 8, are set to resume the talks on Wednesday. The government has said it is willing to offer a written guarantee that minimum support prices would continue, but refused to repeal the laws.She didn’t comment on Rahul Gandhi’s overseas visit. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala confirmed that Gandhi had left the country on a visit abroad, but did not disclose the location. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has left for abroad for a short personal visit and will be away for a few days,” Surjewala told PTI.The ruling BJP questioned the timing of Gandhi’s visit. “So much of noise was made for farmers’ protest by the opp (opposition), where is #RG now? Short holiday? Seriously? If you are so concerned about the farmers, you should have been out there on the streets with them n not holidaying,” BJP leader Khusbhu Sundar wrote on Twitter. Congress general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal defended Rahul Gandhi. “Rahul Gandhi has gone to see his grandmother. Is it wrong,” Venugopal told ANI. “Everybody has the right to undertake personal visits. BJP is indulging in low-level politics. They are targeting Rahul Gandhi because they want to target only one leader.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sonia-gandhi-hits-out-at-black-farm-laws/story-BmubTNSTr0TjoxrCKZ6xkO.html
29-12-2020||India||PM Modi flags off 100th run of ‘Kisan Rail’ trains||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th run of the Kisan Rail via video conferencing, calling the service a major step towards increasing the “income of farmers”. Speaking on the occasion, the PM said the service will bring a major change in the farm sector and increase the strength of the country’s cold supply chain. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also attended the event.“The Prime Minister termed the Kisan Rail Service as a major step towards increasing the income of the farmers of the country. He expressed happiness that even during the Corona pandemic, 100 Kisan Rails were launched in the last four months. He said this service will bring a major change in the economy related to farming and will also increase the strength of the country’s cold supply chain,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said.The train, starting from Sangola in Maharashtra and culminating in Shalimar in West Bengal, will cover a distance of 2,132 km with more than 400 tonnes of cargo at a speed of 54.6 kmph in around 39 hours. It is carrying pomegranate, custard apples, grapes and oranges.“The Kisan Rail project not only shows the commitment of the Government to serve the farmers but also serves as a proof of how fast our farmers are ready for new possibilities,” the PM said.At present, nine rakes of Kisan Rail trains are plying along 10 major routes, according to the ministry of railways. “It is the participation and support of the rural people, farmers and youth that makes the government’s efforts successful. Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO’s) and cooperative groups like women’s Self Help Groups get priority in agri-business and agri-infrastructure. Recent reforms will lead to expansion of agri-businesses and these groups will be the biggest beneficiaries. Private investment in agriculture will support the government’s effort to help these groups,” the PM said.The PM’s remarks have come amid a deadlock between protesting farm unions and the centre over three agricultural laws passed by the government in the monsoon session. Several farmers groups rejected the laws saying they left them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and eroded the government’s procurement and price support system.The government, meanwhile, has repeatedly assured farmers that market yards will not be abolished, and minimum support prices will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-flags-off-100th-run-of-kisan-rail-trains/story-SThVQ17X67NGLDeN1twELK.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19 force star student to drop out||In March, Nimisha Kashyap was ecstatic. She was stuck at home due to the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown but based on her stellar academic record, she was promoted from Class 6 to 7. Her school, Raja Harish Chand Bal Niketan in Lucknow, was forced to cancel annual examinations in line with government directives, and decided to advance students to the next class.Kashyap 13, was an outstanding student who had topped her Class 6 examinations. She was eager to start her studies.But by April, her happiness had turned to despair. With the nationwide lockdown shuttering the wholesale shop her father Pradeep Kumar Kashyap worked in, the family had no money to pay her school fees of Rs 500 a month. In May, her name was struck off the school academic rolls. “All the excitement of buying new books for class 7 evaporated. I had to sit at home and turn the pages of old Class 6 books every day,” said Kashyap, a resident of Raja Bazar in old Lucknow.The Kashyaps live in a one-room apartment in a cramped neighbourhood. The financial crunch has left them with no money to repair their television since January. Pradeep’s wholesale cloth shop has slashed his monthly salary from Rs 12,000 to Rs 8,000. “It was all very difficult to pay fees. I will get Nimisha enrolled next year,” said Pradeep.Kashyap now spends most of her day at home. “After a few hours of study, I play Ludo and other games with the neighbourhood children in the evening when they are free from their online classes and homework,” she added.Her mother Soni and elder sister Deepanshi, an undergraduate student, try to keep her engaged by assigning her tasks from old text books. “We feel really bad for her. My husband’s meagre income made it difficult for us to pay the school fees. Hopefully, at her age, dropping a year of school will not make much of a difference in her life. We are hoping everything will be normal from the next year,” her mother said.Kashyap said more than studies, she misses sharing a classroom with her friends. “All my friends are now in Class 7. Next year, when I go to school, I will have to make new friends all over again,” she rued. Another thing she hopes to get back to is a game of badminton with her best friend Palak.Pradeep said the family agonized about the decision to make her drop out of school but realised that it was not possible to manage household expenses and pay school fees at the same time. “I had to look after other needs of the family, too. In the next few months, things should become normal and I will again enrol her in school,” he said.Kashyap wants to get a government job in the future, and work with a nationalised bank. “I hope she can still realise her goal,” said Pradeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-force-star-student-to-drop-out/story-qX112xYiDMRX0WSe5GQomN.html
29-12-2020||India||How we played: At first, haltingly, and then with creative defiance||For many of us, a year canters by to the rhythm of major sporting events. You could keep time to the passage of Grand Slams for example: The southern hemisphere summer of the Australian Open is winter for most of us; Roland Garros heralds the European spring; Wimbledon is the lull of an English summer; the US Open is autumn in New York. Perhaps you live by the more continual beat of football leagues: the race to the finish line, the Champions League crescendo, the lull of a mid-year break, the opening of the transfer window and the fevered speculations that come with it, the beginning of a new season...Instead, it all came crashing down. All sense of time, or the joys of sports, collapsed as the Covid-19 pandemic swept through the world. One by one, almost every sporting event around the globe was cancelled or postponed (almost, because there were odd pockets of resistance; football in Nicaragua never stopped, for example). In one word, it was unprecedented. Nothing like this had ever happened in the history of modern sports; the closest comparable situation comes from World War II, but even then, there was no disruption to sports in many countries, the US being a prime example. Also Read | MHA extends Covid-19 guidelines till Jan, says need to be vigilant over new variantIt’s not like there was much choice. Back when it still seemed like the pandemic was an epidemic that was happening only in China, a football match went ahead as scheduled in Milan. Atalanta, based out of the small northern city of Bergamo, were playing Spanish club Valencia in the Champions League. For the Italian club, this was historic — it was their first ever appearance on Europe’s biggest footballing stage. Around 40,000 fans travelled from Bergamo to watch their team in action. There were 2500 fans from Spain too. Two days later, the first case of Covid-19 was confirmed in Italy. It was in Bergamo. A week later the disease was on the rampage — first through Bergamo — and then, with a sense of ominous inevitability, through the rest of Italy, which became the epicentre of the disease in Europe. About a third of the Valencia squad tested positive too. Later, the match would be called “Game Zero”. The head of pulmonary diseases at a Bergamo hospital described it as a “biological time bomb”. In the face of such devastation, sports had to go. That’s easier said than done. The Olympics come around once every four years; in the sporting world, arguably, nothing is bigger. Tokyo, the hosts of the 2020 Games, held out for a long time. There was little doubt that with thousands of athletes and spectators from around the world congregating in one place (and then travelling back to their own countries at the end of the Games), the Olympics had the potential of turning into a dystopic Covid-19 hot zone of epic proportions. Even as event after event in the sporting calendar was wiped off, the Olympic organisers insisted that their Games would go on. It took the utter carnage of Olympic qualifying events across the world to finally bring the message home; the Games were postponed to 2021. By this time, it was April. Countries were going into lockdown. Forget sports, there were no vehicles on the road, flights grounded, offices, markets, restaurants and movie theatres shuttered. Hello, dystopia. Cloistered in their homes, athletes got creative with their training. Those with well-equipped gyms at home, like Virat Kohli, used this rare window off from cricket’s usual packed calendar to take their fitness to new levels. Our crack shooters rigged DIY shooting ranges at home and competed in online tournaments. Olympic athletes shared their innovative home drills with fans on social media: some used gas cylinders for weight training (don’t try it at home), some used 20 litre water canisters. Amit Panghal, the only Indian boxer to reach the top of the world rankings, went back to his village and put farm implements to use for some mind-bending workout routines. Simone Biles, arguably the greatest gymnast ever, performed routines never-seen-before all by herself in an empty gymnasium. Mondo Duplantis, the pole vault world record holder, and Renaud Lavillenie turned their backyards into vaulting facilities, followed by many of the world’s top vaulters, which finally culminated in a backyard vaulting championship online. India’s top-ranked table-tennis player Sathyan G installed a ping-pong playing robot in his living room. Outside the confines of athletes’ homes and backyards, sporting infrastructure was being put to a very different use: from Rio’s legendary Maracana stadium, London’s 2012 Olympic venues, to Delhi’s cavernous stadiums built for the 2010 Commonwealth Games, all were turned into field hospitals to cope with the pandemic. As the months passed on with no sports, uncertainties deepened: Will Roger Federer play a Grand Slam again? Will Liverpool, one of the greatest footballing squads of this decade, be denied their chance of winning the English league for the first time in 30 years — a league they had dominated with spectacular football till all sports ground to a halt— if no more play was possible for the season? What happens to the larger sports industry— the thousands around the world who are dependent on their livelihood from sporting events like stadium attendants, ticket sellers, catering people, groundskeepers, pubs and restaurants and street-food vendors around stadiums — already reeling from this unprecedented cancellation of sports?Emsi, a labour market data company based in the US, estimated that the cancellation or postponement of every sports event from mid-March to May in the US could result in 1.3 million jobs and USD 12.3 billion in earnings to vanish. Though sports began to resume in small clusters globally after that, the economic impact of this year has been devastating. The losses are yet to be counted, but considering that the biggest sporting bodies in the world —from Cricket Australia to the top Premier League clubs — furloughed staff, and that events as big as the IPL, cricket’s richest property, lost half its value in sponsorship, the financial impact will be terrible and long-lasting. Slowly, as the world began opening up again, sports resumed. With it, a new word entered the lexicon: the bio-bubble. A “safe” zone where athletes and officials, after having tested negative for Covid, would be confined for the length of a tournament, repeatedly tested, and kept isolated from the outside world. It was an act of great resilience--the players at the IPL, for example, spent 80 days in a bio-bubble in the UAE. Many of England’s cricketers spent a month in the English bio-bubble that restarted cricket, headed straight to the IPL bubble, before seamlessly transitioning to another bubble in South Africa. That brings us to another reality: sports without fans. The sight of a match unfolding in an empty stadium went from a rare occurrence as the consequence of some penal action to becoming the “new normal”. Historic things happened in empty stadiums: Liverpool finally became the champions of England after their three-decade wait; Barcelona were drubbed 8-2 by Bayern Munich and bundled out of the Champions League bio-bubble, sparking a bitter division between Lionel Messi and the club; Lewis Hamilton broke Michael Schumacher’s record of 91 F1 race wins, a record once thought unbreakable; Rafael Nadal won his 13th French Open title (the most wins in a single slam by any player) and tied with Roger Federer as the winner of most Grand Slam men’s singles titles at 20. The stadiums may have been empty, but athletes found a new voice this year, the voice of protest. In that England Test series that saw the resumption of cricket, each match began with both the host country and the visiting West Indies players taking a knee in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. A BLM flag fluttered from the West Indies balcony, and the players from the Carribbean raised a black-gloved fist as they knelt in homage to American sprinters John Carlos and Tommie Smith’s Black Power salute at the 1968 Olympics. Protests by athletes are almost always seen as an overstepping of boundaries, as something to be penalised with maximum prejudice; Carlos and Smith were ostracised for decades; they were called ‘dark-skinned stormtroopers’. Hardly anything had changed more than 50 years later, when Colin Kaepernick took a knee in 2016 to protest against police brutality and was thrown out of the NFL, never to play again.Now sportspeople were doing it everywhere; footballers were taking a knee, Lewis Hamilton wore tshirts with blunt political messages highlighting police brutality in the US against black people as he went on his record spree. One of the strongest statements was made by Naomi Osaka as she marched to her second US Open title inside a bio-bubble in the pandemic-ravaged city of New York. Osaka wore seven black masks, a different one for each match she played in New York. Each mask bore the name of a Black person killed by police action in the US. Both Osaka and Hamilton took part in street protests as well. The pandemic dominated the year with such ferocity that it’s easy to forget that there were a couple of months at the beginning of this year that were not consumed by it, when sports happened in stadiums thronging with fans. It is important than to remember those months; remember, for example, the thrilling run of the Indian team at the Women’s Cricket World Cup in Australia, powered by teen batting sensation Shafali Verma, where they reached the final, losing to hosts to Australia. Remember, also, Kobe Bryant, who died in a helicopter crash while traveling with his daughter for a youth basketball tournament outside Los Angeles (all nine people in the helicopter died). It seems like a lifetime away..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-we-played-at-first-haltingly-and-then-with-creative-defiance/story-1BgjEIlTQdsyqiUM9RoGsO.html
29-12-2020||India||North India including Delhi braces for cold wave in run-up to New Year||A cold wave is likely to grip parts of the national capital with moderate to dense fog in the next four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains.“In Delhi we are expecting moderate to dense fog so visibility may be under 200m in some parts of the Capital. The western disturbance which was affecting the Western Himalayas has just passed so there is moisture in the air and wind speed is also likely to reduce. Its going to be very cold also leading to development of fog,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Early morning fog on Monday disrupted flights at the Delhi airport but officials said since none of the runways needed to be closed for operations, as the runway visibility did not drop below 50 metres, the impact on operations was minimal.“Some departing flights were delayed as low visibility procedures were put in place. This caused delay but since the airport is not operating flights at its full strength as it used to, the delay was not much. Roughly around 25-30 flights were affected and none of the flights were cancelled on Monday due to weather in Delhi,” according to an official from the Delhi airport.The national capital this year has already recorded the second highest number of ‘cold wave’ days in December since 1993. The highest number of cold wave days since 1993 were recorded in 2018 when there were eight ‘cold wave’ days according to the regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.This year is also likely to record 7-8 cold wave days if cold wave conditions set in from Tuesday as forecast by IMD said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.This October was the coldest Delhi has experienced in 58 years--the mean minimum temperature for the month was 17.2 degrees C and November was the coldest in 71 years with a mean minimum temperature of only 10.2-degree C.“La Nina is a global weather phenomenon but as forecast the winter was not only early but also has been colder than normal. The first half of December was not as cold and we are expecting relief from extreme cold during the first week of January but minimum temperature is likely to dip in the next three days particularly on December 31 due to abundant snowfall in the hills,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are prevailing in many pockets over Punjab; in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi; in some pockets over Saurashtra and Kutch and cold wave conditions are prevailing in isolated pockets over Rajasthan, IMD said.IMD in its impact based warning said exposure to dense fog is associated with respiratory complications particularly for people with asthma, bronchitis and other lung conditions. It can increase episodes of wheezing and coughing as dense fog also has high particulate pollution. Dense fog may also disrupt road traffic, railway and flight schedules, Met department has cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/north-india-including-delhi-braces-for-cold-wave-in-run-up-to-new-year/story-TRS8wfhF7z4g43myEJOE1O.html
29-12-2020||India||Why masks will stay even after Covid-19 vaccination||A tumultuous 2020 that upended how we lived our lives appears to be ending on a happier note with several countries beginning vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in December. The news of the Sars-CoV2 variant in the UK that spreads faster is a dampener but virologists say so far it is not known to cause more severe disease and is unlikely to impact the effectiveness of existing vaccines, diagnostic tests, or treatments. “There is no need to change the existing treatment protocol in view of mutations emerging in the strain. Further, since Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has always advocated use of two or more gene assays for testing Sars-CoV-2, it is unlikely to miss infected cases using the current testing strategy,” concluded experts at the meeting of the National Task Force on Covid-19 on Saturday under co-chairs of Dr Vinod Paul, member Niti Aayog, and Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. India plans to begin vaccinating 300 million health workers, frontline workers and vulnerable populations as early as January next year, but vaccines do not signal the end of public health precautions for the vaccinated. Also Read | ‘300 million doses by July’: SII chief Adar Poonawalla on CovishieldReducing exposure to the virus by wearing masks, observing social distancing and frequently washing hands will remain the mainstay of social behaviour in 2021 and beyond, till everyone has been vaccinated against the disease that sickened at least 80 million and killed 1.75 million globally since the start of the pandemic in China last year.Though not yet approved in India, all three approved vaccines– Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca-Oxford – are given in two doses four weeks apart and it takes six to eight weeks after the initial dose to achieve the desired immunity for protection. So, those vaccinated will have to continue using behaviours that reduce their risk of exposure to the virus. It’s still unknown how much protection Covid-19 vaccines provide in real-life conditions and for how long this protection lasts. What is known is that everyone can get vaccinated only by 2024. Since the herd immunity threshold for Covid-19 has not been established, we still cannot say how much of the world’s population will have to be vaccinated to stop the spread of infection to those who have not been vaccinated.The effectiveness of the vaccine will also depend on whether it is stored and transported at optimal temperature. it will also depend on health of the recipients since the “warp speed” of development limited human trials data to mostly to healthy adults and those with stable pre-existing diseases. Also read | Covishield vaccine trial: Six out of 249 volunteers drop out ahead of second dose in MumbaiAgain, Covid-19 vaccines have only been tested for their ability to prevent infection and not for prevention of transmission. Most vaccines prevent infection and stop its spread, but some, like the annual flu vaccines, protect those vaccinated from severe disease but don’t always stop them from infecting unvaccinated people. Vaccines train the body’s immune cells to the virus to prevent infection but how effective these immune cells are in crossing the mucous barrier to destroy the viruses resting in the nose is still unknown. If viruses in the nose remain viable, those vaccinated can shed them while speaking or sneezing to infect unvaccinated people in close contact. Vaccines apart, a major upside of 2020 has been the demonstration of unparalleled heroism and resilience amid monumental adversity. Everyone did their bit. Health and frontline workers worked overtime in unsafe conditions to save lives, people stayed locked up at home for months to slow the spread of disease, children gave up school and play, jobless migrants trudged home for days and weeks to escape hunger, and scientists, industry, global agencies and nations forged unprecedented partnerships and worked overtime to make it possible to bring new treatments and vaccines to people within nine months. As a result, the year that began on a sick note following the World Health Organization’s Country Office (WHO) in China discovering a statement about a mysterious “viral pneumonia” of unknown origin on the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission website on December 31, 2019, is ending with hope for a return to normalcy in the not-so-distant future. The current wave in India appears to be waning, with the seven-day daily average for new infections staying below 25,000, down from a single day peak of 97,399 on September 10. Add to this results of antibodies surveys that indicate around 200-300 million have some degree of immunity against Sas-CoV2 and we have a momentum that can help get our derailed lives and economy on track by next summer. But this can happen only if we continue to take precautions and ensure the year-end holidays don’t turn into superspreading events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-masks-will-stay-even-after-covid-19-vaccination/story-arLvpjbwCHzMcIUBAXSxlO.html
29-12-2020||India||No sign of military talks with China on LAC row||There is no indication of when India and China will hold the next round of military talks to defuse border tensions in eastern Ladakh despite both countries agreeing to hold the corps commander-level dialogue at an early date during recent diplomatic talks on the lingering dispute, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. At the virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on December 18, India and China agreed that the next round of meeting between senior commanders should be held at an early date for “early and complete disengagement of troops” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Neither side has proposed any date for the military dialogue yet. Any breakthrough in resolving the border row is unlikely without political/diplomatic intervention,” the people cited above said. The two sides have held eight rounds of military talks so far but failed to make any progress in resolving the row. Also Read | India seeks answers from China on Ladakh peace plan. It is a make-or-break questionDuring the eighth round of talks, the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) said they will ensure their front-line soldiers “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the LAC. Experts said talks were deadlocked because of yawning differences between the two sides. “The basic reason (for talks yielding no results) is that the positions of the two sides on the conditions of disengagement remain too far apart. Unless these conditions are reconciled in diplomatic or political level talks, interaction between the militaries will serve little purpose,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). Both India and China are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh sector and are firm about holding forward positions along the LAC through the harsh winter months. “Prior to the onset of the winter, there was some incentive for both sides to reach an agreement so that troops could be pulled out before the winter. That incentive could also have disappeared now that troops are prepared to hold ground through the winter,” said Hooda. Also Read | China faces ‘real danger’ of losing goodwill created by decades of good ties: JaishankarWhile India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridge line on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other. The developments on both banks of Pangong Tso have increased India’s bargaining power during talks with the Chinese side, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-sign-of-military-talks-with-china-on-lac-row/story-DDb0JPPhmJQw1CA2FTjkbK.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Mumbai, ravaged by the coronavirus disease pandemic – 290,914 cases and 11,076 deaths till Sunday evening – has seen a 50-85% reduction in incidence of dengue, H1N1 flu, gastroenteritis and leptospirosis, infective diseases that plague the city during and after the monsoon every year, according to HT’s Mumbai health reporters. October is one of the unkindest months in India’s commercial capital, with the heat and humidity combining to make it very uncomfortable, and also extremely conducive to the propagation of the diseases named above, but this time, the city seems to have been spared, courtesy an unlikely savior – Covid-19. The safety protocols associated with the coronavirus disease – frequent hand washing, wearing masks, being socially distant, eating mostly home-cooked food – and the restrictions the pandemic has forced upon us, in terms of travelling (it’s so easy to catch a flu on a flight) or even moving about appear to have helped. Mumbai won’t be the first region to have caught a lucky break from Covid-19, though.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn July, The Wall Street Journal reported that the southern hemisphere – it usually sees more cases in its winter, which begins around late May and early June – was seeing very few cases of influenza. The report pointed to a 95% drop in flu cases in Chile (at the time the report was written), and a 64% decline in Argentina. In Australia (a country that usually bears the brunt of influenza), a two-week period in the second half of June, saw a 99% drop in flu cases. The report quoted experts who attributed the fall to restrictions that were in place to halt or slow the spread of Covid-19. The near-absence of international travel was cited by some of them as one of the main reasons behind the steep fall in influenza cases, but they also mentioned other newly acquired human habits (hand washing, wearing masks) as contributory factors.In mid-December, Nature reported a similar situation in the northern hemisphere where “the levels of many common seasonal infections remain extremely low.” The report, which acknowledged that the southern hemisphere almost completely evaded seasonal influenza added: “The patchwork of responses intended to fight the pandemic – from temporary lockdowns to mask wearing, social distancing, enhanced personal hygiene and reduced travel – has had a huge impact on other common respiratory illnesses too.” The same report, using data from the FluNet global influenza surveillance system, showed that even the last flu season (2019-20) was cut short by measures announced to fight Covid-19, with the number of cases tapering off in April. Interestingly, the Nature report adds that the viruses that cause the common cold, rhinoviruses, do not seem to be affected greatly – mask or no mask, and whether you wash your hands or not, you are going to catch that cold.Also Read | MHA extends Covid-19 guidelines till Jan, says need to be vigilant over new variantIndia typically sees a surge in influenza cases around this time of the year. This year, anecdotal evidence from Delhi, and the data from Mumbai suggest there have not been as many cases as there usually are. But the data from Mumbai is also revealing – it shows that basic hygiene is among the best prophylactics for a variety of infective diseases.Post script: A paper published on the pre-print server medRxiv by researchers from Yale (including Akiko Iwasaki) shows that the timing of a body’s immune response is perhaps more important than its magnitude when it comes to fighting off Covid-19. According to the paper, which is based on a study of 209 Covid-19 patients (ranging from asymptomatic to those with severe infections), those whose immune systems produced neutralising antibodies within 14 days of turning symptomatic had a much higher chance of recovery than those whose systems produced these antibodies after 14 days (even if they did more). As Iwasaki pointed out on Twitter, this means that any antibody treatment (such as the use of monoclonal antibodies) will therefore have to be used early in the treatment cycle to be successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-JeqGwbJS7L4YONozINUACK.html
29-12-2020||India||PM flags off India’s first autopilot train||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated India’s first automated, driverless train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line even as he outlined his government’s plans to extend Metro services to over 25 cities by 2025. At an online event, he also launched the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) — which allows users to pay for travel, toll charges and retail shopping, and permits them to withdraw money at the same time — for Delhi Metro’s Airport Express Line. “The inauguration of the first driverless Metro train shows how fast India is moving towards smart systems,” Modi said via video-conferencing. “When our government was formed in 2014, only five cities had metro services. And today, 18 cities have Metro services. By 2025, we will take this service to more than 25 cities.” In 2014, just 248km of Metro lines were operational in the country, but now the network was spread across over 700km, Modi said. “By the year 2025, we are trying to expand it to 1,700km. These are not just figures; they are a proof of ease of living in the lives of millions of Indians,” he added. Modi also emphasised the importance of “Make in India” — a reference to his government’s flagship initiative to promote domestic manufacturing — in expanding metro services, saying this would reduce costs and generate employment. When urbanisation gathered pace a few decades ago, not much attention was given to the needs of the future, he said. “The first Metro in Delhi was started with the efforts of Atal (Bihari Vajpayee) ji,” Modi said, referring to the late Prime Minister. “The metro today is no longer just a medium of public transport, but a great way to reduce pollution. Thousands of vehicles have been reduced from the road due to the Metro network...”Delhi Metro services, which cover 389km on nine routes (lines), began in 2002, when the city-state was ruled by a Congress government led by the late Sheila Dikshit, and Vajpayee was the Prime Minister.Efforts of former chief minister Dikshit in bringing the Metro to the Capital cannot be ignored, Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said. “...the people of Delhi and this country know that the Metro was brought to the city because of the efforts of Sheila Dikshit and the Congress party.”Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said it entered the elite league of 7% of the world’s Metro networks with the introduction of the automated trains. “The driverless trains will be fully automated, eliminating the possibility of human error. The service will be available on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line...This will be extended to Delhi Metro’s Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) by mid-2021,” DMRC said in a statement. The technology has different levels or grades of automation (GoA), officials explained. In the first grade, or GoA 1, trains are run by one driver. In GoA 2 and GoA 3, the role of the driver is reduced to operating doors and for taking over in case of emergencies; the starting and halting of trains is automated. Finally, in GoA 4, trains are set on a completely unattended operations mode. The first driverless train was flagged off from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh on the 37-km Magenta Line, which connects Janakpuri West in west Delhi to Botanical Garden in Noida. Altogether five automated trains ran on Monday. All these operated in GoA 3 mode with a driver present to take care of emergency services. Another significant takeaway of the event was the launch of NCMC, which will now be fully operationalised on Delhi Metro’s Airport Express Line. It will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued in any part of the country to travel on the route. The facility will be available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, the Prime Minister’s Office said. Sewa Ram, mobility expert and professor at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said technologies introduced on Monday was a huge leap in the area of urban mobility. “Not only the Metro, the common mobility card should be extended to all modes of transport. This will not only help provide a common platform for people...but will also allow better research data. Researchers will be able to better assess travelling patterns of people and accordingly suggest best plan for development,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-flags-off-india-s-first-autopilot-train/story-1QTnNEImEBNlbrX4cPEuSK.html
29-12-2020||India||Nod for emergency use authorisation expected in a few days: SII’s Adar Poonawalla||An expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is likely to meet this week to examine Serum Institute of India (SII)’s application for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Plc. vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Pune-based vaccine maker’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said separately on Monday that approvals were expected in a few days, The subject expert committee of the CDSCO is likely to be convened this week to go through SII’s application, a government official with knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity.“All the data has been submitted to both the regulators. By January we should have the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine licensed in India,” Poonawalla, whose company is manufacturing and testing the vaccine in India, told reporters.Also Read | India’s first indigenous pneumonia vaccine by SII launchedThe regulators he referred to were the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). The DCGI is the head executive of the CDSCO. “Eminent experts are examining it (the data) right now and nobody wants to rush through the process. We must give a few more days for the good news to come, ” Poonawalla said. “Then it will be down to the government to decide how much [of the vaccine] to take and when to take as they would be looking at at least 300 million doses by July 2021.” He also said that he was looking at the end of December or early January for the MHRA approval to come in. “Then from India also we are hopeful to get it as currently the Drugs Controller General of India is looking at the data, and not just from India but also data from UK, South Africa and everywhere else. He is doing a great job,” Poonawalla said. Initially, SII is looking at providing 50 million doses to India. The company has already made about 50 million doses that it will be ready to supply after receiving regulatory approvals. Poonawalla noted that India was also a part of Covax, the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to vaccines for all countries. “...we have always said that we will keep giving 50% of everything we make to India and to Covax at the same time. So, if we are producing 60-70 million doses every month, there will be plenty of vaccines to go around both to India and to Covax countries, including some of our neighbours like Bangladesh etc. because everybody wants the vaccine, and we are trying to give as much as we can and equitably to nations including India.” Initially, the company may give most of its production to India because to export to these countries, it would need WHO’s pre-qualification. “… that may take another month or so after it is licensed in India. That way India will have priority, and because India is such a large country that we may end up giving a majority of those 50 million doses to India first. Every month we are churning out 40-50 million doses which will go up to about 100 million doses every month by March as by then we are going to commission a third facility that is getting ready. Eventually everyone is going to get it; of course some countries will have to wait a little longer,” said Poonawalla. He also said the first six months of next year were going to be tight for vaccine delivery. “… In first six months there is definitely going to be a situation where there is a shortage globally; nobody can help that. We will see that easing off by August-September because you will have other vaccine manufacturers also being able to supply,” he added.Poonawalla spoke to reporters at the launch of SII’s pneumococcal vaccine, the first made-in-India protection against pneumococcal diseases, caused by bacterial infections.“The subject expert committee is likely to be convened this week to go through the application. Since Pfizer had also sought fresh date to present its case on its EUA application of its anti-Covid-19 vaccine, the committee is likely to give them time on the same date,” said a government official with knowledge of the matter, requesting anonymity Possible approval of the vaccine by the UK drug regulator will likely ease the regulatory process for the candidate in India. Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE may be asked to conduct a small bridging study among the Indian population to determine the vaccine candidate’s efficacy on the local population. “Since Pfizer has not conducted a clinical trial in India for its vaccine candidate, the company may be asked to do that first. They could also get a waiver from trials as they already have EUA from other national regulators such as in the US and UK. The ultimate call, however, will be of the experts,” the official cited above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nod-for-emergency-use-authorisation-expected-in-a-few-days-sii-s-adar-poonawalla/story-JIY2VEuBW3B0LUqZvxiWBM.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccination dry run kicks off in 4 states||Health care and grassroots staff in four states — one each in the county’s east, north, west and south — carried out drills for coronavirus vaccinations on Monday, testing the core technology platform, transport arrangements, and the methods for monitoring and reporting serious side effects.The exercise was carried out in Sonitpur and Nalbari districts in Assam, Rajkot and Gandhinagar in Gujarat, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) in Punjab and Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh. Further drills will be held on Tuesday.The exercise comes at a time when drug regulators are expected any day to take a decision on giving emergency approvals to pave way for the first shots to be given. The country targets to deliver doses, likely to be in a regimen of two, to 300 million people by the summer – one of the largest logistical exercises to be undertaken outside of the elections.According to officials aware of the process, Monday’s drills largely focused on testing the digital platform Co-Win but transportation, cold storage and crowd management at vaccination centres were also assessed.“Two generic problems were faced by all states that we are trying to sort out: one was during the adverse event reporting wherein the staff had to originally wait for the entire session of 100 people to end before they could upload the information...“Another that has been seen is mapping of pincode against villages; if the pincode is not mapped in the app then the staff on ground will have to do it manually after due verification against the address mentioned by the beneficiary. There is always a margin for error when you are verifying something manually, which is why we will ensure all pincodes are mapped,” said a senior health ministry official, asking not to be named.Also Read: You may need vaccine passport for travel next year: All you need to know about itIn the case of the first problem, this person explained, authorities would need to wait till all 100 people in one session are vaccinated before they can report the side effects, which could lead to a delay. “It has, therefore, been decided to make modifications in the app to allow real-time feeding of adverse event report post vaccination,” said the official.According to Krishna district collector Imtiaz Ahmed, the drills for vaccination centres were held in teams of five. “In all, three chambers were identified for the exercise – registration of beneficiaries in the first chamber, vaccination in the second chamber and evaluation in the third chamber,” he said.There were five vaccination centres for the drill in the district, comprising 25 health care workers.The exercise was videotaped at all five centres. “Reports would be submitted to state- and district-level task forces,” Ahmed said, adding that the state task force will review the feedback to guide further actions and send it to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. An official in Punjab said while Monday’s exercise included mock registration of volunteers, Tuesday is when they will be called for the vaccination drill.“On the first day of the dry run, 25 health beneficiaries were called at each site to check the data entry in Co-WIN app, which is the online portal for monitoring of vaccine delivery,” said Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Data of 300 health beneficiaries was entered in the portal and all beneficiaries received a message on their mobile phones about the successful registration, Bhaskar said.“The successful registration also showed the proper creation of session sites and its allocation, linking and management. Now, on Tuesday, these 300 beneficiaries will visit their assigned sites in their district for online verification. After completing the verification, we will enter the data in the Co-WIN app that they have successfully reported at the health centre. Once we will give them vaccine shots, we will enter that vaccine has been provided to the health beneficiary, to avoid miss or repetition,” he said.“The dry run is an exercise to assess the entire process of vaccination as to how it will reach the end user through our cold chains,” he added. “We will identify the challenges, once the drive is complete. We will make changes in the plan, if required, so that the final process gets completed without faults,” he added.The initial target of 300 million comprises people who are deemed to need the coronavirus vaccine the soonest. These include health care staff and front-line workers such as police and firefighters, who are followed by people above the age of 50 and those under that age but with comorbid conditions that put them more at risk for a serious or fatal outcome from Covid-19.(With inputs from HTCs in Chandigarh and Hyderabad)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-kicks-off-in-4-states/story-iz7cUd2pgSsgiorkdqA0eL.html
29-12-2020||India||2020: A year of strange weather events||2020 has been strange and difficult in so many ways that it seems almost criminal to add one more to the mix — the weather. Floods, cyclones, colder winter, unexpected rains, India has seen them all.High rainfall at a time when rainfall is decliningIndia received a total of 1,286.6mm rainfall until December 27 this year. This is the ninth highest rainfall for the January 1 to December 27 period since 1901. It mostly rains during the monsoon months in India, and with even the north-east monsoon on the way out, it is unlikely that this year’s rainfall will fall too behind other years’ in the remaining days of the year. While ending up among the top 10 rainfall years in 120 years itself is adequate to make 2020 an outlier, there is another reason why this year’s rainfall was unusual: it did not follow prevailing long-term trends. The last time rainfall was this high was in 1990 (1201.1mm). !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();To be sure, not everything about this year’s rainfall was unusual. The share of extreme rainfall – heavy rain over a smaller area or period of time – was higher than the less intense kinds of rainfall. The share of light rainfall this year (13.4%) was ranked 81st in the 120 years since 1901. The shares of moderate (47.6%), heavy (38.1%), and extreme intensity (0.86%) rainfall were ranked 62nd, 55th, and 20th, respectively. This is in keeping with the long-term trend of an increasing share of heavy and extreme rainfall in total rainfall.For this analysis, rainfall equal to or under 7.5mm in a grid (a box bound by two latitudes and longitudes) was considered light, between 7.5mm and 35.5mm, moderate, between 35.5mm ad 244.5mm, heavy, and above 244.5mm, extreme. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Low winter temperatures although winters are getting warmerIMD considers the December to February period as winter. Average maximum temperature from December 1 to December 27 this year in India is 24.17 degrees Celsius, according to IMD’s gridded temperature dataset. For these 27 days of December, this is the second-lowest average maximum temperature since 1951, the earliest year for which IMD’s gridded dataset exists. This is not in line with the long-term trends in average maximum temperatures for this period, although the 2011-2020 decade has seen a lower average maximum temperature than the last decade. Since the 1970s, maximum temperatures in December have, on average, increased. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The average minimum temperature for December 1-December 27 period seems to have followed the long-term patterns, however, and is not low. It is the 33rd highest since 1951. The average for 2011-2020, too, is lower only than that in the 1951-1960 decade. To be sure, these figures reflect the average for India as a whole. This number can get skewed if minimum temperatures in some regions are high even while another is experiencing a cold wave. A place in the plains is said to be experiencing a cold wave if the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and at least 4.5 degrees below the normal minimum temperature for two consecutive days. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();La Niña could be a possible reason for this year’s strange weatherOne of the reasons for this year’s rainfall and temperature patterns not following the long-term trends could be the onset of a phenomenon in the tropical Pacific Ocean around September. Changes in sea surface temperatures affect global weather patterns. The La Niña and El Niño phenomena, for example, are measured by anomalies or departure from a long-term average in sea surface temperatures (SST) in the tropical Pacific. This is captured by the Oceanic Niño Index (ONI), which is a three-month running mean of SST anomalies. A positive value of ONI above 0.5 (warmer temperatures) is termed El Niño and often leads to warmer and drier weather, whereas a negative value below 0.5 (colder) is termed La Niña and often leads to colder and wetter weather. The La Niña effect was evident by September, and has only intensified since. The late withdrawal of the south-west monsoon in India is attributed to this. According to the World Meteorological Organisation, La Niña is approaching its peak, but neutral conditions may be as far away as next summer, HT reported on December 25.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-a-year-of-strange-weather-events/story-9wnYWBMrNXnSWycLRbgaYM.html
29-12-2020||India||Public transport takes a Covid hit as commuters switch to private vehicles: Study||Public transport in Delhi has been running with a reduced capacity since a nationwide lockdown was imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and authorities introduced several curbs on travel, according to an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).The capacity has dipped by 73% on average since March, said the analysis, which added that the people were still wary of using mass transit mode commute. This has, in turn, led to big drop in the ridership of buses and the Metro. The number is borne out by specifics provided by the Delhi Metro Rail Corp. and the Delhi Transport Corp. and also reflected in an increase in the use of private vehicles (simply because most people believe public transport is unsafe at a time when a viral disease is raging through the Union territory). Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe CSE analysis warned of a worrying trend of commuters shifting to private vehicles after Covid-19, which could undo years of work in the city to promote public transport, and as a result increase traffic snarls.CSE also used Google mobility data to show that the movement of people around public transport hubs such as bus stops and metro stations had fallen sharply. This is primarily because people are still apprehensive of contracting Covid-19 and prefer private vehicles over public transport, the analysis concluded.“Public transport has been functioning at a very low capacity during the pandemic. Service capacity of the fleet reduced on an average by 73%, with variations across different phases of the Covid lockdown and post-lockdown period,” the analysis found.The analysis also found that average speeds on Delhi’s roads had almost returned to what they were before the lockdown. According to it, the mean speed increased from 24 kmph pre-lockdown to 46 kmph during the lockdown, but has since slowed to 29 kmph with the end of the lockdown.CSE carried out its road speed analysis on 12 arterial roads, MG Road, NH-44, Sardar Patel Marg, Outer Ring Road, Dr KB Hegdewar Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, NH-9, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, GT Karnal Rd, Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, Dwarka Marg and Najafgarh Marg.Also Read | India’s first indigenous pneumonia vaccine by SII launchedSlowing speeds also reflect congestion. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE, said that traffic congestion was happening because the demand for public transport in Delhi is still low. That can be attributed to the fact that the Union territory, which has seen 623,415 coronavirus disease cases and suffered 10,474 deaths on account of it to date, has also witnessed three distinct waves of the pandemic, perhaps the only region in India to have done so. “The analysis shows that those who own a car and used to travel by public transport before the pandemic, have now moved away from it and prefer using their private vehicle. The transport modes that have resumed are also operating with limited capacity because of the requirement of social distancing norms. So, these are no longer fulfilling the role that public transport used to,” said Roychowdhury.In an earlier analysis carried out by CSE, which HT reported on May 29, experts said that before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25, as much as 37% of Delhi’s commuter traffic was carried by the Metro, 28% by personal vehicles and 7% by public buses. Researchers predicted then that these choices were likely to shift. “In the next six months, the ridership of Delhi Metro is expected to fall by over from 37% to 16%. Commuter traffic in public buses is expected to fall from 7% to just 1%. The dependence on private vehicles, on the other hand, will increase significantly, from 28% to as much as 38%,” that report stated.Delhi government data shows that the Capital has 11 million registered vehicles, of which 3.3 million are cars. Latest data provided by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) shows that ridership is now around 900,000 a day, as opposed to around 2.7 million pre-lockdown. Similarly, ridership of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses has gone down by 59% since March this year.“The rebound of congestion post-lockdown indicates Delhi is not prepared for transformational changes to cut down the volume of traffic. The pandemic has also derailed the targets of public transport ridership that the city had set for itself,” the analysis said.It added: “For instance, The Delhi Master Plan 2020-21 set a target of 80% public transport ridership by 2020, which could not be attained. The Delhi Decongestion Plan of the union ministry of housing and urban affairs has also provided a roadmap for increasing the share of public transport ridership that provides for strategies including more buses, protected bus lanes, metro network and parking policy and parking charges. But these have not been implemented at a scale.”The report also pointed out that the city is also falling behind on maintaining the number and frequency of public buses. CSE experts said that if these targets are not met in the coming months, it would lead to the undoing of all the work done towards promoting public transport over the last few years.“As far as bus procurement is concerned , against the 2019-20 target of 4,000 new buses, 733 buses were added, taking the total number of buses to 6,261. According to different estimates and directives, the city requires between 10,000 and 15,000 buses,” said Roychowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-transport-takes-a-covid-hit-as-commuters-switch-to-private-vehicles-study/story-7ReL00JA63GkC9rbd81DhM.html
29-12-2020||India||Farm laws stir: Govt, farmers to resume talks on Wednesday||After a three-week hiatus, the Centre will resume talks with farmers’ unions on Wednesday in an attempt to end a politically challenging protest by farmers who have camped on the borders of the Capital since November 26 to demand the repeal of three contentious laws they fear will weaken their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of large agribusinesses.Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal sent out a letter to farm leaders on Monday, proposing the sixth round of negotiations on Wednesday, in response to an e-mail by the unions on December 26 in which they had agreed to restart negotiations and suggested a resumption of talks on Tuesday.Talks will now resume on December 30 at 2pm in the Capital’s Vigyan Bhavan conference venue.In his letter, the farm secretary invited 40 leaders who represent the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of over 400 farm organisations involved in the month-long agitation, over a set of reforms they say will hurt their livelihoods. “In the meeting, the government will discuss issues delineated by you and issues related to farmers in the three laws along with the system of MSP (minimum support price) as well as Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020 and Electricity Amendment Bill 2020,” the government invitation to the farmers said.The agriculture ministry’s invitation, a copy of which HT has seen, said the talks will be led by Union ministers. Three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — are likely to represent the government, an official said. Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders remain closed, police suggest alternative routesThe farm ministry letter said officials will discuss issues related to farmers in the three laws, signalling the government’s broad strategy to find a solution by addressing points in the legislation that farmers may have concerns about. Reacting to the letter, Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a platform of farm unions, said: “The letter of the government indicates that it is being clever with words and not willing to discuss the agenda proposed by farmers’ organisations and this exposes its double-speak.”The farmers’ platform, however, said it looked forward to Wednesday’s talks and hoped the government would come to the negotiating table with an “open mind”. The farmers walked away from the negotiations on December 8 after meeting home minister Amit Shah. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as MSPs.In their December 26 email to the farm ministry, the farmers, however, stuck to their demand that talks must be geared towards repeal of the laws. The farmers spelt out issues on which they want discussions. They said the first issue they wanted discussions on were the “modalities (that are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.”These top two demands are the trickiest and are likely to be a test of the fate of negotiations.Although, the government has made desperate attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, the government is not prepared to scrap its reforms agenda. Instead, the government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments. These include greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the mechanism of MSP. The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, they stated in their letter.The farmers’ email lastly stated that farmers want “changes to be made in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect the interests of farmers.” The bill proposes to provide cash instead of subsidised power for agricultural use. Farmers say the switch from subsidy to cash could increase the cost of power. These two demands are easier to accede to because the government has already hinted that it is prepared to make the sort of changes farmers want. However, a repeal of the laws, which is unlikely, and a legal guarantee on MSP as sought by farmers are fraught with complicated economic costs, analysts say. “The government is and will be always be ready to discuss every issue. That is the government’s position which the letter to the farmers restates,” an official said on Tuesday.The government has said it would come out with a written assurance on continuing the system of guaranteed prices, or MSPs. Farm leaders have spelt out why the assurance on minimum prices was not enough. The government sets minimum prices for 23 commodities but mainly buys wheat and rice at these floor prices. The MSP is calculated using a measure of cultivation cost known as A2+FL, which is a narrower measure of costs of cultivation that takes into account all expenses of raising a particular crop plus the value of family labour. Farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that include the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called C2 in economic parlance. Farm unions also made it clear that they want the government to buy all 23 commodities, which would bloat its food subsidy bill hugely. Some analysts say such a law makes little economic sense. If MSP is made compulsory, it will upend the natural market mechanisms of demand supply, which usually determine prices. And if MSP is made compulsory and traders find it unprofitable to buy at MSPs, especially during production gluts, they will simply avoid buying rather than face legal action, according to Ashok Gulati, a noted farm economist. Moreover, the government cannot afford to be a monopoly buyer of all farm produce. “There is no question that farmers need support. But they need to be supported in less market-distorting ways,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at think tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, or ICRIER. To be sure, Indian farmers get lower-than-global prices on most items not procured by the government and often have to dump produce below cost of production because of oversupply and the government’s obsession with keeping food inflation low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-govt-farmers-to-resume-talks-on-wednesday/story-h2hCNkyKM8qs4g1uTiHBmK.html
29-12-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, Mahakumbh 2021 to be of shorter format of 48 days||The state government’s announcement of curtailing the otherwise 120 days long Mahakumbh to a 48-day fair in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic is getting mixed response. Saint fraternity and apex body of Akhadas-the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has welcomed the decision. They have, however, urged the state government to ensure all the preparations and facilities be made in a grand way as is done for a full-fledged Kumbh fair. A section of priests, traders, hoteliers, tour operators and vendor associations are unhappy as an abridged Mahakumbh will have a direct impact on their livelihood. Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj pointed out that two months ago they had made it clear to the state government that the decision of holding Mahakumbh in a grand or restricted manner is taken in accordance with the Covid-19 situation and the same will be acceptable to Akhadas. “It is a global pandemic never seen before and affecting normal life everywhere. We understand the concerns. State government has been apprised to take the final decision on this issue in mid-February prior to the first royal bath (Shahi Snaan) falling on the occasion of Mahashivratri on March 11,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Hari Giri. Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, where Kumbh is held, is also of the view that health concerns of pilgrims, saints, priests, local people and Kumbh mela personnel is of vital importance. Ganga Sabha president Praveen Jha said that the Kumbh notification will cover Shahi Snaan but the other five festive baths will be held normally. Kumbh mela administration officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat said that permanent nature work for Kumbh is in the last phase of completion. “Best facilities are being put in place as far as infrastructure, and amenities are concerned for Mahakumbh,” he said. Inspector General of Kumbh Mela Force Sanjay Gunjiyal said that mela administration is preparing in such a way so that they are able to cater to maximum or restricted pilgrims during the fair. “Kumbh force will be managing Makar Sankranti festive bath on January 14 and it will be doing so for all the Shahi Snaans. Already the first lot of Kumbh force has arrived in Haridwar and by first Shahi Snaan the force will be in full strength here and will be on duty till April end,” said Gunjiyal. The trader fraternity seems to be wary of the shortening of Kumbh tenure, fearing may be more restrictions are in the offing which will have a severe bearing on their business and livelihood. Prantiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal secretary Sanjay Triwal lamented that in the past eight months traders have already suffered a lot due to lockdown and other restrictions. “Kumbh fair comes once in 12 years and thousands of traders families depend on the pilgrims’ footfall during four months of Kumbh. Curtailing it to just 48 days is giving a message to pilgrims that Kumbh is not safe, so fewer pilgrims will arrive and subsequently our trade will suffer. We oppose this move and will resort to agitation as this is an undue change in ancient tradition of Kumbh,” said Triwal. Noted Akhada and Kumbh observer Mahesh Parikh remarked that for past several centuries no Mahakumbh in Haridwar got abridged whether due to war, natural disaster or pandemic. “2021 Mahakumbh will be the first abridged one,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-mahakumbh-2021-to-be-of-shorter-format-of-48-days/story-F2suKIuUPIcAuvcyxT0IkK.html
29-12-2020||India||Mumbai: Popular car designer Dilip Chhabria held in cheating case||The Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Mumbai Crime Branch on Monday arrested renowned car designer Dilip Chhabria in a cheating and forgery case, police said.The development was confirmed by Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe but he refused to give more details.A car modified by Chhabria’s DC Designs firm has also been seized as part of a case registered under IPC sections for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-popular-car-designer-dilip-chhabria-held-in-cheating-case/story-XxztUzDvLEiUHOFMtB9NoN.html
29-12-2020||India||DMK writes to EC, asks it to restrain ruling party from using CM’s photo for welfare schemes||Tamil Nadu’s opposition party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Monday urged the Election Commission to ensure that the Pongal sop announced by chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami reaches people via the Tamil Nadu government and not from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) party as it would affect the ‘level playing field’.AIADMK’s coordinator Palaniswami on December 19 while launching his campaign as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly elections announced a hamper for Pongal, a multi-day harvest festival (from January 14-17 in 2021) in Tamil Nadu to 2.6 crore people holding ration cards. They will receive Rs 2,500 in cash along with raw rice, cashew, sugar, grapes, cardamom, sugarcane and a cloth bag from the public distribution system through a token procedure. The sop would be rolled out from January 4. “Wherever and whenever it is possible, the party in power abuses and misuses their power for their personal gain and to influence the voters,” DMK’s organisation secretary RS Bharathi wrote in his letter to the state and central officers of the Election Commission of India. He added that the ‘Pongal gift cash’ was being disbursed from the government’s fund and not from the fund of the ruling party but, “the manner and the pattern, in which the tokens are being issued to the public show, as if the ‘Pongal Gift’ is being given by the ruling AIADMK Party, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and Ministers of respective area”.He said that the DMK was not opposed to the scheme as it believes it is necessary in a welfare state to support people owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and those affected by the cyclones. The DMK had demanded that Rs 5,000 be paid to each family, he said. DMK president M K Stalin also said in a statement that the chief minister cannot use AIADMK cadre to distribute tokens for a government scheme and it should be done through ration shop employees.“Though the Model Code of Conduct is yet to be enforced,” the DMK’s complaint letter said, adding that it was improper for the AIADMK government to use its leaders’ identities. “It would affect the level playing field, which is the basic concept of fair election to ensure democracy.”CM Palaniswami on Tuesday will present the AIADMK government’s ‘report card’ listing their achievements in the past ten years since they have been in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-writes-to-ec-asks-it-to-restrain-ruling-party-from-using-cm-s-photo-for-welfare-schemes/story-HvOfl4eajMgBEerWl4eZzO.html
29-12-2020||India||Sale, purchase of farm yield not govt job: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has backtracked on its opposition to the three central laws aimed at liberalising agricultural trade, and decided to leave the purchase of farm produce to private buyers.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, the government set up purchasing centres in the countryside during the last season and purchased all the agriculture produce that landed in the centres on humanitarian grounds so that farmers would not suffer losses in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.The government incurred losses to the tune of Rs 7,500 crore from the purchase of paddy, sorghum, maize, red gram and Bengal gram, the statement said. Although the government paid Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for the crops, it had to sell them at lower prices in the market because there was no demand“The government cannot do it anymore. It is not a business organisation or trader. It is not a rice miller or a dal miller. Sale and purchase are not the responsibility of government. It is not possible to set up purchase centres in the villages from next year onwards,” the statement said. The statement was released after an official meeting convened on Sunday by chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao, who has hitherto steadfastly opposed the three farm laws passed by the Narendra Modi government in September.Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSPs).At Sunday’s meeting, the Telangana chief minister told officials that since the new farm laws were being implemented across the country, allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere, there was no need for the state government to purchase farm commodities any longer. He suggested that farmers not bring their entire produce to the markets at one time but in portions so that they get a better price. On December 8, TRS leaders and cadre, led by party working president and the CM’s son K T Rama Rao, took part in the Bharat Bandh (India shutdown) to oppose the new farm laws. KCR, as the TRS leader is popularly known, said he would hold a national conclave in the third week of December and invite all anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forces to protest against anti-farmer and anti-labour policies of the central government. He said he would build a national consensus against the new agriculture laws. But there is no more any talk about the proposed conclave. “We cannot afford to get into a confrontation with the Centre at present because it will affect the state’s interests,” a former TRS MP, who is presently in a key position in the government, said on condition of anonymity. Telangana BJP state president Bandi Sanjay welcomed the change in stand of the TRS government on the farm laws. “At least now, KCR has opened his eyes and understood the reality on the benefits of the new laws,” he said. Senior Congress leader and Kisan Congress national vice-president M Kodanda Reddy lashed out at the chief minister for the U-turn. “It is unfortunate that the government is shying away from its responsibility of purchasing agricultural produce at MSPs,” he said. Reddy alleged that KCR had changed his stand after recently meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “He didn’t even bother calling on lakhs of farmers who were agitating on the Delhi borders, braving the winter chill,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sale-purchase-of-farm-yield-not-govt-job-kcr/story-JUI1ILqTQG6xELbeDbatFP.html
29-12-2020||India||UAE airlines under scanner for air bubble violations||The ministry of civil aviation has found breaches of the air bubble agreement put in place between India and the United Arab Emirates by some UAE airlines that carried unauthorised transit passengers from India.A transport bubble or air bubble arrangement is a temporary arrangement between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights are suspended as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. They are reciprocal in nature, meaning airlines from both countries enjoy similar benefits and are subject to similar restrictions.Under the agreement, airlines are only allowed to carry passengers between the two countries and not beyond. India has put in place air bubble agreements with several countries in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic which led to a suspension of international flightsIn a letter to the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the UAE earlier this month, the ministry of civil aviation wrote: “We are in receipt of reports of violation of the provisions of air bubble arrangement by UAE carriers by carrying unauthorized transit passengers”.HT has seen a copy of the letter, which reads: “We would further request you inform the UAE carriers to ensure that the revised provisions of the air bubble arrangement are followed in true spirit”. Arun Kumar, director general of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), confirmed this. “We have acted upon such inputs and the airlines concerned have been advised and reprimanded,” Kumar said.A second official who is aware of the development said the motive for violating the arrangements to fly transit passengers beyond the UAE to farther destinations may be to earn a profit. “UAE carriers have been carrying hundreds of passengers every day from India, since the air bubble agreement between the two countries was set up in July this year,” making the Dubai to Delhi and Mumbai routes among the busiest in the world amid the pandemic, the official said.HT sent a detailed mail to the General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) of the UAE seeking their response. The authorities hadn’t responded until Monday night. Point number 21, rule A,on the website of the civil aviation ministry mentions that under the air bubble arrangement, UAE and Indian airlines operating flights between the two countries can carry UAE nationals and Immigration and Checkpoints Authority-approved UAE residents.A senior official from the ministry of civil aviation, requesting anonymity, said that under an air bubble arrangement, any airline operating between two countries can only carry passengers from point to point.“No airline can accept transit passengers. For example, if an airline is operating from India to the UAE, it cannot accept on-board a passenger not destined to the UAE (passengers with a visa for any country other than the UAE). However, if a passenger goes to the UAE and then books another flight to travel further, the airline cannot be held responsible,” the officer said. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the significance of putting such a rule in place is to ensure that these passengers do not move beyond point-to-point travel. “These restrictions are imposed so that these passengers can be tracked easily and the government can keep a tab on them if required. In any case it is observed that some of them are carrying infection, appropriate action can be taken only if they are following the rules,” Kant said. Aviation expert Mark D Martin said such a violation was bound to happen. “Air bubble arrangement has many loopholes. Airlines will always want to focus on revenue. Airlines will offer what the consumer wants and even if the transit means two days in a hotel in Dubai and then an onward journey, it is still circumventing the law,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-airlines-under-scanner-for-air-bubble-violations/story-xEQsnmH0HxZr5icABDZNSP.html
29-12-2020||India||China’s move to play political broker in Nepal not working||A team of senior officials of the Communist Party of China that landed in Kathmandu on Sunday continued their interactions with leaders of the Nepal Communist Party on Monday in an effort to broker peace between the two rival factions of the ruling party.Chinese President Xi Jinping last week deputed the delegation led by Guo Yezhou, vice-minister of the international department of the Chinese communist party’s central committee (IDCPC), after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sprung a surprise on his detractors in the party and dissolved Parliament. Fresh elections to the 275-seat House of Representatives have been scheduled in two phases on April 30 and May 10 next year.Guo Yezhou, who flew into Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport in a scheduled Air China flight with other delegates, is learnt to have been told by President Xi to amp up Ambassador Hou Yanqi’s efforts to keep Nepal Communist Party in one piece. About 7-8 more communist party officials drove into Nepal from the land border.Guo Yezhou’s team met President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday. The President’s office hasn’t given any details of the discussions or the guests except to confirm the Chinese team’s meeting with Bidhya Devi Bhandari, who had signed off on the recommendation to dissolve parliament.The delegation that included Dr Sun Haiyan, DG, China Centre for Contemporary World Studies, Liang Wihan, IDCPC, South Asia Affairs, and Zheng Yoyuwa, senior office bearer, IDCPC, also held meetings with Prachanda, Madhav Nepal, Jhalanath Khanal, and Baburam Bhattarai, all opponents of PM Oli.“The picture is not very clear. The attempt is to maintain unity, failing which to bring the majority tothe PR-MN side, the clearest road for which is restoration of parliament,” said a diplomat in Kathmandu.PM Oli, who was seen to be reluctant to engage with the Chinese and had previously told off the Chinese ambassador for her interventions, did meet the Chinese team on Sunday evening. PM Oli’s foreign affairs advisor Rajan Bhattarai had described the meeting, which local media reports indicated went on for two hours, as a “courtesy call”.On Monday, Guo Yezhou’s delegation drove down to the Khumaltar residence of former prime minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda who is leading the rival faction within the communist party to discuss the options to stop the party from splitting. Guo will next meet another former prime minister Madhav Nepal who is aligned with Prachanda.Guo Yezhou is a familiar face in Nepal’s political circles and is believed to have played a role in the formation of the Nepal Communist Party in 2018 by the merger of PM Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre. Prachanda and PM Oli had been co-chair of the Nepal communist party as part of the pact signed when the party was formed in 2018.Nepal watchers said President’s Xi’s Communist Party of China wants the PM Oli-led government to rescind the presidential order dissolving parliament and has offered to use its influence with the rival faction led by Prachanda and Madhav Nepal to get them to back off and guaranteed that he would be able to complete his five-year term.The buzz in Nepal’s political circles is that PM Oli stood his ground and indicated that he would rather let the Supreme Court take the call on the presidential order. Five judges of Nepal’s top court have started hearing dozen-odd petitions filed against President Bhandari’s order dissolving the House of Representatives.PM Oli is also learnt to have pointed to his previous discussions with ambassador Hou who at one point, wanted him to step down, and asserted that it would not be possible for him to roll back his cabinet’s recommendation.In a televised address to the nation that followed the dissolution of Parliament earlier, PM Oli had lamented that his rivals within the party hadn’t been letting him function and had planned to move a vote of no-confidence against him.Prachanda and Madhav Nepal, who led the offensive against him, are learnt to be planning to form a government with the Nepali Congress and the Janata Samajwadi Party - the two opposition parties that have been launching sharp attacks at PM Oli for his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-move-to-play-political-broker-in-nepal-not-working/story-Nec3RBewXAU7lPZH8hExWK.html
29-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Same vaccine for a district in Centre’s roll-out strategy||The Narendra Modi government has decided that the government’s Covid-19 vaccine programme will offer only one vaccine brand in a district to ensure efficient logistical management and prevent any confusion in the minds of either those administering the shots, or the people being vaccinated. HT learns that while states, especially large ones, will have a portfolio of vaccines from different manufacturers -- the thinking is that there might not be enough supply if everyone were to insist on the same vaccine -- they will still ensure that the same vaccine is administered within a district. The people drafting India’s vaccine plan have had several brainstorming sessions to finalize the strategy. The choice of vaccines is a tricky issue. Two -- Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat BioTech already applied for an emergency authorization from the subject expert committee of Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) -- but there could be other vaccines that become available over the course of the year. Also Read | ‘300 million doses by July’: SII chief Adar Poonawalla on Covishield“We looked at different options and it has been decided that a district will receive not more than one brand of vaccine,” said a member of the centre’s expert group on Covid vaccines, who asked not to be named. The official also added that the states have been asked for their choice of vaccines to get an idea of the demand. To be sure, a state may not receive its choice -- supply, after all, depends on what has been approved and how much of it is available.For starters, SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin (the second if it clears phase 3 trials; the first has already cleared them in the UK) are expected to be available. Two other potential candidates, ZyCov-D from Zydus Cadila and Sputnik V, co-produced by Dr. Reddy’s lab (the second has cleared phase 3 trials in Russia) are expected to start their final trials here soon. A second official aware of the plan, who too asked not to be named added: “The choice of vaccines for a district is a critical decision. It will help quell social resentment or law and order problem over vaccination. If we offer choices of vaccine in a district, people might refuse one and ask for another . It could also lead to rumour mongering and a misinformation campaign on social media.” India already has a detailed plan for the supply chain for Covid-19 vaccines even though no vaccines have got approval from the Indian drug regulator so far. To be sure, transporting vaccines will be easier than storing them. All possible vaccine candidates for India, from Serum Institute of India’s Covishield to Pfizer Inc.’s mRNA vaccine will require 2 degrees to 8 degrees Celsius temperature for transportation. Covishield, developed by the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca Plc., can be stored, transported and handled at 2 degrees to 8 degrees, BioNTech SE and Pfizer’s vaccines need to be stored at minus 70 degrees Celsius, but can be kept for up to five days at 2 degrees to 8 degrees . The same temperature can keep Moderna’s product stable for 30 days but if it needs to be stored for longer, the vaccine requires a temperature of minus 20 degrees Celsius. The Gamaleya vaccine can be stored at 2 degrees to 8 degrees. Much of the long-distance movement of the vaccines in India will be by air. The last mile transport is likely to be by road. District collectors unlikely in priority list Interestingly, district collectors and other top officials in the district administration might not be included in the list of frontline workers, the first official said. While a demand to add DCs to the priority list was made by some states, the Centre argued that the central government officials, who are at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic, are not getting any such benefit. A state official, however, argued that “vaccination of DCs and other officials would have also sent a strong signal ” (about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/same-vaccine-for-a-district-in-centre-s-roll-out-strategy/story-ZimPdDnuKC9j3zOBGyZGdL.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Exercise caution’: MHA tells states in wake of new Covid-19 strain, new year||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued an order extending the Covid-19 guidelines for “Containment, Surveillance and Caution” till January 31 and urged people to exercise caution in the wake of the new variant of the virus recently traced in the UK and new year celebrations. “While there has been a continuous decline in the active and new Covid-19 cases, there is a need to maintain surveillance, containment and caution, keeping in view the surge in cases globally, and the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom (UK). Accordingly, containment zones continue to be demarcated carefully; prescribed containment measures strictly followed within these zones; Covid-appropriate behaviour promoted and strictly enforced, and the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed in respect of various permitted activities followed scrupulously,” MHA said in a statement. Simultaneously, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote a letter to all the state chief secretaries saying, “strict vigil is to be maintained to prevent any fresh surge cases in the wake of new year celebrations and ongoing winter season which are favourable for the spread of the virus”. Also read: India, UK to finalise early harvest trade deals by 2021Bhalla pointed out in his letter that the number of active cases have been declining in the country for past 2-3 months and the overall situation appears “optimistic”.He said that the government has started preparations for administration and rollout of vaccines for Covid-19. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended prioritisation of this vaccine during the initial phases to health care workers, frontline workers, persons aged 50 years and above and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities,” Bhalla said. He said that “the states/union territories may instruct the concerned authorities for their active support to the ministry of health and family welfare in identification, preparation of database, vaccine delivery, storage, security, shipment and vaccination of beneficiaries.”Asserting that there is a concomitant need to exercise care, the home secretary added - “States/UTs, based on their assessment, may impose local restrictions to contain the spread of the virus, such as night curfew”. Last month, the MHA had allowed states to impose night curfews amid rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-exercise-caution-in-wake-of-new-covid-19-strain-new-year/story-zn1wuRr8nBSd7fe6i2WXXO.html
29-12-2020||India||BJP amends list of district observers in 24 hours after dissent||The appointment of observers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) organizational districts in West Bengal on Sunday evening led to dissent in several areas and eventually forced the party to publish a revised list on Monday afternoon. On Sunday, Bengal BJP vice-president Pratap Banerjee, who is in charge of the election office set up for the assembly polls due in about five months, issued several lists, announcing the appointment of new observers, co-observers, convenors, co-convenors and also a few district presidents by state president Dilip Ghosh. Observers were also appointed for all the morchas (fronts). Among the most prominent names in the lists were that of former Kolkata mayor and minister Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee, a professor, who were appointed as observer and co-convenor respectively for the Kolkata zone. This is the first time they were given official posts in the BJP after Chatterjee, who used to be one of the most loyal followers of Mamata Banerjee, left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and joined the saffron camp last year. Another turncoat, Sankudeb Panda, was made the second co-convenor for Kolkata. Appointed as convenor for Kolkata, Debjit Sarkar, the former president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state unit, is the only face of the old BJP leadership in the Kolkata zonal committee. With dissent brewing in several BJP district units over induction of leaders and workers from the ruling party, the appointments raised eyebrows in several quarters. Simultaneously, rivalry among BJP leaders led to rumblings in districts such as Birbhum and South 24 Parganas. Talking to HT on condition of anonymity, a senior state BJP leader said, “The rumblings among old BJP leaders will die down in no time. One has to understand that there is also a strategic aspect to the appointments in Kolkata and elsewhere. Those who have been made observers, co-observers and convenors will not be able to contest the coming elections.” Baisakhi Banerjee, according to BJP leaders, had earlier insisted that Sovan Chatterjee and she should be given specific roles in the party. The duo stayed away from BJP programmes for months and BJP national secretary Arvind Menon had to hold meetings with them to make them pro-active. “Looking at the current political scenario I think the most challenging area for the next election will be the Kolkata zone. I am fortunate enough to have Chatterjee’s guidance. I will try to do whatever the party decides for me. From my side there will be no dearth of commitment,” Banerjee said. When it was pointed out that neither she nor Chatterjee will be able to contest the coming polls, Banerjee said, “Whatever the party decides for us is the leadership’s priority. We have nothing to say on that.” In the BJP’s Kolkata north organizational zone, which covers the suburban areas in the city’s northern periphery and parts of the North 24 Parganas district, the district unit president Manas Bhattacharya was appointed as observer on Sunday. On Monday, he was replaced by Barackpore Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh. “Initially I was reluctant to take the responsibility as I already have too many,” said Singh. In a similar move, Ramkrishna Roy was named as observer for the Asansol zone where Union minister of state Babul Supriyo is the local Lok Sabha member. He was replaced within 24 hours by Saurav Sikdar. Also, Dr Sawar Dhanania replaced Ramkrishna Paul as observer in the adjacent Burdwan district unit. Among the district presidents who were removed was Shyama Pada Mondal from Birbhum. “I tried to do my best but the leadership’s decision is final,” Mondal told HT after handing the baton to Dhruba Saha, a younger leader, a day before Mamata Banerjee’s rally in the district’s Bolpur town where Union home minister Amit Shah led a grand roadshow on December 20. Mondal and Hari Krishna Dutta, a veteran leader and president of the South 24 Parganas (East) district unit, were made special invitee members of the state unit. “Dutta was failing to manage the ranks but there is resentment among a section of workers over appointment of his successor, Sunip Dutta,” said a senior district leader. Dutta could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-amends-list-of-district-observers-presidents-in-24-hours-after-dissent/story-Xnz6O4Pv4yLGYGxW4neuIN.html
29-12-2020||India||‘Government not a rice or dal miller’: KCR’s sharp U-turn on farm laws||There is no need for the state government to purchase the agriculture produce as the new farm laws were being implemented across the country, allowing the farmers to sell their crop anywhere, said Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao taking a sharp U-turn from his earlier opposition to the very laws. KCR had earlier supported the Bharat Bandh against the Centre-backed farm laws. The announcement comes days after the CM met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Earlier, the CM’s party had voted against the legislation in Parliament.The decision that the process of sale and purchase of agriculture produce would now be left to the market was made at a high-level official meeting convened by the CM on Sunday evening.“The government cannot do it anymore. It is not a business organisation or trader. It is not a rice miller or a dal miller. Sale and purchase are not the responsibility of the government. It is not possible to set up a purchase centre in the village from next year onwards,” read an official statement from the chief minister’s office. ALSO WATCH | ‘Not afraid to quit’: Punjab CM moves bills to counter Centre’s farm laws However, the CM directed that the sale and purchase of commodities at the agriculture markets be done properly. He suggested that the farmers should not bring their entire produce to markets at one time but in phases so that they would get a better price. During the last season, the CM’s office said, the government had set up purchasing centres in the villages and purchased all the agriculture produce on humanitarian grounds to see that the farmers would not suffer losses, on account of the coronavirus pandemic. It said the government had incurred losses to the tune of Rs 7,500 crore due to purchase of paddy, sorghum, maize, red gram, bengal gram and sunflower. Though the government had paid Minimum Support Price (MSP) for these crops, it had to sell them at the lower prices in the market, as there was no demand for these crops. Till recently, the chief minister strongly opposed the legislations on agriculture stating that they would harm the interests of the farmers. In September, when the legislation was introduced in Parliament, the TRS president instructed his party MPs to vote against the bills. KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, told his party MPs that though the bills said farmers could sell their produce anywhere in the country, in reality, they would enable the traders to go anywhere in the country to buy the produce. The bills would also help the corporate lobby to spread to all corners in the country, he had alleged. On December 8, the TRS leaders and cadre, led by party working president and KCR’s son K T Rama Rao, took part in Bharat Bandh (nationwide shutdown), opposing the new legislations on agriculture. The TRS president also announced that he would hold a national conclave in the third week of December and invite all anti-BJP forces to protest the anti-farmer and anti-labour policies of the government. He said he would build a nationwide consensus against new agriculture laws. “We cannot afford to get into confrontation with the Centre at present, because it will affect the state’s interests,” a former TRS MP, who is presently in a key position in the government, said on condition of anonymity. Telangana BJP state president Bandi Sanjay welcomed the change in stand of the TRS government on agriculture laws. “At least now, KCR has opened his eyes and understood the reality on the benefits of the new laws,” he said. Senior Congress leader and Kisan Congress national vice-president M Kodanda Reddy lashed out at the chief minister for taking a U-turn on the agriculture laws. “It is unfortunate that the government is shying away from its responsibility of purchasing agricultural produce at the MSP,” he said. Reddy alleged that KCR had changed his tune after his recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “He didn’t even bother about calling on lakhs of farmers who were agitating on Delhi borders braving winter chill,” he criticised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-not-a-rice-or-dal-miller-kcr-s-sharp-u-turn-on-farm-laws/story-5YhXPdWSi0YUoUBF0200bO.html
29-12-2020||India||‘One nation, one mobility card’: PM Modi launches NCMC, says will further India’s development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday stressed on the need for a unified technological interface to be used across services for furthering the development of the nation. He was speaking at the launch of the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line, which he said is one such interface.The NCMC will allow passengers carrying a RuPay debit card issued in the last 18 months by 23 banks to swipe these for Metro travel.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that passengers from any part of the country will now be able to travel on the Airport Express line using this card. “This facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022,” a DMRC spokesperson said.Also Read: PM Modi flags off India’s first driverless train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta LineThe prime minister said that it is our responsibility to focus the country’s resources and capabilities towards something productive, adding that this integrated approach will increase the country’s strength.ALSO WATCH | PM Modi inaugurates India’s first-ever driverless train for Delhi Metro “The card was launched with the idea that commuters would have an integrated access to all public transports. This one card will help them save the time they spend standing in queue for tickets,” PM Modi said.“One nation, one mobility card is one example. Our government has brought about several other initiatives such as ‘one nation, one FASTag’, which made travelling seamless and freed everyone from traffic. ‘One nation one tax’, i.e. GST, has made the tax system comprehensive and removed the tax jam,” he said.In a statement released earlier, the DMRC welcomed the launch and said, “These innovations are going to herald a new era of travelling, comfort and enhanced mobility for Delhi-NCR residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-mobility-card-pm-modi-launches-ncmc-says-will-further-india-s-development/story-u5P2IjY5zuHvjGLhz6tNbI.html
29-12-2020||India||Farmers’protest updates: Demand repeal of ‘draconian’ laws, says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||Protests against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws entered day 33 on Monday as the government and the farmers’ union prepare for the sixth round of talks on Tuesday. The farmers’ unions had on Saturday accepted the government’s second proposal to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time as per the unions’ convenience, having rejected an earlier invitation. On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Singhu border to interact with the protesting farmers and “challenged” any Union minister to debate the laws with the protesting farmers so that it becomes clear “how beneficial or harmful these laws are.” Kejriwal had earlier visited the Singhu border, which has emerged as the epicentre of the stir, on December 7.Since September, when these legislations were passed, the farmers, predominantly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against what they call “black laws.” Initially, railway tracks were blocked in Punjab and the farmers arrived in Delhi on November 26 and, since then, have been camping on various borders of the national capital. The farmers have repeatedly said that they are prepared for a “long haul” and will not go back till the laws are repealed; the government, on the other hand, has ruled out a repeal, and, instead, has proposed amendments to these.Previous five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach, too, has failed to convince the farmers.Here are the live updates from day 33 of the anti-farm laws protests:Demand repeal of ‘draconian’ laws: Mamata BanerjeeWe are with the farmers. We demand the three draconian agriculture laws be withdrawn: West Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeLeaders from 25 farmers’ organisations submit letter in support of farm lawsLeaders of 25 farmers’ organisations meet agriculture minister Tomar in Delhi, submit letter in support of the farm laws. Delhi: Leaders of around 25 farmer organisations today met & handed over to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar a letter in support of the new agriculture laws. pic.twitter.com/deesc2QX3bPolice detains protesters outside Haryana CM ML Khattar’s residencePunjab Pradesh Congress Sewa Dal protests outside Haryana CM ML Khattar’s residence against the farm laws, in Chandigarh. Protesters detained after trying to cross police barricades. Chandigarh: Punjab Pradesh Congress Sewa Dal members today held a demonstration near Haryana CM's residence to protest against Centre's Farm Laws.Protesters were detained by police as they tried to cross the barricades. pic.twitter.com/5xeusGxXOlAnti-farm law protests continue at Delhi-Haryana Tikri borderFarmers continue protests against the farm laws at the Delhi-Haryana Tikri border. कृषि कानूनों के खिलाफ टिकरी (दिल्ली-हरियाणा) बॉर्डर पर विरोध प्रदर्शन कर रहे किसान अभी भी डटे हुए हैं। pic.twitter.com/gEOeZ2LvYcDelhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana remain shutDelhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, continue to stay closed. The Ghazipur and Chilla borders with UP are closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad.Farm unions had earlier rejected the Centre’s earlier offer for talksEarlier, the farmers’ unions had rejected the government’s initial offer for sixth round of talks as per the unions’ convenience. However, on Satuday, they accepted the government’s second offer.Govt should listen to farmers and take back laws: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra“It’s a sin to use the kind of words they are using for farmers. Government is answerable to farmers. Government should listen to them and take back the laws,” says Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.PM Modi to flag off 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ at 4:30 pmAmid the ongoing farmers’ protest, prime minister Narendra Modi will virtually flag off the 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ service between Maharashtra’s Samgola and Shalimar in West Bengal, at 4:30 pm on Monday.Day 33 of anti-farm laws’ stirThe protests against the government’s three contentious farm laws in Delhi, which began on November 26, entered day 33 on Monday. Sixth round of talks between the government and the farmers’ unions are likely to take place on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-28-2020/story-8mmwyOxc8RK6DW3Hrg7zNJ.html
29-12-2020||India||Can the rich aid post-pandemic economic recovery||2020 was a year of unprecedented economic disruption globally. Thanks to a near total 68-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Indian economy suffered an even bigger disruption. This is why India’s June quarter GDP shrank by 23.9%, more than the drop seen in other major economies. Things improved with the easing of lockdown restrictions. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) has reached 90% in December, just 10% below the pre-lockdown period. Many forecasters have made favourable revisions to their estimates for India’s 2020-21 gross domestic product (GDP). The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), for example, revised its projections from a 9.5% GDP contraction to 7.5%. GDP growth figures will take a big jump from the June quarter next year as a favourable base effect kicks in. As 2020 comes to end, the big question is not what the December or March quarter GDP growth figures are going to be, but the long-term growth prospects of the Indian economy. A section of economists believes that the pandemic, even though it has hurt the poor in a big way, might not cause significant long-term damage. Speaking to Ira Dugal of Bloomberg Quint, Neelkanth Mishra, the co-head of Asia Pacific Strategy and India Equity Strategist for Credit Suisse, explained the rationale for this view (https://bit.ly/3hhdiFr). “The pain has gone down to the bottom 30%-40% of the enterprises and individuals. While from an inequality perspective that is a disastrous outcome, from an economic momentum perspective that is actually the best possible outcome... The top 10% of the Indian economy consumes more than the bottom 50%. The top 10-20% have come out of the lockdown with a better balance sheet than earlier, because their consumption was more impacted than their income. It is the bottom 50% whose income has been more impacted than their consumption...their balance sheets are much worse. But as we come out and incremental savings which the rich had is deployed with a vengeance, (and) the economic stimulus which has come through...the lasting damage to the economy is much lower”, he said (https://bit.ly/3rmV2zk). If one were to set the normative issue of rising inequality aside, will the Indian economy see a growth boom driven by the rich in the medium term? This question is worth examining seriously and Number Theory will do this in two parts. First, can the rich aid growth? . How big is the income/consumption inequality in India? India does not have a comprehensive income database and consumption expenditure is the best proxy for income data. Because the government scrapped the 2017-18 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES), we do not have recent data on consumption inequality in India. However, the 2011-12 CES data and the latest income tax statistics can give us some idea about this question. The 2011-12 CES shows that the top 20% of the population had a share of almost 50% in total consumption expenditure. It also tells us that the bottom 80% of the rural population and almost half of the urban households spent half of their budgets on buying food. Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE) has a share of more than 50% in India’s GDP. These numbers suggest that Mishra’s prognosis of the top 10-20% mattering the most when it comes to driving PFCE and growth is correct. However, there is good reason to believe that CES, like other National Sample Survey Office surveys, undercounts the rich and, therefore, the extent of income inequality in India. A comparison of salary data from the latest available periodic labour force survey (PLFS) for 2018-19 and income tax data for the Assessment Year 2018-19 (fiscal year 2017-18) proves this point. Salaried workers are at the top of the heap in the PLFS database. Their average monthly incomes (Rs 16,160) is much higher than that of casual workers (Rs 8,340 for 30 days for non- public works related work) or self-employed workers (Rs 10,725). The PLFS estimates that out of 356 million workers in India, 90 million were salaried workers. According to the 2018-19 PLFS, average monthly wages for even the top 10% of salaried workers in India were below Rs 50,000. Even for the top 5%, this number is Rs 61,334; 80% of salaried workers do not even earn more than Rs 20,000 per month, the data shows. The maximum income for a salaried worker in the PLFS data is Rs 12 lakh per month. The maximum monthly wage which the PLFS captures is Rs 60 lakh for a self-employed worker.  The picture changes drastically when one looks at the latest income tax returns (ITR) data. Because granular ITR data is not available, one has to work with average income levels. Of the 58.7 million ITRs filed by salary income earners; a number which is about two-thirds of the number of salaried workers estimated by the PLFS, 78.5% reported monthly incomes below Rs 45,000. Monthly incomes do no rise above the Rs 1 lakh mark for 97% of the salary earning class which files ITRs. Anyone who does not earn more than Rs 1 lakh per month can hardly be termed rich today. It is the top 3% of the salary earners who earn 28% of total salary income declared in ITRs in India. The inequality becomes even more acute if one looks at all ITRs rather than the ones filed by salary earners, which shows that the top 0.7% earn almost 40% of the total income declared in ITRs in India.   How important are the salaried/non-salaried rich for the macro economy? Modern economies are deeply inter-connected in nature. This makes it hazardous to speculate on the economic importance of different classes. A highly paid executive’s incomes might depend on a very low-price mass consumption product her company is selling and a relatively poorly paid worker in a tourist resort or a high-end restaurant is dependent on the rich coming and spending there. With this caveat in place, one can try and provide a rudimentary answer to the question posed above. The share of total income declared in ITRs in 2017-18 GDP was 30%. Of this, income declared by salary earners was 11.7%. As a share of PFCE, the share was 19.9% for all salary incomes declared. The top 8% of salary income earners had a share of just 14% in total PFCE. This is less than even 10% of the overall GDP. Even if one were to assume that this class spends all of its income, it is unrealistic to assume that it can generate significant tailwinds for the economy on its own. Put otherwise, the rich can’t drive growth on their own. Abhishek Jha contributed to data analysis for this story.This is the first of a two-part data journalism series, the second part will look at can the rich hurt growth?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-rich-can-aid-economic-recovery-post-pandemic/story-bx4eT14YEsWuNnN65fhhzI.html
