30-12-2020||India||‘Not interested’: Goa CM scuttles proposal to allow cannabis cultivation||A day after it became known that the Goa government was actively examining a proposal to allow the cultivation of cannabis for medicinal purposes, chief minister Pramod Sawant shot down the proposal saying his government was not interested in pursuing it. Speaking to the media on Wednesday evening, Sawant said that “the Goa government is not interested in going ahead with this proposal”. “The Indian Institute of Integrative medicine, a premier Government of India agency, had sent us a proposal... We had sent it for examination to different departments. It does not mean we are going for cannabis cultivation,” Sawant said.The proposal was vetted by the Goa law department, with law minister Nilesh Cabral saying that he was in favour of legalising cannabis for medicinal purposes only. On Tuesday, while the proposal received the vocal support of a section of the ministers in the Goa government, Sawant appeared ambiguous claiming that “just because the file has moved, it didn’t mean a decision has been taken.”Also read: Bars, restaurants to restrict entry, limited parking at Connaught PlaceThe opposition Goa Forward Party had hit out at the government for what it said was the promotion of Goa as a ‘vices hub.’“How will they handle the law and order crisis that will consequently emerge from the legalisation of cannabis cultivation, who will be the watchdog to ensure that it is for medicinal purpose only? And if the watchdog himself starts accepting bribes to allow it to be pilfered and the young generation gets access to it, the future generations will get access just so that they can fill their pockets,” Sardesai had said.No sooner Sawant announced that the government was not interested in pursuing the proposal, Sardesai claimed victory. The proposal was expected to meet with resistance from within the cabinet leaving hopes of it making it to the Goa Legislative Assembly slim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-interested-goa-cm-scuttles-proposal-to-allow-cannabis-cultivation/story-dEj7HKMDQwtJPep99HSgmL.html
30-12-2020||India||Ex-PM told Major about coalition conundrum||London: The short-lived United Front government of the 1990s was under considerable strain, struggling to manage a coalition of 13 diverse partners, and then Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and finance minister P. Chidambaram did not always see “eye to eye,” according to a confidential document just released by the UK’s National Archives.Deve Gowda told then Prime Minister John Major during the latter’s week-long visit in January 1997.that Chidambaram was “very good” in the world of finance, but was not inclined to prioritise the problems of rural India, says the document.A three-page account of discussions between Major and Deve Gowda while flying from Kolkata to Bengaluru was one of the documents released by the National Archives. No officials were present on either side ; the only other person who was present when the discussion took place was Major’s wife Norma.A spokesperson for Deve Gowda’s Janata Dal (Secular) said the then Prime Minister had said nothing negative about Chidambaram, and “it is a fact that governments and finance ministers in India had not been very focussed on rural India.” “So our leader just pointed out that and tried to focus on rural India during his short stint in power,” added the spokesperson T A Sharavana, an ex-member of the legislative councilHT reached out to Chidambaram but received no response. Described as a “virtually unprecedented degree of access”, the note based on details reported by Major and written by John Holmes in Downing Street to Fiona Mylchreest in the Foreign Office says that Deve Gowda “went out of his way to speak frankly to the Prime Minister, for example about internal difficulties”.Deve Gowda at the time was heading an uneasy 13-party United Front government after the 1996 election threw up a fractured verdict. Chidambaram had resigned from the Congress in 1996 and joined the Tamil Maanila Congress, which was part of the coalition.Deve Gowda told Major during the 150-minute flight that there were “significant strains” within the coalition, explaining how difficult and constraining it was to manage 13 parties, and added that he and Chidambaram “did not see eye to eye” in some areas.According to the note, “He (Deve Gowda) told the Prime Minister…Chidambaram was very good but his skills lay in the world of finance and big city life. He was not inclined to give sufficient priority to the problems of rural India”.He “went on to say that he was very concerned about the future of rural India, and in particular about Indian agriculture…It was clear to the Prime Minister that the way to Deve Gowda’s heart was through extra help for agriculture, for example training, new techniques and assistance of any kind”.Deve Gowda, who was prime minister between June 1996 and April 1997, went on to make two political claims that were later proved wrong. The note says that he believed at the time that the Congress had been “permanently fractured” and that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was “unelectable”.The note says: “Deve Gowda began with the Indian political scene…He believed that the Congress Party was now permanently fractured and that in the post-dynastic era of Indian politics (he was particularly scathing about the dynasty phenomenon) they could not regroup. The Party was too corrupt and their time had passed. Meanwhile the BJP was unelectable”.The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance went on to win two successive elections in 2004 and 2009, while the BJP similarly won in 2014 and 2019. The declassified note suggests that Deve Gowda developed a rapport with Major, who faced a general election back home in May 1997.At a reception in Bengaluru, the note says: “{Deve} Gowda surprised everyone by calling for silence as the Prime Minister was leaving and saying that he was sure everyone present shared his desire to see the Prime Minister win the election (greeted by a round of applause).” Major’s Conservative party lost the election to Labour led by Tony Blair.The note adds: “The Prime Minister believes that he has established an excellent personal relationship with {Deve} Gowda, who pressed him and Mrs Major to return to India whenever they wanted, preferably soon”.“It was noteworthy that Gowda not only came to the reception in Bangalore, but also insisted on coming to see the Prime Minister off, although Indian protocol had insisted beforehand that he could not possibly do either of these things.Janata Dal (Secular) spokesperson said Deve Gowda had been “prescient if what is happening in the Congress today is any indication,” and his assessment then that the BJP was unelectable was in the context of the circumstances prevailing then, adding: “Politics is not stagnant water but keeps changing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-pm-told-major-about-coalition-conundrum/story-z9CPJDvGGx4E6ASGvGnufJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Haryana couple shot dead before court marriage||Rohtak:A couple on their way to get married in a court in Haryana’s Rohtak were shot dead allegedly by some members of the woman’s family, police said. Pooja Pawaria, 27, and Rohit Dhankar, 25, both residents of Rohtak, were killed in a daylight attack near the Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). The man’s brother, Mohit, suffered bullet injuries and is undergoing treatment at a government hospital.Deputy superintendent of police Sajan Singh said the woman’s uncle Kuldeep Singh, his son Kapil Kumar and three others were arrested on the basis of a complaint of the man’s father. They were booked under sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act. “We are interrogating the accused. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of hate crime. We are looking into all angles,” Singh added. A police official said Pooja, an orphan, was raised by her uncle, who is a property dealer. She was a divorcee and had been staying in Rohtak for several many months, he added, requesting anonymity. DSP Singh said the uncle called the Rohit’s relatives to the court for marriage. “Later, he asked the groom’s relatives to come near MDU as they wanted to hold some discussion before the marriage. When they reached near MDU, Kuldeep opened fire at Mohit’s car,” he said. “Kuldeep’s son and his aides pumped bullets into Pooja, who was in a different car, killing her on the spot,” added the DSP. Rohit and his brother were rushed to the hospital by an auto-driver, a witness to the incident, the police said. The police retrieved CCTV footage of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-couple-shot-dead-before-court-marriage/story-RAGo3X4cDDCub3WMnXmGeI.html
30-12-2020||India||Possible that Covid-19 UK strain entered India before, says AIIMS director||As at least 20 cases of the new UK strain of Covid-19 have been detected so far in India, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Wednesday said there might be some possibility that the UK strain was there in India before, during November-December as the strain was in the UK in September and there were people who got infected at that time. “It’s a possibility that UK strain may have entered India in November/early December. But if you look at it epidemiologically, this strain leads to an increase in infections. But if you look at our data for last 4-6 weeks, there was no spike in cases,” Dr Guleria told ANI.Assuring that India is well-placed to combat even if there is an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases due to this new strain, the AIIMS director said India’s recovery rate is very high. So far — whenever the strain has entered India — it has not affected India’s number of cases or hospitalisation significantly, he said. Acknowledging that the new strain is more dangerous as it is believed to be more infectious, Dr Guleria said there is need to be extra careful now to make sure that it does not impact India in a big way. The government had launched the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), comprising 10 labs, in the wake of the new strain of the coronavirus being detected in the UK. The department of biotechnology on Wednesday said a high-level inter-ministerial committee will guide INSACOG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-that-covid-19-uk-strain-entered-india-before-says-aiims-director-randeep-guleria/story-zbHcEoduYOcgguXkJ0ZoLM.html
30-12-2020||India||Center extends ‘disturbed area’ tag on Nagaland for 6 more months||The central government on Wednesday extended its “disturbed area” tag on Nagaland for six more months, furthering the continuance of the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) which empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without prior warrant, and to open fire if deemed “necessary for the maintenance of public order”.The Act, denounced by various Naga civil organizations as being “draconian”, has been in force in the state for several decades, and is extended biannually.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday issued a notification that the central government believes that the area comprising the whole of Nagaland is in such a “disturbed and dangerous condition” that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary.Also read: China cautions against use of ‘Tibet card’, says it will damage bilateral ties“Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (No. 28 of 1958), the central government hereby declares whole of the State of Nagaland to be “disturbed area” for a period of six months with effect from 30th December 2020 for the purpose of the said Act,” the notification stated.The Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) was not withdrawn even after the central government entered into peace talks with Naga nationalist groups, notably the “framework agreement” which was signed between the Isak-Muivah led National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) and the government of India on August 3, 2015.The order to maintain status quo in Nagaland regarding coverage of AFSPA comes against the backdrop of reports that the peace talks are at a final stage.No official reaction was available on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/center-extends-disturbed-area-tag-on-nagaland-for-6-more-months/story-NaMk52Z2Vap3BYyXHCljSL.html
30-12-2020||India||Couple on way to court for marriage shot dead in Haryana’s Rohtak||A couple, who were on their way to get married in a court were shot dead in broad daylight by the woman’s uncle and his aides in Haryana’s Rohtak on Wednesday, police said. The deceased have been identified as Pooja, 27, and Rohit, 25, of Rohtak. Rohit’s brother Mohit was also injured in the firing. He is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and is stable. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sajan Singh said the woman’s uncle Kuldeep Singh, his son Kapil Kumar and three other persons have been arrested on the complaint of Rohit’s father. They have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and section 25 of the arms Act. “We are interrogating the accused. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of hate crime. We are looking into all angles,” the DSP said.A police official said Pooja was a divorcee. “She was an orphan and raised by her uncle Kuldeep, a property dealer. She was staying in Rohtak for the past many months and had developed a relationship with Rohit,” he added. According to the complaint, Kuldeep had called Rohit’s relatives to the court for their marriage, said the DSP. “Later, he asked the groom’s relatives to come near Maharshi Dayanand University as they wanted to hold some discussion before the marriage. When Rohit and his family reached near MDU, Kuldeep opened fire at Mohit’s car,” he said. “Kuldeep’s son and his aides pumped bullets into Pooja, who was in a different car, killing her on the spot,” added the DSP The police have retrieved CCTV footage of the incident. The DSP said the woman’s body was found on the rear seat of the car while Rohit and his brother Mohit were rushed to the PGIMS where Rohit was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-on-way-to-court-for-marriage-shot-dead-in-haryana-s-rohtak/story-cQTm1svTyMMR5zl1gYI6YO.html
30-12-2020||India||Bars, restaurants to restrict entry, limited parking at Connaught Place: Check Delhi’s new year celebration rules||Unlike other states which have imposed restrictions on new year gathering, the Capital city will be allowing celebrations but adhering to normal Covid-19 guidelines which are already in place. This time, traffic deployment at market areas are being beefed up keeping in mind both women’s safety and Covid-19 guidelines.Here are the rules that you must know:1. Restaurants and bars have been asked to host not more than 50 per cent of their capacity.2. There will be no breath analyser test this time out of precaution against Covid-19 but drunk drivers will be taken for medical examination.3.  Bouncers have been informed not to indulge in any fight and approach the police instead. Restaurant owners have been asked to take the responsibility of a woman if she gets drunk.4. After 10pm, music will be allowed up to only permissible noise limit. 5. Fire units will be deployed at South Extension market, Lajpat Nagar-II market, Connaught Place’s Palika Bazaar, Gandhi Nagar Market, New Pacific Mall (Rajouri Garden), Rani Bagh Market, Chhattarpur near Trivoli Garden, Majnu ka Tila, Hauz Khas Village Market from 8.30pm on Thursday to 12.30am on Friday. 6. Limited parking space for vehicles with valid passes will be available in Connaught Place on first come-first serve basis. Unauthorised or wrongly parked vehicles shall be towed away and prosecuted.7. No vehicle movement towards CP will be allowed from the Mandi house roundabout, Bengali Market roundabout, north foot of Ranjit Singh Flyover (Barakhamba Road-Tolstoy Marg crossing), Minto Road–Deen Dayal Upadhaya Marg crossing and Chelmsford Road near Munje Chowk (New Delhi Railway Station). Vehicles towards CP won’t be allowed from R K Ashram Marg-Chitragupta Marg crossing, Gole Market roundabout, Gol Dakkhana roundabout, Patel Chowk, Kasturba Gandhi Road-Feroz Shah Road crossing, Jai Singh Road-Bangla Sahib Lane, Pachkuian Road- Bangla Sahib Lane, Windsor Place roundabout, Buta Singh Marg roundabout and State Entry Road-New Delhi Railway Station as well.8. Rajiv Chowk Metro Station, which is at CP, will not allow passengers to exit after 9pm on New Year’s Eve.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bars-restaurants-to-restrict-entry-limited-parking-at-connaught-place-check-delhi-s-new-year-rules/story-fjssTZQzycx5grEJTX0T4L.html
30-12-2020||India||We are the minor partners in TN, says BJP as AIADMK rules out power sharing||Three days after the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) snubbed its ally Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) saying that there will be no power-sharing and that Edappadi Palaniswami will be its chief ministerial candidate in the assembly election, the saffron party on Wednesday acknowledged that the Dravidian party is the big brother in the alliance.Referring to the chief ministerial candidate, the BJP’s national secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge CT Ravi initially said that the NDA coordination committee will take a call on the CM before conceding that the decision would be of the majority party (AIADMK) in the alliance.“Across India BJP leads the NDA but in Tamil Nadu, it is the AIADMK and we are the minor partners. Obviously, they (AIADMK) will take the decisions including the chief minister candidate,” Ravi said. “Officially, the NDA coordination committee will announce it.” BJP leaders have underlined that announcing chief minister candidate is a matter of procedure which has been made into a controversy. “From our party’s side, only national (BJP) president J P Nadda can make political announcements,” said a senior BJP state leader not wishing to be named. Nadda’s visit to Chennai has been postponed since he contracted Covid-19 earlier this month. “But the situation may change after elections depending on our performance,” the BJP leader said.The BJP is expecting to negotiate between 40-50 seats out of the 234 assembly constituencies in the state. In its alliance with the AIADMK for last year’s Lok Sabha elections, BJP contested in five out of the 39 parliamentary seats but drew a blank. The BJP which has no MLA or MP from the state, will also negotiate for cabinet positions but a source said that they were flexible on that aspect. Ravi, however, said that they will take a decision on ministerial positions after the election results.Earlier in the day, Ravi had tweeted that the NDA would announce the chief minister candidate after elections. But in the next tweet, he clarified that the chief minister will be from the largest partner. A majority of BJP and AIADMK leaders see Ravi’s statement as ironing out differences that arose in the past few months over this issue. “We were upset but there seems to be better understanding now,” said a senior AIADMK leader on condition of anonymity. “Cadres from the lower rung up to the top leadership have now accepted our alliance with the BJP. But, of course, a section of us are aware that Tamil Nadu people are not in favour of the BJP and we can win even without them. But some ministers think we may lose without the BJP.” The alliance which was formed ahead of last year’s Lok Sabha elections has seen posturing from both sides on various issues. After Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, the BJP made its way through a weakened AIADMK. The ruling state government has supported the Centre’s schemes such as the three new farm bills, CAA and triple talaq. But recently the AIADMK has also asserted itself by rallying for the state like bringing in 7.5% reservation to government school students who clear The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and opposing the three-language formula in the National Education Policy. Their ties are also influenced by external factors such as actor Rajinikanth’s exit from politics and VK Sasikala’s imminent release from prison in January. “There seems to be internal tensions but both AIADMK and BJP have no other option but to remain in the alliance,” said S Anandhi, political commentator and professor at Madras Institute of Development Studies. “We will know in the coming days on who calls the shots during seat sharing and agreeing on the chief ministerial candidate.”There was unease within the AIADMK camp which had made significant announcements on Palaniswami’s candidature and continuing the alliance which the BJP had neither countered nor reciprocated until now. It annoyed the AIADMK when several BJP state leaders continued to make statements that the next chief minister of Tamil Nadu will be their choice and there could be a coalition government -- which they have now stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-the-minor-partners-in-tn-says-bjp-as-aiadmk-rules-out-power-sharing/story-SDr6GDGA0c8qvDDBFncniM.html
30-12-2020||India||Tripura to procure sequencing machine to test new Covid-19 variant||As the new UK variant genome of Sars-Cov-2 virus made its entrance into India by affecting six UK returnees, Tripura decided to procure sequencing machines to identify whether the variant has affected anyone in the state.A total of 3,317 international passengers were found infected with Covid-19. Of the total, 114 have returned from the United Kingdom.“The health department has already started the process for procuring the sequencing machine. It would be brought to Agartala for testing samples. All international passengers, including the UK returnees, need to undergo RT-PCR tests which are mandatory for them. Currently, the samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for confirmation,” said cabinet spokesperson Ratan Lal Nath.Also read: UK’s immunisation strategy for Oxford Covid vaccine. All you need to knowNath further added that total five UK returnees have arrived in the state between November 25 and December 28. Of them, one traveller was tested Covid-19 positive. His samples have been sent to Pune for confirmation.The state also selected The Panchayati Raj Training Institute (PRTI) Women’s hostel as an institutional quarantine centre for treatment of the patients if found infected with the new variant of the virus.A total of 44,521 healthcare workers and 2,263 session sites, along with 1,429 primary vaccinators, were identified till December 28 and the database was uploaded on the website. Six team members for each session site were identified, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-procure-sequencing-machine-to-test-new-covid-19-variant/story-xkup6uHHTVmSA0B5sQO60I.html
30-12-2020||India||China cautions against use of ‘Tibet card’, says it will damage bilateral ties||Against the backdrop of US President signing into law measures to bolster the right of Tibetans to choose the next Dalai Lama, Beijing on Wednesday cautioned that any move to play the “Tibet card” to meddle in its internal affairs would further damage India-China relations.The Chinese embassy in New Delhi outlined Beijing’s position on the Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2020, signed into law by Trump on Monday, in a response to what it said were reports in the Indian media supporting the US legislation and “advocating Indian interference in China’s Tibet (Xizang) affairs”.The unusually blunt statement from the Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong called for “an objective and fair stance” on the “highly sensitive nature” of Tibet-related issues and China’s territorial integrity.“We hope some Indian media take an objective and fair stance on issues concerning China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, grasp the highly sensitive nature of Xizang-related issues, look at Xizang’s economic and social progress objectively, do more to help China-India bilateral relations move forward instead of advocating playing ‘Tibet card’ to meddle in China’s internal affairs and further damage the bilateral relations,” Ji said.There was no immediate reaction to the statement from Indian officials.Also read: Nitish Kumar trashes RJD’s claims of defections from JD (U), says party is unitedThe development comes amid the nearly eight-month military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which has taken bilateral relations between the two countries to an all-time low. The two sides haven’t been able to agree on disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. Ji noted that under the “Declaration on Principles for Relations and Comprehensive Cooperation” signed by India and China in 2003, New Delhi recognised Tibet Autonomous Region as part of Chinese territory, and didn’t allow Tibetans to engage in political activities against China. “It is in the fundamental interests of China and India... to enhance political mutual trust, properly manage differences, and strive to return China-India relations to the track of healthy and stable development,” Ji said.The Tibetan Policy and Support Act, which was passed by the US Congress earlier this month, strengthens US support for Tibet, including by sanctioning Chinese officials if they try to appoint the next Dalai Lama.The Chinese government usually refers to the current Dalai Lama, who has lived in India since he escaped from Tibet in 1959, as a “separatist” or “splittist”. China has also bristled at visits by the Dalai Lama to areas such as Arunachal Pradesh, which it claims.Also read: 6th round of talks ends positively, says minister; next meeting on Jan 4Chinese officials have said the next Dalai Lama will be chosen within Tibet in compliance with Chinese laws and regulations and through a process that will have to be ratified by authorities in Beijing. They have also said that the current Dalai Lama and India cannot have any role in this process.The Chinese embassy spokesperson contended the US legislation “maliciously distorts [Tibet’s] social development, makes groundless accusations, denigrates China’s ethnic and religious policies, and interferes in the normal reincarnation procedure of living Buddhas under the pretext of human rights and religion”. She further contended that the “real purpose of the act is to undermine Xizang’s prosperity and stability” and that the legislation “grossly interferes in China’s internal affairs and gravely violates the fundamental principles of international laws”. The spokesperson claimed Tibet “has been part of China since ancient times” and its affairs are “purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference”. Tibet-related issues are “not about ethnicity, religion or human rights, but an important matter of principle concerning China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity”, and the Chinese government is “determined in safeguarding national sovereignty, security and development interests”, she said. “China firmly opposes any country, organisation or individual supporting the anti-China separatist activities of the ‘Tibetan independence’ forces in any form and under any pretext,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-cautions-against-use-of-tibet-card-says-it-will-damage-bilateral-ties/story-1yIPOF5uoFUS0CTRvLuuTP.html
30-12-2020||India||PM Modi reviews projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore in ‘Pragati’ meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed a number of projects with a total cost of nearly Rs one lakh crore in 10 states and union territories as he chaired the 34th ‘Pragati’ meeting on Wednesday.A number of programmes and grievances were also reviewed, an official statement said, adding that the projects of the ministries of railways, road transport and highways, and housing and urban affairs were discussed. These projects pertained to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.During the interaction, two centrepiece government programmes -- Ayushman Bharat and Jal Jeevan Mission -- were also reviewed and grievances related to the consumer affairs ministry came up for discussion as well, the statement said.The prime minister directed officials to ensure and expedite comprehensive resolution of the grievances, it said.For the projects being reviewed, he asked the chief secretaries of the respective states and UTs to ensure early resolution of pending issues and target completion by the due date. He said all states should strive for 100 percent enrolment in Ayushman Bharat at the earliest. He also encouraged states and UTs to draw a roadmap for achieving the targets in Mission Mode under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the statement said.In the 33 Pragati meetings so far, 280 projects along with 50 programmes and schemes besides grievances across 18 sectors have been taken up, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-projects-worth-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-in-pragati-meeting/story-fD7ep4XhxavhZ1gPkUtCnO.html
30-12-2020||India||Haryana civic election results: Setback for BJP-JJP amid farmers’ protest | Key updates||In what is being seen as a mandate against the farm laws, the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana received a setback as it could win only one of the three mayoral seats for which elections were held recently and the results of which were declared on Wednesday. It was the first time that direct elections were held for mayoral posts in Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat.> The Congress and the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) bagged mayoral posts in Sonipat and Ambala.> BJP won Panchkula mayor post but with a slim margin. BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal defeated Congress candidate and former mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes.1,333 voters exercised the NOTA option in Panchkula.> In 2018, the BJP had won mayoral polls in Hisar, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak and Yamunanagar.> In November this year, the ruling combine had failed to win the Baroda assembly bypolls in Sonipat, with the Congress retaining the seat.> For the post of mayor in Ambala, HJCP’s Shakti Rani Sharma, wife of former Union minister Venod Sharma, emerged as a surprise winner, defeating Vandana Sharma of the BJP by a margin of 8,084 votes.The Congress candidate ended up at the fourth spot. The win came as a boost to the Venod Sharma-led party, which tasted its first win after the 2014 Haryana assembly poll debacle.> The Congress won the Sonipat mayoral polls. The party’s Nikhil Madaan defeated BJP’s Lalit Batra by 13,818 votes.Polls were also held to elect councillors of all wards in the three cities. Voting was also held to elect the president and members of the municipal council in Rewari and the municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar). In the Ambala MC polls, the BJP won eight of the 20 seats, HJCP 7, Congress 3 and Haryana Democratic Front 2.In Sonipat, the BJP won 10 wards and the Congress 9. On one seat, an Independent emerged victorious.In Panchkula, the BJP and the Congress won nine and seven seats, respectively. The JJP won two.The post of the Rewari municipal council chairperson was bagged by BJP’s Poonam Yadav, who defeated Independent candidate Upma Yadav by 2,087 votes. The Congress slipped to the third spot here.The BJP-JJP combine failed to bag posts of president in three municipal committees of Dharuhera, Sampla and Uklana, where Independents reaped gains.Kanwar Singh won from Dharuhera, defeating another Independent candidate Deena Ram. In Sampla, Pooja defeated BJP’s Sonu while Sushil Sahu Wala defeated JJP’s Mahender Soni in Uklana.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-civic-election-results-setback-for-bjp-jjp-amid-farmers-protest-key-updates/story-ZsGOzv5t3OMpF9HyGrBM6N.html
30-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajasthan’s Churu breaks 46-year record for coldest December night and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Colder than Shimla’: Rajasthan’s Churu breaks record of coldest Dec night in 46 yearsSevere winter cold is breaking records in Rajasthan with Churu and Mount Abu recording sub-zero temperatures, resulting in these places witnessing colder nights than the hill station of Shimla which recorded snowfall on Monday night. Read moreWorld Test Championship updated table after Melbourne Test: India retain second spotThe race for the top two spots in the World Test Championship points table is hotting up with India and New Zealand registering victories respectively to rival top placed Australia’s domination. Read moreAnushka Sharma poses with baby bump, shares how she and Virat Kohli could hide pregnancy: ‘Pandemic was a weird blessing’Actor Anushka Sharma will soon become a mother and has posed with her baby bump for a magazine. Anushka talked to the magazine about her pregnancy journey, her hopes for the baby, how she got support from her girlfriends and the balanced worldview she wishes to instil in her child. Read moreThere is a solid gold PlayStation 5 Golden Rock Edition is made 18-carat gold and crocodile leatherIt’s been established that Caviar is known for the absolutely ridiculous gadgets and cases out of gold and silver and other exquisite materials. Read moreNASA shares picture of ‘Wolf Moon’. Here’s what it is“Aaah-ooooooh! It’s a Wolf Moon to end the year,” wrote NASA while posting this stunning image of a ‘Wolf Moon’. If that phrase has piqued your interest, wait until you check out the whole share, which is highly informative as well as very intriguing. Read moreWatch: Delhi man roams allegedly with friend’s dead body on scooter, arrestedMan in Delhi was seen roaming on the streets reportedly with a dead body on a scooter. The incident was caught on multiple CCTV cameras. The CCTV footage shows man carrying, what appears to be a dead body wrapped in plastic. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajasthan-s-churu-breaks-46-year-record-for-coldest-december-night-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lYkEqdThebRbtQ2g5cn6JO.html
30-12-2020||India||‘Won’t withdraw protest’: Farmers stick to resolve as talks yield little progress||Firming up their resolve, the farmers’ unions protesting the three contentious farm laws on Wednesday said that they will not take back their movement and won’t form a committee to scrutinise the legislation as asked by the government. The remarks from a farm union representative came after nearly five hours long meet between the Centre and 40 farm unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the national capital.Thousands of protesters, primarily from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at borders around Delhi in the bitter cold asking for the rollback of three laws pushed for clearance by the government in September this year. The farmers have alleged that the laws will lead to corporate dominance of the farm sector and erode their incomes.“Talks were positive today. The government has been saying that we should end agitation and form a committee. But we didn’t listen to them. We won’t take back our movement. We won’t form any committee,” All India Kisan Sabha’s Punjab president Balkaran Singh Brar said after meeting with the government representatives. Also read - Farmers’ protest: Consensus on two issues, says Tomar; next meeting on January 4“We’ll discuss MSP in next meet,” Brar told news agency ANI. Marking a shade of progress, the government on Wednesday said consensus has been reached on two issues out of four after the sixth round of talks with the protesting farmers’ unions.The government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve to protest farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.The next meeting will be held on January 4, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. The minister also said that the talks were held in a good environment and ended with a positive note.Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the Acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers.On farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP), the minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance.Also read: Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repealThis meeting comes after a long gap as after the last meeting the situation resulted in a standoff with farmers being stern on their demand for a complete withdrawal of the laws and the Centre on not accepting it.The meeting at Vigyan Bhawan in the national capital started around 2 pm and went on for over four hours. Though there was no definite answer to farmers’ demands, the environment on Wednesday was amicable as the leaders mingled with the central representatives during lunch and evening snack time.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-withdraw-protest-farmers-stick-to-resolve-as-talks-yield-little-progress/story-Oh9LkQ7Vv6MI2zHqFRUc3I.html
30-12-2020||India||IPS officer in Chhattisgarh crowdsources book bank for tribal youth||On repeated demands by the tribal youth of Chhattisgarh’s newest district, an IPS officer posted there has crowdsourced a book bank and collected over 3000 books. Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi, the newest (28th) district of Chhattisgarh, which comprises mostly Amarkantak forest, has this book bank at the district police office. Officers, doctors, lawyers, and people across the globe have contributed to the book bank. “I conceived this book bank in the month of April but then we were fighting Covid-19 in this new district hence shared the idea and made an appeal on social media for contribution in September. It is a remote and tribal populated district and we don’t have any quality library here. Many students who would meet me demanded a library. Also, I realised the role of good books and guidance to clear an exam as I have also wasted many years just trying to find the right material,” said Suraj Singh Parihar, who is the first superintendent of police of the new district. The officer said that the objective of the book bank is to support students especially the poor, the needy and the tribal ones to help them clear competitive examinations. “The other objective is also to earn goodwill for police and to engage youth in meaningful actions and channelise their energy positively as Maoists are trying to expand their base in the Achanakmaar-Amarkantak region,” said Parihar. Through this book bank, mainly class 10, 12, graduates and PG students will be benefited. Children of policemen will get a free subscription and civilians will also benefit by paying an annual nominal token amount for membership. “Most of the students who live here suffer from lack of books for competitive examinations. I believe that this Book Bank is surely a boon for us because all sorts of books are available in this bank,” said Sukrit Rajak, a graduate student of the district. The bank will officially be open for students from January 1, 2021. “We have devoted two front rooms of the district police office for this purpose. We have not counted but we have received thousands of books from hundreds of donors from all over India and abroad. Many civil servants have also donated for the cause,” Parihar added. Many celebrities like folk singer Malini Awasthi, kabaddi player Rahul Chaudhary, comedian Apoorv Gupta, IAS, IPS and other officers have appealed on social media for people to donate for the cause. People contributing to the book bank claimed that they are satisfied and happy contributing for the cause. “I feel very satisfied contributing to this book bank started by the IPS officer. I came to know through social media and immediately contributed for the cause,” said IRTS officer, Sumit Kumar posted in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-in-chhattisgarh-crowdsources-book-bank-for-tribal-youth/story-nXC1u8e9bl5cOIln6UtfVN.html
30-12-2020||India||Kerala woman who worked as part-time sweeper at panchayat office is now its president||For almost 10 years she had swept floors and dusted chairs at the panchayat office but on Wednesday A Anandavalli (46) occupied the chair of the block panchayat president in Pathanapuram in south Kerala’s Kollam district.She was elected on a Communist Party of India (Marxist) ticket in the recently concluded local body election and elevated to the post of block president on Wednesday. The Dalit woman was working at the same panchayat office as a part-time sweeper for about a decade. The stunning change of fortune is yet to sink in.“Only my party can do such things. I am really indebted to it,” she said, unable to control her tears when she was escorted to the block president’s seat.Anandavalli who dropped out of school, hails from a family of Marxist supporters. Her husband, a painter by profession, is also an active CPI (M) worker. She joined as a part-time sweeper in 2011 and her salary was Rs 2,000 a month, but she was now drawing a salary of Rs 6,000. After taking up the new assignment, she resigned from the temporary post.“I was a bit nervous. But my party leaders and well wishers prodded me to take up the new responsibility. I will do my best to make by block panchayat a role model,” she said. She won the recent local body election from Thalavoor division by 654 votes. “My responsibility is heavy now. I will work hard to make life better for all people in my block,” she said.But her success as a woman is not the only exception for the Marxists in the recent local body elections. A 21-year-old student Arya Rajendran was made the Mayor of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. And four other young women were also given new responsibilities.Twenty two-year-old law student Saruthi, who loves to ride motorcycles, has become the president of Olavanna panchayat in Kozhikode district. Reshma Mariam Joy, 21 was elected president of Aruvapualm panchayat in Pathanamthitta, Radhika Mahadeven (23) became the president of Malampuzha local body in Palakkad and Anas Stephi, president of Pozhuthana panchayat in Wayanad district. Reeling under many charges and allegations of corruption, the party gave tickets to many youngsters this time to beat incumbency and odds stacked against it and many emerged victorious.Many members of Kudumbhasree, a successful self-help group of women, have also been elected to local bodies. More than 7,000 candidates who emerged victorious are Kudumbhasree members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-who-worked-as-part-time-sweeper-at-panchayat-office-is-now-its-president/story-W1tv23esyeUWXIMdF0HWPP.html
30-12-2020||India||Kapil Gujjar, who fired shot at Shaheen Bagh, inducted by BJP; expelled within hours||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was left red-faced on Wednesday after it inducted 23-year-old Kapil Gujjar who was arrested earlier this year for opening fire at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh during the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Facing flak on social media, the BJP made a u-turn within hours and expelled Gujjar.Citing his controversial involvement in the Shaheen Bagh shooting incident, the BJP’s Ghaziabad unit stated that the party wasn’t aware of Gujjar’s role. The party has decided to show the exit route to Gujjar after learning about his criminal act.Also read: Gujjar bought gun 7 years ago for ‘celebratory firing’ during brother’s weddingGujjar was detained by the police on February 1 this year following the firing incident and was booked for opening fire in the air at Shaheen Bagh, where protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were held since December last year. He was later sent to two-day police custody.On being detained by the police, the man was caught on camera saying, “No other community will have a say in this country. Only Hindus will.”Hindustan Times had reported that Gujjar, who opened fire less than 150 metres away from the Shaheen Bagh protest site, had told investigators he purchased the country-made pistol seven years ago for “celebratory firing” during his brother’s wedding. He, however, claimed that he does not remember the name of the person from whom he purchased it, or how much he paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaheen-bagh-shooter-kapil-gujjar-inducted-by-bjp-expelled-within-hours/story-c0Fg6K4akBMzK5RdEwheMJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Consensus on two issues, says Tomar; next meeting on January 4||After the sixth round of talks with the protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said consensus has been reached on two issues out of four. The next meeting will be held on January 4, the minister said. The minister also said that the talks were held in a good environment and ended with a positive note. This meeting came after a long gap as after the last meeting the situation hit a dead end with farmers being stern on their demand for a complete withdrawal of the laws and the Centre on not accepting it. The meeting started around 2pm and went on for over four hours. Though there was no definite answer to farmers demands, the environment on Wednesday was amicable as the leaders mingled with the central representatives during lunch and evening snack time.Here are the major takeaways from the meeting:Breaking bread, if not ice: Farmer union leaders so far refused food offered at Vigyan Bhawan as they have always arranged for their food cooked at langar. On Wednesday, as they were having their langar food, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal joined them. The union leaders too, in the evening, accepted the beverage offered by the government during the tea break.‘Govt will withdraw electricity amendment bill’Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa said the government has offered to withdraw the electricity amendment bill and to amend the ordinance to remove the penal provision on farmers in stubble burning cases. “Farmers feel that if reform is introduced in the Electricity Act, they’ll suffer loss. Unions wanted that electricity subsidy given to farmers by states for irrigation should continue. The consensus was reached on this issue,” agriculture minister said.Send women, children, elderly home: Minister’s request to farmersUnion minister Tomar requested the farmers several times to withdraw the protest as talks are going on. On Wednesday too, he requested the union leaders to send women, elderly and children back as they are suffering in the chilly weather in Delhi.Offering prayers at Vigyan BhawanAfter the evening tea break, farmer leaders offered ‘ardaas’ (prayers) at the meeting venue before resuming the talks. A committee to examine the lawsThe ministers have proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws. Earlier too, this was proposed but the farmers’ unions were stern that they want an immediate withdrawal of the laws. After today’s meeting as well, Balkaran Singh Brar, Punjab President,All India Kisan Sabha, said they won’t form any committee. The agitation will also not stop. No consensus on MSP yetThe Centre has been reiterating that the system of minimum support price will remain. The Centre, in earlier meetings, agreed to give this in writing. But farmers want legal backing of MSP, to which the Centre has not yet agreed. “Discussion will continue on the legal aspect of MSP and other issues on January 4,” Tomar said.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-s-protest-next-meeting-to-take-place-on-january-4/story-z3nf3deIUiQhKpZtQpo0IK.html
30-12-2020||India||Ex-cricketer Mohammed Azharuddin escapes unhurt as his car overturns||Former captain of Indian cricket team Mohammed Azharuddin, along with four others, was safely rescued after his car overturned while he was on his way to participate in a programme in Ranthambore near the Sawai Madhopur district of Rajasthan on Wednesday. The accident took place at the Fool Mohammad intersection on Lalsot-Kota state mega highway under police station Soorwal. Soorwal police station House officer Chandrabhan Singh said all were rescued safely along with Mohammed Azharuddin from the damaged car. They then travelled in another car to attend the programme. A local man, Siraj Ali,who is an employee in a hotel was injured in the accident. He was rushed to hospital for treatment. The accident was a result of one of the tyres getting punctured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-cricketer-mohammed-azharuddin-escapes-unhurt-as-his-car-overturns/story-SFoGNJ7OVgAL6nQNCL2AhO.html
30-12-2020||India||Now, health officials detect Shigella bacterial infection in Kochi||After Kozhikode in north Kerala, a new case of Shigella bacterial infection has been reported from Kochi on Wednesday, adding worry to overworked health workers.Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said a 56-year- old woman was diagnosed with the contagious disease and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the port city. He said water bodies in affected areas and surrounding locations will be chlorinated and health officials were working to find out the source of the infection. Health officials said samples of her relatives and neighbours were also sent for tests and the source of the pathogen was being ascertained. They are worried because Kochi is surrounded by many water bodies including backwaters and rivers. The district medical officer has called an emergency meeting in the evening to review the situation. Also read: Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repealThe bacterial outbreak first came to light two weeks ago with the death of an 11-year-old boy in Kozhikode district. Later, at least 36 people were diagnosed with the infection but recovered after a week or so. Health officials later said it was localised and contained effectively. After the outbreak in Kozhikode, all water bodies in the affected areas were chlorinated and medical camps were organised. Many were diagnosed with the infection at these camps. Experts said Shigella bacteria triggers infection called shigellosis and usually it is mild but it can trigger serious trouble to patients suffering from co-morbid conditions. They said the bacteria, after entering the body, either through contaminated water or through stale food, attacks the epithelial lining of the colon triggering inflammation of the cells. In most cases, experts said, patients may experience diarrhoea and fever and after some time symptoms may subside. An infected person shows minor symptoms in a day to two but it may take a week or so to show acute symptoms, they said, Usually children below 10 years are prone to the infection, though elderly can also get infected, experts said adding that patients with underlying medical conditions may require a heavy dose of antibiotics and medical care. Personal hygiene, drinking boiled water and proper hand sanitation can prevent the infection, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-health-officials-detect-shigella-bacterial-infection-in-kochi/story-1k1PDwgYh7ciXYX7h3qPcL.html
30-12-2020||India||J-K administration extends Covid-19 unlock protocol by a month||Amid reports of mutant coronavirus cases in some parts of the country, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday extended the Covid-19 unlock measures by one month. The state executive Committee (SEC) issued the order after the union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, as chairperson national executive committee, on Monday issued guidelines for the implementation of extended lockdown in containment zones and continuation of unlock guidelines outside containment zones till January 31, 2021.“As such..., the SEC hereby orders that the guidelines, instructions issued vide JK govt’s order 91 and 92 dated 29 November, 2020 shall continue to remain valid till 31-01-2021,” the SEC said in an order.It said that all the existing protocols and instructions shall continue to remain valid till January 31,2021.The instructions came after a few cases of mutant coronavirus which was first reported in the UK, were found among passengers who have returned to India from that country.Meanwhile Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) sounded an alert on Wednesday and urged health authorities in Kashmir to prepare for the potential spread of the new strain of Covid-19 in the valley.“New Covid-19 strain is knocking on our door. We need to be prepared and alert,” said DAK President and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan.“The new variant is on the move and it can sneak in anytime,” he said. “We have to prepare in advance to deal with the virus. Advance planning and preparedness is critical to help mitigate the impact of any eventuality.”“We need to intensify surveillance activities and gear up hospitals to prevent an outbreak,” Dr Nisar said.“The best way to prevent the virus is to stop it from coming in as once the virus enters the community it is difficult to control it.” Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir have been showing a decline for the past few months after peaking in September. On December 29, the Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir stood at 1,20,527 including 1,879 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-administration-extends-covid-19-unlock-protocol-by-a-month/story-gYqwhylmJJAVf0ZTzXUkaJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves export of Akash missiles||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave its go-ahead to the sale of Akash surface-to-air missile systems to friendly foreign countries and created a high-powered panel for swifter approval to export of military hardware at a time India has set a target of clocking defence exports worth $5 billion by 2024, officials said. “So far, Indian defence exports included parts/components etc. The export of big platforms was minimal. This initiative of the Cabinet would help the country to improve its defence products and make them globally competitive,” the defence ministry said in a statement announcing the decision. The committee set up to speed up exports will have the defence minister, external affairs minister and the national security adviser on board. The missile --- already in service in the Indian military --- has an indigenous content of 96%. The missile, which has a range of 25 km, was inducted into the Indian Air Force in 2014 and in the army a year later. Officials said after its induction in the armed forces, several foreign countries had shown interest in the Akash missile during international and local defence exhibitions, and the Cabinet’s approval would allow India to take part in tenders issued by various countries. The export version of Akash will be different from the weapon system currently deployed by the Indian armed forces, the statement said without specifying the differences in configuration. “Besides Akash, there is interest in other major platforms like coastal surveillance system, radars and air platforms,” the statement said, adding that the high-powered panel had been created to provide faster approval for export of such platforms. The committee will authorise the export of major indigenous platforms to various countries, apart from exploring various options including the government-to-government route to sell military hardware abroad, officials said. “The Government of India intends to focus on exporting high value defence platforms to achieve a target of 5 Billion USD of defence export and improve strategic relations with friendly foreign countries,” defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. Experts described the development as positive. “India has already demonstrated its potential to manufacture defence equipment for exports. We are exporting a wide range of military hardware. The Cabinet approval for Akash export along with the setting up of the committee will boost our vision of becoming Atmanirbhar in the defence sector. It will also enhance India’s stature in the global market as a weapons exporter,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). India exported defence equipment worth Rs 10,745 crore in 2018-19 --- seven times the figure in 2016-17. Officials said other defence platforms that hold export potential include the light combat aircraft, Astra beyond-visual-range air-to-air missile, Prahar surface-to-surface missile, supersonic cruise missile Brahmos, sonars, a variety of unmanned systems and battlefield radars. Defence items already being exported include the advanced light helicopter, offshore patrol vessels, personal protective gear, surveillance systems and a variety of radars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-export-of-akash-missiles/story-WN7MQTnK0i2DJtag6o5NcI.html
30-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repeal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repealThree Union ministers holding their sixth round of talks with protesting farm leaders on Wednesday rejected the demand to repeal the three agricultural laws cultivators say will hurt their livelihoods. The Centre, however, proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws.Read more.Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal join farmer leaders during lunch at Vigyan Bhawan, share langar foodDuring all past meetings between the leaders of the agitating farmers’ groups and the Centre, farmers brought their food cooked at langars set up at various protest sites, including Singhu border. It became a statement on part of the farmers that they rejected the hospitality of the government. Read more. Under the shadow of Covid-19, Uttarakhand preps for New Year celebrationsThe Dehradun district administration in Uttarakhand has relaxed guidelines for celebrations in hotels and restaurants, particularly for tourists who have booked themselves to celebrate the New Year.“Celebrations in a simple manner following all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing will be allowed in only those hotels and restaurants where tourists have already made bookings for the New Year 2021. However, dancing using a DJ is strictly prohibited,” said an order issued Tuesday evening by Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate of Dehradun.Read more. Latest scientific techniques used in Sushant Singh Rajput death probe, says CBIThe Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday said its probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is going on and all aspects of the case is being thoroughly probed. The statement comes after BJP MP Subramanian Swamy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the probe. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh too recently raised questions over CBI’s long probe into the case.Read more. Super Man or Iron Man? Flying human-like figure spotted over California coast, netizens have mixed reactionsIn a bizarre incident over the coast of California, a flying human-figure was captured on camera. You may have seen such stuff in science-fiction movies or a classic superhero action film, but you will be thoroughly surprised at the unexpected object zooming across the sea. Shared on Instagram, the video has been captured by a flight instructor of the Sling Pilot Academy. The clip has grabbed the attention of netizens and sparked mixed reactions.Read more. ‘Pakistan has indulged in nefarious acts since it was formed’: Rajnath SinghDefence Minister Rajnath Singh has warned Pakistan over its nefarious activities. Rajnath said that Pakistan has always been involved in provocative acts at the border since it was formed. He said that India is a peace loving country but said they we will not spare those who provoke us. Rajnath Singh also said that Pakistan continues to violate the ceasefire and Indian forces will continue to respond in equal measure. The defence minister also said that India has shown that we are capable of eliminating terrorists not just in the country but across the border as well. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-proposes-committee-to-review-farm-laws-rules-out-repeal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CJaYN0kCmOyyT4hrRJrNAI.html
30-12-2020||India||Probe on into criminal past of Dawood’s aide Majeed’s Jamshedpur accomplice||Police have intensified investigation into the criminal antecedents of fugitive underworld don and terror supporter Dawood Ibrahim and gangster Abu Salem’s close aide Abdul Majeed Kutty’s Jamshedpur linkman Md Inam Ali.This comes after it came to fore that all of Majeed’s documents were made at latter’s Telco Barinagar-based residence and his two brothers were in jail on charges of murder, the police said on Wednesday.Abdul Majeed Kutty, wanted along with Dawood and Abu Salem in serial bomb blast plot in Maharashtra and Gujarat on 1997 Republic Day and in connection to the smuggling of 4 kilograms of RDX explosives, 117 Pakistan-made and 13 Chinese-made pistols, 113 magazines, 750 cartridges and 10 detonators, was arrested by Gujarat ATS team led by DSP KK Patel and Mango police in Jharkhand on late Saturday night.“Inam Ali is being interrogated and has revealed that he had met Abdul Majeed Kutty in Dubai and Malaysia. He has, however, denied having any knowledge of Majeed’s criminal past. He is very much under our radar and it has also come to fore that his brothers had been jailed on murder charges. His criminal antecedents are also being investigated,” Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP), said on Wednesday.Also read: New spike in UK cases as Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is approvedPolice were also launching random checking of passports of which police verification was done manually till 2018 as Majeed’s passport in his fake name of Md Kamal was made from Patna in 2017 on the address of Inam’s residence at Telco Barinagar. Digital police verification of passports started after 2018. Inam met Kutty in Dubai for the first time in 1999 and again in Malaysia in 2007.A police team, led by Mango PS OC Vinay Kumar and Telco PS OC Akhileshwar Mandal, picked up Inam Ali, who is a Tata Motors employee, on Tuesday and interrogated him for over six hours during which he admitted that Majeed’s fake passport in the name of Md Kamal was made in Patna on the address of his Barinagar house in Jamshedpur in 2000. Majeed’s Aadhaar, PAN and other documents were also made on this address.Investigation has also found that trainee ASI Mahba Minz had given clean chit to Majeed in his report stating that Abdul Majeed alias Md Kamal was living at his grandfather Md Ashiq Ali’s Barinagar residence from childhood and had gone away for 10 years for work. The report, signed by Telco PS OC Akhileshwar Mandal on June 21, 2019, also stated that there was no criminal case against Majeed. His passport was renewed on the basis of this report from Ranchi.The case took a curious turn after a probe found that Ashiq Ali is Inam Ali’s father who was murdered by Salim, brother of Telco Urdu School principal over a dispute in 2000. Soon after, Inam Ali’s elder brother Irshad Ali alias Butto murdered the principal of Telco Urdu School. Both Salim and Irshad were in jail for these two murders and later came out after a mutual compromise was done.Inam’s younger brother Nijam Ali alias Chota Nijam too was in jail on murder charges and has many cases pending against him while his friend Bara Nijam was killed in a police encounter in 2007. Inam’s family originally hailed from Pratapur in Siwan district of Bihar. Inam’s fourth brother Kamruddin alias Karfu works as a safety officer in Qatar while their youngest brother Asif Ali is a civil contractor for the past 7-8 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-into-criminal-past-of-dawood-s-aide-majeed-s-jamshedpur-accomplice/story-dGwxx3QR1n92bcQaAgVrTK.html
30-12-2020||India||Centre proposes committee to review farm laws, rules out repeal||Three Union ministers holding their sixth round of talks with protesting farm leaders on Wednesday rejected the demand to repeal the three agricultural laws cultivators say will hurt their livelihoods. The Centre, however, proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash also discussed the possibility of a law on guaranteeing minimum prices for farm prices, said a senior farmers’ representative present in the talks. The ministers shared meals with farmers during a lunch break after the first round of talks, presenting a picture of bonhomie amid the tough negotiations.In the first round of talks earlier today, which was followed by a lunch break, the farmers raised their core issue of scrapping three recent pro-reform laws. Among their clutch of demands, farmers have also demanded a law to make federally fixed minimum prices, known as minimum support prices.“The ministers didn’t say anything on this but said they wanted to discuss the demand for a law on MSP,” said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, the leader of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union.In the second round of talks, which were on at the time of filing this report, the government said a committee could be formed to scrutinise the three laws.A government official also explained the pros and cons of a law on MSP. The government argued that a law making MSP compulsory for even private traders, essentially prohibiting sale of any farm produce below state-set prices, could spark chaos in markets. Tomar said private traders may not buy at MSP rates if doing so wouldn’t be profitable for them. Further discussions are on. The three farm laws passed in September essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will enable large corporations to dictate prices and exploit them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-proposes-committee-to-review-farm-laws-rules-out-repeal/story-w6XMfswhBkKwmrIy9xtuOL.html
30-12-2020||India||Maharashtra government stable, attempts to bring it down won’t succeed, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Confident that any attempt by BJP to bring down the Maharashtra government won’t succeed, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has asserted that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation is stable and it will continue to rule the state.He also slammed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) action against leaders of the ruling alliance and their family members as “misuse of authority”.“It has been a year now (since the Thackeray-led MVA government assumed office)... they (BJP) were to bring down the government in two months, then they were to do so in six months, then in eight months. But, nothing will happen,” Pawar told PTI in an interview.“It is a stable government and it will continue,” he said.The MVA government comprising of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress completed a year last month. All through this period, various BJP leaders have been saying that the government will collapse, citing ideological differences among the alliance partners.BJP and Shiv Sena had contested the 2019 assembly polls together, but their alliance fell through over the issue of chief ministership.It was Pawar who is said to have then rallied Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress together to form the MVA government. The Maratha stalwart, who has been Maharashtra’s Chief Minister four times and has also been union minister at the Centre in the past, is seen as the guiding force behind the functioning of the Thackeray-led government in the state.When asked about the ED’s notice to Shiv Sena leader and Saamana Editor Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha, Pawar said, “This is a misuse of authority.” The ED had summoned Varsha for questioning in the over Rs 4,300-crore PMC Bank money-laundering case. She is now expected to appear before the central probe agency on January 5 after skipping the summons thrice.Pawar said, “They even tried to give me a notice once but later withdrew. I was not even a member of the bank and I didn’t have any account in that bank.” Last year, the ED registered a criminal case in the multi-crore Maharashtra Sahakari Cooperative Bank (MSCB) and the role of Pawar, his nephew Ajit Pawar and others had come under the scanner of the agency. The ED did not eventually summon Pawar, but the NCP President had at that time insisted that he would visit the probe agency’s office. He dropped the plan later after the state police requested him not to go ahead to avoid possible law and order situation.Shiv Sena has also been alleging that the central probe agencies were targeting its leaders unfairly.Former BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who has recently joined Sharad Pawar’s NCP, was also summoned by the ED for questioning in connection with a money-laundering case linked to a land deal in Pune.Last month, the ED had raided premises linked to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in connection with a money-laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-government-stable-attempts-to-bring-it-down-won-t-succeed-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar/story-x8RvG6OvfoHLkdGkbAIMAJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Under the shadow of Covid-19, Uttarakhand preps for New Year celebrations||The Dehradun district administration in Uttarakhand has relaxed guidelines for celebrations in hotels and restaurants, particularly for tourists who have booked themselves to celebrate the New Year. “Celebrations in a simple manner following all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing will be allowed in only those hotels and restaurants where tourists have already made bookings for the New Year 2021. However, dancing using a DJ is strictly prohibited,” said an order issued Tuesday evening by Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate of Dehradun.The order further mentions that in case of violations, hotel owners will be held responsible. Sandeep Sahni, the president of the Uttarakhand Hotel Industry and Restaurant Association said, “Dehradun district administration has now given us some relaxations for celebrations on New Year’s Eve and New Year day. There are no such restrictions in other districts. We are ready to welcome tourists and will be conducting celebrations following all Covid-19 protocols.” Tourist rush has also increased in the state due to a forecast of snowfall in the hills of Kumaon and Garhwal. The hill towns of Mussoorie and Dhanaulti have already seen a rush of tourists after the latter reported the season’s first snowfall on Monday. Lal Tibba in Mussoorie witnessed a brief spell of snow on Monday accompanied by hailstorm and intermittent rain. The business community in Mussoorie has welcomed the relaxations given by the Dehradun district administration. Sanjay Agarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotel Association said, ““The tourism industry has suffered a lot due to the pandemic and we thank the administration for providing relaxation for simple functions for in-house guests. The new year celebration is the major event for the industry as it will help generate the much-needed revenue.” In a weather bulletin, India Meteorological department on Wednesday afternoon predicted that very light to light rainfall or snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand on January 2-3. On Tuesday, the Uttarakhand government issued an order extending the Covid-19 guidelines till January 31, 2021. An order issued by Om Prakash, chief secretary of Uttarakhand stated, “Keeping in view of the fresh surge in cases globally and emergence of new a variant of the virus in the United Kingdom, there is a need for maintaining caution and strict surveillance.” The order further mentions that strict vigil is also needed to be maintained to prevent any fresh surge in cases “in the wake of upcoming New Year celebrations and ongoing winter season which are favourable for the spread of the virus.” District administrations have been asked to take appropriate measures in this regard.The state government has allowed districts, based on their assessments of the situation to, “impose lockdown restrictions with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, such as night curfew.” District administrations have also been asked to ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour of wearing masks, following social and physical distancing is followed by the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-the-shadow-of-covid-19-uttarakhand-preps-for-new-year-celebrations/story-88rvxTYVwWOGYtBlLfq7kK.html
30-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh signs contract to set up state’s 1st ethanol plant under PPP model||The Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday signed a contract to set up the first ethanol plant in the state under the Public-private partnership (PPP) model. As per official release, the contract was signed by Bhoramdev Cooperative Sugar Factory Kawardha and Chhattisgarh Distillery Limited’s subsidiary NKJ Biofuel for a period of 30 years. On behalf of the state government, the MoU was signed by the Managing Director Bhoramdev Cooperative Sugar Factory, Bhupendra Thakur, while Aranya Kedia signed on the behalf of Chhattisgarh Distillery. Addressing the program, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that setting up of the ethanol plant will prove to be important in ensuring timely payment of sugarcane price to farmers and ensuring full utilisation of sugar factory capacity. The establishment of the ethanol plant will generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in the region and will form the basis for economic prosperity in the region, the CM added. “Chhattisgarh has kept the issues related to farmers and their development work paramount. The state government was the first to waive the agricultural loans and in view of the interest of the sugarcane farmers, the ethanol plant is being set up by the PPP model as a permanent solution to the economic hardship of sugar factories. This is the first example in the country to set up an ethanol plant by PPP model. Chhattisgarh will also have an important contribution in the production of biofuels in the country by setting up an ethanol plant in the state,” Baghel said. Cooperative Minister Tekam said that with the setting up of the plant in the state, the sugarcane producing farmers would be able to pay the price of sugarcane on time and the demand for sugarcane will increase as well. Farmers will derive direct benefit out of it, he said. “For the Ethanol plant to be set up by Chhattisgarh Distilleries Ltd with a capacity of 40 Kilo Liter Per Day (KLPD), a tender of Rs 5.27 crore per annum has been accepted. Under the PPP model, only land will be made available by the factory on licence. More than Rs 100 crore will be disinvested by the investor on setting up the ethanol plant. The plant is planned to be completed within one and a half to two years to start ethanol production,” a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-signs-contract-to-set-up-india-s-1st-ethanol-plant-under-ppp-model/story-MohpVxKb9ex9tCFKApIHUL.html
30-12-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Teams visited Aligarh, Faridabad, Hyderabad, Manesar for investigation, says CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday said its probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is going on and all aspects of the case is being thoroughly probed. The statement comes after BJP MP Subramanian Swamy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the probe. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh too recently raised questions over CBI’s long probe into the case.“After taking over the investigation, a team of experienced investigating officers was constituted for looking into the circumstances relating to unnatural death of Sushant Singh Rajput,” the CBI said in its reply. “During investigation, advanced mobile forensic equipment including latest softwares have been used for extraction and analysis of relevant data available in the digital devices and also for analysis of dump data of the relevant cell tower locations,” the CBI said. Giving the details of the investigation so far, the agency said all places of concern like Aligarh, Faridabad, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Manesar (Gurgaon) and Patna have been visited by CBI teams. The place of the incident — Sushant Singh’s body was found in his flat — has been visited by the investigators on numerous occasions ‘for better understanding of the circumstances related to the incident, CBI said.The Forensic Medicine Experts, New Delhi also visited the place of the incident, the mortuary of Cooper Hospital and discussed the case with autopsy surgeons to understand the procedure of postmortem adopted by them.All witnesses concerned have been examined to understand the circumstances, apprehensions raised by the complainant and his family members and independent sources, the CBI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-scientific-techniques-used-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-says-cbi/story-lGCZisaz7eoXc3rS3nKwkN.html
30-12-2020||India||Home ministry declares Nagaland as ‘disturbed area’ for a further period of 6 months under AFSPA||The union home ministry on Wednesday declared Nagaland as a ‘disturbed area’ for the next six months under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958. The home ministry in its notification said that the ‘use of armed forces in aid of civil power is necessary.”The home ministry is its release said, “Whereas the Central government is of the opinion that the area comprising the whole of the State of Nagaland is in such a disturbed and dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in the aid of civil power is necessary.”“Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (No 28 of 1958) the Central government hereby declares that whole of the State of Nagaland to be ‘disturbed area’ for a period of six months with effect from 30th December, 2020 for the purpose of the said Act,” the notification further said. Also Read| Modi govt helped youth in northeast leave arms, participate in developing the region: ShahThe Centre on June 30, this year, had declared Nagaland as ‘disturbed area’ for a period of six months. The state has been under the AFSPA for almost last six decades. The Act was not withdrawn even after the signing of the framework agreement between National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak Muivah) (NSCN-IM) General Secretary Thuingaleng Muivah and government interlocutor RN Ravi in 2015. The agreement was signed in presence of senior leaders including prime minister Narendra Modi. The union government in November had said that talks with the NSCN-IM regarding the final settlement of the decades-long issue with Nagaland are at an advanced stage and the Nagaland state government along with Centre is providing all assistance to the state to deal with rebel groups in the region. “The government is providing assistance to the states to deal with the insurgent groups and also carrying out negotiations with the insurgent groups. There has been a settlement with the Bodos after a long struggle, talks are in an advanced stage with the NSCN to resolve the Naga issue,” union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla was quoted as saying by the news agency PTI on November 6. BJP leaders at various events have highlighted that the current government led by prime minister Modi, Centre took steps to ensure that youth who took the path of arms return back into the mainstream. During his two-day Assam visit earlier this month, union home minister Amit Shah had said that the several separatist factions in the northeast forced the youth to take up arms and the central government has ensured that these factions join the mainstream. He listed the India-Bangladesh land boundary agreement, ending the blockade in Manipur, Bru-Reang refugee settlement and the recently concluded Bodoland territorial council elections as important steps taken to ensure peace and stability in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-declares-nagaland-as-disturbed-area-for-a-further-period-of-6-months-under-afspa/story-X3KBzusjVu1ecFrkuWYPpL.html
30-12-2020||India||Family dine-outs take over big bashes in Lucknow||The New Year eve has always been the most awaited night for partyholics but in the pandemic year the scenario has changed considerably. Big fat bashes have shrunk into small gatherings, celebrity quotient is missing, hotels are going in for simple gala dinners and clubs are abstaining from holding any functions in the city. Gala dinners In wake of pandemic, prominent five-star hotels have created a special dine out ambience for patrons. Hilton Garden Inn is organising a gala dinner on a pre-reservation basis. For a perfect family dine-out they have created a special zone for kids, informed hotel’s general manager Joyjit Chakravorty. Hyatt Regency and Renaissance Hotel is also holding gala dinners with special decor.Taj Mahal has planned to hold a ghazal night at one its restaurant, a live band at its al-fresco dining and piano performance at its main restaurant. “We have curtailed our seating capacity to 50% then there will be no DJ as we don’t want people to dance in times of social distancing,” informed Shabahat Hussain. Candle light dine outs Grill & Chill is all set to create a cozy ambience with a candle light dinner. “A tasteful dinner with good music is what we are offering for our members and guests. We will have limited tables so that distancing protocols can be maintained,” said consultant chef Zulfiqar Hussain. Richi Rich restaurant is also set to create an ambience for families to dine in dim light. Family time at clubs Prominent clubs in the state capital are abstaining from holding any bashes on their premises. Prestigious MB Club has circulated to its members that they will be providing services till 12.30 am but will not be holding any event. Oudh Gymkhana Club secretary Ashok Agarwal informed that they too are not organizing any special function but will be open for members for casual family dinner with social distancing. Similar, is the status at sprawling Lucknow Golf Club. Theme parties Vibhuti Khand in Gomti Nagar has the most number of lounges and discs. Many of them are organising DJ night and theme parties. Boombox is coming up The Great Gatsby bash which has gold and black theme packed with food, drinks with DJ, Cold Gun, flair bartender and juggler as attraction, informed its partner Gaurav. The Flying Saucer manager Abhay Singh informed that they will have in-house DJ Sufi playing the music with guests according to the 50% capacity of the cover area. The Beer Café Biggie too has unlimited food and drink packages restricted for couples only, says Rishi Mishra. Some are looking forward to welcoming 2021 in style. “This year has been bad. It’s after many years I am not performing so I will surely end the year attending on the happening bashes in city,” said Kanchhan Srivas, a singer. Small get-togethers Instead of going in for a big bash, Club Momentz will be holding a simple dine-out on its pool side. “At our disc, restaurant and hall we have holding small bashes. We sold to for personalised parties and are encouraging families and friends to come and welcome the New Year with full social distancing and in a spaced-out environment. Since safety of guests is most important, we have taken his step,” said Jugal Sachdeva with a promise that next year they with bounce back with a grand affair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/family-dine-outs-take-over-big-bashes-in-lucknow/story-X19VulanonRfr3magYk8II.html
30-12-2020||India||‘Support historic movement’: AAP leader Raghav Chadha sets up free WiFi at Singhu border for farmers||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Wednesday set up free WiFi hotspots at the Singhu border to aid the protesting farmers who have been camping there for more than a month protesting the three contentious farm laws. The decision was taken by “farmers’ sevadar Arvind Kejriwal”, Chadha had said on Tuesday when the party announced the move. After setting up the WiFi at the protest site, Chadha said, “CM Arvind Kejriwal has always maintained that we must fight for the farmers till our last breath. We must support them in their historic movement.”The AAP leader added that they had reached out to the farmers for feedback on areas at Singhu with poor mobile reception. “Based on their inputs, CM Arvind Kejriwal has installed WiFi hotspots. Each hotspot will cover an area of over 31,000 sq mt,” Chadha said. “We want the farmers to stay in touch with their family. We have identified a few spots to install the WiFi hotspots. This is an initiative of (Chief Minister) Arvind Kejriwal and the party,” Chadha said.The party has also stated that not only are they ready to install as many WiFi hotspots as required by the farmers, but if similar demands arise from Tikri and other borders, they will install free WiFi hotspots there as well. The move by AAP to aid the farmers comes as Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, and Som Prakash began the sixth round of talks with 40 farmer leaders on Wednesday amid their protests against the three agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-historic-movement-aap-leader-raghav-chadha-sets-up-free-wifi-at-singhu-border-for-farmers/story-eHqAfAlHmzZEWE8yNjONVK.html
30-12-2020||India||Arms, ammunition hidden at J-K LoC by Pakistani terrorist handlers recovered||The Jammu and Kashmir police and the army have recovered two pistols, 70 pistol rounds and two grenades hidden in bushes on the Line of Control (LoC) in Dabbi village of Balakote sector in Mendhar sub division of Poonch district, said officials. They said the arms and ammunition were hidden by handlers of terrorists from Pakistan and were recovered following a disclosure made by three terror associates arrested on Sunday.SSP Poonch, Ramesh Kumar Angral said that some vital clues were developed on the basis of arrested suspect Yaseen Khan’s confession, made during his questioning by the security personnel. A police team headed by sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Mendhar, Zaheer Jafri, alongwith army personnel, launched an operation in Dabbi and recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition, kept in a polythene bag in the bushes.Also Read: 3 terrorists killed in an encounter outside Srinagar city“Two pistols, seventy bullets and two grenades have been recovered so far and more searches are going on” said Angral. He further said that terror outfits were trying to target religious places in Poonch but their nefarious designs have been foiled by the army and the police.In a separate incident, three terrorists have been killed in an encounter in the Lawaypora area of Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arms-ammunition-hidden-at-j-k-loc-by-pakistani-terrorist-handlers-recovered/story-FOal1yz6qCSRVwMppBmODN.html
30-12-2020||India||Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal join farmer leaders during lunch at Vigyan Bhawan, share langar food||During all past meetings between the leaders of the agitating farmers’ groups and the Centre, farmers brought their food cooked at langars set up at various protest sites, including Singhu border. It became a statement on part of the farmers that they rejected the hospitality of the government. So in all past meetings, during the lunch time, farmer leaders had lunch together while ministers and other Central representatives had lunch separately. The union leaders either brought food or got it delivered during the lunch time.On Wednesday, however, another message was given and this time it was by the ministers as Piyush Goyal, Narendra Singh Tomar joined the leaders during the lunch break. Food was served to the ministers by the farmer leaders.After the last round of talks remained inconclusive on December 5, several attempts to hold another round of talks went in vain as farmers remained stern in their demand for an immediate withdrawal of the three agriculture laws that they apprehend will corporatise farming. The government, meanwhile, held several outreach programmes to explain that the government is pro-farmer and the new laws will benefit them. This meeting may break the ice between the farmers and the Centre though it is unlikely that the Centre would agree to the farmers’ demand of withdrawing the laws. A middle path can be reached at today’s meeting as both the parties want to end the deadlock. The protest at Delhi borders has been going on for over a month now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-singh-tomar-piyush-goyal-join-farmer-leaders-during-lunch-at-vigyan-bhawan-share-langar-food/story-vdvHscoVMTcFWgfyCFXqhP.html
30-12-2020||India||BJP MP Vasava to withdraw resignation after talks with senior leaders||A day after tendering his resignation from the BJP, Lok Sabha member and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava on Wednesday said he has dropped the idea of quitting the party following talks with its senior leaders.Vasava, a six-time MP from tribal-dominated Bharuch in Gujarat, had on Tuesday said he was quitting the BJP only due to health problems and had no issues with the government or the party.Talking to reporters after meeting Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani in Gandhinagar on Wednesday morning, he said, “Senior party leaders told me that I will get free treatment for my back pain and neck pain only if I continue to be an MP. This is not possible if I resign as an MP. Party leaders asked me to take rest and assured that a system will be put in place wherein local party workers will do work on my behalf.” “The only reason why I had decided to resign from the party and as an MP was my health issues. I also discussed the same with the CM today. Now, after getting assurance from the senior BJP leaders, I have decided to withdraw my resignation.I will continue to serve my people as an MP,” Vasava said.The tribal leader claimed that it was a misconception that he was upset with the government or the ruling BJP over some issues pertaining to tribals of Narmada district, particularly about the inclusion of 121 villages in the Eco Sensitive Zone.“The governments in the state and at the Centre are putting all their efforts into resolving the issues related to the Eco Sensitive Zone. I have no issues with the party or the government. On the contrary, I firmly believe that tribals benefited more under the BJP rule than under any previous governments,” he said.On Tuesday, Vasava had resigned from the party and also claimed that he will resign as MP after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker during the upcoming Budget Session of the Parliament.Vasava had tendered his resignation in the form of a letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil.In the letter, Vasava, an outspoken and straightforward tribal leader, said although he had tried his best to be loyal to the party and also tried to assimilate the party’s values in his life, he is ultimately a human and prone to commit “mistakes”.“I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I hereby resign from the party, and I seek forgiveness from the party for it,” he had said in the letter.Paatil had told reporters on Tuesday that Vasava was particularly unhappy about the declaration of the Eco Sensitive Zone in his constituency.“The main issue is the declaration of an Eco Sensitive Zone by the Centre in his constituency. Now, it appears that some people are misguiding locals over the issue after the Collector had made some entries about the land parcels. We are trying to convince Vasava and I am confident that a solution will arrive soon,” the state BJP chief had said.Vasava was inducted into the Cabinet as the union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2014. However, he was abruptly dropped in July 2016.On December 20, he had dashed off a letter to the PM demanding withdrawal of the Eco Sensitive Zone from 121 villages of Narmada district.He claimed that local tribals were angry because of the “unnecessary interference” by the officials after those 121 tribal-dominated villages were included in the Eco Sensitive Zone.Later in the afternoon, Vasava claimed that it was his health, not Eco Sensitive Zone, which forced him to take the decision.“I am having no issues at all with the BJP or the government. The only thing is that I remain unwell most of the time and the doctors have advised me to take rest now, Though I am an MP, I could not travel much and be with my people due to this back pain, which has now started affecting the functioning of my brain,” Vasava had told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-vasava-to-withdraw-resignation-after-talks-with-senior-leaders/story-xYCgDotmgMJY17dQNwoQ8J.html
30-12-2020||India||Farm protests: Congress attacks BJP for ‘aiding corporate interests’, seeks swift resolution||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “only aiding corporate interests” while seeking a swift resolution to the farmers’ protests and repealing of three farm laws enacted in September.“The central government has met the farm leaders several times now. It has called the farmers again today, but how will they proceed when the government refuses to compromise,” said Congress leader Kumari Selja. She added the government should support the farmers and listen to their demands by repealing the three laws.“The entire country depends on the farmers. It is time that this government should embrace them as well,” Selja said. “People have lost faith in the BJP. Ten farmers from Haryana have lost their lives. The chief minister of Haryana should take a delegation to the Prime Minister and make him understand the situation on the ground.”Also Read: ‘Talks will be held on all issues; hope farm stir ends today’: Union minister Som PrakashAnother Congress leader Pritam Singh accused the government of murdering democracy. “The talks with the government have been inconclusive.” He said the government brings the farmers to the table but says the laws will not be undone. “It is the responsibility of the central government to break this deadlock by repealing the laws.”The Congress’s criticism came as Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, and Som Prakash began the sixth round of talks with 40 farmer leaders on Wednesday amid their protests against the three agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attacks-bjp-for-aiding-corporate-interests-seeks-swift-resolution-to-farmers-protests/story-FwNyzmxveD1lDURRKEezcK.html
30-12-2020||India||Don’t fall for ‘pay and register’ scheme for Covid-19 vaccine, alerts Centre||With the first vaccine getting a go-ahead for emergency use anytime in India now, the cyber safety wing of the Union home ministry has issued a warning against fraudulent offers on vaccine. Any malicious link, email, message or phone call offering priority to receive Covid-19 vaccine is fraud. “Due to apprehension associated with COVID-19, Cyber criminals are playing various tricks. They may offer to “pay and register” in getting priority to receive first CORONA VACCINE, through malicious link, mail, message or phone call. Be aware otherwise you may get defrauded,” the Centre has said.  Due to apprehension associated with COVID-19, Cyber criminals are playing various tricks. They may offer to "pay and register" in getting priority to receive first CORONA VACCINE, through malicious link, mail, message or phone call. Be aware otherwise you may get defrauded.The Centre has drawn up a plan for vaccination in which the vaccine will be offered first to to healthcare workers, frontline workers and to people above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated co-morbidities. State and local authorities have already registered these people. The latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and legislative assembly election will be used to identify population aged 50 years or more.Twenty-three ministries and departments of the Centre and states have been identified and assigned roles (planning, implementation, social mobilization, awareness generation etc.) for vaccine roll out. A total of 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used for the Covid-19 vaccine storage.Incidents of fraudsters already on prowl have been reported sporadically. In Madhya Pradesh, calls were made to people asking them to pay Rs 500 and register for vaccine. “Fraudsters from Haryana, Hyderabad and Telangana are targeting people on the pretext of registration for Covid-19 vaccine. We are creating awareness among people and asking them not to share any OTP and download any app for registration,” said MP cyber cell additional superintendent of police Rajat Sakhlecha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-fall-for-pay-and-register-scheme-for-covid-19-vaccine-alerts-centre/story-la6m7zCVDRJQgkMjYD6NgM.html
30-12-2020||India||From pushing electric mobility to boosting textile sector, Niti Aayog charts 2021 reforms map||Accelerating electric mobility, enhancing competitiveness of textiles industry, improving credit access for small and medium enterprises, and pushing water conservation measures will dominate Niti Aayog’s to-do list in the new year as it seeks to further the government’s reforms agenda for sustained economic growth. As the think tank continues to work with various stakeholders to boost the country’s economy, its Vice Chairman and economist Rajiv Kumar said the government has already used Covid-19 crisis for taking several steps to lay the foundation for a “rapid and sustained growth in the coming years”. While noting that these steps and reforms have to be further consolidated, Kumar asserted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is “certainly not protectionist” and has been continuously expanding the scope for Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). “In the next calendar year, the Niti Aayog will be looking at several areas for pushing the reform agenda forward. These will be broadly in the field of pushing the movement on electric mobility. “... the second area that we will be working on is collaboration with the textile ministry in setting up mega textile firms which will improve the competitiveness of the textile industry, help us to expand our exports for both the fabric and the garment sectors,” he told PTI in an interview. Besides, he said the Niti Aayog will push forward the agenda on water conservation and better water use as well as look at the possibility of improving access to formal credit for small and medium enterprises because they will be one of the pillars for Aatmanirbhar Bharat. According to him, Niti Aayog will work on creating a body of scientific and empirical evidence to examine the appropriateness of natural farming techniques in India whose proponents have claimed that this can bring down the costs dramatically and increase farmers’ income also quite significantly. Doubling farmers’ income is a priority for the Union government. “So, the Niti Aayog is now working closely with ICAR and other agriculture universities to have a body of empirical evidence through field trials to examine the benefits of natural farming,” Kumar said. The government think tank will also look at the possibility of mainstreaming the use of traditional medicine and promoting integrated medicine practices as has been done in several other countries. “Because the efficacy of traditional medicine that is AYUSH has come out as being shown to be quite high in the COVID-19 pandemic period,” he pointed out. Niti Aayog is playing a key role in COVID-19 vaccine rollout and its member V K Paul is heading the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC). Emphasising that steps have been taken to convert the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity, Kumar said, “already the economy has bounced back, much better than what all of us had expected”. He expects the country’s economy, which contracted in the first two quarters of the current financial year, to register a small positive growth in the January-March quarter. “It will of course grow at very high rates in 2021-22 but beyond that also it will achieve its potential rate of growth which is estimated at 7-8 per cent,” he said. Noting that there is a need to focus on improving the global competitiveness of India’s industry and achieve global scales, Kumar said those will require the continuation of the government’s efforts to reduce logistic costs and improve credit availability for all units, especially for small and medium enterprises. “And continue on the focus of expanding infrastructure capabilities plus promote public private partnership, so as to give larger space for private enterprise for accelerating economic growth in the country,” he opined. On the government’s disinvestment programme, Kumar said the Niti Aayog has recommended sale of stakes in several CPSEs (Central Public Sector Enterprises) and that the Union Cabinet itself has approved more than 20 such proposals. “So it (stake sale in CPSEs) is very much on the cards and has been on the cards for this government,” he added. Disinvestment process is progressing for various CPSEs, including Air India and BPCL. To a query about India’s decision not to be part of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), Kumar said Modi government is certainly not protectionist because it has continuously expanded the scope for FDI and made it under the automatic route for most areas. “Walking out of the RCEP was done because it was clearly seen that until we have improved our competitiveness, for which now the government is taking very active steps, joining the RCEP under the condition it was offered would not have served the national interest,” he pointed out. According to him, India walking out of the RCEP is certainly not moving away from the country’s commitment to take a greater part in global technology, financial, goods and services flows. The Niti Aayog Vice Chairman also noted that India still continues to have nine Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) and is negotiating 19 FTAs with various countries. “But we have to be very cognizant of which agreement serves our national interest and which does not,” he stressed. In efforts to boost economic output, the Niti Aayog played an active role in formulating the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for ten key sectors. This year, it came out with a draft model Act and rules for states on conclusive land titling with an aim to reduce litigations and ease the land acquisition process for infrastructure projects. Also, the Niti Aayog released a draft report titled ‘Guiding Principles for the Uniform National-Level Regulation of Online Fantasy Sports Platforms in India’. PTI BKS RAM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pushing-electric-mobility-to-boosting-textile-sector-niti-aayog-charts-2021-reforms-map/story-MC0yiCgbQP96tHnt3aS8QO.html
30-12-2020||India||3 union ministers, 40 farm leaders in huddle over Central farm acts||Three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash — and 40 farm leaders on Wednesday afternoon started the sixth round of talks on a clutch of demands by farm unions, including repeal of three agricultural laws, at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan. According to an official, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government is open to negotiations and suggested that, if everyone agreed, the talks could take up the easier issues first. The official said railway minister Goyal and Tomar held two meetings with home minister Amit Shah before heading to the meeting’s venue. The first issue farmers want discussions on were the “modalities (that are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative support prices recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.”The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution.Their last demand is continuation of subsidised power for agricultural use, instead of a proposed switch to direct cash, which farmers say will increase power costs for them.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-union-ministers-40-farm-leaders-in-huddle-over-central-farm-acts/story-e3iWsXAIRbvIsGb8Y3qd5H.html
30-12-2020||India||DGCA modifies order to suspend international flights till Jan 31, cargo operations exempted||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday modified its order to extend the suspension on international flights till January 31. The DGCA also said that international flights to and from the United Kingdom will remain suspended till January 7. The suspension comes in the wake of the discovery of cases of a new infectious strain of SARS-Cov-2, first detected in the United Kingdom. The union health ministry on December 30 recommended the civil aviation ministry to extend the suspension of India-UK flights till January 7, news agency PTI reported. The recommendation was based on inputs from the joint monitoring group headed by director general of health services (DGHS) and the National Task Force headed by DG, Indian Council of Medical Research. The health ministry will subject samples of all international passengers who arrived in India from December 9 to 22 and tested positive for Covid-19, to genome sequencing in order to detected the mutated Covid-19 strain. Also Watch | New Covid strain: India bans flights from UK; govt says ‘no need to panic’ “All the international passengers who have arrived in India during the last 14 days (from December 9 to 22), if symptomatic and tested positive, will be subjected to genome sequencing,” the union health ministry said in a statement on December 30. The civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said that flights will resume in a strictly regulated manner after January 7, 2021. “Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021. Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” Puri said on Twitter.  The government has launched efforts to track down thousands of people who have entered India from UK in the past few weeks. More than 25 nations have suspended air travel with the United Kingdom over the new Covid-19 strain. Scheduled international flights were suspended in India since March 23 in order to stop the spread of coronavirus. Special international flights operated within air bubbles arrangements with other countries since July. The DGCA has exempted international cargo flights from the modified suspension order. The order also outlined that the suspension will not apply on flights specifically approved by the DGCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-modifies-order-to-suspend-international-flights-till-jan-31-cargo-operations-exempted/story-ZCbLjDoGTEZRYGRRlnCPfI.html
30-12-2020||India||Pakistan’s Covid-19 death toll crosses 10,000-mark||The coronavirus death toll in Pakistan crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday with 55 new fatalities in the past 24 hours. The country reported 2,155 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total infection count to 477,240.The number of active cases in the country stands at 37,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-s-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-10-000-mark/story-PftUouD3ViY5dGHm02wp0N.html
30-12-2020||India||Kashmir reels under sub-zero temperatures, Gulmarg shivers at -11 degrees C||Intense cold wave conditions swept Kashmir on Wednesday as the mercury fell below the freezing point across the valley, officials said. The cloud cover ahead of Tuesday’s snowfall had kept the night temperature around the freezing point for two consecutive nights in most parts of the valley but the respite ended as the mercury plunged to minus 11 degrees in Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the officials said. They said Gulmarg tourist destination was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9 degrees Celsius -- a drop of six notches in 24 hours. The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — was minus 2.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded the minimum of minus 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 6.5 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said. While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-reels-under-sub-zero-temperatures-gulmarg-shivers-at-11-degrees-c/story-oqhu0OLJQB52NB23Q84wFK.html
30-12-2020||India||Ex-India cricketer L Sivaramakrishnan joins BJP ahead of Tamil Nadu polls||Former India leg-spinner and cricket commentator Laxman Sivaramakrishnan joined the BJP on Wednesday in Chennai in the presence of national secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge C T Ravi. This comes ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu where the BJP is trying to make a mark and is on a recruiting spree. Earlier today, actor-turned BJP politician Khushboo Sundar, who quit Congress in October, tweeted that two of her ‘good friends’ were joining the party. Tamil actor P A Subramaniam and functionaries from the DMK and CPI (M) joined the BJP on Wednesday. Sivaramakrishnan’s political foray comes as a surprise. Popularly known as Siva, he was first noticed during his Ranji trophy debut against Delhi and was picked as part of the Indian team that went to Pakistan in 1982-83. He made his Test debut at the age of 17 against the West Indies. After his retirement, he turned commentator. He is a player’s representative of the ICC’s cricket committee. The BJP is presently in alliance with the ruling AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu. CT Ravi said he hoped Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, who has decided not to enter politics, would support the NDA alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-india-cricketer-l-sivaramakrishnan-joins-bjp-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-polls/story-00pPJP89MszhlK0TKQHyuK.html
30-12-2020||India||Serum Institute request for emergency use of Oxford vaccine to be considered today||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the national drugs regulator will meet in a short while to take a decision on Serum Institute of India’s (SII) emergency-use authorisation (EUA) application for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The move comes after UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted emergency-use approval to the vaccine on Wednesday.SII has partnered with the company to conduct clinical trials and manufacture the vaccine in India.On December 24, SII had submitted the additional clinical trials data that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)’s SEC had asked for in its meeting held on December 9 to review its application.Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farThe UK regulator (UK-MHRA) was also reviewing the necessary data, and according to experts it would have been advantageous if there was already an approval in place from the local regulator, even though it was not mandatory.Three companies have applied for EUA for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates to the national drugs regulator. The companies are Pfizer, SII and Bharat Biotech. While Pfizer did not show up for the presentation on the earlier date, the expert panel had reviewed the data of the other two companies and asked for more details. SEC had recommended for the company to submit additional data. Bharat Biotech is yet to reply to the regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-request-for-emergency-use-of-oxford-vaccine-to-be-considered-today/story-LvhdxlwGUx73vcrZxgjb5K.html
30-12-2020||India||New year, new rules: What all is changing from January 1, 2021||The first year of a new decade, 2021-2030, is round the corner. January 1, 2021, will not just be the beginning of a new year or a new decade, it will also be the beginning of a new month. As is the case with the beginning of every month, a new set of rules will come into effect from January 1, 2021 as well.Some of the rules that will come into effect are as follows, as reported by Hindustan Times’ sister publication, Hindustan:1. The “positive pay system”: In September, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced the “positive pay system” for cheques. The State Bank of India (SBI) will roll out this system from January 1, 2021. Under this, reconfirmation of key details will be needed for payments in excess of Rs 50,000. The cheque issuer will have to submit details like date, beneficiary name, payee, amount to the drawee bank etc. electronically, through SMS, mobile banking, internet banking, ATM etc.2. Prices of gas cylinders to be revised: Oil companies determine prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders on the first of every month. The prices could be increased, kept unchanged or decreased. In December, the prices were increased on December 3 and, in total, increased twice this month.3. Saral Jeevan Bima policy: Insurance companies will launch the Saral Jeevan Bima policy which will allow a person to purchase a term plan even at a low premium amount. Companies are introducing this policy as directed by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA).4. FASTag to be mandatory: The Union transport ministry has made FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers. In a bid to encourage digitalisation, the Centre has decided to completely do away with cash transactions at all toll plazas across the country.5. Transaction limit through contactless cards to be raised: RBI will raise the limit of transactions via contactless cards, using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000.6. Prefixing zero while dialling from landline to mobile: Zero will have to be prefixed before a mobile number while dialling from a landline phone. The Department of Telecom (DoT) had accepted a proposal from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in this regard.7. WhatsApp to stop working on some smartphones: Smartphones, which have an operating system (OS) older than Android 4.3 or iOS 9, need to be upgraded for WhatsApp to work on these. This is because every year, WhatsApp stops working on outdated Android and iOS smartphones.8. Cars and electronic appliances to get costlier: Automobile companies will increase car prices while those of TV, refrigerators, washing machines are likely to go up by 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-year-new-rules-what-all-is-changing-from-january-1-2021/story-LXUzXJa39s7Zbrd6FzPVlJ.html
30-12-2020||India||‘Will make train journeys more memorable’: PM Modi on new Vistadome tourist coaches||A day after railways minister Piyush Goyal announced the completion of 180 kmph speed trial of new design Vistadome tourist coaches, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared a tweet of the railway minister and said train journey will become more memorable, praising the “cutting-edge technology” of the new coaches. Comfort and cutting edge technology! Will make train journeys more memorable. https://t.co/swC8wIAcYD“It is rightly said Journey is best measured in terms of memories rather than miles. Take a look at the new Vistadome coaches of Indian Railways that will give an unforgettable travel experience to passengers & will ensure that they truly have a journey to remember,” Piyush Goyal tweeted, unveiling the glimpses of the new coaches which come with roof top glasses with rotating seats, Wi-fi facilities.Here is all you need to know about Vistadome coaches and their upgrade:1. These are being operated on select tourist routes including the Nilgiri Mountain Railway line, Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, Kalka-Shimla Railway, Kangra Valley Railway, Matheran Hill Railway, between Dadar in Mumbai and Madgoan in Araku Valley as well as in the Kashmir Valley.2. This is completely made in India. These coaches have been manufactured by Indian Railways’ Integral Coach Factory in Chennai.3. The coaches and the seats are designed in such a manner that passengers can enjoy the outside view sitting at the comfort of these coaches. 4. As part of its upgrade, the new coaches have been built on the LHB platform, which is safer. 5. Observatory lounge with a large window at one end.6. Mobile phone charging socket for each passengers.7. Disabled-friendly entrance.8. GPS-based information system, CCTV surveillance.9. Mini pantry for the passengers.10. Coffee maker, microwave oven, refrigerator in the service area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-train-journeys-more-memorable-pm-modi-on-new-vistadome-tourist-coaches/story-NsXpB3uOzwqURnKFzf4wFO.html
30-12-2020||India||More than 2 weeks after testing positive for Covid-19, Haryana home minister Anil Vij discharged from hospital||Haryana home minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anil Vij, who was being treated for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was discharged from the Medanta Hospital today and will be put on oxygen support at home. Earlier doctors at the hospital had said that Vij’s condition showed steady improvement and was on minimal oxygen support.“I am discharged from Medanta Hospital today. Will stay at Home on Oxygen support”, the Haryana home minister shared the news on Twitter.Vij had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5 after he was administered a trial dose of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine ‘Covaxin’ on November 20. After testing positive he was initially referred to the civil hospital in Ambala. I am discharged from Medanta Hospital today. Will stay at Home on Oxygen support.The 67-year-old was later shifted to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak after being diagnosed with advanced symptoms of the disease and was given a course of Remdesivir. Vij was further referred to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on December 15 where his condition improved.Meanwhile, Haryana has registered over 261,000 Covid-19 cases till now 2,892 people have died and nearly 255,000 have recovered, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases stand at 3,900. On Tuesday, the state added 414 fresh cases and 10 related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-2-weeks-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-discharged-from-hospital/story-jp9yd7Hy2nOKpF1Ou8ZGiN.html
30-12-2020||India||Republic Day parade to be shorter, with fewer spectators due to Covid-19 protocols||Fewer people will be allowed to witness the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, with the government following strict social distancing protocols due to the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. The parade itself will be shorter, with smaller marching contingents compared to previous years, the people said. No more than 25,000 spectators will be allowed at Rajpath this year, compared to over 100,000 people who usually turn up for the parade that showcases India’s military might and cultural diversity, the people cited above said. Children below the age of 15 will not be permitted at the parade. The size of the marching contingents from the armed forces and the para-military will also be smaller. These squads will only have 96 participants compared to 144 in the ordinary course, officials said. The shortened route of the parade will see it end at the National Stadium instead of the Red Fort, the officials said, adding that the number of cultural programmes will also be fewer. Also Read: Year-ender UK: India, Indians figured more in pandemic, politics, protestsThe Independence Day celebrations were also muted due to the pandemic this year, with fewer VIPs attending the August 15 event at Delhi’s Red Fort while schoolchildren skipped it altogether. The Republic Day 2020 parade showcased several firsts. For the first time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid a wreath at the National War Memorial. Until 2019, tributes were paid to martyrs at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate. Also, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) showcased its anti-satellite weapon for the first time. Jammu and Kashmir took part in the parade for the first time as a Union Territory. Its tableau was based on the theme “Back to Village”. In August 2019, the government revoked the special status of the state by scrapping Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated J&K into two Union Territories – J&K and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-to-be-shorter-with-fewer-spectators-due-to-covid-19-protocols/story-zNmR5OLJIP6lUhU3k81kjO.html
30-12-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut back in Mumbai, Congress tweets reminder for anti-drugs agency||The Maharashtra Congress on Wednesday reminded the Narcotics Control Bureau, probing the alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, that actor Kanagana Ranaut, who claims to have information on the drugs links in the film industry, is back in Mumbai. The party sought to know when the actor would be summoned by the anti-drugs agency. On September 9, the NCB arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty over drugs-related allegations following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The agency had also summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, among others, for questioning.The Congress put out an old video of Kangana Ranaut where she is heard saying that she was a “drug addict”. “Dear NCB, She is bk! When will you call @Kangan Team for this video? Also Modi govt gave Y category security to her (she is still enjoying at the cost of exchequer) as she wanted to give info abt drug racket in bollywood. She is still hiding info abt crime which is an offense.(sic),” Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant tweeted the 14-second video clip on Wednesday morning.  Dear NCB, She is bk!When will you call @KanganaTeam for this video? Also Modi govt gave Y category security to her ( she is still enjoying at the cost of exchequer) as she wanted to give info abt drug racket in bollywood. She is still hiding info abt crime which is an offense pic.twitter.com/z5PWUWE8BASawant pointed out that while other actors and people related to the film industry were summoned and interrogated on the basis of the messages they exchanged, Kangana Ranaut has still not been questioned by the agency. “Karan Johar and other film personalities were interrogated by the NCB for the old cases and videos of the drug links. Why Kangana is being spared when she herself has admitted of having consumed drugs and her former friend Adhyayan Suman, Shekhar Suman’s son, has alleged that Kangana Ranaut took drugs and also forced him to take drugs,” said Sawant.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar however questioned the state government, why it was not probing Ranaut using its own agencies. “If the MVA government, in which Congress is a ruling partner, thinks she has links in drug dealing in the film industry, why home department does not initiate an inquiry. The state government has its own narcotics bureau and state home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced on the floor of the Assembly to probe the links. Why has it not been initiated? MVA government had announced similar inquiries in phone tapping, tree planting drive by previous government? They should tell the people of Maharashtra about the status of these inquiries,” he said.Ranaut on Tuesday visited Siddhivinayak and Mumbadevi temples and tweeted, “The amount of hostility I faced for standing up for my beloved city Mumbai baffled me, today I went to Mumba devi and Shri Siddhivinayak ji and got their blessings, I feel protected, loved and welcomed. Jai Hind Jai Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-back-in-mumbai-congress-tweets-reminder-for-anti-drugs-agency/story-S9o4Lmc9WwjjqQMTbG8ExI.html
30-12-2020||India||India extends UK flight ban till Jan 7, will impose restrictions thereafter||India has extended the suspension of flights from UK from December 31 till January 7 in a bid to contain the spread of a new strain of coronavirus, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced on Wednesday.“Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021. Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” Puri said on Twitter.Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021.Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly.According to officials aware of the development, the government may mandate RT-PCR tests on arrival for all passengers coming from UK after January 7.On December 21, India joined a growing list of countries on Monday to seal off access to people who have been to the UK, suspending all flights to and from the country between December 23 and December 31 in order to stop the spread of a new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” Puri said at a press conference on Tuesday.Also Read: UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farIndia has been operating international flights through bilateral transport bubbles with 24 countries including UK since calling off scheduled overseas flight operations when it announced a nationwide lockdown in March.The minister said passengers who arrived from the UK on December 21 and 22 were made to take an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport, with only those who tested negative allowed to go home, where they were told to isolate themselves for seven days. Anyone who tested positive was taken to institutional quarantine.“We went one step further. We went back till November 25 and any passenger who had come directly or indirectly from UK, we did some contact tracing and we did some genome sequencing,” he said.The aviation ministry is also coordinating with the ministry of health and department of pharmaceuticals for preparing the cold chain for the Covid-19 vaccine transportation, civil aviation secretary Pradeep Kharola said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-uk-flight-ban-till-jan-7-will-impose-restrictions-thereafter/story-B2RAgn088nwtMCdTQu5NyO.html
30-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BMC asks for details on UK, West Asia returnees as new strain of virus raises concern and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai civic body seeks info on UK, West Asia returnees amid concerns about new virus strainThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked its ward officers, private hospitals, and societies to inform the civic body if they find any returnees from the UK and West Asia. The request comes amid concerns about the spread of the new and more contagious Covid-19 strain found in the UK. Read MoreLower legal drinking age to 21, reduce number of dry days: Delhi panelA committee set up by the Delhi government to suggest ways to augment excise revenue has suggested that the legal age for drinking be reduced from 25 years to 21 years in Delhi, the number of dry days in a year be reduced to three. Read MoreGovernment doubles penalty for missing ITR due date this yearThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has extended the deadline to file the income tax return (ITR) for the financial year 2019-20 to December 31, beyond the usual date of July 31, owing to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read MoreK’taka panchayat polls: Counting underway as parties vie to establish supremacyThe counting of votes for the Karnataka gram panchayat election (voting was held in two phases on December 22 and 27), has begun. While the gram panchayat election is being held on a party-less basis, all the three main contenders.Read More‘You had to be around the Australian commentary boxes’: Gavaskar says Ponting, Warne, and Gilchrist had ‘nothing but praise for Rahane’s captaincy’Ajinkya Rahane has been accumulating a lot of plaudits for the way he has led the team in the second Test match against Australia in Melbourne. After the humiliation in Adelaide where they were bowled out for just 36, things did not look up for the Indian team. Read MoreGeneral Motors recalls over 600,000 vehicles due to defect in front seat beltsGeneral Motors has issued a recall for 624,216 of its pickups and SUVs with defect in front center seatbelt bracket that might cause injury to the occupant sitting in the center of the front row, in case of hard braking. Read MoreRemo D’Souza on how Salman Khan helped his family after he suffered a heart attack: ‘We call him an angel’Choreographer-filmmaker Remo D’Souza has recollected the day he suffered a heart attack, and how the diagnosis came as a huge surprise to him. He said he had reached his gym for workout when he started feeling unwell. Read MoreProtest held outside Washington’s Canadian Embassy over death of Karima BalochA protest was held outside the Canadian embassy in Washington DC on December 29 afternoon over the death of human rights activist Karima Baloch. Protestors demanded a formal investigation into her death. Karima Baloch, also known as Mehrab, was a prominent Baloch voice. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bmc-asks-for-details-on-uk-west-asia-returnees-as-new-strain-of-virus-raises-concern-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F6hwBY4HmKVNcr6g9Ztq0K.html
30-12-2020||India||New coronavirus strain in India: Here are some states where cases have been found||The number of returnees to India from the United Kingdom, who have tested positive for the new coronavirus mutant genome discovered there in September, has risen from six on Tuesday to 20, the Union health ministry reported on Wednesday. The returnees, who have tested positive, are from a number of states.Also Read | UK virus strain in India: 14 more test positive, 20 cases so farHere are some of the states/Union territories (UT), returnees to where have been found positive for the new Covid-19 strain:Karnataka: The state which seems to have borne the brunt of the new coronavirus strain is Karnataka. In addition to three who were found positive on Tuesday, four more tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total to seven. The four, who are from Shivamogga, belong to the same family and had recently returned from the UK.Also Watch | Covid update: India confirms new strain cases; Mumbai’s lowest deaths since May Delhi: Of the 20 people found positive, four are from Delhi. They tested positive on Wednesday and have been isolated in separate rooms at the capital’s Lok Nayak Hospital. None is symptomatic for Covid-19 and all continue to be stable, authorities said.Also Read | Four in Delhi test positive for UK Covid-19 strain, isolated at Lok Nayak HospitalTamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh: At least one returnee each to the three southern states have tested positive for the new coronavirus strain. Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan confirmed on Tuesday that a UK returnee to the state was positive. The cases from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, were reported from Warangal and Nellore, respectively.Uttar Pradesh: A two-year-old girl was found positive in the country’s most populous state, prompting health officials to issue an alert, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan has reported.Also Read | High alert in UP after first case of new UK strain of Covid-19 found: ReportWest Bengal: The state recorded its first case of the new strain on Wednesday, news agency PTI quoted Bengal health officials as saying. The patient is the son of a senior official of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and had recently returned from London, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-coronavirus-strain-in-india-here-are-some-states-where-cases-have-been-found/story-3Z8wdjwfIXQZjB5DnWQe0M.html
30-12-2020||India||‘Talks will be held on all issues; hope farm stir ends today’: Union minister Som Prakash||With all eyes set for the sixth round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmers which will take place this afternoon, Union minister Som Prakash said that he hopes the talks would be decisive and the ongoing agitation against the three farm reforms ends today. He added that talks would be held on all issues, including on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) policy which has been the tipping point of the protest. Prakash is one of the three representatives of the Centre who have been holding talks with the farmers, the other two being agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal.Speaking to news agency ANI, Prakash said, “We hope that the talks will be decisive. Talks will be held on all issues including MSP with an open heart. I hope that farmers’ agitation ends today.” Prakash, along Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union railway minister Piyush Goyal has been a part of negotiations with several farmer groups since the beginning of the stalemate.Also Read| Centre, farmers to hold sixth round of talks today: Here’s all you need to knowMeanwhile, Sukhwinder Singh Sabra, joint secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Punjab) told ANI that today’s meet won’t lead to any solution and further demanded the removal of the three laws passed by Parliament in September.“Five rounds of talks between farmers and govt have taken place. We don’t think we will reach a solution even today. The three farm laws should be repealed,” he said.  We hope that the talks will be decisive. Talks will be held on all issues including MSP with an open heart. I hope that farmers' agitation ends today: Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce & Industry on govt-farmers' talks today pic.twitter.com/IRmIii32tjToday’s meet comes after agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal had written to the farm leaders on Monday in response to their email on December 26 where they had agreed to restart a dialogue. On Tuesday, ministers Tomar and Goyal had met Union home minister Amit Shah.Five rounds of talks have been held between the Centre and farmer groups which remained inconclusive. While the government is hoping for an early solution to end the deadlock and has proposed several amendments including a written assurance on MSP, the protesting farmers have maintained that would only leave the protest sites once the laws are revoked.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-will-be-held-on-all-issues-hope-farm-stir-ends-today-union-minister-som-prakash/story-NYa4eussKuOHG6HEYyVTPM.html
30-12-2020||India||Japan committed to working with India for realising better health for the people: Satoshi Suzuki||Japan sees India as the “most natural strategic partner” to promote a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific, and this year’s Malabar naval exercise was an example of efforts by the four members of the Quad to ensure the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki has said. In a wide-ranging interview, Suzuki spoke of cooperation with India in spheres ranging from security to trade and investment. He also said there is no scope in a rules-based free and open Indo-Pacific for attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by coercion. Edited excerpts:With the world focused on Covid-19 vaccine delivery and economic recovery, what role can Japan and India jointly play in these efforts as important members of the G20? What is your view on the proposal by India and several other countries for IPR waiver for wider access to vaccines? Is Japan looking to closer cooperation with India on delivery and distribution of vaccines, including in third countries? Year 2020 turned out to be an unprecedented one with our days so much affected by Covid-19. Protecting lives and recovering the economy have become a top priority for governments across the world. That is why Japan is supporting the efforts of the government of India through 50 billion yen (about Rs7,500 crore) budget support and 1 billion yen (about Rs150 crore) grant assistance, as well as through international organisations such as UNDP, UNICEF, UNHCR and IFRC. As rightly pointed out, our two countries are also important partners in the framework of G20. In the G20 Riyadh Summit, Prime Minister [Yoshihide] Suga underscored the need to take a holistic approach for securing equitable access to vaccines as well as therapeutics and diagnoses in light of Covid-19. In this regard, Japan is supporting the concept of patent pool, to which India has also expressed its support, which promotes voluntary licensing of intellectual property to enable emerging countries to have access to vaccines and medicines. Japan is committed to promote multilateral cooperation, including its support to COVAX facility, which aims at accelerating the development and manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines, and at guaranteeing fair and equitable access to them by our partners, including India. In the fight against Covid-19, it is important to ensure that all people have access to needed health services of sufficient quality at an affordable cost. This is exactly what Universal Health Coverage (UHC) means. India and Japan are cooperating towards this goal of attaining UHC in India, through such a mechanism as Healthcare Joint Working Group. Japan remains committed to working with India for realising better health for the people in India and beyond. Also Read: ‘Covid-19 wake-up call’: WHO warns future pandemics to be far deadlierThe Indo-Pacific is an area where Japan had an early start in cooperation with India. What will Japan’s priorities be for this region in 2021 and will there be continuity in Japan’s Indo-Pacific policies under Prime Minister Suga’s administration? India has been the most natural strategic partner for Japan in its efforts to promote the vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Prime Minister Suga expressed that his administration will continue to attach significance to this vision in his first telephone conversation with Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi on September 25 and in the East Asia Summit meeting in November. We look forward to working with India in 2021 to make further progress in our joint endeavours in such areas as connectivity and maritime security. Has there been progress in efforts by Japan, Australia and India in developing supply chain resilience? Will more countries in the Indo-Pacific be made part of these efforts? Commerce and trade ministers of Japan, India and Australia held a virtual meeting in September and decided to work towards launching a new initiative for resilient supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region. Their relevant ministries are in touch with each other. As you pointed out, it is important to involve and seek understanding of other countries for this initiative. How did Australia’s inclusion in this year’s Malabar exercise alter the significance of these drills? Will Australia now continue to be part of this exercise? I was happy to see Australia joining the Malabar exercise along with India, Japan and the US this year. These four countries, or the Quad, share a common vision of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in which the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity are ensured, and all countries enjoy freedom of navigation and overflight. The Malabar exercise this year was a great example of our joint efforts to this end. By operating together at sea, the four maritime forces strengthened partnerships among them, which is the foundation of cooperative actions to maintain a rules-based maritime order. I am looking forward to seeing the four maritime forces continuing to operate together in the future. Japan was one of the first countries to speak of the need for maintenance of status quo along the Line of Actual Control amid India’s standoff with China. Japan also faces the challenge of China’s aggressive actions within its territorial waters. Your views on these issues. In a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific where the rule of law prevails, there is no place for any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by coercion. Be it in Ladakh, in the East China Sea, or in the South China Sea, Japan stands firm to uphold the principles that underpin a rules-based international order. I think this is also the best example where we have seen growing strategic convergence in both countries’ thinking. Japan had announced an initiative aimed at helping its companies moving out of China and for diversifying markets. Is this likely to benefit firms that move to India or expand their operations here? More precisely, the government of Japan is trying to help Japanese industries to diversify their supply chains so that they will be more resilient. In this regard, two pilot projects and feasibility studies in India have been adopted for “Program for Strengthening Overseas Supply Chains” in November, which are the first and only two projects from outside ASEAN. The trilateral initiative among Japan, India and Australia mentioned above is also a part of such efforts. India has been within the radar scope of Japanese companies long before Covid-19. I am pleased to see that the number of Japanese companies operating in India has been steadily increasing, reaching 1,454 in 2019. I hope in their efforts to strengthen supply chains resilience, more companies will come to India. I also want to stress at the same time, however, that this would not naturally happen. A further improvement of business environment is important here, while I commend the recent surge of India in the “ease of doing business” ranking (#63 in 2019). To make India more attractive to investors, predictability and stability of business environment are critical, including the continued free flow of goods, such as intermediary goods which are indispensable to fulfil Make in India objectives. Also Read: Japan to join ‘Five Eyes’ to check China’s clampdown on UyghursWhat is the status of Japan’s major projects and initiatives in India, including the bullet train project and the initiatives in the northeastern states, as well as joint projects in third countries? Are there any new proposals to boost regional connectivity? Japan is pleased to be partnering with India for a number of important projects. Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) is a flagship project which will transform the Indian railway culture not only with its amazing speed and comfort but also through technology and skill transfer. The tenders for important packages, including its largest civil package, have been successfully being made, infusing much needed economic stimulus after Covid-19. Japan’s efforts for the development of India’s northeast attest the deep trust India places upon Japan. The region is strategically important and full of potentials. Japan is providing a range of supports from road connectivity, forest and biodiversity conservation, water and sanitation, hydropower generation, to local schools. I am co-chairing, with foreign secretary [Harsh] Shringla, the Act East Forum to advance these efforts and to explore new possibilities. Our collaboration with India in third countries expresses the importance India and Japan attach to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. To take an example of Bangladesh, in a stretch where India is improving roads, Japan is building bridges. This is a perfect example of our complementary roles to enhance connectivity. Another example is in the Maldives where India built Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, to which Japan donated medical equipment. I believe we can further explore such collaborations in third countries to realize our shared vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Japan took the lead in drafting a declaration on India’s possible entry into RCEP at a later stage. Will Japan continue with its efforts to convince India to join RCEP? Japan understands the current position of the government of India. Having said that, we strongly believe it is beneficial for India and for RCEP if India can join this broad regional economic partnership agreement. RCEP will ensure India will be integrated in the most vibrant region and be a part of its value chains. That is why Japan took a lead in drafting Ministers’ Declaration on India’s Participation in RCEP. This declaration is unprecedented in many ways. First, India can accede to RCEP if India so wishes at any time. Other countries cannot accede until 18 months will pass after its entry of force. Second, it expressed the will of RCEP Member States to commence negotiations with India at any time if India so wishes. Third, India can participate in RCEP meetings as an observer if India so wishes. Unlike other trade agreements where the meetings are only open to their participants, India can benefit from these RCEP meetings even before becoming a member. Japan is committed to continuing to work with India as a trusted partner. One of such efforts is our cooperation to elevate India’s industrial competitiveness. Japan is prepared to share our experience and expertise so that India’s manufacturing sector will become even stronger. Is there any update on the India-Japan Summit? Are we likely to see a visit by the Japanese Prime Minister in 2021? At the first telephone conversation between Prime Minister Suga and Prime Minister Modi in September, it was confirmed that annual Summit meetings would be resumed once the situation related to Covid-19 be improved. I hope that the situation will improve to permit us to hold the meeting between the two PMs at the earliest possible and mutually convenient time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-committed-to-working-with-india-for-realising-better-health-for-the-people-satoshi-suzuki/story-dwDCk0WVdgWECH8kKwCfeM.html
30-12-2020||India||BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty answers to women’s commission over domestic violence charge||Biju Janata Dal MP Anubhav Mohanty who is locked in a bitter marital fight with his actor wife Varsha Priyadarshini, appeared before the Odisha State Commission for Women on Tuesday, a fortnight after his wife filed a case of domestic violence against him before the commission.On December 15, Priyadarshini had moved Odisha SCW alleging domestic violence triggered by her ongoing marital discord. In 2014, Mohanty and Priyadarshini had got married in a massive wedding ceremony in Bhubaneswar after years of courtship. Mohanty, a superstar of the Odia film industry, was then a Rajya Sabha MP.Though the commission had issued summon notice to Mohanty along with his parents, only he deposed. Priyadarshini, too, went to the state commission office where the couple was questioned in connection with the petition moved by Priyadarshini.In August, she had filed a case of domestic violence against Mohanty and his family under section 12, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 at a court in Cuttack, citing multiple instances of mental and physical torture and demanded Rs 15 crore compensation for the loss of her income due to losing out on movies as well as a monthly amount of Rs 70,000 towards house rent and maintenance. She accused her husband of being a habitual drunkard and having multiple affairs with his co-stars. In retaliation, Mohanty filed a divorce suit in Delhi.Also Read: 27 UK returnees to Odisha untraceable, vague addresses hinder searchNine days ago, police registered a case against Mohanty, and two of his associates, under section 498 (A), 506 and 341of the IPC after Priyadarshini alleged that Mohanty had locked her in a room in his Cuttack house.She was then rescued by police.The marital discord seems to have taken its toll on Mohanty’s political career with CM Naveen Patnaik dropping him from the post of BJD’s national spokesperson. Recently, he was not seen in his home constituency of Kendrapara when CM’s private secretary VK Pandian had gone there for a discussion on a riverport project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-mp-anubhav-mohanty-answers-to-women-s-commission-over-domestic-violence-charge/story-Bqxf2j8zaRlxtwwU3V7UsI.html
30-12-2020||India||Centre extends temporary suspension of flights to and from the UK till 7 Jan: Aviation minister Hardeep Puri||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced on Wednesday that the Centre has extended the temporary suspension of flights to and from the United Kingdom till January 7, 2021. The flights operations were suspended because of a new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021. Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” Puri said on Twitter.India had suspended all flights from Britain last week until the end of the month as the new variant of the virus detected in the UK triggered widespread concern and travel restrictions across the world. Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021.Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly.“Considering the prevailing situation in the UK, the government of India has decided that all flights originating from the UK to India shall be temporarily suspended till December 31, 2020 (11.59pm). This suspension will start from 11.59pm, December 22, 2020,” the civil aviation ministry had announced.ALSO WATCH | New Covid strain: Passengers in Mumbai from UK sent to institutional quarantine The Union health ministry said on Tuesday all international passengers who have arrived in India during the last 14 days - from December 9 to December 22 this year, if symptomatic and tested positive for the coronavirus disease will have to undergo genome sequencing.Also Read: Four in Delhi test positive for UK Covid-19 strain, isolated at Lok Nayak HospitalSo far, 20 cases of the new strain have been found in India, according to health ministry.All the infected people are now in isolation, the health ministry said in a statement, adding that their fellow travellers and close contacts are being traced and quarantined. Genome sequencing on other samples is currently going on.From November 25 to midnight of December 23, 2020 about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK.All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-temporary-suspension-of-flights-to-and-from-the-uk-till-7-jan-aviation-minister-hardeep-puri/story-3zdUYeSazP5Fs4eu9IXNcL.html
30-12-2020||India||Government doubles penalty for missing ITR due date this year||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has extended the deadline to file the income tax return (ITR) for the financial year 2019-20 to December 31, beyond the usual date of July 31, owing to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Deadline to file income tax returns extended by 10 days to January 10, says finance ministryAccording to the rules, individuals below 60 years of age earning Rs 250,000 or more annually are mandatorily required to file ITRs, whereas, the limit for senior citizens or those between 60 years and 80 years of age is Rs 500,000.This year the government has raised the penalty amount for missing the deadline, by imposing a fine up to Rs.10,000 as opposed to the Rs.5,000 imposed last year. The practise of charging late filing fees under section 234F was introduced in the Budget of 2017 and became effective for financial year 2017-18 or assessment year 2018-19 onward.ALSO WATCH | Nirmala Sitharaman announces fresh stimulus steps l Key Highlights The hefty late filing fee is only applicable if the taxpayer’s net total income, i.e. income after claiming eligible deductions and tax exemptions, exceeds Rs 500,000 in the current financial year. Individuals with taxable income up to Rs 500,000 will have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 if they file their ITR after December 31. For individuals whose taxable income is more than Rs 500,000, the same penalty will go up to Rs 10,000. There are however, exemptions to the above rule due to the amendments made in the Income-tax Act, 1961, via Budget 2019 which stipulates the following categories of people will not be exempted from the penalty 1. Individuals who have deposited an amount or aggregates of the amount exceeding Rs.1 crore in one or more banking accounts2. Individuals who have incurred expenditures exceeding Rs 2 lakh due to foreign travel.3. Individuals who incur expenditure or aggregate expenditures of Rs 1 lakh and more due to electricity consumption.Filing ITR dues also guarantees that the interest payable on the tax refund is calculated from April 1 of the relevant assessment year. In case of belated filings the individual loses out on some amount of the interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-doubles-penalty-for-missing-itr-due-date-this-year/story-nPPksEqGkMJKHoQGbdGFrI.html
30-12-2020||India||Centre, farmers to hold sixth round of talks today: Here’s all you need to know||The Centre will hold the sixth round of talks on Wednesday as part of attempts to end the agitation by farmers, who have encircled the Capital demanding scrapping of three laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector. Here is all you need to know about the protests, the talks and the laws:• The fresh talks are being held after agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal wrote a letter to farm leaders on Monday in response to their e-mail on December 26 in which they agreed to restart negotiations.• 40 leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of over 400 farm organisations involved in the month-long agitation, have been invited for the talks.• Three Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash are likely to represent the government.• The farmers have stuck to their demand that talks must be oriented towards a repeal of the laws.Also Read: Amid protests over farm laws, BJP seeks to build support base in rural Punjab• The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces.• They allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.• The laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.• Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates known as minimum support prices (MSP).• The farm unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.” The demands are the trickiest and are likely to be a test of the fate of negotiations.• The government has made desperate attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, but it is not prepared to scrap its reformist agenda.• The government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments including greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the MSP.• The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-farmers-to-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-today-here-s-all-you-need-to-know/story-xGv3XP37Sx8s0Tt2tBfQxK.html
30-12-2020||India||Don’t approve of conversion for marriage, says Rajnath Singh; backs UP law||Backing the “anti-conversion” legislation brought by Uttar Pradesh government, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that he personally does not support conversion for marriage.“I want to ask why there should be a conversion. The practice of mass conversions should stop. As far as I know, in the Muslim religion, one cannot marry someone from another religion. I personally do not approve of conversion for marriage,” Rajnath Singh told ANI in an exclusive interview.He was responding to a question about the misuse of “love-jihad law” enacted by the Uttar Pradesh government. Rajnath Singh is Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow.He said there is a difference between “natural marriage” and forceful religious conversion for marriage.“In many cases, you may have seen that the religious conversion is being done forcefully and sometimes it is done under greed. Natural marriage and forceful conversion for marriage has a big difference and I think governments which made these laws have considered all these things,” he added.Answering a query, he said a true Hindu will not practice discrimination.“I believe that a true Hindu will not do discrimination based on caste, religion and sects. Our religious scriptures also do not give permission for this. India is the only country that has given the message of “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam” (The whole world is a family). No country did this,” he added.The Uttar Pradesh government has enacted a law to prohibit fraudulent and forcible conversions, including conversion for marriage.The Madhya Pradesh government has also approved the Freedom to Religion Bill 2020. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-approve-of-conversion-for-marriage-says-rajnath-singh-backs-up-law/story-fPNwjajTiERto1sxfZ6bQJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Cong forms panel to oversee 50th anniversary celebrations of Bangladesh war||The Congress on Tuesday formed a former defence minister AK Antony-led committee to oversee the 50th-anniversary celebrations of the 1971 war that led to Pakistan’s dismemberment and Bangladesh’s creation. The panel will also include Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, ex- Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, and former Union minister Jitendra Singh.“The Congress President has approved the formation of the committee to plan and coordinate the activities of the Indian National Congress to commemorate the historic 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War won in 1971, which holds testimony to the special relationship between our two countries,” the party said in a statement.Congress leader Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister when India defeated Pakistan in the Bangladesh liberation war.The formation of the Congress panel comes days after the government went all out to mark the Vijay Diwas that is observed annually on December 16 to celebrate the liberation of Bangladesh from Pakistan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the National War Memorial in New Delhi to mark the anniversary. The government has announced celebrations to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 war. Events will be conducted across India and war veterans will be felicitated throughout the year.The war also ended with the largest military surrender after World War Two.Faced by an aggressive ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, which thrives on nationalism, the Congress is keen to reclaim the legacy of Indira Gandhi, who steered India through the 1971 war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-forms-panel-to-oversee-50th-anniversary-celebrations-of-bangladesh-war/story-jbDMOgb98zcP9ejQfR1dTP.html
30-12-2020||India||India registers 20,549 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, recoveries cross 9.83 mn||India recorded 20,549 coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and 286 related deaths in the last 24 hours which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 10,224,852 and 148,439, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard on Wednesday. Today’s count is higher than that of yesterday by 25 per cent (4,117). However, the total active cases have further dropped to 262,272 and the recovery rate is nearing 96 per cent with over 9.83 million people discharged/cured till now, according to health ministry update at 8 am.For the past three months, India has been seeing a downward trend in its daily coronavirus tally with an average of 22,000 cases added daily in the week ending December 27. The current numbers are far less than that of September when nearly 92,000 cases were being added in a span of 24 hours. Ten states and Union Territories (UTs) are contributing over 78 per cent of the new cases, the health ministry said adding that Kerala, Maharashtra and Chattisgarh added the most number of cases.Also Read: India reported just 110 new Covid-19 cases per million population in last 7 days, health ministry data showsDelhi continued to add less than 1,000 cases for the fifth consecutive day. On Tuesday, the national capital reported 703 cases and 28 deaths, according to the health department’s bulletin. The fatality rate has dropped to 1.68 per cent and 42,026 rapid antigen tests were conducted in last 24 hours. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that Delhi was ready to combat the new variant of Covid-19 which originated in the United Kingdom (UK).“There have been three waves of Covid infections in Delhi. Over 8,000 cases were seen in a day in Delhi, which was the highest in the world. But Delhi was able to control it. We are ready for any situation now,” said Kejriwal.Also Read| Covid-19 updates: US reports first case of new variant, Indonesia bans entry of foreignersMeanwhile, the health ministry on Wednesday said that the total number of people who have tested positive for the UK variant has climbed to 20 and all have been placed under isolation. “The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to Insacog labs,” the ministry said in a statement. It added that close contacts and fellow passengers of the infected were being traced and placed under quarantine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-20-549-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-recoveries-cross-9-83-mn/story-PB6WMDvOAoif8AhidvDg2L.html
30-12-2020||India||Amid protests over farm laws, BJP seeks to build support base in rural Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans a rural outreach in Punjab as it has identified a lack of leadership and a weak cadre across the state’s villages as a reason for its inability to break the impasse over three farm laws passed in September. The plan has been devised as the BJP is gearing to contest elections in Punjab on its own starting with the local polls in February following Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) exit from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The SAD quit the over two-decade-long alliance with the BJP in protest against the farm laws that have triggered protests. A BJP leader said the failure in nurturing leadership in rural Punjab has prevented the party from stemming the ongoing agitation against the laws and clear the misconceptions about them.Also Read: Farmers’ protests: Sixth round of talks today; unions want repeal of laws, higher MSP“The BJP could not convince the farmers of the benefits that they stand to gain once the laws are implemented. It did not help that the SAD, which was a part of the NDA, and therefore a part of the decision-making process played a double-game and backed out at the last moment. Had they been part of the NDA, it would have been easier for us to clear the misconceptions,” the leader said on condition of anonymity.BJP strategists have warned that a lack of direct contact with people in Punjab’s rural areas could upset its expansion plans ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. This has prompted the party to begin preparations for a membership drive in the rural areas, opening offices at the block levels and to identify candidates for the assembly polls.Former Union minister Vijay Sampla, who has been a Parliament member from Punjab, said they were making amends by focussing on rural areas. “When we were in alliance with the SAD, they kept us out of the rural areas. They did not allow BJP leaders to hold positions in the rural development bodies and would even dissuade us from holding public programmes in these areas. They back-stabbed us on the farm laws. So, the party will put in 10 times the effort required to build its base in Punjab.”Sampla rejected the perception that the BJP is on shaky ground in Punjab over the farm laws, saying they are not allowed to hold public programmes. “Just as the TMC [Trinamool Congress] government in West Bengal is not allowing BJP leaders to step out and hold programmes, the Congress government is doing the same in Punjab.” He added the Punjab government is worried the BJP without the SAD has emerged stronger. “On Monday, we met the state DGP [director general of police] to complain that we were not even allowed to hold public programmes to mark the [birth] anniversary of [late] former PM [Prime Minister] Atal Bihari Vajpayee [on December 25],” he said.A third leader said the local elections and finding candidates for all the seats will be the first big challenge for the party. “Earlier the SAD used to play big brother in the state and allocate seats to the BJP. Now we have to contest all the seats to increase our hold over the urban areas.”SS Jodhka, a sociology professor at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said caste and class factors will impact the BJP’s plans in Punjab. “It is natural for the party to want to have its own social base in Punjab. But in the current context, it would be difficult for the BJP. In the rural areas, there has been a communal divide as well with the Sikhs opting for the SAD and the urban Hindus the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-over-farm-laws-bjp-seeks-to-build-support-base-in-rural-punjab/story-5SLTfXNOrDdMn1zpHtLgpI.html
30-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh says Prime Minister is not just a person but an institution, lashes out at derogatory remarks||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has said that he was hurt by derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the farmers’ protest and said that Prime Minister is not just a person but an institution.In an interview with ANI, the minister said that people of the country have given their support and affections to the PM Modi who was chief minister of Gujarat for 14 years before assuming the post of Prime Minister six years back. “Baseless allegations are made. Should this be done? Derogatory remarks should not be made against a Prime Minister. Prime Minister is not just an individual but an institution. In my political life, I have never used abusive words against any former Prime Minister. The kind of sloganeering done against the Prime Minister - ‘mar ja, mar ja’ this kind of sloganeering. I felt hurt,” he said.He said farmers should keep away people raising derogatory slogans.He said it is the duty of the opposition to maintain the prestige of the post of Prime Minister.“The opposition should understand its responsibility. I am no one to advise them but the institutions should be respected. If the institutions are weakened, democracy gets weak,” he said.He said the Prime Minister was serving the poor and marginalised from his heart.Singh said he has refrained from making any derogatory remarks about any former Prime Minister.“Once in my party, there was a remark made about former Prime Minister Dr.Manmohan Singh but I had contradicted that remark at that time. I had said that Dr.Manmohan Singh is our Prime Minister and no derogatory remarks should be made against him. I have never used derogatory remarks against any Prime Minister, whether Narasimha Rao, HD Deve Gowda or anyone.” He added that he has always respected institutions, sometimes even going against party interests. “Till the day I will do politics, I will never break any tradition to criticise an institution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-says-prime-minister-is-not-just-a-person-but-an-institution-lashes-out-at-derogatory-remarks/story-NkA6tlEBkfhOE0ZLxiVEWO.html
30-12-2020||India||Sensex, Nifty decline in early trade after opening on high||Key benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty declined in early trade on Wednesday as profit booking emerged in banking and financial stocks after a stellar five-day rally.The 30-share BSE Sensex had opened higher by 0.10 per cent but failed to hold onto gains in early trade and declined by 102.99 points or 0.22 per cent to 47,510.09.The broad based Nifty was down by 27.45 points or 0.2 per cent at 13,905.15 with 31 of its constituents trading in the red. The 50-share index had opened higher by 10.75 points at 13,943.35.Banking stocks like State Bank of India, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank were among major losers among Sensex stocks. Besides, HDFC, Reliance, Bharti Airtel, Larsen & Toubro and Sun Pharma also dropped due to profit booking.Sensex and Nifty had scaled fresh record highs on Tuesday, extending their bull run for the fifth straight session on the back of gains in banking and IT stocks.Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,349.53 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data.Asian shares were mixed after a lacklustre day on Wall Street. The S&P 500 lost 0.2 per cent on Tuesday, a day after President Donald Trump signed the USD 900 billion economic relief package.Japan’s Nikkei 225 fell 0.6 per cent a day after it surged more than 2 per cent to its highest level in more than 30 years. Hong Kong rose by 1.2 per cent while the Shanghai Composite index advanced 0.7 per cent and South Korea’s Kospi added 0.6 per cent. PTI MR DRR DRR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-opens-over-55-points-higher-at-47-668-19-nifty-rises-as-well/story-VWZLdPbDpxbCPyjpsn5iBK.html
30-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests: Sixth round of talks today; unions want repeal of laws, higher MSP||The Union government will hold the sixth round of talks with protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday, a fresh attempt to resolve a politically challenging strike by farmers who have encircled the Capital and want three recent pro-reform agricultural laws scrapped. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal had sent out a letter to farm leaders on Monday, responding to an e-mail by the farm unions on December 26 in which they had agreed to restart negotiations after rejecting the government’s appeal to resume the dialogue process several times. In his letter, the farm secretary invited 40 leaders who represent the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of over 500 farm organisations involved in the month-long agitation over a set of reforms they say will hurt their livelihoods. The agriculture ministry’s invite, a copy of which HT has seen, had said the talks would be led by Union ministers. Three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — are likely to represent the government side, an official said. Also Read: At Chilla border, farmers plan to launch protest march on Jan 26The farm ministry letter said officials would discuss issues related to farmers in the three laws, signalling the government’s broad strategy to find a solution by addressing points in the legislation that farmers may have objections to. In their December 26 email to the farm ministry, the farmers, however, stuck to their demand that talks must be geared towards a repeal of the laws. The farmers spelt out issues on which they want discussions (on modalities to repeal the laws and legal guarantee for MSP). In their email, they said the first issue they wanted discussions on were the “modalities (that are) to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts”.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed rates, known as minimum support prices (MSP). Second, the unions want “mechanisms to be adopted to make remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities.”These top two demands are the trickiest and are likely to be a test of the fate of negotiations.Although the government has made desperate attempts to restart negotiations with the unions, it is not prepared to scrap its reformist agenda. Instead, the government has proposed a set of concessions and amendments. These include greater oversight of proposed free markets and a written assurance on continuing the mechanism of MSP. The farmers also want amendments in an ordinance to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, they stated in their letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-with-farmer-unions-today/story-TdyvdQHfDAlh3737ThzwvL.html
30-12-2020||India||President Ram Nath Kovind to confer Digital India Awards today||President Ram Nath Kovind will virtually confer the Digital India Awards 2020 on December 30 via video conferencing, according to an official statement.Digital India Awards honour exemplary initiatives and practices in digital governance.In line with Digital India’s vision, this is the first time that the entire process of the Digital India Awards is being conducted online from nominations to screening to the award ceremony, the official release said.The National Informatics Centre (NIC), under Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY), has been conducting the biennial Digital India Awards to promote innovation in eGovernance and digital transformation of government service delivery mechanism.Minister for Communications and IT, Ravi Shankar Prasad, and IT secretary Ajay Sawhney and other dignitaries would attend the virtual event.The Digital India Awards 2020 have been announced under six categories including `Innovation in Pandemic’.The award in this particular category would felicitate a government entity which has developed an outstanding, innovative digital solution to enable the citizens to undertake various activities with ease during the time of pandemic, in areas including communication, health, education, travel or for ensuring continuity of government services.Other categories include Excellence in Digital Governance, Open Data Champion, and Exemplary Product.In addition, Jury Choice Award will be conferred to honour excellence in design and implementation of National Public Digital Platform.“Central Government Ministries /Departments /Offices /Institutions, State Government Departments /Offices /Institutions, District Administrations and Indian Missions Abroad were eligible to apply for the Digital India Awards. A project could be nominated for more than one category,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-confer-digital-india-awards-today/story-z7QBjsz9L5LuCRLe53QUTK.html
30-12-2020||India||Terrorism was defeated, democracy won in local body polls in J-K: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that “terrorism and separatism were defeated” in local body elections in Jammu and Kashmir and rejected allegations of National Conference and PDP that there was no “level-playing field” in the recently concluded DDC election.“There was a level playing field. Everyone was free. Nobody was under detention and were free to move about. But the results which came out of the local bodies and gram panchayat polls have made it clear that terrorism and separatism were defeated and democracy won in Jammu and Kashmir,” Rajnath Singh said in an exclusive interview with ANI. He was asked about allegations levelled by National Conference and PDP that they were not given a level-playing field in the recent District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir.The National Conference and PDP had fought the elections as part of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The alliance won 110 seats while BJP won 75 seats and emerged as the single largest party. Independents won 50 seats and smaller parties also won on several seats.NC leader Omar Abdullah had alleged that the administration did not provide them a level playing field “at the behest of the ruling-BJP”.PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti had accused the Centre of “sabotaging” the participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls.The panchayat elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018 and the bypolls for vacant seats were held alongside DDC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorism-was-defeated-democracy-won-in-local-body-polls-in-j-k-rajnath-singh/story-h2MM6Gn8Y5uQVKf2y1zDWM.html
30-12-2020||India||Govt proposes mandatory airbags for passengers in front seats of vehicles||The ministry of road transport on Tuesday proposed to make it mandatory for an airbag be provided for the passenger in the front seat of a vehicle next to the driver.The proposed timelines for implementation are from April, 2021 for new models and June, 2021 for existing models, the draft notification issued by the ministry said.The ministry has sought public consultation for the draft notification.“Comments/ suggestions are solicited from all stakeholders at the following email address: comments-morth@gov.inwithin 30 days from the date of notification,” the ministry said.Also Read: Ten ways Covid-19 has changed the world economy foreverThe government’s proposal to make dual front airbags mandatory will lead to an increase in price, and vehicle manufacturers should absorb the major hike in costs to prevent impact on sales, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said on Tuesday.“FADA welcomes MoRTH’s intention for mandating dual front airbags. This is a much needed safety norm which India should adopt and be at par with global standards,” FADA President Vinkesh Gulati said in a statement on Tuesday.He, added that while the government’s vision to make driving safer for its citizens is appreciated, it will definitely increase the price of vehicles. The implementation of BS-VI emission norms led to a big price increase, and this will also come with a price increase, he added.“We hope OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) absorb the major cost of input due to the second airbag as it will impact the sales in the short-term. It will be bad for the industry, which is able to show growth on MoM (month-on-month) basis, but still lags in YoY (year-on-year) basis after Covid-19 hit us hard,” Gulati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-proposes-mandatory-airbags-for-passengers-in-front-seats-of-vehicles/story-xwmS6MugtkF1OvLPtEGolL.html
30-12-2020||India||High alert in UP after first case of new UK strain of Covid-19 found: Report||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued alert after a case of new coronavirus strain, recently found in the United Kingdom, was detected in a two-year-old girl, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.The state health department has directed its officials and hospital staff to exercise extra caution; the hospitals too have been asked to be on high alert, Hindustan reported.The UP health authorities have also ordered that people who have returned from abroad should be told to remain in home quarantine for 28 days, even if their RT-PCR report comes negative. Those found carrying the new strain of the coronavirus must be kept in separate isolation ward, the advisory from state health department further said.Hindustan further reported that as many as 565 people who returned from the UK to Uttar Pradesh after December 9 have not been traced. Five people were found on Wednesday, and their samples sent to CSIR, Delhi.According to state authorities, the mobile phones of those who came back from the UK are switched off, making it difficult to trace them, Hindustan reported.Meanwhile, 14 more people tested positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2 virus, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Wednesday. The ministry said this based on the results of genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) labs.The samples have so far been sequenced in seven of the 10 designated labs across the country—seven samples tested positive in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, two in CCMB, Hyderabad and one in NIV, Pune, eight in NCDC, Delhi, one in IGIB, Delhi and one in NIBG, Kalyani (West Bengal).With this, the total number of people testing positive for the new UK variant of Covid-19 has reached 20.Six cases of the new strain were detected on Tuesday, prompting the government to direct genome sequencing of samples from all passengers who arrived in India from December 9 to 22 and tested positive for COVID-19 or were symptomatic as it ramped up the surveillance and containment strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-alert-in-up-after-first-case-of-new-uk-strain-found-report/story-GR1Abc2pHrxbthIqtU47YP.html
30-12-2020||India||No meaningful outcome of talks with China on LAC standoff: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that no “meaningful solution” has come out of diplomatic and military level talks with China to resolve the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and there is “status quo”.In an exclusive interview with ANI, Singh said that if status quo continues, there cannot be a reduction in the deployment of troops.He referred to the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) meeting on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) held virtually earlier this month and said the next round of military talks can take place anytime.“It is true that in order to reduce the standoff between India and China, talks were taking place on a military and diplomatic level. But no success has been achieved so far. There will be a next round of talks on a military level which can take place anytime. But no meaningful outcome has come and there is status quo,” the defence minister said.“If there is status quo, it is natural how deployment can be reduced. There will be no reduction in our deployment and I fell their deployment will also not come down. I don’t think that status-quo is a positive development at all. Talks are on and they result in a positive outcome, that is our expectation,” he added.Singh said that hotline messages have been exchanged.“On what issues talks will be held, an exchange of messages is taking place between the two countries,” he said.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had said after the WMCC meeting on December 18 that both sides agreed to maintain close consultations at the diplomatic and military level.It said they agreed that the next (9th) round of Senior Commanders meeting should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meaningful-outcome-of-talks-with-china-on-lac-standoff-rajnath-singh/story-pKaBb2JXkEOriBIhal2GcL.html
30-12-2020||India||3 terrorists killed in an encounter outside Srinagar city||The encounter between suspected terrorists and the security forces at Lawaypora on the outskirts of the Srinagar city in Jammu and Kashmir resumed Wednesday morning, finally resulting in the elimination of 3 terrorists, who weer holed up in a building close to the national highway..The encounter started on Tuesday evening after the J&K police, army and the CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the locality close to the national highway after inputs about the presence of terrorists.The operation was stopped last night and all the entry and exit points towards the area were completely sealed.Locals said this morning that after the lull for several hours, fresh firing resumed in the area. “The firing has again resumed in the area,” said a local living close to the encounter spot.The national highway was closed and traffic to north Kashmir has been diverted to other areas.Also Read: Have capability to hit terror targets across LoC, Rajnath Singh warns PakistanSo far 203 terrorists have been killed in J&K this year, among them, 166 were local militants, most of them were killed in four districts of south Kashmir.The security forces have also arrested 49 terrorists and ensured surrender of nine of them during the year, an official said.There have been 96 terror-related incidents in 2020. While 43 civilians were killed, 92 others suffered injuries in these incidents, they said. In 2019, 47 civilians were killed and 185 persons were injured, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-with-terrorists-resumes-outside-srinagar-with-fresh-firing/story-n3cG6Ha9WBNjc7ipLUUFiO.html
30-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records minimum temperature of 4.1 degrees and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi witnesses moderate fog, min temperature drops to 4.1 degreesDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 4.1 degrees Celsius at 6.30am on Wednesday. There is moderate fog with Delhi’s Palam recording visibility under 200 metres Wednesday morning. Amritsar, Patiala and Jammu have visibility of less than 50 metres. Read more27 UK returnees to Odisha untraceable, vague addresses hinder searchAmid reports of 6 UK returnees to India testing positive for the new variant of Covid-19, the Odisha government on Tuesday said that at least 27 residents of Odisha, who have returned from the United Kingdom in the last month, are untraceable. Read moreKarnataka panchayat polls: Counting begins, Yediyurappa says candidates supported by BJP to win majority of seatsCounting of votes for 5,728 gram panchayats in Karnataka that went for polls in two phases, is taking place on Wednesday. The counting began at 8 am. As ballot papers were used in polls other than in Bidar district (where electronic voting machines or EVMs were used), the announcement of results may get delayed, polls officials said. Read moreSydney tightens Covid-19 curbs ahead of New Year’s EveAustralian authorities restricted movement and tightened curbs on gatherings in Sydney on Wednesday, hoping to avoid a coronavirus “super spreader” event during the city’s New Year’s Eve celebrations, after detecting a new cluster of cases. Read moreNo spinner has done that to me in my career: Steve Smith narrates how he has let Ashwin ‘dictate terms’ in Test seriesAustralian batsman Steve Smith is one of the premier batsmen of his generation. He is used to dominating the opposition with his batting and was also recently named ICC’s Men’s Test Cricketer of the Decade. But things haven’t been going smoothly for Smith in the ongoing Test series against India. Read moreReliance Jio, MediaTek announce online gaming tournament on Jio GamesReliance Jio today announced a partnership with MediaTek. As a part of this partnership, the two companies have announced an online gaming tournament called ‘Gaming Masters’. Registrations for the upcoming 70-day long esports tournament began today and they will go on until January 9, 2021. Read moreWoman recreates father-daughter dance for grandma who couldn’t attend wedding. Video may leave you teary-eyedIf you’re someone who enjoys starting their day with some positive news, then here’s a wholesome tale you must check out. Shared by an Instagram user named Amber Rose, the post details the story of Rose’s ‘sweetest Christmas memory’. Read moreJaan Kumar Sanu admits there’s a ‘communication gap’ with dad Kumar Sanu, reacts to his comments about upbringingThe relationship that former Bigg Boss contestant, Jaan Kumar Sanu, shares with his father, the famed playback singer Kumar Sanu, has been fraught. Jaan was raised by his mother, after his parents separated when she was pregnant with him. Read moreWatch| ‘AAP to install free WiFi hotspot for farmers at Singhu border’: Raghav Chadha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-4-1-degrees-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tQS2wC9mEYjMZwOD4wscDO.html
30-12-2020||India||Have capability to hit terror targets across LoC, Rajnath Singh warns Pakistan||India has the capability to hit terrorist targets across the border if the need arises, Defence Minster Rajanth Singh has said and noted that Pakistan has been indulging in notorious actions along the border since its creation.In an exclusive interview with ANI, the minister said Pakistan has been resorting to 300-400 ceasefire violations in a few months but the Army gives a befitting reply. “Ever since its existence, Pakistan has been indulging in notorious actions along the border,” he said.The minister said the troops were working to eradicate terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. “The country’s soldiers have proved that not only this side, but to eliminate terrorism they can go to the other side and attack terrorist hideouts if the need arises. India has that capability, that power,” he said. India had carried out surgical strike on terror launch pads across the border in 2016 after Uri terror attack. It had carried out an aerial strike on terror camp in Balakot in 2019 following terror attack Pulwama. The minister had slammed Pakistan during the graduation parade at Airforce Academy in Dundigal earlier this month and said that the neighbouring country has continued with its “nefarious acts” on the border, even after losing four wars. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-capability-to-hit-terror-targets-across-loc-rajnath-singh-warns-pakistan/story-J0fXOJk53wqR2HEpuX6qNK.html
30-12-2020||India||Sabarimala temple to open for Makaravilakku festival today||The Sabarimala temple will open on December 30 at 5 pm for the annual festival of ‘Makaravilakku’, officials said on Monday. As per a statement from the Travancore Devasom Board (TDB), pilgrims will be allowed entry to the temple from the morning of December 31, 2020 till January 19, 2021. The temple will be closed on January 20.The virtual queue booking for the pilgrimage can be done online from the official website of the temple from December 28, it said.Entry to the temple will be limited to only 5,000 pilgrims per day. In light of the ongoing pandemic, a Covid-negative certificate, taken within 48 hours of the pilgrimage, will be mandatory for Ayyappa devotees visiting from December 31, the TDB said. “Those who do not have a Covid test negative certificate will not be allowed entry into Sabarimala. There would be no Covid-19 testing facility at Nilakkal,” it further said.Makaravilakku is a 41-day long annual puja festival celebrated at the shrine of Sabarimala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-makaravilakku-festival-today/story-5sBgQqCZlol6UYrZAB5sML.html
30-12-2020||India||Karnataka panchayat polls: Counting begins, Yediyurappa says candidates supported by BJP to win majority of seats||Counting of votes for 5,728 gram panchayats in Karnataka that went for polls in two phases, is taking place on Wednesday. The counting began at 8 am.As ballot papers were used in polls other than in Bidar district (where electronic voting machines or EVMs were used), the announcement of results may get delayed, polls officials said.Elections were held for 43,238 seats in the first phase on December 22, while voting took place for 39,378 seats in the second phase on December 27.While the first phase had seen a voter turnout of about 82 per cent, it was around 80 per cent in the second phase.A total of 2,22,814 candidates were in the fray. The voting took place in both phases with necessary Covid-19 precautions amid the prevailing pandemic situation.While gram panchayat polls are held on a party-less basis, all three main contenders - Congress, BJP and the regional Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) - are looking to have their party workers and sympathisers elected to a majority of panchayats.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday claimed that the candidates supported by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are likely to win majority of the seats.In the 2015 polls, the then ruling Congress in the state had won a majority of panchayats. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-panchayat-polls-counting-begins-yediyurappa-says-candidates-supported-by-bjp-to-win-majority-of-seats/story-GHsavzeRhGHHeImKC2fzJI.html
30-12-2020||India||India reported just 110 new Covid-19 cases per million population in last 7 days, health ministry data shows||Amid a sharp fall in India’s daily count of Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Wednesday released data, comparing the country’s new cases per million population in the last seven days with those in some of the world’s worst-affected countries in the same duration. The list of countries include the United States and Brazil, the worst and third-worst hit respectively. India has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe data, which is in the form of a bar graph, shows that India reported just 110 cases per million population, easily among the lowest in the world, as well as the lowest with the countries compared, in the last seven days. The United States and the United Kingdom, the graph shows, reported 3,964 and 3,656 cases, respectively, per million population. Italy was next with 1,563, followed by Russia (1,373), France (1,304) and Brazil (1,189). #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/g3OCRaa4rO As per the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker, the US has thus far reported more than 19.5 million cases of the disease. The tracker also shows that Brazil has recorded more than 7.5 million cases while Russia is at over 3 million. France and the UK, it shows, have more than 2.6 and 2.3 million cases respectively, with Italy’s tally being just over 2 million.Also Read | India records 16,432 new cases of Covid-19, recoveries cross 9.8 millionIndia’s Covid-19 tally, meanwhile, is at 10,224,303 as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard on December 29, with 16,432 infections being recorded in the preceding 24 hours. However, of these, more than 9.8 million patients have recovered while the death toll exceeds 148,000, the ministry’s data shows. Also on the day, the ministry reported India’s first six cases of the new coronavirus strain, as six returnees from the United Kingdom, where the strain was discovered in September, were found positive for it. While three samples tested positive in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, two were found positive in CCMB, Hyderabad, and one in NIV, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reported-just-110-new-covid-19-cases-per-million-population-in-last-7-days-health-ministry-data-shows/story-fJeMerlhYwGGbie4uHlAWK.html
30-12-2020||India||Covid-19 updates: US reports first case of new variant, Indonesia bans entry of foreigners||The United States, along with Chile, has become the latest country to report cases of the new strain of the coronavirus, which was first detected in the United Kingdom in mid-December. According to a study by Public Health England, the new variant does not cause illness more severe than other variants of the virus. Earlier, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had approved placing more regions of the country under the highest level of restrictions - also known as tier 4. The country’s health chief further warned that England is “back in the eye” of the Covid-19 storm, with as many patients in hospital as during the initial peak in April.Here are the latest updates on the new Covid-19 variant: 1. The United States reported the first case of the variant in Colorado. State officials said that the variant was found in a man in his 20s who has been in isolation in Southeast Denver in Elbert County adding that he has no travel history. Dwayne Smith, director of public health for Elbert County said that there was a second suspected case of the new variant in the state, according to Colorado Politics.2. On Tuesday, six cases of the new variant were detected in India, prompting the government to direct genome sequencing of samples from all passengers who arrived in the country between December 9-22 and tested positive for coronavirus or were symptomatic. The Union health ministry added that all six infected passengers were in isolation and their close contacts were being traced.3. The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association wrote to the Air India Director (Operations) demanding details regarding the variant. “We demand the company procure info from labs and promptly inform all pilots who have tested Covid positive and pilots who may test positive in future if they are infected with this deadlier variant of SARs-CoV-2,” the association said in the letter.Also Read: States scramble to locate hundreds of UK returnees4. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the national capital is ready to tackle the new variant of Covid-19 detected in the UK. Delhi’s daily Covid-19 tally has been below the 1,000-mark for five consecutive days with 703 new cases reported on Tuesday. Over 84,000 coronavirus tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.5. Chile on Tuesday recorded its first case of the British variant of Covid-19 which led to authorities reinstating a compulsory quarantine period for all visitors entering the country from abroad. Chilean undersecretary of health Paula Daza said a Chilean woman who returned on December 22 had tested positive for the variant. adding that Daz said that the woman had travelled to London to visit family adding that she was asymptomatic, in quarantine and in good health.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today6. Indonesia’s foreign minister Retno Marsudi said that visitors from abroad will be banned from entering the country for a period of two weeks in order to keep out the new potentially more contagious variant of Covid-19. The new order- which will be effective from January 1 - comes after the government had banned passengers arriving from the UK, and tightened rules for those arriving from Australia and Europe.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-updates-us-reports-first-case-of-new-variant-indonesia-bans-entry-of-foreigners/story-9cuR9nSAobNuHRb9pRoBfK.html
30-12-2020||India||27 UK returnees to Odisha untraceable, vague addresses hinder search||Amid reports of 6 UK returnees to India testing positive for the new variant of Covid-19, the Odisha government on Tuesday said that at least 27 residents of Odisha, who have returned from the United Kingdom in the last month, are untraceable.Of the 181 passengers who have returned to Odisha from the UK between November 30 and December 21, 154 could be traced, said director of Public Health, Dr Niranjan Mishra. “Though at least 92 of them had given only their phone numbers and vague address, we could reach around 65 of them today through persistent efforts. These UK returnees are spread across 18 districts in the State, of which a majority were in Bhubaneswar. There is nothing for these returnees to worry about. We will study their genome sequence and are following the SOP issued by the Centre,” he said.Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said zone-wise teams have been formed to trace the returnees based on their phone numbers and addresses. “Many people had used their international contact numbers for ticket booking which is a hurdle in tracing them. By tonight or tomorrow, we will get the entire list of the number of UK returnees and also those accessible or untraceable. We are verifying the list of returnees,” he said.Also Read: Odisha to introduce quota in engineering, medical colleges for state-run school pass outsChaudhary said, in the first phase, BMC had received a list of 20 travellers who had returned from the UK, of whom only three travellers had tested positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples have been sent to Pune for genome sequencing in order to find out if they had contracted the new Covid variant.Meanwhile, Odisha government geared up for Covid-19 vaccination drive with 21 lakh syringes and 26 ice-lined refrigerators arriving in Odisha. Health and family welfare department director and vaccine in-charge Bijay Panigrahi said 339 ILRs will be brought to the state in the coming days. A database of 3.26 lakh health workers has been prepared for the vaccination in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-uk-returnees-to-odisha-untraceable-vague-addresses-hinder-search/story-BiR5OlmyT1AawIhijMTKcK.html
30-12-2020||India||Centre, farmer unions to hold sixth round of talks today, protesters firm on demand for repeal of laws||The Centre and the protesting farmer unions will hold talks on Wednesday, the sixth round of dialogue between the two sides to resolve the deadlock. The talks will be held in Delhi after the farmer unions agreed to restart negotiations.The Centre had sent an invitation on Monday to these unions for holding the talks. The farmers are sticking to their position that the parleys will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new farm laws and giving a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) among other issues.Ahead of the crucial talks, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal on Tuesday met senior BJP leader and home minister Amit Shah.Tomar, the minister for agriculture, and Goyal, the minister for food and consumer affairs, and MoS commerce and Industry Som Parkash have been representing the Centre at the talks with the farmers. Tomar had said on Monday that he is hopeful of an early solution to the impasse.Total five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. The sixth round was originally scheduled for December 9, but talks were called off after an informal meeting of home minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough.Farmer unions have deferred to Thursday their proposed tractor march against the contentious agriculture laws, so that the rally does not clash with their talks with the government.Thousands of protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri - for over a month, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for MSP.The opposition has also been pressurising the government to find a solution to end this impasse. While the Congress is demanding an immediate repeal of the three laws, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) accused the Centre of bulldozing the farm laws without consulting states.NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that the opposition parties will take a call on their future course of action on Wednesday if the government fails to resolve the impasse.The three laws being opposed by the protesters are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 which were passed by Parliament in September.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-farmer-unions-to-hold-sixth-round-of-talks-today-protesters-firm-on-demand-for-repeal-of-laws/story-SRsnWNtFLuDvaBciFL794K.html
30-12-2020||India||16% rise in female cops, but share remains 2.98% in CAPFs: Report||There is a jump of 16.05 per cent in women in the police force in the year, Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR-D) observed in the Data on Police Organizations (DoPO) released for the year 2020 on Tuesday.As per an official release, this is for the first time in the history of BPR-D that DoPO for a particular year has been released during the year itself.“The BPR- D has been publishing the DoPO annually, since the year 1986. DoPO as on January 1, 2019, was released by the Union home minister Amit Shah, on January 29, 2020. This is for the first time in the history of BPR and D that DoPO for a particular year has been released during the year itself. Much effort has gone into verifying the data,” it stated.According to the report issued by BPR-D, there are 26,23,225 sanctioned police force in the country.“Similarly, the total actual police force is 20,91,488 with a vacancy of 5,31,737 in the police force,” it added.According to the report, there is a jump of 16.05 per cent for women police this year.But, in Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) like ITBP, BSF, CRPF, CISF, SSB, NSG total percentage of female police still remains at 2.98 per cent.“There are 29,249 female police in paramilitary forces which have 9,82,391 total personnel and officers,” it added.The report while giving details about police stations said that there are 16,855 sanctioned police stations in 800 districts.“More than 1,19,000 police personnel were recruited in the year 2019 and total vehicle available with the police are 4,60,220,” it added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-rise-in-female-cops-but-share-remains-2-98-in-capfs-report/story-du5IQa2xsg2261ieYr7zkO.html
30-12-2020||India||How the economy fared: the masses felt the brunt of Covid-19||The Indian economy was battling a crisis even before the Covid-19 pandemic threw it off the rails. Gross domestic product (GDP) growth has been falling for the past three years. From a peak of 8.26% in 2016-17, GDP growth slowed to 4.18% in 2019-20. To make matters worse, there were questions on the veracity of official GDP data – and when Arvind Subramanian, chief economic advisor in the Narendra Modi government’s first term, argued that the numbers were overestimates, the credibility crisis grew much bigger. That the government itself held back the release of a report on employment until the 2019 elections and junked a consumption survey after the findings were leaked to the media further muddied the waters. Then, Covid-19 struck. Come August 2020, when GDP estimates for the quarter ended June were released, all this took backstage, and for a valid reason. Thanks to a nationwide 68-day hard lockdown that started on March 25, India’s GDP contracted by a massive 24%. There has been a sequential recovery since, with the September contraction easing to 7.5%, but the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the economy to shrink by 7.5% in the current fiscal year. The public discourse has suddenly shifted from high growth to merely growth. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee’s projections of the economy growing at 0.1% and 0.7% in the quarters ending December 2020 and March 2021 have been received with enthusiasm. Also Read | Unprecedented rise in China’s ‘market-subverting’ impact on global economy going forward: Niti AayogThat the Indian economy is making a sequential recovery (month-on-month) is beyond doubt. Measures such as the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) suggest that economic activity is already very close to pre-pandemic levels. However, that is not the central question anymore. Come June 2021, the base effect will give an artificial boost to growth numbers for at least four quarters. For instance, even if the June 2021 GDP growth rate is 20%, it would mean that in absolute terms the GDP would still be lower than what it was in the quarter ending June 2019. The real economic challenge for India lies beyond 2021-22. Once the favourable base effect has subsided, what will India’s growth trajectory be? It is this question that has polarised economists. One school of thought – the government subscribes to this – is that the pandemic’s shock has unleashed what the Austrian-born Harvard economist Joseph Schumpeter described as the process of creative destruction. Inefficient businesses and policies, which were holding back the India growth story, have perished with the pandemic and what awaits us is a radical realignment of productive resources which will unleash hitherto untapped tailwinds for growth. This would not have been possible had the government not unleashed second generation reforms in critical areas such as agriculture and labour, which its predecessors shied away from implementing, not because of ideological differences but lack of political will and mandate. More could happen on this front, especially on disinvestment and perhaps corporate houses being allowed to run banks once again. There are credible and respected economists who subscribe to this.The other school of thought – and this too has credible economists subscribing to it -- believes that the pandemic’s shock will only exacerbate the crisis the economy found itself in earlier. The pre-pandemic economic slowdown was not a result of lack of second-generation reforms, but a lack of demand, they argue. India’s rich, while they are a significant number in absolute terms, are not enough to drive the country’s macro growth story. They might also have increased their precautionary savings in the wake of the pandemic. It is the poor, who spend a much larger part of what they earn, sometimes even more, who matter for mass demand and hence growth. It is this large underclass, whose incomes took a hit from policies such as demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax, which has also suffered disproportionately during the pandemic. While the policy response offered them subsistence-level support through increased allocations on the rural employment guarantee scheme and free rations, it has not done much to provide what economists refer to as a fiscal counter-cyclical boost. On the contrary, the reforms, which are being held up as revolutionary, might trigger a fresh income squeeze on this underclass. In the name of getting rid of local middlemen, farmers may be exposed to corporate buyers with much larger bargaining power than earlier. The labour reforms might have done away with even basic protections at workplace. The current recovery is more likely to be profit-led than wage-led, economists are telling us. This also means that it has a much smaller base. The pandemic’s headwinds to mass demand could generate a vicious cycle and stall growth. Also Read | Post-Covid economic recovery: Can the rich also hurt growth?Both arguments have their merits – and their proponents. It is unlikely that the debate will be settled anytime soon. And interestingly, there are enough data points to support both arguments. If high-frequency indicators support one, consumer confidence surveys, support the other. And we will not have anytime soon, the comprehensive employment and consumption spending data (the best proxy for income data in India) that is indispensible for this debate to be settled this way or the other. This is exactly why the state of politics needs to be tracked as closely as the economy. In Narendra Modi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has a leader whose popular appeal is unmatched by any Indian politician in decades. While there is a clear ideological, Hindutva component to Modi’s popularity, it is also based on a simultaneous process of delivering centralised welfare benefits to a large number of poor people. The ability to keep delivering on this front depends on budgetary resources, themselves a function of overall economic growth. While moves such as demonetisation and the implementation of GST in Modi’s first term were portrayed as a surgical strike against the corrupt, current second generation reforms are being sold as changes which will boost the income (not asset holdings such as toilets, or houses or cooking gas cylinders) of the poor. Which is why the only thing that can be said with certainty at this point of time is that the jury assessing the economy’s performance is likely to move beyond economists and expand to include the people at large. Limited capacity to absorb Covid-19 shock due to downturnThe Indian economy was in an acute downturn even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth fell from 8.3% in 2016-17 to just 4.2% in 2019-20. The slowdown came against the backdrop of two big policy disruptions to the economy: demonetisation in November 2016 and the roll-out of Goods and Services Tax in July 2017. Because both government revenue and corporate health took a hit from the prolonged slowdown, the capacity of the Indian economy to absorb the Covid-19 shock was already limited.  Among major economies globally, one of the worst hitIndia has been among the worst hit by the economic impact of Covid-19. According to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook published in October, India’s GDP is expected to contract by 10.3% this year. This is a much higher contraction than that expected for most major economies of the world. While economic growth is expected to increase sharply to 8.8% in the next fiscal year, this is more a reflection of the base effect and the 2021-22 GDP is likely to be lower than the 2019-20 level. To be sure, many other institutional and private forecasters have projected a lower contraction . For example, the Reserve Bank of India has projected a 7.5% contraction in India’s GDP this year. Even if the RBI’s projection turns out to be correct, the fact remains that India will be among the worst performing major economies this year.  Fiscal stimulus not enough of a responseIndia imposed one of the most stringent lockdowns among all countries in the world on March 25. For the next 68 days, when the maximum restrictions were in place, economic activity took a huge hit. It was primarily the lockdown that led to a collapse in GDP in the June quarter this year, causing growth to contract by a record 23.9%. Once the restrictions were eased, a sequential economic recovery has been gaining momentum. Most high frequency indicators, be it the Nomura India Business Resumption Index or Purchasing Managers’ Indices, capture this trend clearly. While most economists agree that India has done well to deal with the supply-side impact of the pandemic, the jury is still out on whether or not this sequential recovery will face demand-side headwinds.  Economic recovery gaining momentumWhile India imposed one of the harshest lockdowns to deal with the spread of the virus, the economic policy response to the pandemic, at least the fiscal part of it, has been among the weakest in the world. A very large part of the economic policy response to Covid-19 has focused on credit guarantees and liquidity measures, even as calls for fiscal intervention to spur demand and income growth became louder. While the government did announce some key pro-poor measures such as increasing allocation on the rural employment guarantee programme and providing free rations, their overall fiscal impact was limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-economy-fared-the-masses-felt-the-brunt-of-covid-19/story-88Hpt6wCC5ZUkl4lLIawFL.html
30-12-2020||India||6 UK returnees positive for new coronavirus mutation||Six cases of a more infectious strain of the coronavirus have been found in people who arrived from the UK, the government said on Tuesday, before top experts called for “extraordinary precautions” and senior officials indicated that a flight ban on the UK may be extended further to stop the spread of the mutation. All six of the infected people were now in isolation, the health ministry said in a statement, adding that their fellow travellers and close contacts were being traced. At least one of them, 47-year-old Mary Winfred Ann Parrie, left the quarantine facility at Delhi airport after landing, and took a train to Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh before she was tracked down.In all, the government has identified over 30,000 people who returned from UK to monitor for infections, but the effort has been complicated by many disclosing inaccurate contact details. Also Read | States scramble to locate hundreds of UK returnees“Data from UK confirms it is more transmissible. The variant is spreading there very rapidly and displacing other variants. This is very important globally because increased transmission will increase number of people infected and therefore number of severe cases. That’s why we should take extraordinary precautions,” said K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor (PSA) to the government, while adding that the mutations seen in the variant do not appear to be such that will make current coronavirus vaccines ineffective.  Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry confirmed that genomic testing had found the new variant – at present known as VOC-202012/01 – in three samples at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (Nimhans) Bengaluru, in two at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and in one at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. State officials later disclosed that three of these people were from Karnataka, and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. “All these persons have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine,” the Union ministry said. First detected in London and Kent in mid-September, the variant was identified by UK authorities as a matter of concern on December 14. They later disclosed evidence that it appeared to be more transmissible, and was behind a spike in cases in the country’s capital as well as its south-east. The variant has 23 changes in its genome, eight of which appear to influence the spike protein that the pathogen uses to latch on to host cells. Some of the other changes could make it more adept at infecting susceptible cells and possibly even evade some immune response, although detailed studies are underway. In a preliminary assessment released late on Monday, UK scientists estimated that VOC-202012/01 did not lead to more deaths or hospitalisations but caused noticeably more secondary infections than the older variant. “Vaccines will work against the new variants. They help develop wide range of neutralizing antibodies, so the whole repertoire of protective antibodies that is being created with the current set of vaccines is enough to tackle the current variations in the virus,” said VijayRaghavan.A second top expert, Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said significant mutations such as the new variant could impact infection control efforts. “This can destabilise systems in India as well as the world. This particular strain may have its own run, hence we have to be very careful,” he said, while also urging people to not let their guard down during New Year celebrations. “Please remember it’s easy to suppress a new virus in the beginning because chain of transmission is smaller,” he added. Both officials outlined several steps the government was taking to tackle the new threat. These include regular testing of a proportion of positive samples by a new consortium of government labs called Insacog and aggressive test-and-trace activities for those who returned from UK as well as any other individual who is found with the new strain.Paul and VijayRaghavan were part of the government’s weekly briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan opened the briefing, the last for the year, by highlighting numbers that reflected the outbreak was receding in the country. “The cumulative positivity rate is now 6.02%, and over the last week, it has come down to 2.25%,” he said.To protect these gains, the public will need to keep their guard up, the officials reiterated.“The numbers are showing consistent decline, which is very reassuring. This is particularly since several nations are facing a devastating situation and that is also a very sobering moment for all of us,” said Paul, urging people not to hold large New Year parties since “they can become superspreading events”.Experts said not much changes in terms of how the disease is handled, based on what is known about the UK variant. “It (new strain) was always likely. Nothing changes in terms of what we need to do. Usual precautions will work well for this variant as well,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-uk-returnees-positive-for-new-coronavirus-mutation/story-g0caDjko5oskQaIDvxA9RK.html
30-12-2020||India||Where India stands in global Covid-19 spread||The graph of daily new Covid-19 cases and deaths in India has been on a decreasing trend for at least three months, after daily new cases and deaths peaked in mid-September. An average of nearly 22,000 new cases was recorded in India every day in the week ending December 27, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. This is less than a quarter of the nearly 92,000 daily new cases reported on average in mid-September . This drop in new cases is not a reflection of a global trend. The daily new cases in countries such as the US and Russia continue to grow. This trend has now placed India in a better place globally in terms of the Coronavirus disease than it was three to four months ago.India’s share of new Covid-19 cases down to 4.5%India imposed a stringent lockdown to curb the spread of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in late March while its daily new cases peaked in the middle of September. India’s share of new confirmed infections in the world kept increasing every month in this period. Less than 1% of the new cases in March were reported from India while its share in new cases in September was an overwhelming 31%, which means nearly every third positive case in the world was reported in India. This is based on data compiled by the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center. The number of new cases India reported in August and September was more than any other country (the US, with half the number of new cases, was in the second position). In terms of deaths as well, India was the country with the highest number of reported Covid-19-related deaths in September.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe figures look better now. This month (upto December 27), India was behind two other countries (US and Brazil) in terms of new reported cases while it was behind seven other countries in terms of new reported deaths. India’s share of new cases decreased from 31% in September to only 4.5% in December. The country’s share of deaths fell from 20.5% in September to 3.5% this month (again, upto December 27). This means India is not as significant a contributor to global Covid-19 cases and deaths as it was in September. India has not seen a second wave of casesAmong the five countries with the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases, India is the only one to not have seen a second wave of cases, at least as of now. It has been about 10 months since Covid-19 was declared a pandemic, and many big countries have seen multiple waves of new cases in this period. The US and the UK are in their third wave of cases while countries such as Italy, France and Spain have recently crossed their second waves. Russia seems to be near the peak of its second wave now. But the case trajectory in India shows a clear peak in mid-September followed by a continued drop in the daily new cases. There was only a brief disruption in this decreasing trend in mid-November when cases in some of India’s big states such as Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan started increasing again, signalling the possibility of a second wave. But that did not hold for long and cases across India continued to decrease. This has happened despite the country seeing potential superspreader events such as Diwali that was marked by large crowds gathering in marketplaces and the Bihar assembly elections. India has a low death rateIndia has the second highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the world but the country is in the third position for the total number of deaths. This gap would have been wider if only new cases and deaths are taken into account, with India being in third place by number of new cases in December and in eighth place by number of new deaths. This is because India’s case fatality rate (deaths as a share of confirmed cases) is low, in fact the lowest among 10 countries with the highest number of deaths. Nearly 148,000 people have died of Covid-19 in India, which is 1.4% of nearly 10.2 million confirmed cases so far. Among the top 10 countries, the fatality rate is the highest in Mexico, at 8.8%. The US has 87% more cases than India, but 125% more deaths. On the other hand, India has 37% more cases than Brazil but has reported 23% fewer deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-india-stands-in-global-covid-19-spread/story-7nWIEZHEbjmYsazJP4HMOL.html
30-12-2020||India||Experimental therapies not to be used indiscriminately, warns ICMR||The India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday warned against indiscriminate use of experimental therapies in treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , saying it puts too much immune pressure on the Sars-Cov-2 virus, causing it to mutate faster.The warning comes in the backdrop of the discovery in the UK of a new variant of the virus that causes Covid-19. The new strain, scientists say, is more transmissible than the original one. “The question arises why should these variations occur? These variations occur because of the immune pressure on the virus. The immune pressure on the virus may be related to the environment, may be related to the host, or may be related to your treatment, or may be related to other modalities which cause this pressure on the virus. Therefore, it is important from the scientific community perspective also that we do not put immune pressure on the virus,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. Dr Bhargava’s remarks came at the government press briefing on Covid-19 updates on Tuesday.Six UK returnees have tested positive for the new UK variant of Sars-Cov-2, according to the initial results of genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (INASCOG) labs on Tuesday. Three of the samples that came in positive for the new UK variant were from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, two from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and one from ICMR-National Institute Virology, Pune.“Also, why we have to maintain judicious use of therapies which are going to benefit; if their benefit is not established, we should not use those therapies otherwise they would put tremendous immune pressure on the virus, and the virus will tend to mutate more. Therapies that are well established should be used, and those that are not well-established their judicious use has to happen,” Bhargava added.Critics of convalescent plasma therapy in the past had pointed out how its indiscriminate use could lead to significant mutations in the virus.From November 25 to the midnight of December 23, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from UK.All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by the states to Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction ( RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19. Of all the samples tested, 114 samples have been found Covid-19 positive so far. These positive samples have been sent to 10 INSACOG labs for genome sequencing.Bhargava said: “Genetic mutations occur in these respiratory viruses; and these minor drifts may occur from time to time. Once several drifts occur then they can become important and can become the variant as has happened in the United Kingdom, which has higher transmissibility of about 60% or so. That is a point of concern although we are testing in India for the variations regularly.”Genomics experts, however, say there is not much of a change in terms of how the disease is handled after finding the new UK variant in India.“It was always likely. Nothing changes in terms of what we need to do. Usual precautions will work well for this variant as well,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Clinical microbiologists also say that the testing process will also largely remain the same in laboratories.“Increased transmissibility means more people will get infected and since there are no implications on the pathogenicity, which is its ability to cause disease, it isn’t much of a concern. For Covid-19 detection the same RT-PCR testing will be conducted, and government’s surveillance system is already in place that will be conducting large-scale genome sequencing to check for the new variant. So nothing essentially changes on ground,” said Dr Navin Kumar, head of clinical microbiology and infection prevention, Manipal Hospital, New Delhi. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experimental-therapies-not-to-be-used-indiscriminately-warns-icmr/story-XLCI9Zvl4gXRMnOnrQYbVI.html
30-12-2020||India||PM inaugurates 351-km dedicated freight corridor in UP, hits out at previous govts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated on Tuesday the 351-km New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC) and Operation Control Centre (OCC) in Uttar Pradesh’s  Prayagraj via video conferencing. Speaking at the inauguration, the PM also accused the previous governments of delaying the dedicated freight corridor project and ignoring modernisation of railways. “Our past experiences tell us that the infrastructure projects related to the country’s development should be kept out of politics. The country’s infrastructure is not tied to any party’s ideology. It is not meant for five years, but a mission to benefit the people of the country.”The prime minister further stressed that this project was the living example of the work culture of his government, as the freight project was given permission in 2006 but the then government lacked the “seriousness and urgency” with which it had to take it up with the states. However, he added, “till 2014, not a single km track of the project was laid and the funds sanctioned could not be spent properly. After 2014 ,it was restarted and officials asked to take it forward and by then the budget had gone up by 11 times”.The 351 km Khurja – Bhaupur section in the Eastern DFC, Uttar Pradesh, is built at a cost of Rs 5,750 crores.The new stations in this section are Bhaupur, Kanchausi, Achalda, Ekdil, Bhadan, Makhanpur, Tundla, Hathras, Daudkan & Khurja.  Some of the important Industrial Areas that straddle this section are Aligarh, Khurja, Firozabad and Agra, railway ministry said.“The Dedicated Freight Corridor shall reform the transportation sector and will create more capacity on trunk routes of Indian Railways as goods trains shall be able to ply freely on Dedicated Freight Corridor without any restrictions imposed by movement of passenger trains,” the ministry said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-inaugurates-351-km-dedicated-freight-corridor-in-up-hits-out-at-previous-govts/story-LTA6pWggrXJ0SLKxoOIwrN.html
30-12-2020||India||Pakistan has become pawn in Chinese policy: IAF chief RKS Bhadauria||Pakistan has increasingly become a pawn of China and the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan has opened options for Beijing to expand its influence in the region through Islamabad, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday.In an address at a seminar organised by think-tank Vivekananda International Foundation, he said Pakistan’s dependence on China is going to increase as the country is set to reel under a Chinese debt-trap.Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said India’s “most important” national security challenge is to understand China, its “possible game plan” and the deepening and evolving Sino-Pak relationship.“Pakistan has increasingly become a pawn in Chinese policy. Under an increasing CPEC (China-Pakistan Economic Corridor) related debt trap, we are going to witness further military dependencies in the future,” he said.“The US exit from Afghanistan has opened increased options for China in the region -- both direct and through Pakistan -- allowing it a possible entry into Central Asia, a region that they have been eyeing for long,” the IAF chief added.The Air Chief Marshal said coercion and economic dependence are being used as tools for making weaker countries accept one-sided actions, in an apparent reference to China.“We are now witnessing a rise in attempts to alter the status quo through wanton disregard or selective interpretation of established international laws and norms. Coercion and economic dependence are being used as tools for making weaker countries accept one-sided actions, thereby undermining the established order itself at the international level,” he said.“Fragile states find it convenient to align with dominant powers to ensure regime survival, thereby affecting the regional security scenario further and something we need to increasingly factor in in our national security matrix,” he added.Replying to a question on possible military cooperation among India, the US, Japan and Australia under the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition, he did not rule out such a possibility and indicated that discussions are underway.“Quad, as a kind of execution, has not happened so far. But as a plan of action, it is possible,” he said.Without naming China, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also referred to the “debt-trap diplomacy” to achieve geopolitical goals by ensnaring the recipient countries with loans that cannot be repaid.He said it has allowed “foreign created and controlled” ports and facilities very close to the Indian mainland and island territories. “With the new PLA doctrines underscoring the importance of developing force projection capabilities to counter US global dominance, there is a direct impact of such development on our security matrix,” he said.“For example, what happens if China was to use one of such launching pads for an action against us in a conflict situation? Does the third country port or launching pad become a target for us or not? What are the implications? It is something we need to factor in, it is something that needs to go into our planning process and thinking process,” he said.Talking about national security challenges, the IAF chief said there are very few major states that still have unsettled borders to the extent India does to its north.“On our northern borders, the Himalayan barrier, which separated South Asia from China, has been literally flattened by the massive infrastructural development and the time it takes to travel large distances has really shrunk,” he said.“The western border has been active from the day Pakistan was created. In addition to the terrorism inflicted upon us through proxy actions, we have been thwarting continuous attempts by our adversary to breach our territory and sovereignty on many occasions,” he said.The IAF chief said the Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific regions are witnessing a tectonic shift in the strategic sphere as the maritime trade and the economic centre of gravity drift towards them.“With the West and the US in a strategic retreat for the last couple of years, it has opened up a window of opportunity for a geo-strategic realignment and this is being largely shaped by China. China’s rapid economic growth and expanding economy has allowed it to invest heavily into military technology and research and development,” he said. PTI MPB RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-has-become-pawn-in-chinese-policy-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria/story-AcU8FvsR6eieG2W4c7P8KN.html
30-12-2020||India||When Zoom became a verb, and home, an office||Till February 2020, the 29-year-old (name withheld to protect identity) was an upwardly mobile driver in Chennai. In 2016, he bought three cars spending upward of Rs 35 lakh — to ferry passengers for an aggregator service. His equated monthly instalments (EMIs) come to Rs 26,000, but he hired two drivers and his own expenses were low. Having migrated from a village in Villupuram four years ago, he lived with three other unmarried men like himself in a hostel in Teynampet; he enjoyed his work, driving in the streets of the big city, striking up conversations with people from around the country, and sometimes, the world. Then, in March, his life was upended as India declared a lockdown.“I haven’t been able to pay my EMIs since March,” he said. After the moratorium on loans announced by the Reserve Bank of India ended August 31, he requested his bank to excuse him till the year-end. “I don’t know what I’m going to do next year,” he said. Though he has been back on the road since June, when Tamil Nadu allowed cabs and autos to ply again, passengers are few. His drivers have long quit their jobs and returned to their villages. “I don’t know how much longer we can rely on driving for a living,” he said.Around nine kilometers away, the 15,000 sq ft office of SaaS (software as a service) company, Kissflow Inc, in Tidel Park — complete with a pool table, a café bar and swings as seating — is being made ready for the 225-odd employees set to return starting January 2021 in a “3+1” workflow model adopted by founder Suresh Sambandam. They have been working from home since the national lockdown was announced. In the new system, every fourth week, a cluster of teams that work together will be asked to come to office —it’s voluntary, Sambandam added. “We want them to come to work, hang out with each other, go into huddles. This will help teams bond and it’s fine that only 50% of the work is getting done that week,” he said. The rest of the time, they will continue to work from home. And the town hall meetings, which took place every Friday for all employees, will continue to take place over video conferencing.The pandemic has affected work and life in a manner that has been both unprecedented and disruptive. Zoom, once an app, is now a verb, and it’s not the only indication of its meteoric rise in popularity. On August 31, video conferencing app makers, Zoom Video Communications posted $663.5 million in revenue in the second quarter. In comparison, last year, its revenue was $145.8 million. As offices began to ask their employees to work from home (WFH) — India’s largest software services company, Tata Consultancy Services, announced that up to 75% of its global workforce will work from home by 2025 for instance — it became clear that such digital tools would become the norm.However, the pandemic was also a year where joblessness soared. According to a livelihood survey carried out by researchers of Azim Premji University among nearly 5,000 self-employed, casual, and regular wage workers across 12 states, nearly 87% of the self-employed workers in urban areas reported that they had lost their employment. The survey also found a massive increase in unemployment and a dramatic fall in earnings. Even those who were still employed saw a fall in earnings.For 35-year-old Ganga, who sold fruit in Delhi’s Shankar Market before Covid struck, this year has pushed her further into precarity. Ganga, who lost her income when the lockdown was instituted and markets were closed, eventually found work in a small-scale factory. However, her income was considerably less. To spin a wheel that wrapped bicycle tyres, she would receive as little as 40 paise a wheel; it added up to anywhere between Rs 5,000 to 6,000 a month. In December, the factory asked Ganga to leave because the supply of wheels to wrap fell short. Experiences have been disparate, but a common concern emerged around the world: companies were forced to consider how the open office could be made safer for clusters of employees.  At an online webinar in April, Delhi-based architect Manit Rastogi, founding partner of architecture firm Morphogenesis, predicted that larger companies may consider a hub-and-spoke model: smaller offices or spokes that lie close to their employees’ homes which do not require them to run the risk of contracting or spreading the coronavirus by travelling to the main office, or the hub. In this solution, technology serves as the bridge. “We have moved from an industrial model of work, everyone clocking in and out, to a post-pandemic model, which is about productivity,” Rastogi said. Furniture-makers have teamed up with scientists to research what constitutes a safe open office. In June, US furniture company Steelcase announced that it had teamed up with disease transmission specialist Dr Lydia Bouroubia, the director of The Fluid Dynamics of Disease Transmission Laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who has been studying the spread of pathogens through fluids like droplets in the air. Other companies introduced new products into the market tapping into that very basic need of any office goer: comfortable workspaces. Subodh Mehta, senior vice president (B2C) Godrej Interio said that their work from home furniture range, which previously “comprised about 3% of the sales, increased five times” during the lockdown and subsequent unlock months. This included sales of the 30 new products launched this year.However, author Aparna Piramal Raje said WFH was more of a “living at work” situation, which isn’t sustainable. Most companies, she argued, will come up with a “hybrid plan”. Sambandam’s Kissflow is already on it.(With inputs from Divya Chandrababu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-zoom-became-a-verb-and-home-an-office/story-2RlqLn3QOUvlaVG6yd0UCL.html
30-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Six cases of Covid-19 caused by Sars-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01 (or B.1.1.7 as some are calling it) have been diagnosed in India. All six are patients who flew in from the UK over the past week, who tested positive for the virus, and whose samples were then sent for genome sequencing which confirmed the presence of the mutant strain – it has up to 23 mutations – of the coronavirus that was first sequenced in the UK in September. This shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone (over the past week, I’ve repeatedly emphasised that there is a high likelihood of the variant already being in India). The new strain is the predominant one in the UK, especially London; there have been 70 flights a week from the UK to India since May; and until last Monday, when it was tightened, the screening process for passengers arriving in India was a sham (it had started off well, but, over time, came to rely more on documentation and self-declaration and less on the actual screening itself).The identification of the new strain here should spur health authorities in India to aggressively trace all those who travelled to India from the UK over the past month (at the least). Some of them may be asymptomatic carriers who have passed on the virus to others. The contact tracing process is hampered by human stupidity – at least some of the people who have travelled into India from the UK, it emerges, have provided false addresses or phone numbers; some recent travellers are believed to be keeping their phones switched off so that they cannot be reached (see page 11). This is behaviour that is potentially harmful not just to themselves and the people in their immediate vicinity (friends and family), but the public at large.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageDispatch 233, on December 28, explained that researchers in the UK have found out that the new strain is 56% more infective than the old one. It isn’t known whether the mutant strain causes more severe cases of Covid-19 or results in more fatalities, but this is actually irrelevant. The mere fact that the variant is more infective is enough: this logically means more cases of the coronavirus disease. Even assuming that the rate of hospitalisations and deaths does not change at all for the new variant (and is exactly the same as it is for Sars-CoV-2), the higher number of cases (caused by the higher infectiveness of the variant) will mean more hospitalisations and more deaths. And even assuming the proportion of hospitalisations that turns into severe cases remains constant, it means an increase in the number of severe cases. Indeed, because the higher infectiveness means more infections, which means even more infections, and so on, in a classic exponential progression, the new strain leads to a scenario which results in more deaths than even an increase in the case fatality rate would. That’s all the more reason for health authorities here to trace and isolate, something that most states have become pretty careless about, with the number of daily new cases falling. India ended Monday with just around 270,000 active cases, according to the HT dashboard (the US has 7.7 million).Also Read | Where India stands in global Covid-19 spreadIndia is the 21st country to have identified the new variant of the virus. The others are: Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, Israel, Canada, Lebanon, Sweden, Ireland, Belgium, Finland, Iceland, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, and France. There is another strain, which shares some characteristics of B.1.1.7 that has been identified in South Africa and Nigeria. Over the course of the week, the last of the year, more countries will identify the UK strain in people testing positive, just as India itself will see more cases caused by the new strain. It’s a year-end challenge that the country should negotiate carefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Vuq1mRYWOLbJbeUDiryerJ.html
30-12-2020||India||GST revenue may exceed Rs 1 lakh crore for third consecutive month||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in December are expected to exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore for the third consecutive month, signifying sustained recovery in business activity. Revenue from the tax on consumption has been on an uptrend after staying in contraction mode for six months in a row since March because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 68-day nationwide hard lockdown.According to available data so far, GST collections look good, with increased demand from consumers in the festive season, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity. The finance ministry will release GST revenue data on Friday.“Even key economic indicators point towards a sustained recovery. GDP (gross domestic product) numbers for the second quarter is quite encouraging compared to the previous quarter. This improvement will be reflected in the GST revenues,” one of the officials said.EY India chief policy advisor DK Srivastava said, “The high frequency indicators have been showing a slow but sustained turnaround.” India’s GDP contraction moderated sharply at 7.5% in the second quarter of 2020-21 compared to 23.9% in the preceding quarter. The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing remained high at 56.3 in November, while PMI services was at 53.7 in November. An index of over 50 in PMI indicates expansion.Reflecting the trend, GST collections have shown positive growth since September. While GST revenue in September could not cross the Rs 1 lakh crore benchmark, it still saw a 4% growth to Rs 95,480 crore that month compared to a year ago. Revenue collection in October saw an impressive 10% year-on-year growth to Rs 1,05,155 crore. And collections in November also saw a 1.4% year-on-year growth to Rs 1,04,963 crore.Rajesh Gupta, co-founder and director of accounting software firm Busy Infotech, expects GST collection in December to exceed the November figure of Rs 1,04,963 crore.But he cautioned that the demand could decline after the festive season. “Government should take measures in advance to support businesses post festive season because sustaining the collections in the months of February and March will be a real challenge,” he said.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of the financial technology platform ClearTax, said, “GST collections for December 2020 are expected to remain stable at current levels due to the ongoing festive and holiday season. Further, the implementation of the e-invoicing system since October 2020 will continue to scale the numbers. The system curbs fake invoicing and (fake) input tax credit menace to a greater extent.”Gupta added that the December number could also benefit from a backlog. “To some extent, tax payments via Form DRC-03 while filing GST annual returns for FY 2018-19 & FY 2019-20, due by 31 December , may contribute to the revenue coffers,” he said. Form DRC-03 is a digital intimation of payment made by the taxpayer voluntarily or made against a show cause notice issued by authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-revenue-may-exceed-rs-1-lakh-crore-for-third-consecutive-month/story-JWrgbg1NEkANkd8wQHcrMO.html
30-12-2020||India||‘Political murder’: Kumaraswamy decries death of Karnataka legislative council deputy chairman||JDS leader and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy condoled the passing away of Karnataka legislative council deputy chairman SL Dharmegowda on Tuesday and called it a “political murder”. He said, “He was more than a brother to me. He was very hurt by the way he was treated by some members during the recent council proceedings and felt humiliated. It is not suicide but a political murder.”Kumaraswamy was referring to a recent one day sitting of the council where the BJP and the JDS joined hands to try and remove legislative council chairman Prathapchandra Shetty who belongs to Congress by bringing in a no-confidence motion. Dharmegowda tried to preside over the proceedings but was manhandled by some Congress members with Shetty later rejecting the motion citing procedural lapses.Dharmegowda’s body was recovered from a railway track at Gunasagar village of Kadur Taluk in Chikmagalur district in the early hours of Tuesday, state police said.65-year-old Gowda is believed to have died by suicide. The police are examining an alleged death note found near his body. According to police sources, Gowda had asked his official gunman and escort to leave him alone on Monday evening. He had left his home in Shakarayapatna in an old personal Santro car with his driver and came to Gunasagar at around 6 pm. He then asked his driver Dharmaraj to leave him alone and wait at a distance as he had to meet someone.Also read: ‘Chinese air force heavily deployed in Ladakh theatre in support of PLA’ - IAF chiefHis last call is said to have been to a friend named Hemant and he is said to have made enquiries about train timings. When Gowda did not return home even late at night, worried family members are said to have alerted authorities who mounted a search. By then, his cellphone was turned off but based on his last cell signals, they searched and located his body on the Mankenahalli railway track.The police sent the body for autopsy to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga and he was later buried at the Madagadakere farmhouse that the family owns in Shakaryapatna. The JD(S) MLC is said to have been distressed over the way he was treated by some members during recent chaos in the council when he was manhandled.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah, KPCC president DK Shivakumar and former PM Deve Gowda were among other leaders who expressed shock and condoled the death of Dharmegowda.Leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah rejected Kumaraswamy’s charges and said, ‘he was a personal friend to me. His father Lakshmaiah who was a legislator was well known to me and the entire family was close to me. One has to look who forced him to sit (in the council chairman’s chair)”.CM Yediyurappa too condoled the death and flew to Kadur to play his last respects. “The entire state is shocked by the demise. I pray to God to give his family strength to face this,” he said.Former PM Deve Gowda broke down while talking about Dharmegowda and said, “It is shocking to learn the news of deputy speaker of state legislative council and JDS leader SL Dharmegowda’s suicide. He was a calm and decent man. This is a loss of the state.”Revenue minister R Ashoka too blamed the opposition’s behaviour towards Dharmegowda for his extreme step. “I have been told that he has mentioned this incident of what happened in the Council recently in the note that has been recovered. We will know once the full investigation is complete.”Also read: CDC forecasts 400,000 US Covid deaths before Trump’s exitA close associate of JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy, Gowda hailed from an influential political family. His father SR Lakshmaiah was a three-time MLA from Birur assembly constituency and Gowda himself had once been elected from there in 2004. Gowda’s brother SL Bhojegowda is also an MLC.Speaking to HT Bhojegowda said, “There were no personal or financial reasons for him to take this extreme step. He was upset about what had happened (in the council). I and other party leaders had told him not to take things to heart as these are common in politics, but he seemed to have taken it very seriously.” Police have not released the content of the alleged death note. A case has been registered in Ariskere police station and senior police officials said that further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-murder-kumaraswamy-decries-death-of-karnataka-legislative-council-deputy-chairman/story-HbPPPXL5vR2f8NuaEfPIPJ.html
30-12-2020||India||At 3.6 degrees, Delhi feels like 2° due to strong, chilly winds||Residents of north-west India shivered in cold wave or severe cold wave conditions on Tuesday, with icy winds blowing across the Capital making the weather seem more frigid than it actually was. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative weather data for Delhi, recorded a minimum temperature of 3.6 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s “feels like” temperature, which takes into account wind speeds and humidity to assess how the human body perceives the temperature, was as low as 2 degrees Celsius, weather scientists said. That was mainly because of strong, chilly winds blowing at 15 to 20kmph that enhanced the perception of cold, they said.“For example, in winter a strong wind can feel much colder than the measured temperature would indicate. Conversely, on a humid day in summer, it can feel uncomfortably hotter than the air temperatures would suggest..,” according to the UK Met Office.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches less than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.Also Read | Expect cold wave, fog in Delhi in the next four days: IMDDelhi’s Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded minimum temperatures of 2.7 and 2.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum temperature in the city on Tuesday was 18.1 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees below normal.Many stations in the northern plains recorded 0 degree or near 0 degrees Celsius minimum temperatures. Hisar and Narnaul, both in Haryana, recorded 0 degree and 0.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. Amritsar (Punjab) recorded a minimum temperature of 0.4 degrees Celsius. Bhilwara, Pilani, Sikar and Churu (all in Rajasthan) recorded a minimum temperature of 0.9, 0.9; 0.5 and 0.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.“Severe cold wave was recorded in many parts of Punjab and Haryana and cold wave conditions were recorded in Delhi,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.“Extremely cold winds from snow-clad Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh are reaching the plains now. The average wind speed was around 15kmph in Delhi, which increased the feeling of chill so the “feels like” temperature was around 2 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperatures will be low for the next two days and may even dip further,” he said.New Year’s Day is likely to bring relief, when the minimum temperature is forecast to rise to around 5 degrees Celsius and to around 7 degrees Celsius on January 2 and 3, Shrivastava said.A fresh western disturbance is likely to hit the Western Himalayan region around January 4, which may bring light rains and thundershowers to the plains including Delhi.Under the influence of the strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/northerly lower-level winds, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by about 2 degrees Celsius over most parts of north-west and central India during the next three days and rise by 3-5 degrees Celsius over the subsequent three days (January 1 to 3).Ground frost conditions are likely over northern Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next two days.“Many parts of north-west India are reaching the freezing point. We are expecting December 31 to be the coldest. Around January 2, a cyclonic circulation is likely to form over south Rajasthan and anticyclone over Chhattisgarh and Odisha. A confluence zone is likely to develop over Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan which is likely to bring rain to Punjab, Haryana and Delhi,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president of climate change and meteorology at private forecaster Skymet Weather.Highest weather station in India:• India MD established a meteorological centre in Leh in Ladakh on Tuesday. At 3500 metres, it’s the highest met centre in India.• Being located on a strategically important Western Himalayan region bordering China, Pakistan, Tibet and Afghanistan, IMD will be reporting daily weather parameters from the region.• Ladakh has a complex mountainous terrain with little annual precipitation of only 10 cm/year making it a cold desert.• It often experiences extreme weather events like cloud bursts, flash floods, glacial lake outbursts (GLOFs), avalanches and droughts.• Examples include a severe cloudburst in August 2010 and 2015, an avalanche at Khardongla Pass in January 2019 and frequent blockage of the Leh-Manali and Leh- Srinagar highways due to heavy snowfall on mountain passes.•The meteorological centre in Leh will strengthen the weathe- related early warning system in Ladakh.• To begin with, IMD has established a surface observatory in Leh for reporting the daily meteorological parameters like humidity, temperature and snowfall.• Ladakh has four Automatic Weather Stations, two each in both districts ,of which one is at Drass, the coldest place in India. Real Time weather data is available online on India Meteorological Department website.• To improve the network, IMD proposes to install more weather stations next year at places like Nubra, Zanskar, Changthang and Parkachik, covering the whole of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-in-capital-feels-like-it-s-even-colder/story-lUoHC3G7M36PVbKKMkErwI.html
30-12-2020||India||Woman who fled to Andhra Pradesh has UK strain||A woman who tested positive for Covid-19 at the New Delhi airport on her return from London, but gave the slip to the authorities in the national capital and travelled to Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district by train last week, potentially exposing her co-passengers to the virus, has been detected to be infected with the new strain of Sars-Cov-2. State health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said on Tuesday that Mary Winfred Ann Parrie, a private school teacher in Rajahmundry, was afflicted with the new strain of the virus found in the UK, as confirmed by the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), which has done genome sequencing of her naso-pharyngeal swab samples. The samples, collected by the authorities at the government hospital in Rajahmundry, were sent to the CCMB on Friday and the outcome of the test was declared on Monday. Bhaskar said Parrie, currently in an isolation ward in the hospital, was asymptomatic. Parrie, a resident of Ramakrishna Nagar in Rajahmundry and working in a private school, left for London a couple of months ago along with her husband and daughter after the lifting of the travel restrictions. She returned to India to see her son on the night of December 21. Soon after landing, she was subject to testing for Covid-19 at the health centre in the New Delhi international airport. When she tested positive, airport authorities handed her over to Safdarjung Hospital for treatment. Since she was asymptomatic, she was asked to be in quarantine for seven days. After getting her out-patient card slip done, Parrie quietly left the place. On December 23, East Godavari district authorities received a communication from additional district magistrate of Delhi (north-east) Shubhankar Ghosh, stating that Parrie, along with her 22-years-old son Riyan, who came to receive her at the airport, might be travelling to Rajahmundry on the Andhra Pradesh Express. “Since she is corona-positive, there is apprehension of transmission of the infection to other persons from her. As per the protocol, she has to be isolated in institutional quarantine,” Ghosh said in the letter, requesting the East Godavari district authorities to get her admitted to any institutional quarantine facility. Health authorities went on high alert and informed both the railway police and local police officials. As soon as the train arrived in Rajahmundry railway station in the early hours of December 24, the police located Parrie and her son disembarking from a first-class compartment. The authorities made her and her son sport the PPE kits and drove them straight to the Rajahmundry government hospital. In the morning, both Parrie and Riyan were subject to Covid-19 tests. “The mother was found positive and Riyan negative,” East Godavari district coordinator of medical and health department Dr Ramesh Kishore said. The authorities admitted both mother and son in separate isolation wards in the hospital and started looking for passengers who may have come in contact with Parrie and her son during their travel from New Delhi to Rajahmundry . Kishore said initially the authorities proposed to send her swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, but later sent themon Friday to CCMB, one of the designated centres to test samples for the new Sars-Cov-2 strain that is ravaging the UK. The mother and son claim that they did not interact or come in touch with anyone on the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-who-fled-to-andhra-has-uk-strain/story-tejDCNXZI6NB5c0ib5ZPLP.html
30-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Pfizer, Moderna deals hit roadblock||The Narendra Modi government is likely to inoculate 300 million Indians with made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines only as authorities are fast losing hope of inking deals with Pfizer or Moderna—the two companies to roll out vaccines so far. While the negotiations with Moderna hit a roadblock a few months ago, Pfizer is yet to submit details asked for by the drug regulator. According to officials involved in the vaccine administration plan, there are doubts if Pfizer has enough spare capacity to cater to Indian requirements after fulfilling its current commitments with the US, UK, EU, Bahrain, Canada, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. The drug major has a few plants including one in Lincoln, Nebraska . According to media reports, Pfizer has received orders for 1.1 billion doses of its vaccine. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization or CDSCO—the body that scrutinizes applications for new vaccines— asked Pfizer to present its case two weeks ago but the company sought more time to formally submit its papers for an emergency authorization. Interestingly, while Pfizer has delayed submission of its proposal to CDSCO, it is in touch with the government’s expert committee on vaccine administration (NAGVAC). “From our discussion, it seems Pfizer might not have the required capacity to address India’s demand,” said a senior official who asked not to be named. Both Pfizer and Moderna, another top official claimed on condition of anonymity, have received several co-production offers from Indian companies. “But any co-production in India would also entail fresh round of trials in this country as per our drug laws. And that would mean additional costs,” this person said. While Pfizer can still be tapped for supplying vaccines for the second half of 2021, India’s vaccine planners are keen to line up supplies for the 300 million people who are in its first four priority groups. India has few logistics and cold storage chains that can support Pfizer’s requirement for keeping its vaccines at minus 70 degree Celsius, the price too, is a constraint. According to an official, the health ministry’s initial budget for vaccination is Rs 50,000 crore. As many as seven Indian vaccines are at different stages of trials. Another two, SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have applied for emergency approval. SII is expected to be given the go-ahead for emergency rollout in the next few days. The company is manufacturing the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccinationpfizer-moderna-deals-hit-roadblock/story-q3pR9A9v3tRWOs9Pt4QYRP.html
30-12-2020||India||States scramble to locate hundreds of UK returnees||Hundreds of people who came back from the United Kingdom (UK) are either missing or not cooperating with health authorities who fear that some of them could be infected by the new, hyper-infectious, mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 identified in the UK, and still worse, spreading it. Many of the missing are from Karnataka and Telangana, the two states where maximum number of persons returned from UK since November last week. To be sure, it isn’t clear how many of the close to 3,500 people from Punjab who returned from the UK are missing, although a state government official said most are yet to be traced. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe Union health ministry asked the states to test all persons who returned from the UK in the past one month using the RT-PCR test, the gold standard of tests, to detect Covid-19 virus. From November 25 to midnight, December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from UK, said a health ministry statement.Of them, 2406 people came to Karnataka . The local government is struggling to locate nearly 570 of them who have gone missing, according to Karnataka Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar. The minister added that the state home department and the police have been pressed into service to trace these people, who have also switched off their phones. Of the 1,614 passengers who came to Bengaluru, 26 tested positive for Covid-19 ; and three of the 26 tested positive for the new UK strain of the virus according to the minister. The three include a 34-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter.“I have been promised that within 48 hours all of them will be traced,” Sudhakar said. Of the 570 missing passengers, 204 have given addresses in Bengaluru.Telangana government officials said that of 1,100 UK returnees to the state, 279 were not traceable. Dr G. Srinivasa Rao, director of public health of the state said his department has forwarded the names and details of the missing returnees to district officials. “Rest have been traced and their swab samples have been taken for testing,” he said.Punjab has not yet completed tracking of UK returnees. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid in the state said 1822 Punjab-origin people have landed in Indira Gandhi International Airport at Delhi and 1604 in Guru Ram Dass International Airport at Amritsar since Diwali.“We are yet to complete the task of tracking all of them. Our district administrations are on toes to track them. There is a large number who are yet to be traced. We are expected to come out with the exact figures by Wednesday evening.” In Tamil Nadu, where one person has tested positive for new strain of Covid-19, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that the state has been able to trace almost all 2,200 people who came from the UK since December 1. “We have provided details of a few who could not be traced,” he said, without giving the number of missing returnees.Odisha health officials said 27 UK returnees of the 181 who came back between November 30 and December 21 remain untraceable. Director public health, Dr Niranjan Mishra, said some of them gave only their phone numbers or vague addresses. Of the 227 people who have returned from the United Kingdom to Uttarakhand in the past one month, about 20 are not traceable, Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for COVID-19 in the state said. Most of the returnees are from Dehradun and incomplete addresses and mobile numbers are the reason for the missing returnees, according to officials. However, in some states such as Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, the administration has been able to trace all the returnees and have collected their swab samples for RT-PCR tests.In Uttar Pradesh, the Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Alok Kumar said of the 1,655 people who have returned from the UK since December 9, 568 are not traceable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-scramble-to-locate-hundreds-of-uk-returnees/story-27w5hneWmwa5mfnpVKOyIJ.html
30-12-2020||India||TMC leader shot dead in Bengal’s Howrah district, mob ransacks buses, shops||A Trinamool Congress youth leader from Howrah district, was gunned down by motorcycle-borne assailants in the Shalimar area on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Dharmendra Singh was riding pillion on a party worker’s motorcycle around 4 pm when the hitmen blocked their path and opened fire in front of eyewitnesses. Singh was rushed to a private hospital but succumbed to bullet injuries. Singh was associated with real estate business, local TMC workers told the police. “An investigation is on. No arrest was made till 9 pm,” an officer from the local police station said on condition of anonymity. TMC workers went on the rampage after the incident and ransacked four buses and several shops. They also set fire to some two-wheelers. The Rapid Action Force had to be deployed to disperse the mob. Some unidentified men also broke into the residence of a local youth, Vicky Singh, around 6.30 pm and ransacked it before setting the furniture on fire around. Sigh and his wife, who had moved into the apartment about six months ago, were not present when the incident took place. The apartment was locked from outside. Two fire tenders brought the blaze under control. Arup Roy, the local TMC legislator and minister alleged that the murder was possibly carried out by hitmen sent by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) but did not make any specific complaint. Surajit Saha, president of the BJP’s Howrah town unit, dismissed the allegation saying the murder was a fallout of rivalry between two groups in the TMC. He also alleged that the deceased had faced criminal charges in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-shot-dead-in-bengal-s-howrah-district-mob-ransacks-buses-shops/story-JaDNmrQPV9ksDpWidazcNN.html
30-12-2020||India||Days after row, Karnataka House deputy chairman found dead||The body of the Karnataka Legislative Council’s deputy chairman, SL Dharmegowda, was found on railway tracks at Gunasagar village of Kadur Taluk in Chikmagalur district in the early hours of Tuesday, just two weeks days after he was manhandled during a special session of the council.According to the initial probe by the police, 65-year-old Dharmegowda, who belonged to the Janata Dal (Secular), appeared to have died by suicide, and an alleged death note found near his body was being examined.Dharmegowda was at the centre of a controversy in the state council, which convened on December 15 for a one-day session, during which the JD(S) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to dislodge chairman Prathapchandra Shetty of the Congress by bringing in a no-confidence motion. Dharmegowda was manhandled when he tried to preside over the proceedings; Shetty later stepped in to reject the motion citing procedural lapses.Former state chief minister HD Kumaraswamy suggested that the incident was the reason behind the death, which he described as a “political murder”.“He was more than a brother for me. He was very hurt by the way he was treated by some members during the recent council proceedings and felt humiliated. It is not suicide, but political murder,” Kumaraswamy alleged.Siddaramaiah rejected Kumaraswamy’s contention while condoling the death. “Dharmegowda was a personal friend. His father Lakshmaiah, who was a legislator, was well known to me; the entire family was close to me. One has to look who forced him to sit (in the council chairman’s chair),” Siddaramaiah said.Police officers familiar with the initial investigation said the circumstances and sequence of events leading to his death suggested that Dharmegowda ended his own life.Speaking on condition of anonymity, they said that Dharmegowda asked his official gunman and escort to not accompany him as he left his home in Shakaryapatna in a Santro car with his driver on Monday evening. They drove to Gunasagar, around 19 km away, at around 6pm, and Dharmegowda later asked his driver, Dharmaraj, to wait at a distance  because he had to meet someone. But he later changed his mind and asked the driver to go back.The people cited above said his last call was to a friend named Hemant during the call, Dharmegowda made enquiries about train timings.When Dharmegowda did not return home at night, worried family members alerted authorities, who mounted a search. By then, his cellphone was switched off, but based on his last cell-tower signals, they searched and located his mutilated body on the Mankenahalli railway tracks.Police sent the body for an autopsy at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga, and Gowda was later buried at the family’s Madagadakere farmhouse in Shakaryapatna. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah, state Congress president DK Shivakumar, and JD(S) leader and former PM Deve Gowda expressed shock and condoled the death of Dharmegowda.Yediyurappa flew to Kadur to play his last respects. “The entire state is shocked by the demise. I pray to god to give his family strength to face this,” he said.Former PM Deve Gowda broke down while talking about Dharmegowda. “It is shocking to learn the news of deputy speaker of state legislative council and JD(S) leader SL Dharmegowda’s suicide. He was a calm and decent man. This is a loss of the state.”Dharmegowda came from an influential political family. His father SR Lakshmaiah was a three-time MLA from the Birur assembly constituency, and Dharmegowda too won that seat in 2004. His brother SL Bhojegowda is also an MLC.Speaking to HT, Bhojegowda said: “There were no personal or financial reasons for him to take this extreme step. He was upset about what had happened [in the council]. I and other party leaders had told him not to take things to heart as these are common in politics, but he seems to have taken it very seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-row-k-taka-house-deputy-chairman-found-dead/story-iDRF3wPws6xuhDTGMLsjUJ.html
30-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi reluctant to return as Cong chief; Plan B on cards||If there’s one message that Rahul Gandhi’s previously unannounced overseas visit has sent to many in the Congress leadership, it is that he isn’t keen on returning as party president, a post he gave up in May 2019 after its general election debacle.Hindustan Times spoke to several Congress leaders, some of them part of his core group, about the party’s plans to appoint a permanent president. Two of them confirmed, on condition of anonymity, that Rahul Gandhi was reluctant to return to the post and that attempts were being made to change his mind. A third leader said it was more or less certain now that he wouldn’t return as Congress chief anytime soon.Rahul Gandhi flew to an undisclosed destination abroad on Sunday, the eve of the Congress’s 136th anniversary and at a time when thousands of farmers have massed on Delhi’s borders in protest against a set of contentious laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets. ALSO WATCH | ‘Low level politics by BJP’: Congress defends Rahul Gandhi’s foreign visit The visit also preceded the expected start of the process of electing a permanent Congress president next month to relieve his mother Sonia Gandhi of her responsibilities as interim chief.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi leaves for Milan a day before Congress foundation dayIt has been 18 months now that India’s oldest political party has been in a state of flux. While Sonia Gandhi agreed to take over as interim chief, her poor health has been a cause of concern. The party said it would begin the internal elections process after 23 senior politicians in August demanded an overhaul of the party in a joint letter they wrote to the leadership. Signatories to the letter included MPs Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy Anand Sharma, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh and former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan. When party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said this month that 99.9% of the Congress rank and file want Rahul Gandhi back as president, it upset those who had been seeking a transparent, democratic system.“Senior leaders are trying to convince him. They have all spoken with Mrs. {Sonia} Gandhi to try to change his mind, but we can say that he is reluctant,’’ said one person aware of development.Those who back Rahul Gandhi’s return to the helm argue that no one other than a Gandhi can keep the party united. These include senior leaders Ambika Soni, Harish Rawat and AK Antony, who asked Gandhi to return even at a December 19 meeting with representatives of the letter writers who demanded an overhaul  Gandhi kept quiet at that time, but at one point he did tell the signatories to the letter: “I am a common worker like you and I will work like that.’. Those close to the family believe it is unlikely that Rahul Gandhi will change his mind, but his core team says it will be able to prevail on him to return to the helm. Just in case Rahul Gandhi doesn’t relent, Hindustan Times learns,a Plan B is also being discussed within the party. Signatories to the August letter sent to the party suggested that the Congress adopt a collective leadership system. Also Read | Congress’ Sonia Gandhi hits out at ‘black’ farm lawsAccording to Plan B, the party could appoint four vice-presidents (one for each zone) to work under Sonia Gandhi as President.“Her presence would be like {that of} a figurehead as no one has any opposition to her but the four vice-presidents would then collectively take all decisions. They would each have three-four general secretaries under them,’’ said a senior leader of the party, on condition of anonymity. He noted that Rahul Gandhi became president in December 2017 and his term was to expire 2022 before he gave up the post in May 2019, owning responsibility for the Congress’s electoral defeat. Sonia Gandhi can continue as president unless a consensus candidate emerges before the election, the leader said. The emergence of a consensus candidate is, however, unlikely because of divisions between the so-called old guard and young guard in the party.HT reached out to Surjewala for a comment, but there was no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-reluctant-to-return-as-cong-chief-plan-b-on-cards/story-U0tDOuzcjTjNqfP6g3kPTI.html
30-12-2020||India||IIT engineers to ensure Ram temple’s structural stability||Engineers from India’s top institutes, including IIT-Delhi and IIT-Mumbai, will work to improve the structural stability of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya to ensure the pillars of the holy building last a thousand years, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) chief Alok Kumar announced on Tuesday. Kumar said the process of designing the structure’s foundation pillars was stuck because a stream of the Sarayu river was found flowing underneath a portion of the building. “When the testing of the pillars was carried out, it was found when pressure was applied, they sank by about four inches. Since, the area is already in a seismic zone, we have decided to come up with a structurally safe option,” he said. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra trust is also negotiating to increase the land holding of the complex from the current 70 acres to 108 acres to accommodate a museum, a gathering space and a prayer hall. “We are trying to negotiate with those who own the land around the temple; if they agree to part with the land they will be compensated,” Kumar said. A proposed mosque complex coming up outside Ayodhya town is also designed to have a hospital, and a museum.To come up with a safe design for the pillars, members from IIT Delhi, IIT Mumbai, IIT Roorkee, National Building Research Institute (NBRI), Tata Consultancy and Larsen & Toubro will work together, said Kumar.About 700 tonne of weight was put on the testing pillars to assess their load withstanding capacity. Tests were also conducted to assess their resistance to earthquakes, but cracks were noticed during the tests, Kumar said. The pillars of the Ram Temple are expected to last a thousand years, he added. VHP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) authorised by the trust to collect donations for the temple, said it will initiate the process of collection of funds for the temple’s construction on January 15. Kumar said it 525,000 villages will be visited for collection . “Funds will be collected in a transparent way...deposits will be made in branches of Bank of Baroda, State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-engineers-to-ensure-ram-temple-s-structural-stability/story-sYbCNwGvELEwsInyo3I3SN.html
30-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth junks plans to enter politics citing poor health||Superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday cancelled his plans to enter politics on health grounds, a decision that came just two days ahead of the expected announcement of his party’s launch date and left a large section of his followers who have been waiting for his political foray for years disappointed.The 70-year-old actor, who has a cult following, released a three-page statement on Twitter, apologising to his admirers and members of the Rajini Makkal Mandram, a group that has been working on the ground ever since he announced his plans to enter politics in 2017 after years of speculation.“With regret, I’ve to say that I can’t start a political party. Only I know the pain of making this decision,” Rajinikanth said in his statement in Tamil. “Without entering politics, I will serve people.”In 2016, Rajinikanth underwent a kidney transplant. He was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on December 25 following complaints of severe blood pressure fluctuations and exhaustion. He returned to Chennai after his discharge on December 27. He was advised to avoid activities that could increase his chances of contracting Covid-19. In Hyderabad, the actor was shooting for a movie, but filming had to be suspended after four crew members tested positive for Covid-19. “My hospitalisation was a warning by god,” he said in the statement. “Despite strict protocols, four out of 150 tested positive in a well-organised film shoot...what will happen when thousands assemble for my campaign?” he said, adding that it was not possible to solely rely on social media for an election campaign.Rajinikanth indicated that he did not want to sound chivalrous by saying he will join politics despite severe health concerns and that he did not want to make his supporter “a victim”.The decision, which put an end to years of expectations and preparations, plunged a section of his fans in disappointment while others said they will accept whatever is best for their “Thalaiva”, or leader, as Rajinikanth is fondly called. “You stay inside your house and campaign, and do good to people. We will work the streets across Tamil Nadu,” a teary fan said outside Rajinikanth’s posh Chennai residence, urging him to change his decision.Mohammed Rabik, the Madurai district secretary of Rajini Makkal Mandram, said he “accepted” the decision. “Since he said (in the past) he was joining politics, we worked towards that. Now, we will work towards however he wants us to serve people,” said Rabik, who joined a Rajini fan club back in 1972.Rajinikanth’s decision will be a relief for both the state’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) before the 2021 assembly elections, especially after the death of charismatic leaders such as J Jayalalithaa of the AIADMK and M Karunanidhi of the DMK, experts said.“The damage that (actor-turned-politician) Vijayakanth caused these parties should not be forgotten,” said R Kannan, political commentator and author of MGR: A Life. Vijayakanth’s Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), which was formed in 2005, bagged an 8% vote share in 2011 and he became the opposition leader in the assembly. His party won 29 of the 41 seats it contested, becoming the second-largest party after the AIADMK, which formed the government. However, since then, the DMDK has been unable to make a mark in electoral politics.In 1996, Rajinikanth triggered a flutter when he remarked that even god cannot save Tamil Nadu “if Jayalalithaa is elected to power”. His stand is considered one of the contributing factors behind a growing public opinion against Jayalalithaa, who was already facing corruption charges. Eventually, an alliance led by the DMK swept the polls. “Everyone’s wish, including mine, is that he recovers fully and returns to act in cinema,” DMK parliamentarian Kanimozhi said.D Jayakumar, minister for fisheries and an AIADMK spokesperson, said: “We are confident that Rajinikanth will extend his support to the AIADMK.”Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan, who is campaigning in Mayiladuthurai district for his Makkal Needhi Maiam party, said he will meet Rajinikanth after returning to Chennai. “I’ve the same feelings as his fans. Even though it feels like a slight betrayal, his health is most important to me. My Rajini has to be well,” Haasan said during his campaign. Haasan had previously said he was willing to join hands with Rajinikanth politically for the benefit of people. Earlier this month, Rajinikanth had said he would launch his party in January and disclose the specifics by December 31. His fans expected him to field candidates in all 234 constituencies in the state in next year’s assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajini-junks-plans-to-enter-politics-citing-poor-health/story-vlrdvHkN5eoeHbwYAKF0vO.html
30-12-2020||India||Goa govt considering legalising cannabis cultivation, opposition sees red||The Goa government is considering a legislation that will make the cultivation of marijuana for medicinal purposes a legitimate activity, people familiar with the development have said.The proposal, which originated in the Health Department has been vetted by the Law Department, but is likely to encounter resistance in the Cabinet as well as from the Chief Minister’s Office and there is no indication that it will succeed in making it to the legislative Assembly that is scheduled to meet in late January. Speaking to the media, Goa’s Law Minister Nilesh Cabral said that his department has vetted the file from a ‘legal perspective’ after he received it from the Health Department. According to Cabral only controlled farming of marijuana for medicinal purposes, will be permitted so that the natural drug could be sold to pharmaceutical companies.“It is on the same ground as how liquor is regulated. If you recall before 1985 there was no ban on this. The NDPS Act was brought by the central government and charas, ganja were added in the scheduled list of banned drugs,” said Cabral.“Today in several states in India the form of this plant known as bhang is sold over the counter through a licenced establishment like a bar licence,” Cabral said. The minister who said that he was personally in favour of legalising the cultivation of marijuana, also claimed that he had seen the use of marijuana to cue cancer.“This plant is originally from India. If it is used for health reasons and not recreational… I don’t see why not. I’ve seen people using it in curing last stage cancer. This is already being officially used in America, Canada Australia so why should our people remain behind. It can be cheaply made available if people are suffering from cancer,” he added. The Chief Minister’s Office has rejected the suggestion that the Goa government has ‘taken a decision’ to permit the cultivation of marijuana for medicinal purposes and said that the mere movement of a file didn’t amount to a decision of the government. The opposition Goa Forward Party has hit out at the government for what it said was the promotion of Goa as a ‘vices hub.’ “The Chief Minister has confirmed that the file has really been moved but that there has been no decision. The meaning of this is that since the file has been moved, there is an intention to do it. They have taken this stop because they want to promote Goa as a vices hub to completely finish the next generation,” Vijai Sardesai, the leader of the Goa Forward Party, now in the opposition, said. “How will they handle the law and order crisis that will consequently emerge from legalising cannabis cultivation? Who will be the watchdog to ensure that it is for medicinal purposes only? And if the watchdog himself starts accepting bribes to allow it to be pilfered and the young generation gets access to it, the future generations will get access just so that they can fill their pockets,” Sardesai said. “Will good tourists come to Goa if cannabis is legalised? Or will only the rubbish and drug addicts end up here. Casinos are here. Now you want to bring drugs and next you will want to bring (legal) prostitution,” Sardesai said.Earlier in this month, India voted in favour of removing marijuana from the list of ‘most dangerous drugs’ at the United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-considering-legalising-cannabis-cultivation-opposition-sees-red/story-TfVsZVGXwSGenFHaDibXFM.html
30-12-2020||India||UK Covid-19 variant reaches India, govt on guard: All you need to know||India on Tuesday recorded the first six cases of the UK variant of coronavirus among travellers who returned from Britain, prompting the government to enforce stricter precautions and speed up contact tracing for co-passengers. The new UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 – B.1.1.7 – was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune, the health ministry said.The presence of this new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.Here are the key developments prompted by the tracing of UK variant in India:Govt takes cognizance of the reports of virusAll infected people have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said. “Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on,” the Union health ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs, the ministry added.India may extend ban on flights from UKIndia is likely to extend the ban on flights from Britain in a bid to contain the spread of a new strain of coronavirus, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. “I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” Puri said.Genome sequencing for all Covid-19 positive flyers who arrived in India from Dec 9 to 22All international passengers who arrived in India from December 9 to 22 and tested positive for Covid-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre’s strategy to detect the mutated coronavirus strain that has emerged in the United Kingdom recently. Others will be followed up by the state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, even if asymptomatic, between fifth and 10th day of arrival, according to the Union health ministry’s guidance document on genomic sequencing.Govt to increase number of genome sequencing for Covid-19The government will increase the number of genome sequencing for Covid-19 in view of the new coronavirus strain that was first detected in the United Kingdom, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. “An important development is the establishment of INSACOG which is a consortium of 10 government labs to do genome sequencing of the Sars (Covid-19) virus or any variant of that virus. These labs belong to ICMR, BioTech India, CSIR and health ministry,” Bhushan said.Samples of 15 who came to Delhi from UK sent to check new strain of virusTest samples of 15 people who recently arrived in Delhi from the UK and tested positive for Covid-19 have been sent for genome sequencing to check if they have contracted the new variant of the virus, PTI reported on Tuesday. The results are expected in the next three-four days, it said. The Delhi government had earlier said that people who had arrived in the Capital recently from the UK are being traced and tested, and a separate institutional quarantine facility has been set up at the LNJP Hospital for positive cases.Covaxin can work against mutated coronavirus: Bharat BiotechCovaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by Bharat Biotech for Covid-19, can offer protection against mutations of coronavirus, Chairman and Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker Krishna Ella said on Tuesday. He also said the company has approached regulatory authorities seeking approval for an emergency license to use the vaccine, developed in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology and now undergoing phase 3 trials.Pilots’ association writes to Air India for details of UK virus strainIndian Commercial Pilots’ Association has written to Air India’s director of operations, seeking information about the new Covid-19 variant. “We demand the company procure info from labs and promptly inform all pilots who have tested COVID positive and pilots who may test positive in future if they are infected with this deadlier variant of Sars-CoV-2,” the association said in its letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-covid-19-variant-reaches-india-govt-rushes-to-control-outbreak-all-you-need-to-know/story-BkRVFqFYNLFZZYBr8BmK2M.html
