31-12-2020||India||Elaborate distribution plan on track as India awaits vaccine approval||India is gearing up to roll out a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and has put in a place an elaborate air and road transport network, and identified locations where it will be administered to people eligible for a dose in the first phase.A nod by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on the application by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) for emergency use authorisation of its Covishield vaccine is expected this in the coming days, and will then go to the drug regulator for a final approval. The committee has been vetting the data from safety and efficacy trials conducted by SII.The adenovirus vaccine has been developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, which received regulatory approval in the UK on Wednesday, brightening the chances of Covishield getting the green light from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).Described as a “vaccine for the world,” the manufactured-in-India candidate will meet a large part of India’s vaccination needs because it is cheaper, easier to store and transport and likely be available in greater quantities than the vaccines developed by Pfizer/ BioNTech. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 pandemicThe drugs controller’s stamp of approval will shift the focus from the national capital to Hadapsar in Pune. The sprawling suburb full of techno parks is home to SII’s Covid-19 vaccine production facilities. Special cargo planes with cold boxes storage space and refrigerated vans will start ferrying vials of the vaccine from Pune to various parts of the country, officials with knowledge of the government’s vaccination plan said. State administrations will then distribute the vials to district authorities for delivery to the hundreds of thousands of inoculation centres to be set up across India. The process will span over several weeks.The initial lots of the vaccine will be sent only to government hospitals, public health centres or large private hospitals, the people cited above said. The first two priority groups—health care and other frontline workers such as police personnel -- will be vaccinated at these sites only. To administer the vaccine to the remaining high-risk population -- elderly adults, and those suffering from comorbidities -- polling booths, wedding halls, community centres, and mobile vans will be used as inoculation centres. Read more| India likely to start the new year with a Covid vaccine, hints DCGIOnce DGCI’s approval is granted, the national expert group on the Covid-19 vaccine will send an order to SII with specific details of how many vials (each vial of the vaccine will contain multiple doses) are to be shipped to each destination. The vaccines will be transported by air and road, but not by rail -- at least for now. “There is no plan to use refrigerated vans of Indian Railways as of now. For destinations near Pune, vaccines would be delivered by road. On longer routes, cargo flights will carry the pallets,” said the first official cited above. While the logistics and cold chains will be monitored primarily by the government, it will be SII’s responsibility to deliver the vaccines at the designated consignee points. “SII has the obligation to deliver it safely at the specific places and hand it over to the state or central officials. Once the handover is done, the responsibility of further distribution lies entirely with the government,” said a second official. India has 137 airports covering all 28 states and eight Union territories and as of March 2017 the road network spanned 5.8 million kilometres, according to official data. The country with the world’s largest universal immunisation programme has also set up fixed consignee points — or places for handing over vaccine shipments to the states -- in capital cities and prominent urban centres. “We are using these points for the last many years for our UIP. It will be a similar drill for the Covid vaccines,” said the second official cited above.The vaccines will be stocked at four Government Medical Store Depots (in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata) and state and regional vaccine stores. Refrigerated vans will bring these vaccines to the last point in the cold chain , typically located in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres. “Transportation of vaccines from states and regional stores to divisions and districts would be done in cold boxes using insulated vaccine vans. Vaccines carriers with ice packs are used to transport vaccines from PHCs to the outreach sessions in the village,” said the first official cited above.. With so much at stake on the arrival of the vaccine, the authorities won’t take any risk with transportation, storage or delivery. The storage centres, vaccine vans and the inoculation centres will all be heavily guarded by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elaborate-distribution-plan-on-track-as-india-awaits-vaccine-approval/story-QVgW9NktWjUdtA5KcmDMdP.html
31-12-2020||India||Two leopards found dead in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon in 2 days||Two leopard carcasses were recovered from the forests of Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region in the last two days, forest officials said. A carcass of a 12-year-old female leopard was found in Bageshwar district on Thursday evening and a four-year-old female leopard was found dead in Ramnagar in Nainital district on Wednesday. On Thursday, the leopard was found dead in Majiyakhet forests in Bageshwar forest division. BS Shaahi, divisional forest officer of Bageshwar said, “On Thursday evening, locals from Majiyakhet village spotted the leopard’s carcass and informed us. Our team rushed to the spot and after recovering the carcass, it was sent for a post-mortem examination. The exact cause of death will be known only after the post mortem report is received.” This is the fourth leopard carcass to be found in the Kumaon region within a month. On December 11, a four-year-old leopard was found dead in Ramnagar. On December 1, the carcass of a three-year-old leopard cub that was killed in a road accident was found on the Ramnagar-Manglar road in Nainital. Before this on October 17, a one-year-old leopard cub was found dead in Pithoragarh. In October, three leopard foetuses were also found in Almora district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-leopards-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-kumaon-in-2-days/story-gc8k6G9rVN4xez46F3LuyN.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala passes resolution against farm laws||A unanimous resolution passed by the Kerala assembly on Thursday against three contentious laws passed by the Centre to open up agricultural markets received support from an unexpected quarter -- the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of the House.O Rajagopal, 91, who was minister of state for railways in the Atal Bihari Vajapyee government, opposed the resolution initially, but when it was put to voice vote, he did not walk out and supported it, much to the surprise of both the treasury and opposition benches. After the session, when reporters asked him about his support for the resolution, he said he backed it in accordance with the “democratic spirit of the house.” “I raised my disagreement in clear terms. But I supported the substance of the resolution in accordance with the democratic spirit. Nothing big about it, in democracy, such compromises are common,” he said, expressing the hope that the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws will be settled soon amicably. When asked specifically whether he wanted the bills to be withdrawn, he said that was why he had supported the resolution. After his stand triggered a controversy in the BJP, he said it was wrong to say he did not oppose the resolution and blamed the speaker for not seeking a a division of votes in the house.The veteran’s ambiguous stand has put the BJP, which had described the resolution as “a mere waste of time and money,” in an awkward position.Read more| Lone BJP MLA backs resolution passed by Kerala Assembly against farm laws “There is no difference of opinion in the party. He is a senior leader and we didn’t think he will support the resolution. I will talk to him about this,” said the party’s state president K Surendran. In Delhi, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, said he was not aware what the senior leader said in the house, adding that the state unit will explain it. BJP leaders close to Rajagopal said he was unhappy with a growing factional feud in the state unit of the party. After the elevation of Surendran, some senior leaders in the state unit were sidelined and the party’s attempt to broker peace between two prominent factions, one led by Muraleedharan and the other by P K Krishnadas, hasn’t yielded results. “His position literally shocked the party. The central leadership is also unhappy with it,” said one party leader, who did not want to be identified. It wasn’t the first time that Rajagopal had courted controversy. When the speaker was elected election in 2016, he supported the ruling Left Democratic Front’s nominee, P Sreeramakrishnan. He said he had backed Sreeramakrishnan because his name contains the names of both Ram and Krishna. Many Left leaders praised Rajagopal. “He took the right decision unmindful of its consequences,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan introduced the resolution urging the Centre to withdraw the new laws and heed the demands of farmers who have massed on Delhi’s borders to protest against the legislation. “The Centre wants to corporatize the farm sector. It must come forward to allay farmers’ fears. The entire country is with them. It should recognise public sentiments and withdraw the new laws,” Vijayan saidAll 140 members of the assembly supported his resolution. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-passes-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-MbYcVQBYcNwEJrPYajrYPI.html
31-12-2020||India||11 foreigners test positive for Covid-19 in Jamshedpur amid scare over mutant variant||Jamshedpur was on the edge after 12 persons, including 11 foreign nationals, tested positive for Covid-19 positive on Thursday amid scare of new strain of coronavirus detected in the United Kingdom, officials said.“11 foreigners staying in the Fortune Centre Point Hotel here under Bistupur police station (PS) and a staff of the hotel tested Covid-19 positive here this evening. The hotel has been sealed and all of them have been quarantined in the hotel. These 11 foreigners were among 46 foreign nationals who had come to Jamshedpur between December 5 and 8 and had been staying in the hotel since then,” Dr Sahir Pal, Jamshedpur additional chief medical officer (ACMO), said this evening.He said these 46 foreigners had come from the Philippines, Ghana, South Africa, New Zealand and Zambia. “They came here for work and were working in Tata Steel as employees of Mill Track International Company. Their samples were tested in the Tata Main Hospital (TMH) and the report of the 11 foreigners came Covid-19 positive today. Subsequently, samples of 29 hotel staff were also tested and one of the staff also tested positive,” said Dr Pal.As per Union Health Ministry directive, the samples of these Covid-19 positive patients will now have to be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for advanced and specialized testing for the new strain of coronavirus. It was, however, still not clear as to if they came directly to India from their countries or via the UK.The new Covid-19 strain is said to spread 70% faster. Identification of nearly 17 potential alterations have been found during the preliminary analysis of the mutant variant of the virus.Jamshedpur has so far witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities in Jharkhand at 374. The state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 17,585. Out of these, 16, 984 have been cured and released from the hospitals, leaving 227 active patients till Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-foreigners-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jamshedpur-amid-scare-over-mutant-variant/story-OjMoCqKj3u1L7qGg8CbSkK.html
31-12-2020||India||Delhi records 574 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, one of the lowest in months||The national Capital in the last 24 hours recorded 574 fresh Covid-19 infections — one of the lowest in the last five months — taking the positivity rate to 0.7 per cent. On December 28, the daily case count was 564, which was the lowest in the last five months. From December 21, the daily case count has started dipping and settled below the 1,000-mark. The fresh 574 cases came out the 81,750 tests conducted on the previous day, including 43,780 RT-PCR tests and 37,970 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.Though the overall Covid-19 situation is under control in Delhi, seven people who recently arrived in Delhi from the UK and tested positive for Covid-19 have been found infected with the new strain of coronavirus, officials said on Thursday.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said a total of 38 people have been found positive since coming to Delhi from the UK recently, and kept in a separate institutional isolation unit on the LNJP Hospital premises. “Four such patients have been found infected with the new UK strain of Covid-19. The persons who came in their contact have been also traced and tested, and its not in them. So, only these four cases of new strain in Delhi so far,” he said.The Delhi government on Thursday issued a formal order to make seven hospitals, partially Covid-19 facilities, including LNJP Hospital.As a precautionary measure, the Delhi government has imposed curfew from 11pm to 6am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-574-covid-19-infections-in-last-24-hours-one-of-the-lowest-in-months/story-Ov8NIVIvZnmzZIPheBPOWI.html
31-12-2020||India||FASTags mandatory from January 1, Govt clarifies only hybrid lanes will accept cash till Feb 15||FASTags will be mandatory for all vehicles with effect from January 1, 2021, in M and N categories of motor vehicles sold before December 1, 2017, the ministry of road transport and Highways clarified on Thursday adding that only a single hybrid lane will be functional at tolls for accepting cash till February 15.Category ‘M’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers. Category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry people in addition to goods.“It is clarified that this Central Motor Vehicle Rule stands in force as it is,” said the ministry in an official statement on Thursday.However, at hybrid lanes of fee plazas on National Highways, fee payment can be made through FASTag as well as in cash mode till February 15, 2021. Moreover, in FASTag lanes of fee plazas, payment of fees will continue to be through FASTag only.“The Ministry has clarified that it is committed to implementation of 100% E-tolling at fee plazas from 1st January, 2021 onwards, mandated under CMV Rules, as amended,” it said in the statement.Electronic toll collection through FASTags has crossed Rs 80 crore a day with record 50 lakh transactions per day with more than 2.20 crore FaSTags issued thus far , the National Highways Authority of India had said last week.FASTag, a radio frequency identification (RFID) sticker typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen, lets toll booths wirelessly and automatically deduct the fee, thereby not requiring a vehicle to stop. The tags were made mandatory for all new cars sold after December 1, 2017, as a measure to encourage digital payments and free up congestion at toll booths.In a move aimed to give a major fillip to enhance digital payments and reduce bottlenecks at national highways, the Centre had mandated that all lanes of national highways toll plazas to be declared as “FASTag lanes” by December, 2019.Speaking at a virtual summit last week, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari had said that the electronic toll collection system was useful for commuters as they would not be required to stop at toll plaza for cash payments, adding that it also saves time and fuel. Making FASTags compulsory would also ensure that vehicles pass seamlessly through toll plazas as payment would be done on an electronic basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-mandatory-from-january-1-govt-clarifies-only-hybrid-lanes-will-accept-cash-till-feb-15/story-OPI1jk8nAoxs23T2XsmRRP.html
31-12-2020||India||Army mountaineer who helped India secure Siachen passes away||Colonel Narendra Kumar (retd), a former top mountaineer who played a crucial role in helping India secure the Siachen glacier, died on Thursday of an age-related illness at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital. He was 87. He was the first to red-flag Pakistani military activity on the Siachen glacier. The army launched Operation Meghdoot in April 1984 to secure the glacier by occupying key passes and ridges on the Saltoro Range on the basis of Kumar’s reconnaissance reports, officials said. Fondly known as ‘Bull’ in army circles for his tenacity, the highly decorated veteran was awarded the Padma Shri, Arjun award and the Kirti Chakra, India’s second-highest peace-time gallantry award. “First to report on Pakistani mischief in Siachen sending patrol and mountaineering expeditions to the Glacier area. India was thus able pre-empt Pakistani attempt to occupy Saltoro Range ....Salute!” former army chief General VP Malik (retd) tweeted on Thursday. Other veterans also took to Twitter to pay tribute to Colonel Kumar, with some calling him a legend. “Absolute LEGEND! The one who raised the red flag on Pak’s evil designs on #Siachen Glacier. Was privileged 2bassociated with Col Kumar’s FIRST expedition to the glacier in 1978. We took out a casualty from the most important post, bang in the middle, aptly named KUMAR. RIP Sir,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd) wrote on Twitter. An alumnus of the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, Colonel Kumar was commissioned into the Kumaon Regiment in 1953. “A mountaineer par excellence, he was the first Indian to climb Mt Nanda Devi. He climbed Mt Everest in 1965, Mt Blanc (the highest peak in the Alps) and later Mt Kanchenjunga ( from the toughest NE spur). He climbed all these peaks despite losing four toes due to frost bite in earlier expeditions,” the officials said. He was also a member of the Antarctica Task Force in 1981. If it was not for his expeditions to Siachen Glacier and Saltoro Range as commandant of the High Altitude Warfare School, Pakistan would have annexed the glacier, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-mountaineer-who-helped-india-secure-siachen-passes-away/story-AGiTIYjkQK9gzhAGugK1sM.html
31-12-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Light House Projects at 6 sites on January 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 1 will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) at six sites across six states via video conferencing.“On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India awards,” PM Modi tweeted. On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India awards. Join Live at 11 AM. https://t.co/Eu3qx8xRVCThe Prime Minister will also announce winners under Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators - India (ASHA-India) and give out annual awards for excellence in implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) Mission.During the event, he will release a certificate course on innovative construction technologies named ‘NAVARITIH’ (New, Affordable, Validated, Research Innovation Technologies for Indian Housing) and a compendium of 54 innovative housing construction technologies identified through GHTC-India, the Prime Minister’s Office said.What are Light House Projects?The Light House Projects (LHPs) are model housing projects with houses built with shortlisted alternate technology suitable to the geo-climatic and hazard conditions of the region. This will demonstrate and deliver ready to live houses with speed, economy and with better quality of construction in a sustainable manner.For example, in Indore, the technology selected is prefabricated sandwich panel system, which is an already established system for building construction in China, Australia, African and Gulf countries.Similarly, monolithic concrete construction technology is being used in Rajkot.Where are these model houses being constructed?The LHPs are being constructed at Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).They comprise about 1,000 houses at each location along with allied infrastructure facilities.The PMO said these projects will demonstrate and deliver ready to live houses at an expedited pace within 12 months, as compared to conventional brick and mortar construction, and will be more economical, sustainable, of high quality and durability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-light-house-projects-at-6-sites-on-january-1/story-0gFIBmDhSDnWJHM5k5r0AN.html
31-12-2020||India||From Mussoorie’s Landour, Ruskin Bond’s New Year wish for his readers||Writer Ruskin Bond has wished his readers and countrymen a Happy New Year, hoping the coming months are going to be much better. Bond in a video message said, “Happy New Year…friends, readers, countrymen… have a great 2021. I know you had a difficult 2020…we all have in our different ways… but everyone I know has been very patient, very good... And I hope and feel that things are going to be much better in the coming months …so I take this opportunity to say good luck…stay safe stay happy…Ruskin Bond.” One of India’s most famous writers, Bond came to live in Mussoorie in 1964, lives here with his adopted family in Landour area. He was conferred Padma Shri in 1999 and Padma Bhushan in 2014 for his literary works spanning five decades. The prolific writer who turned 86 in May this year has been busy as ever writing his next book, this time his lockdown diary, which, he says, may likely be titled ‘It is a Wonderful Life’. “It is the first occasion when the whole family is together at home in Mussoorie and celebrating New Year due to the pandemic,” said Rakesh Bond, the adopted grandson of Ruskin Bond “In the past all the family members would mostly be away in their workplaces. But in a way, the pandemic has brought us closer and given us the opportunity to celebrate New Year together this time,” said Rakesh. Rakesh said his grandfather spent the eve of the New Year with them, his wife Beena and his kids Sidharth, Gautam and Shristi. “Few tourists also visited the house in the morning to wish Bond a happy New Year,” said Rakesh. On how the lockdown has changed his daily routine, Bond had told HT earlier this year, “I am used to working from home for long hours. But an occasional outing or a walk helps. I wake up in the morning. Write for a few hours. Then after breakfast, I read something - mostly old favourites like The Story of My Heart written by Richard Jefferies, detective fiction by Agatha Christie and Indian writers like Amitav Ghosh, RK Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand, whom I knew. In the afternoon, I take a siesta and in the evenings I watch TV these days to catch up on what is happening in the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-mussoorie-s-landour-ruskin-bond-s-new-year-wish-for-his-readers/story-CDdDKxX6WysRyOl78DAF2N.html
31-12-2020||India||IndiGo says its servers have been breached in hacking incident||India’s biggest airliner IndiGo on Thursday said that some of its servers were recently subjected to a hacking incident earlier in December and some of its data servers could have been breached due to the hacking. IndiGo also informed customers that there are possibilities that some internal documents hackers may upload on public websites and platforms. IndiGo in its press release said, “We would like to make this disclosure that some of our servers were subject to a hacking incident earlier this month. We were able to restore our systems in a very short span of time with minimal impact.”The statement further added, “There were some segments of data servers that were breached - so, there is a possibility that some internal documents may get uploaded by the hackers on public websites and platforms. We realise the seriousness of the issue, and are continuing to engage with all relevant experts and law enforcement to ensure that the incident is investigated in detail.”IndiGo said it is in constant discussions with legal experts and law enforcement officials to ensure that the damage is contained. Cyberattacks on servers of financial institutions, medical services, aviation companies, media businesses and other institutions saw a rise during the pandemic. Vaccine research and financial institutions were subject to hacking and malware attacks over the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-says-its-servers-have-been-breached-in-hacking-incident/story-oMfHZiqv3OeqFUMVpt3nwK.html
31-12-2020||India||Indian, Afghan clerics jointly call on Taliban to stop attacks on civilians||Muslim clerics from India and Afghanistan have for the first time jointly issued a declaration describing the war in Afghanistan as “illegitimate” and calling on the Taliban to halt attacks targeting civilian institutions and public infrastructure. The declaration was issued following a meeting of the clerics from the two countries held at the India Islamic Cultural Centre in New Delhi on Wednesday, according to a statement issued by the Afghan foreign ministry on Thursday. The “First gathering of Islamic scholars of Afghanistan and India” brought together religious scholars and “ulema” or clerics from different Islamic institutions of the two countries. The gathering issued a joint declaration that called for an immediate ceasefire in Afghanistan. “The war and violence perpetrated against the government and people of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan by the Taliban, and targeting of civilian institutions and public infrastructures by the Taliban goes against the basic teachings of Islam and therefore it is illegitimate and has no religious justification,” the declaration said. The declaration added: “Islam is a religion of peace and it urges harmony and unity among Muslims, hence we call on both warring parties in Afghanistan to stop war and declare an immediate nationwide ceasefire.” The scholars and clerics from both countries called on the Taliban and the Afghan government to “rise to the occasion and seize this rare opportunity to accelerate their negotiations for establishing a just and lasting peace in Afghanistan”. “We support the steps taken by the government of Afghanistan to pave the way for reaching an enduring peace,” the declaration said. Noting that Afghanistan has made remarkable progress in various spheres in the past 19 years, the scholars and clerics called for the “hard-gained achievements to be preserved and protected”. “We call on other ulema and Islamic scholars to come forward in support of the peace process in Afghanistan and raise their voice against the heinous attacks on innocent people and to call on the Taliban to agree to a nationwide ceasefire and embrace peace,” the declaration said. Cities across Afghanistan have witnessed a spate of attacks in recent weeks, targeting civil society activists, human rights workers and members of the media. Dozens have been killed in these attacks, and interior minister Massoud Andarabi has blamed the Taliban for certain killings across the country. The group has denied involvement in the attacks. The attacks have led to questions and concerns about the troubled peace talks between government representatives and the Taliban in Doha, Qatar. Following a recent visit to Islamabad by a high-level Taliban delegation to discuss the peace process, several videos emerged of Taliban leaders acknowledging that the group’s top leadership is based in Pakistan and that it is consulted for all decisions related to the peace talks. The videos also showed Taliban leaders visiting terror training camps in Pakistan. Reacting to these videos, the Afghan foreign ministry said the “overt presence and activities of Afghan insurgent elements and their leaders in Pakistani territory clearly violate Afghanistan’s national sovereignty and continue to cause crisis and instability in the region”. It urged the Pakistan government “not to allow its territory to be used by insurgents and elements who insist on continuing the war”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-afghan-clerics-jointly-call-on-taliban-to-stop-attacks-on-civilians/story-68HzG8CiYOD0PaipFGZkCO.html
31-12-2020||India||Massive forest fire in Dzukou Valley now spreads to Manipur||A massive forest fire that has been raging the picturesque Dzukou Valley along the Nagaland-Manipur since Tuesday spread to the hills of Manipur on Thursday, officials said.The state forest department staff and villagers from Mao area in Manipur’s Senapati district who monitored the fire said it was raging on Nagaland side till Wednesday.But by Thursday morning, the wildfire reached Manipur hill side, people familiar with the development said.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh who made an aerial survey over Dzukou Valley on Thursday took to Twitter to appeal for help. Updating the situation and sharing some photographs and video, the chief minister tweeted, “Taking serious view of the wildfire at Dzukou valley, having a personal aerial survey of the situation, sending more personnel to the spot and seeking help from concerned authorities to stop the spread of the fire and save the deep forest portion of the valley.”In visuals he posted, smoke could be seen billowing from the picturesque mountain ranges.“As the wildfire was spreading very alarmingly and needed immediate attention before it spread towards Mt Iso, the Chief Minister personally undertook the aerial survey,” the CM’s secretariat said in a statement.The State Government had also requested the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to provide assistance in containing the situation and had also requisitioned the Army and the Assam Rifles to assist fire fighters in extinguishing the wild fire.Dzukou Valley is a tourist draw and a trekking destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-forest-fire-in-dzukou-valley-now-spreads-to-manipur/story-aH5NzBk6rWnDMFLZSWuw5L.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala’s lone BJP MLA backs assembly resolution against farm laws||The unanimous resolution passed by the Kerala legislative assembly on Thursday against the Union Government’s three farm laws received support from an unexpected quarter, the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member O Rajagopal. The nonagenarian leader, who was minister of state for railways in the Vajpayee government, spoke against the resolution in the house initially but when it was put to voice vote he did not stage a walkout and supported it much to the surprise of the treasury and opposition benches. After the session, when reporters asked him about this he said he supported the resolution in accordance with the “democratic spirit of the house”. “I raised my disagreement in clear terms. But I supported the substance of the resolution in accordance with the democratic spirit. Nothing big about it, in democracy such compromises are common,” he said. When specifically asked whether he wanted to withdraw these bills he gave an indirect reply saying that was why he supported the resolution. He said compromise was the essence of democracy and the ongoing farmers’ agitation will be settled amicably soon. The ‘ambiguous’ stand of the veteran has put the party, which has dubbed the resolution “a mere waste of time and money,” in a piquant situation. “There is no difference of opinion in the party. He is a senior leader and we don’t think he will support the resolution. I will talk to him about this,” said party state president K Surendran. In Delhi, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state, said he was not aware of what the senior leader said in the house and the state unit will explain it. But leaders close to the veteran said he was quite unhappy with the growing feud in the state unit. After the elevation of Surendran some of the senior leaders were sidelined and the party’s attempt to broker peace between two prominent factions, one led by V Muraleedharan and other by senior leader PK Krishnadas, failed to yield any result so far. “His position literally shocked the party. The central leadership is also unhappy with it,” said another leader who did not want to be quoted. After the issue whipped up a controversy, later the leader said it was wrong to say he did not oppose the resolution and blamed the Speaker for not conducting a division of votes in the house. But his explanation was more ambiguous like his position on the controversial issue. The senior leader had courted controversy earlier also. During the Speaker’s election in 2016, he supported LDF nominee P Sreeramakrishnan and later he said he supported him because his name carried both Lord Ram and Lord Krishna. Having got a good opportunity to embarrass the BJP many Left leaders have praised O Rajagopal. “He took the right decision unmindful of its consequences,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac lauding him. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan introduced the resolution urging the Centre to withdraw the new laws and heed farmers who were staging a protest for more than a month. “The Centre wants to corporatize the farm sector. It must come forward to allay farmers’ fears. The entire country is with them. It should recognise public sentiment and withdraw the new laws,” said the CM. He said if the situation continued like this supply of essential commodities to consumerist states like Kerala will be affected. “Farmers are carrying on their stir in chilling winter. Some of them have lost their lives also. Their woes should be addressed at the earliest,” he said. Later, all 140 members of the assembly supported his resolution. These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. But they triggered protests in Delhi and many places. Farmers say these reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporate houses, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system. Earlier Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had denied permission to convene the house on December 24 triggering a controversy. Later, the Speaker and two ministers had called on him with a fresh recommendation and he agreed to it. Congress deputy leader K C Joseph has criticised the Governor’s decision saying the government was forced to bend before him on several occasions but the CM denied it. The state assembly had passed a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-lone-bjp-mla-backs-assembly-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-kyyYx0Ids6JlJZ60Uklu2H.html
31-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BS Yediyurappa father of Operation Kamala, says ex-CM Siddaramiah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BS Yediyurappa is the father of Operation Kamala, says SiddaramiahSiddaramaih took a swipe at BS Yediyurappa saying that making false claims like having won a majority of the Gram Panchayats does not reflect well on a Chief Minister. Read more here. A ‘new’ India can’t be built by abandoning the core values of our founding fathers, writes Rajdeep SardesaiWhere the mind is without fear and the head is held high. Where an Indian identity is determined by citizenship, and not divided by the narrow domestic walls of caste, region or religion. Where true secularism demands that no state authority promote or discriminate against any religion, where equal respect for all faiths must be the basis of our constitutional secularism... Read more here. Neha Kakkar says Rohanpreet Singh was in tears ahead of their wedding: ‘I told him we could put off the shaadi’As Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh appeared on Indian Idol’s shaadi special episode, the singer dropped a few secrets about their wedding. Read more here. India vs Australia: ‘It’s the best I have seen Ashwin bowl overseas,’ Laxman praises Ashwin’s ‘lovely display of off-spin’ in MelbourneImpressed with his heroics, Laxman, in his latest column on Times of India, said that this is the best version of Ravi Ashwin he has ever witnessed in overseas conditions. Read more here. Momos, biryani, pizza: That’s what India ordered the most on Zomato in 2020Momos, biryani and pizzas were the most ordered dishes across the country and the gulab jamun was India’s favourite dessert, according to Zomato’s 2020 rewind. Read more here. Hello 2021: 4 things that we looking forward to this New YearHope springs from unexpected places. Vaccines are here. Indians are finally getting the hang of personal space. And, the new James Bond is a black woman. There is much to this year that promises to bring cheer, but most importantly, this is the year that follows the one we have all lived through. That in itself is its biggest USP. Watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bs-yediyurappa-father-of-operation-kamala-says-ex-cm-siddaramiah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-M4SaVCKo0mfwMwYg2yRUnN.html
31-12-2020||India||In another U-turn, KCR decides to implement Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme||Dropping its confrontationist stand against the Centre, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government, headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, has decided to implement the central scheme of Ayushman Bharat, which it had been against for the last two years. The decision to implement the scheme was conveyed to the Centre by Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. “The chief secretary informed the PM that the chief minister has taken a decision to dovetail Arogyasri health scheme of Telangana government with Ayushman Bharat scheme of Government of India,” a brief official note from the state government said. Health minister Eatala Rajender said on Thursday that the state government had decided in principle to implement Ayushman Bharat scheme of the Centre in the state from this year. “Whether it is a central scheme or the state scheme, it will be implemented only with public money,” he said. Ever since Ayushman Bharat was introduced in September 2018, KCR, as the Telangana chief minister is known, has been strongly resisting it and refusing to implement it in Telangana, stating that his government’s Arogyasri scheme was much better than Ayushman Bharat, which would benefit hardly a few lakh people. He even declared that Ayushman Bharat was a poor imitation of Telangana’s Arogyasri scheme. In the 2019 general elections, the BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, made it a big issue during their campaign, accusing KCR of denying the benefits of Ayushman Bharat to the poor people. “It is good that KCR has changed his mind on Ayushman Bharat. But he should tender an apology to the people of Telangana for refusing to implement the scheme in the last two years,” BJP state president Bandi Sanjay said. The change in KCR’s stand on Ayushman Bharat comes within three days of his U-turn on implementation of contentious central laws on agriculture. It was only on Sunday that the chief minister declared that the state government would hereafter not be involved in sale and purchase of agriculture produce, since the new farm laws were being implemented across the country. Stating that the government had incurred a loss of Rs 7,500 crore on purchase of agriculture commodities last season to ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers hit by pandemic, he declared that the state was not a business organisation or trader to purchase the produce every year. It was only a few months ago that the TRS had voted against the farm bills in Parliament. The party leaders made strong statements against the agriculture bills and also took part in the Bharat Bandh programme held in the first week of December. KCR even announced that he would hold a national conclave in Hyderabad in the third week of December by consolidating all anti-BJP forces to fight against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Senior journalist and political analyst Suresh Dharur said the change in KCR’s stand towards the Modi government was pretty evident after his Telangana Rashtra Samithi faced shocking debacles in Dubbak assembly by-polls in November and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections in early December. “Apparently, KCR has sensed that the Bharatiya Janata Party is emerging as a strong force. If he continues to adopt a confrontationist attitude towards the Centre, he is going to lose further ground to the BJP in the state. That is why he has decided to drop his anti-Modi stand,” Dharur said. According to him, KCR appears to be following the path of Naveen Patnaik and YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, his counterparts in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, respectively, of cosying up to the BJP’s central leadership, thereby getting maximum benefits to the state in the form of approvals to new projects and additional funds. “If KCR remains friendly with the Centre, the state-level BJP leaders won’t have the chance of going aggressive against the TRS. This will also create some sort of confusion among the BJP cadres,” Dharur observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-another-u-turn-kcr-decides-to-implement-centre-s-ayushman-bharat-scheme/story-Cpee8VjmwTxA3HncXD7QJL.html
31-12-2020||India||BS Yediyurappa is the father of Operation Kamala, says Siddaramiah||Even as chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the ruling BJP had performed creditably by winning a majority of the Gram Panchayats in Karnataka the state, senior Congressman and leader of opposition in the state assembly Siddaramiah accused him of mounting an operation to lure opposition members.Polls were held for 5728 Gram Panchayats with voting taking place in two phases on December 22 and 27. A total of 91,339 members were declared elected on Thursday. “The BJP has been improving its performance both at the state and national level. In the Gram Panchayat polls, BJP supported candidates won more than 60 per cent of the seats. Of the 5728 GPs, BJP-backed candidates have won a majority in more than 3,800 of them. This was possible due to our national leadership and the collective leadership at the local level,” Yediyurappa said.The CM pointed out that apart from winning 12 of the 15 assembly seats in the bye-elections last year, the BJP had won both assembly seats where bypolls were held this year. “We have been improving our performance consistently,” he said.However, Siddaramiah refuted the claim of BJP that it has won a majority of the GPs. “Yediyurappa is the father of ‘Operation Kamala’ (lotus). Using their money power they are trying to lure our party supported candidates who won in the GP polls. Making false claims like having won a majority of the GPs does not reflect well on a CM,” Siddaramiah said.In Congress lexicon, Operation Kamala is allegedly the BJP’s covert way of trying to get the MLAs to leave opposition parties, particularly a ruling coalition.Political analyst Manjunath pointed out that since GP polls were fought on a party-less basis it was easy for all parties to claim victory.“In a number of seats it looked like a neck to neck fight between the BJP and Congress with the saffron party marginally ahead. JDS is a distant third. However, being in power means that BJP enjoys a natural advantage in trying to attract supporters of other parties and independents to install their choice to head the Gram Panchayats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-is-the-father-of-operation-kamala-says-siddaramiah/story-O3me331Z6vKFksPc8TUSCJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Farmers to welcome New Year at Singhu as protest continues | 10 points||Several thousands of farmers who are on the roads protesting the three agriculture laws will welcome the new year away from their homes and families. A group of farmers on Thursday broke through barricades at the Shahjahanpur border between Rajasthan and Haryana in their attempt to enter Haryana. The Haryana police used a water cannon and tear gas which resisted some, while some others managed to push past the barriers.Here are the latest updates:1. Though agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar repeatedly requested the union leaders to send women, children and old people back to their homes, protesters are not budging. According to Kisan Ekta Morcha’s Twitter handle, 74-year-old Jal Kaur who is wheelchair-bound has joined the protest at Singhu.2. Several farmers are sitting at Rajasthan-Haryana border after they were stopped from moving further into Haryana. A group of protesters on Thursday broke through the police barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan. The Haryana Police on Thursday used a water cannon and tear gas on them. Farmer leaders at the site made it clear that the protesters who forced their way into Haryana did not have their consent.3. At Singhu, protesters are ushering in the New Year eve in their own way. Some have decided to do ‘sewa’ as they have done in the past. A ‘turban langar’ will be put up for all farmers. Many farmers don’t have a fresh turban. The langar will distribute turban. 4. On Thursday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar again said he will leave politics if he fails to secure minimum support price guarantee to farmers. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala too said the same committing to MSP for farmers.5. The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the immediate withdrawal of the three contentious central laws. BJP’s lone member in the Kerala Assembly, O Rajagopal, supported the resolution, in a surprise move.6. The Rajasthan government has decided to run a week-long ‘Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao’ campaign from January 5 in all villages of the state.7. The Aam Aadmi Party has installed five hotspot devices at the Singhu border on Wednesday. 8. Farmers’ protest in Punjab has taken a worrisome turn as over 1,600 mobile towers have been damaged for which the Governor has summoned the chief secretary and the DGP. Reliance Jio has written to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh seeking his intervention for action against those responsible for the incidents of “sabotage and vandalism”.9. As the talks between the farmers and the Centre are going on, a common ground has been reached on the issue of stubble burning and power tariff rise. 10. No consensus has been achieved on the issue of MSP as the farmers are demanding a legal guarantee for MSP.The next meeting which will be the seventh round of meeting will take place on January 4. While the Centre is hopeful of a resolution in the meeting, the farmers have said they won’t withdraw protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-welcome-new-year-at-singhu-as-protest-continues-10-points/story-uH8HIEjoGy9P2bwMRfiHtI.html
31-12-2020||India||To strengthen BJP’s presence across states, Nadda rejigs national team||Bharatiya Janata Party president, JP Nadda made a few organisational changes in the party by reassigning the responsibilities of some of the functionaries loaned to the party from its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). According to people aware of the details, more inductions—including from the RSS —to the national team are also expected in the coming weeks. On Thursday, the party announced that joint general secretary (organisation), Saudan Singh has been made a vice president in the national team and will oversee the party’s work in Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. Singh will take over the party’s work at a time when the ongoing farmers’ agitation is at its peak in Punjab and Haryana. A section of farmers in these states are demanding a repeal of the recently passed farm laws, alleging that they do not protect the interests of the farmers.V Satish, also a joint general secretary (organisation) has been given a new designation; he will now be Sangathak. Satish, who was earlier in charge of states such as Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat has been given charge of parliamentary office coordination, SC/ST morcha coordination and Vishesh Sampark or special outreach. Shiv Prakash, a third joint general secretary (organisation) has been given charge of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He continues to retain the responsibility of looking after election bound West Bengal where the party is preparing for a tough contest against the ruling Mamata Banerjee government. According to a party leader these changes are in line with the process of building a new team and strengthening the party’s presence across states. “More names will be added to the national team as there are vacancies in several states including Uttar Pradesh that goes to polls in 2022; in Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand,” said a functionary aware of the details. In September, Nadda announced a new national team that had 12 vice presidents, eight general secretaries, three national joint secretaries and 13 secretaries apart from 23 spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-strengthen-bjp-s-presence-across-states-nadda-rejigs-national-team/story-ELGKplv1WiAZONeihZHkDP.html
31-12-2020||India||Gunmen shoot dead jewellery shop owner in Srinagar||A jewellery outlet owner was killed after unknown gunmen opened fire on him in Sarai Bala area near Lal Chowk in Srinagar on Thursday evening.Police said that gunmen shot Satpal at his shop injuring him critically.“He was rushed to a hospital in a critical state,” said sub divisional police officer, Shahjahan Ahmad.Nazir Choudhary, Medical Superintendent of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) Hospital where Satpal was taken, said that he died before he could be treated.“He was brought dead to the hospital,” Choudhary said.The police officer said that Satpal was a resident of Indira Nagar in Srinagar.After the incident, security officials rushed to the area to trace the attackers. It is not known yet how many men were involved in the shooting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gunmen-shoot-dead-jewellery-shop-owner-in-srinagar/story-ocMdq63u5PWwNvNnxBSYoJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Pakistan woman becomes village head in Uttar Pradesh’s Etah; probe ordered||The Uttar Pradesh administration was left red-faced when it came to notice that an alleged Pakistani national has been serving as interim village panchayat head in Jalesar block of Etah. Bano Begum, from Karachi, has been living in India for the last 40 years and is married to a local man in the district. “Bano Begum has been removed from the post of gram pradhan and a probe has been ordered into the matter. Police have also been asked to file an FIR against Bano Begum,” said Etah district panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Alok Priyadarshi. District magistrate for Etah Sukhlal Bharti has ordered a probe to find out how the woman got the Aadhaar card and other documents paving way for her getting elected as member of gram panchayat and then becoming the interim pradhan of village in Etah. Bano Begum, 65, came to India from Pakistan to visit her relatives in Etah about 35-40 years ago. She then married a local Akhtar Ali and had been staying in Etah on a long-term visa since then. She has applied for Indian citizenship many times. The matter became public when a villager lodged a complaint against Bano Begum, alleging that she was a Pakistani national.“During 2015 local body election, Bano Begum was elected as a member of Guadau gram panchayat. Gram pradhan Shehnaz Begum died on January 9, 2020. Following Shehnaz’s death, the village committee discussed the issue and asked Bano Begum to take over as interim gram pradhan,” said DPRO Alok Priyadarshi.Strict action will be taken against those found guilty of helping Bano Begum, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-woman-becomes-village-head-in-uttar-pradesh-s-etah-probe-ordered/story-Yws6w0LJP8kIljLwHMC3AK.html
31-12-2020||India||Five murders in three districts rock Bihar on bloody Thursday||Five men, including a Janata Dal (United) worker were killed by unidentified assailants in four separate incidents across Bihar on Thursday.While a father-son duo was killed in Gopalganj, two deaths were reported from Aurangabad and one from Samastipur district, police said.One Baidyanath Chandravansi, a worker of the ruling JD (U) was beaten to death on national highway-2 near Munsi Bigha village, barely 500 metres from Muffasil police station area of Aurangabad district. According to eyewitnesses, the incident occurred around 5.30 am when Chandravansi was on his way to relieve himself. The miscreants intercepted him and mercilessly thrashed him. Locals and passerby rushed him to Sadar hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Irate locals later blocked NH-2 and disrupted vehicular traffic more than three hours. When police team reached the spot to pacify the mob, they chased them away. Later, police reinforcement was rushed to control the mob. “A case has been lodged against eight people in this connection,” said sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Amit Kumar.In another incident in Aurangabad district, a garment trader, Saklesh Yadav (38) was shot dead at Mahandipur village. Police said the incident took place when Yadav reached his shop and tried to park his vehicle. A group of miscreants, allegedly led by one Muni Sharma, reached there and fired at him from point blank range, killing him on the spot.Following the incident, traders downed shutters in protest. Daudnagar SDPO Rajkumar Tiwary said raids were on to nab the culprits.In Gopalganj, one Ramiqbal Tiwari and his son Mukesh Tiwari were stabbed to death near their house at Kamlapatti-Phulwariya village under Kuchaikot police station area. Police said assailants attacked them after they objected to some drunk people creating nuisance. The father and son died on the spot while their relative Sunil Pandey was injured and admitted in Gopalganj sadar hospital.In Samastipur district, 35-year-old Devi Lal Mahto was shot dead at Rampura Bandh under Kalyanpur police station. The locals chased and caught one of the assailants and handed him over to the police after thrashing him.The incident occurred when Mahto was on way to his house. At Rampura Bandh, three motorcycle-borne assailants intercepted him and shot him on the head and stomach. He was immediately rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.Furious locals blocked Samastipur-Darbhanga main road near Gopalpur and disrupted vehicular traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-murders-in-three-districts-rock-bihar-on-bloody-thursday/story-uH0ZlLCe5huEcPwmHcqEBJ.html
31-12-2020||India||ED ‘weaponised’ to hound political opponents, says Mehbooba Mufti||The Enforcement Directorate is being “weaponised by the ruling party to hound political opponents”, alleged Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday, underscoring that she will fight legally and politically against the agency. Mufti shared the letter she sent to the director of the ED, claiming that various persons from Kashmir related to her were summoned by the agency.“The only common thread connecting these persons appears to be that they are all acquainted with me, my family or my politics in one way or another. The questioning of these persons is also focused on myself, my personal, political and financial affairs, my late father’s grave and memorial, my sister’s finances, home constructions, my brother’s finances and personal affairs etc,” read the letter.She stated that PDP leader Waheed Para was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in what she said was a “non-existent case” around the dates of elections.Youth leader Waheed Parra was arrested for allegedly supporting Hizbul Mujahideen, a banned terror outfit. The arrest came days after he filed a nomination to contest the District Development Council (DDC) elections. She said that she was ready to face any questioning but demanded fairness of process.“The use of the ED against political opponents is not an unknown device for a party in power at the Centre. I wish to notify you that I am a responsible citizen and politician…I am ready and willing to face any questioning by any agency. But I will insist upon the legitimacy of the process,” she said.The former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir demanded that any questioning of her or her family members or checking of their devices should be done under an impartial judicial authority.“If there is any breach of what I consider to be norms of law , good conduct and constitutionalism, I shall not hesitate to take the matter up legally and politically,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-weaponised-to-hound-political-opponents-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-U6CIbGCe8OWgYOt1Vs0qhN.html
31-12-2020||India||States which are reopening schools partially from January 1||Several states have decided to reopen schools from the first day of the new year 2021, as restrictions are being eased with the decreasing number of Covid-19 cases, though concerns over the new UK strain prevail. Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim have already reopened classes partially. Here are the states which are reopening schools from tomorrow.KeralaSchools in Kerala remained closed since the imposition of coronavirus lockdown in March, will reopen partially on January 1. The classes for 10th and 12th standards would begin with limited hours and restricted number of students. Kerala has been the hotbed of Covid-19 infection and the number of daily cases in the state is still the highest.KarnatakaSchools in Karnataka will also be reopening from January 1 for students of classes 6 to 12. The government has also planned to hold regular classes for PU-I year from January 15 and to start Vidyagama programme for students of classes six to nine in government schoolsAssamAll schools and other educational institutions from elementary level to the university level will be reopened on January 1. Assam started reopening schools in a staggered manner since September. Many other states will reopen schools in January. Schools in Puducherry, Pune, Bihar will partially reopen from January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-which-are-reopening-schools-partially-from-january-1/story-uXmwwUAGWOA9KTNKGilgqJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Indian states, cities opt for night curfew, curbs on New Year. Read list here||In a bid to prevent rise in coronavirus cases in the ongoing celebratory period, several Indian states have introduced restrictions in the form of night curfew or curbs for citizens ahead of the New Year. The measures by state governments come on the day India clocked 1,02,66,674 coronavirus cases after 21,822 fresh infections were reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.60 lakh pushing the national recovery rate over 96 per cent. There are 2,57,656 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.51 per cent of the total caseload, the health ministry said. Here is a list of states and cities taking preventive measures to keep the disease outbreak under control:GujaratThe night curfew currently in force in four cities of Gujarat on account of coronavirus will start at 10 pm instead of 9 pm from January 1, the Gujarat government said on Wednesday. The decision to curtail curfew hours in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat cities was taken by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, said an official release.From January 1 to January 14, the curfew will be in force between 10 pm and 6 am, the release said.Gujarat is now witnessing a drop in new cases of coronavirus. From over 1,500 cases emerging every day in the last week of November, the number now hovers between 800 and 900. MumbaiA night curfew is in place, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons between 11 pm and 6 am, Mumbai Police said. Gatherings in restaurants, bars and pubs will not be allowed post-11 pm, the police said, adding loudspeaker/DJ music beyond permissible decibel limit and fireworks are also prohibited.Large gatherings will not be allowed anywhere in Mumbai in view of Covid-19 and use of face masks and social distancing norm will remain mandatory, they said.DelhiAhead of the New Year, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday imposed a night curfew in Delhi, disallowing celebrations and the assembly of over five people at public places in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the new strain of the virus.No new year celebratory events, congregations, and gatherings at public places will be permitted from 11 pm of December 31 to 6 am of January 1, and also from 11 pm of January 1 to 6 am of January of 2, officials said. No gatherings will be allowed in open public places like Connaught Place and India Gate during the night curfew imposed by the Delhi government on December 31 and January 1. GoaThe Goa government is likely to impose night curfew in the state on the lines of Delhi to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a state minister said on Thursday.Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, however, did not specify when its implementation is likely to start.OdishaThe Odisha government has imposed a night curfew from 10 pm on Thursday to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. The restriction will remain in place till 5 am on Friday, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said.However, all essential services will be allowed during the curfew hours, he said.BengalNight curfew will not be imposed in West Bengal on New Year’s eve as the situation is not that adverse, a senior official has said.The state government, however, will take all precautionary measures to prevent gatherings on the occasion, he said. The current situation is not conducive to imposing a night curfew, Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said.PunjabThe Punjab government has decided to lift the night curfew from January 1 and advised people to follow coronavirus guidelines.Disclosing this here, an official spokesperson said restrictions regarding the night curfew in all cities and towns will remain until December 31.These restrictions will no longer be applicable from January 1 due to recent downtrend in Covid-19 casesTamil NaduThe state authorities have asked officials to remain extra vigilant during the New Year and Pongal festivities but the state will not undergo any stringent curb or restriction. Due to the precautionary measures taken by the government, the coronavirus infection has been “very, very low in several districts, with the exception of a few”, chief minister K Palaniswami had said. Karnataka The Karnataka government has abstained from implementing a wide-spanning curfew but has instead gone for Section 144 starting December 31 to January 1, stating that the conditions and restrictions remain the same.“The prohibitory orders have been revised. Sec 144 will be effective from 12 PM today (Dec 31) to 6 AM tomorrow (Jan 1, 2021). Conditions/restrictions notified in the original order remain the same. Request the citizens to kindly co-operate!” an official said in a tweet. Kind attn:The prohibitory orders have been revised. Sec 144 will be effective from 12 PM today (Dec 31) to 6 AM tomorrow (Jan 1, 2021).Conditions/restrictions notified in the original order remain the same.Request the citizens to kindly co-operate!HyderabadHyderabad has also opted for small scale restrictions and decided to regulate vehicular traffic.#NewYear2021 #TrafficDiversions pic.twitter.com/eoaD84BDN5 Telangana recorded 415 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total caseload to 2,86,354, while the death toll rose to 1,541 with three more fatalities, the state government said on Thursday.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 91, followed by Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri with 43 and 39 respectively, it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on December 30. The cumulative recoveries stood at 2,78,839, while 5,974 were under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-states-cities-opt-for-night-curfew-curbs-on-new-year-read-list-here/story-UKXthBpItjW7dAiFg2h61O.html
31-12-2020||India||CBI raids TMC youth leader’s homes in Kolkata in coal smuggling case; BJP targets Abhishek Banerjee||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday raided three residences of businessman and youth Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Vinay Mishra and businessmen Amit Singh and Niraj Singh, who are siblings, in connection with the ongoing investigation into the coal smuggling case. None of the suspects were home during the raids. Notices were served, asking Mishra and the others to appear for questioning at the CBI office in Kolkata on January 4. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited operates several mines. In early December, the CBI also raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant. Ever since the probe started in September, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee, Lok Sabha member and nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Abhishek Banerjee is also the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra. Accompanied by Central police force personnel, the CBI teams on Thursday simultaneously raided three apartments Mishra owns at Chetla and Rashbehari in south Kolkata and Lake Town in east Kolkata. Mishra’s south Kolkata residences are located not far from the homes of Mamata and Abhishek Banerjee. CBI officials refused to comment on the outcome of the raids and progress in the probe. An official said on condition of anonymity that several laptops, which were password protected, and documents were seized from Mishra’s residences.Anup Majhi alias Lala, the prime suspect in this case, is absconding and a lookout notice has already been issued by the probe agency. In November, the CBI raided 36 offices allegedly run by Majhi and also conducted a probe at the ECL headquarters in Asansol. The CBI teams on Thursday also raided the residences of Amit Singh and Niraj Singh at Konnagar in Hooghly district. Mishra and the Singh siblings are also under a cloud over allegations of their possible involvement in the smuggling of cows to Bangladesh that the CBI is probing since 2018. Two Border Security Force (BSF) commandants have so far been arrested in this case and several more are under scanner alongside officials in the state police and the Customs. The BJP leadership took jabs at the TMC after Thursday’s raids. “This is the true picture of the team members under the “able” leadership of the Nephew. What a great team he has made to take the @AITCofficial to a “different” level. #TolabaazBhaipoHatao!” tweeted Suvendu Adhikari, the former transport minister who joined the BJP on December 19. In the tweet, Adhikari referred to Abhishek Banerjee as bhaipo (nephew in Bengali) and called him a tolabaaz (extortionist). Ever since he left the TMC, Adhikari and the youth TMC president have been targeting each other in public. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh also took potshots at Abhishek Banerjee and the chief minster at a rally at Dankuni in Hooghly district. “All the ill-gotten money went to Kalighat (where the chief minister lives),” Ghosh alleged. The TMC brushed aside the allegations. “Mishra is not an important leader of the TMC. The raids won’t make any difference to the party,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. Building pressure on the ruling party, leaders of the CPIM) and the Congress legislative parties in the state assembly demanded that the government should convene a special session and prove its majority. “People are confused. They do not know how many MLAs the TMC has,” said CPI(M) lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty. “I do not know why the Congress and the CPI(M) are making this strange demand or how long their alliance will last,” quipped deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy. Suvendu Adhikari’ father and elder brother represent two Lok Sabha constituencies in East Midnapore. His younger brother Soumendu, who headed the civic body at Contai, their hometown, was removed from the post by the government on Sunday soon after he said at a BJP rally that his family will join the saffron party very soon. Soumendu Adhikari moved the Calcutta high court against the order on Thursday afternoon. The case will come up for hearing on January 4. There was a chaos at the civic body when Siddhartha Maity, the newly appointed civic body head, went to join duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-tmc-youth-leader-s-homes-in-kolkata-in-coal-smuggling-case-bjp-targets-abhishek-banerjee/story-Sj3EVuegfXjqh48Oigm2jM.html
31-12-2020||India||Mumbai: BMC permits food delivery post 11 pm on New Year’s Eve||In a bid to encourage people to party at home on New Year’s Eve, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has permitted delivery of food from restaurants post 11 pm on Thursday.The civic body made the announcement through its official Twitter handle @mybmc.“Don’t Stop The Party, Mumbai - Just Take It Indoors After 11:00! Restaurants are allowed to home deliver food in the city post 11:00pm,” the BMC tweeted.The civic body further stated that Covid-19 prevention norms will have to be followed to ensure that Mumbai rings in the new year safely.The Maharashtra government has put in place a night curfew between 11 pm and 6 am, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Parties will not be allowed at any hotel, bar, pubs, restaurants after 11 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-bmc-permits-food-delivery-post-11-pm-on-new-year-s-eve/story-eHGqs8QJJ70LFDYHIevL4K.html
31-12-2020||India||President asks citizens to strive for an inclusive society in New Year’s speech||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday greeted people on the eve of New Year and exhorted them to work together towards creating an inclusive society instilled with the spirit of love, compassion and forbearance that promotes peace and goodwill. In a message, he said every new year provides an opportunity to make a new beginning and emphasizes our resolve for individual and collective development, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement. “This difficult time arising out of Covid-19 situation is a time for all of us to move forward unitedly. This is also the time to strengthen the cultural values that reinforce our belief of unity in diversity,” Kovind said. “On the eve of New Year 2021, let us work together towards creating an inclusive society instilled with the spirit of love, compassion and forbearance that promotes peace and goodwill. “May all of you remain safe and healthy, and move forward with a renewed energy to achieve the common goal of our nation’s progress,” he said In his message, the President said, “On the occasion of New Year, I extend my heartiest greetings and best wishes to all our fellow citizens living in India and abroad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-asks-citizens-to-strive-for-an-inclusive-society-in-new-year-s-speech/story-i5D53KpkorHm4orPm1zcQP.html
31-12-2020||India||CM Bhupesh Baghel complains to PM Modi over paddy procurement delay||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone and informed him about the delay in permission for paddy procurement in the Kharif marketing year 2020-21.A press note issued by the Chhattisgarh government said that PM Modi assured the CM of taking appropriate action in this regard.On Wednesday, in a letter to PM Modi, CM Baghel had said the Centre had given ‘in-principle approval’ for depositing 60 lakh metric tonnes of rice in the central pool after the custom milling of paddy procured from the farmers of the state in the Kharif marketing season.“Following the approval, the state government started purchasing paddy on minimum support price (MSP) from December 1 and till now, about 47 lakh tonnes of paddy has been procured from 12 lakh farmers. But necessary permission for delivery of rice after custom milling of the purchased paddy to the FCI for the central pool is still awaited from the Centre’s Food and Public Distribution Department,” the letter stated.Baghel said that this delay in the process of lifting rice by the FCI affected paddy procurement drive.“A huge stock of rice has been piled up at procurement centres due to non-lifting of rice for the central pool. Delay in timely disposal of paddy, might lead to damage to the produce,” Baghel said.He further said that the Centre has agreed to provide only 1.45 lakh new jute gunny bags to the state against the demand of 3.50 lakh jute gunny bags and so far only 1.05 lakh bags have been provided.In the letter, he urged the Centre to fulfil the demands of the state government so that paddy procurement in the state can continue.Meanwhile, BJP leaders claimed that the state government is trying to hide the failure in procuring paddy in the state.“Most of the farmers of the state are suffering in selling their paddy at procurement centres. The government has done nothing for the farmers; they are only making mockery of procurement. Thousands of farmers are not getting a token for paddy selling … They are simply not prepared and failed,” said Sacchinand Upasane, a senior BJP leader and spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bhupesh-baghel-complains-to-pm-modi-over-paddy-procurement-delay/story-K5u57jd4o1URE3oENN4B6I.html
31-12-2020||India||Suneet Sharma is the new chairman and CEO of the Railway Board||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Thursday approved the appointment of Suneet Sharma as the new chairman and CEO of the Railway Board. The extended one-year tenure of Sharma’s predecessor, Vinod Kumar Yadav, who also became the restructured Board’s first CEO, ended on December 31.Sharma is a Special Class Railway Apprentice Officer of the 1978 batch. He has earlier served as the general manager of Modern Coach Factory, Raebareli, and divisional railway manager, Pune, Central Railway, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suneet-sharma-is-the-new-chairman-and-ceo-of-the-railway-board/story-ce2OJSz1S4Ctc60nqGhMFL.html
31-12-2020||India||Locality in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar town under curfew after crows die of bird flu||Authorities in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar town have imposed a curfew in a one-km radius after it was confirmed that 50 crows had died of bird flu recently.Meanwhile, death of crows has also been reported from Jodhpur.Jhalawar District Collector Ngikya Gohain has also instructed the Commissioner, Jhalawar Municipal Council to sanitise the affected area and close poultry and eggs shops there after the curfew was imposed Wednesday evening. After the death of over 50 crows in the Radi ke balaji temple in Jhalawar town on December 25, a joint team of wildlife department and animal husbandry department had inspected the area and sent samples to the National High Security Animal Disease Laboratory (NHSADL) in Anand Nagar, Bhopal for testing. “Avian influenza (Bird flu) has been found to be the cause of the death of the crows,” District Collector, Jhalawar, Ngikya Gohain said. “We have imposed zero mobility zone in one-km area around Radi ke balaji temple from Wednesday evening till further orders in view of public health. We have also invoked Section 144 of the CrPC to maintain peace,” he said.Gohain has formed a fast action team to contain the bird flu. The team comprises the Deputy Conservator, Sub divisional magistrate, Deputy SP, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry department, Chief Medical and Health Officer and Commissioner, Jhalawar Municipal Council.The action team would ensure compliance of the Influenza Action Plan 2015. Survey and sampling of the nearby poultries and area by the joint director, animal husbandry department will be conducted.“Bird flu can also spread to humans and animals so efforts are being done to check the spread of this disease,” Chief Medical and Health Officer, Jhalawar, Dr Sajid Khan said.Over half a dozen migratory black kites birds had also died in Kota last month due to uncertain reasons.Deputy Conservator of forest, Alok Gupta said the report on the death of the blacks kite is awaited from IVRI Bareilly. “Avian influenza less likely to be cause of black kites since no further deaths were reported,” he saidMeanwhile, mass death of crows has also been reported in the Jodhpur city also in the last few days. The carcasses were seen in Choupasani housing board society area and other areas.Sambhar Lake near Jaipur had witnessed deaths of around 18,000 birds in November-December last year due to avian botulism, a fatal illness that affects the nerves. Avian botulism, a neuromuscular illness caused by a toxin that is produced by bacteria, has been recognized as a major cause of mortality in wild birds since the 1900s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locality-in-rajasthan-s-jhalawar-town-under-curfew-after-crows-die-of-bird-flu/story-8cL7M8Rhw9s6WpDKNSwYCJ.html
31-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Celebs, religious leaders in govt’s Covid-19 vaccine strategy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre releases Covid-19 vaccine strategy; celebs, religious leaders part of campaigningThe Union health ministry has released an 88-page document detailing how information about Covid-19 vaccine will be disseminated to all people, across all states in the country.Read more. Patna administration identifies all 96 UK returnees, conducts testsPatna district administration on Thursday identified all the 96 people who had returned to the state capital from United Kingdom (UK) from November 21 to December 21.Read more. IRCTC overhauls site, ticket booking facilities. Check new featuresThe online ticket booking site of the Indian Railways, IRCTC, has got an upgrade which will allow passengers to book tickets without any hassle, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday, launching the upgraded version of the IRCTC website.Read more. Covid-19 vaccine: All states, UTs to conduct dry run on January 2After conducting a dry run of vaccination in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29, the centre has now planned to extend the drill to rest of the country so that once a vaccine shot is approved for emergency use, administering vaccine goes on without a glitch anywhere. Read more. New Year eve restrictions in Delhi, Mumbai & other cities | Key detailsThe Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its UK strain. An order issued by Vijay Dev, Delhi Chief Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during the night curfew. Watch full video here. ‘2021, be kind’: Smriti Irani shares heartfelt post as she looks forward to New Year with ‘hope’For many people across the globe, 2020 has been one of the most challenging years of their lifetimes. The pandemic has changed how we work, how we live and to some point how we communicate with each other. Now, people are waiting to usher in 2021 with hope. Among them is Union Minister Smriti Irani.Read more. Tata Altroz Turbo officially teased ahead of launch on January 13Tata Motors is all set to launch the new turbo variant of its popular premium hatchback Altroz on January 13. Ahead of its launch, the carmaker took to social media to tease the new hatchback.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-celebs-religious-leaders-in-govt-s-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eYMnAGYjsTcwHyfAgQ5DnN.html
31-12-2020||India||Centre releases Covid-19 vaccine rollout strategy; celebrities, RWA WhatsApp groups part of plan||The Union health ministry has released an 88-page document detailing how information about Covid-19 vaccine will be disseminated to all people, across all states in the country. “The communication strategy that supports the Covid-19 vaccines roll-out in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions about the vaccine, ensure its acceptance and encourage uptake. The strategy will also serve to guide national, state and district level communication activities, so that the information on the Covid-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country,” the introduction of the document read.The ministry has also identified two kinds of behaviour natural as the vaccines are coming: vaccine eagerness where people can’t wait to get back to their normal life. and vaccine hesitancy where people who are eligible for vaccination in the first phase may feel reluctant. Though getting vaccinated is optional, as told by the ministry earlier, there should be correct knowledge and awareness, the document emphasises.Here is how Centre plans to communicate about Covid-19 vaccination:> Apart from social media, mass media, outdoor media, community groups like gram sabha, school management committee, NSS, Scouts and Guides will be roped in for dissemination of information. Celebrities, politicians, local celebrities, social media influencers will be asked to campaign massively for vaccination. > The ministry has also set up a National Media Rapid Response Cell which will do fact checking of vaccine-related news and information. > Community WhatsApp groups like that of school/parent groups, RWAs, SHGs etc. will be identified for sharing of factual and official branded messages.> The ministry of external affairs will be approached to reach out to Indian Missions abroad with all relevant information on the vaccination campaign.> The ministry has also identified the crises which may emerge during vaccination drive, which includes protests/unrest as a result of rumours and misinformation, sudden AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) deaths or reactions, pressure from corporates, education institutes asking for prioritisation etc. In the document, the ministry has detailed how to address such situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-celebs-religious-leaders-part-of-campaigning/story-KBKnGqsQQ9Q9qwY5P1nDcJ.html
31-12-2020||India||IRCTC overhauls site, ticket booking facilities. Check new features||The online ticket booking site of the Indian Railways, IRCTC, has got an upgrade which will allow passengers to book tickets without any hassle, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday, launching the upgraded version of the IRCTC website. In 2014, the Next Generation E-ticketing (NGeT) system was launched to provide seamless e-ticketing services - higher booking loads and better user interface, through IRCTC. In 2018, it was updated with personalised features like checking of train availability without the need to log in, probability of confirmation etc. This time, those features have been made easy to access.  Here are the new features:1. Passengers will be able to book tickets, meal and accommodations at the same time.2. Predictive entry suggestions using Artificial Intelligence will be given to the passenger when he is entering the station so that not much time is wasted to look for the station. 3. Refund status can be checked on your user account page. 4. Destinations can be saved under ‘regular’, ‘favourite’ tabs so that one can easily book tickets to those destinations.5. Availability for all class will be displayed along with respective fares for all trains on the same page. Earlier each train seat availability and fares could be seen only after clicking on that train individually.6. “A ‘Cache system’ has been introduced in the backend to provide availability status. This will avoid delays in loading availabilities.In case of waitlisted tickets, its ‘confirmation probability’ is displayed. Earlier this had to be checked for each waitlist status separately.7. Availability for other dates can be toggled on the page itself.8. The journey details will be shown also at the payment page so that if there is any error it can be rectified. 9. The website has in-built features for enhancing cyber security by using appropriate captchas.10. It will also update seat availability real time. At present, this e-ticketing website of IRCTC has more than 6 crore active users, using it to book more than 8 lakhs tickets daily. Around 83 per cent of the total reserved railway tickets are booked through this online system||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-overhauls-site-ticket-booking-facilities-check-new-features/story-u307UdrDIdp30MdWuaMRnI.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Law ministry provided courts with infrastructure to go virtual||As the coronavirus pandemic made courts adopt the new normal and go virtual in 2020, the Union law ministry pitched in by providing the required infrastructure to ensure online hearings are held smoothly.As part of its push to improve India’s ranking in the ease of doing business, the ministry also brought in an ordinance to amend the arbitration law.Issued in November, the ordinance ensures that all stakeholder parties get an opportunity to seek an unconditional stay on enforcement of arbitral awards where the arbitration agreement or contract is “induced by fraud or corruption”.The ordinance which further amends the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 also does away with the 8th Schedule of the Act which contained the necessary qualifications for accreditation of arbitrators.This provision had faced criticism from some quarters that the conditions prescribed in the law came in way of India getting the benefit of having foreign arbitrators.“But that was not the case and a wrong impression had got created. Still, to do away with that impression, the concerned schedule has been dropped,” a government functionary explained.Now, the qualifications based on which arbitrators will be accredited will be prescribed by regulations, which will be framed by a proposed arbitration council.Till recently, an arbitration award was enforceable even if an appeal was filed against it in the court under Section 36 of the law. But the court could grant a stay on the award on conditions as it deemed fit.As per the latest amendment brought through the ordinance, if the award is being given on the basis of an agreement based on fraud or corruption, then the court will not impose a condition to stay the award and grant an unconditional stay during the pendency of the appeal if it has been challenged under Section 34 of the arbitration law.The law ministry ordinance said the amendment was necessary “to address the concerns raised by stakeholders after the enactment of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 and to ensure that all the stakeholder parties get an opportunity to seek an unconditional stay of enforcement of arbitral awards where the underlying arbitration agreement or contract or making of the arbitral award are induced by fraud or corruption”.In February, the Union Cabinet approved the constitution of the 22nd Law Commission which advises the government on complex legal issues. The term of the previous law panel had ended on August 31, 2018.But the law ministry is yet to notify the new panel, which will have a term of three years. The panel will have a full-time chairperson, four full-time members (including a member secretary), and law and legislative secretaries.Seeking to boost the capability of the lower judiciary to hear cases online, funds have been released to set up “video conference cabins” in 2,506 court complexes across India.While funds to the tune of Rs 5.21 crore were released in September to set up video conference cabins, another Rs 28.886 crore were given in October to buy additional video conference equipment, including hardware, cables and monitors.The funds were provided by the e-committee of the Supreme Court and the Department of Justice in the law ministry.While India has 3,288 court complexes, which house thousands of subordinate courts, the funds have been released for 2,506 court complexes to set up video conference cabins.Bigger court complexes with a large number of courtrooms would get multiple cabins as compared to smaller complexes.The size of a court complex, including the number of courts it houses, depends upon the size or population of the state.As courts continue to hear cases online amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has also procured 1,500 additional video conferencing licences at an approximate cost of Rs 9 crore for providing the facility for high courts and district courts.While the procurement has been completed, the process of installation is on.Such licences are required for legal and extended use of the video conference facility software.From the day the nationwide lockdown was imposed to check the spread of coronavirus till October 28, high courts and district courts across India have heard over 49.67 lakh cases virtually, according to data collated by the law ministry.The Centre had imposed the lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. From June 8, it started gradually relaxing restrictions under ‘Unlock’.This year, the law ministry also asked states to set up special courts to settle disputes related to infrastructure project contracts under a law which was amended two years ago, saying it is very important in improving the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking of both India and states.Citing the examples of the high courts of Allahabad, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, it has suggested other high courts to allocate a special day to make already functioning designated special courts for dealing with infrastructure project litigation as dedicated courts.Section 20 B of the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act, 2018, provides for designated courts. But the law ministry wants a designated court to function as a dedicated court on special days.In a letter to the registrars general of all high courts last week, the secretary (Justice) in the law ministry said that the Karnataka, Allahabad and Madhya Pradesh high courts have set up designated special courts instead of dedicated special courts under the Specific Relief Act.The high courts have dedicated special days every week to enable exclusive handling of specific relief matters pertaining to infrastructure project contracts.“This arrangement could be considered for adoption in your high court as an alternative measure until dedicated special courts are set up. This could be helpful in the enforceability of contract both from the perspective of time and cost, thereby stimulating investors’ confidence and creating conducive business climate,” the letter said.In October, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had written to all chief ministers pressing for special courts under the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-law-ministry-provided-courts-with-infrastructure-to-go-virtual/story-s2fNhaiGX20PzaazIt6YYJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand asked to explain delay in restoration of Kedarnath Samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued a show cause to the state government asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for non-compliance of its October 2018 order for restoration of the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya, near Kedarnath temple, within a year.The samadhi was damaged in the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. The court has sought a reply from the state government within two weeks. The matter was heard by division bench of acting chief justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath and justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari. Ajay Gautam, a Delhi based activist, who appeared in person in the matter, said that in October 2018, HC had directed the state government to restore the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya within a year. “As the restoration of the samadhi has not been completed yet, I filed an application in the court regarding the same in November this year. Hearing the matter, the court has now issued show cause to the state government and directed it to submit its reply within two weeks in the matter,” he said The Kerala born Adi Shankaracharya was an 8th-century Indian spiritual leader who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta and made a significant contribution in unifying Hinduism by setting up four mathas (monastic institutions) across India.Uttarakhand Himalayas hold much significance in the context of Adi Shankaracharya as he is believed to have taken samadhi here at Kedarnath. He also established one of the four mathas at Joshimath and installed the idol at Badrinath. Also Read: Plan to develop 100 villages along the Indo-China border to be sent to CentreDisposing of the PIL in October 2018, the court had ordered that “State is directed to restore the Samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya Ji positively within a period of one year.. at Kedarnath”. It also directed the district administration to ensure that the local traditional hill architecture is taken into consideration while repairing/restoring the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya and also to ensure that the architecture merges with the surrounding landscape. Elaborating the importance of the Shankaracharya and his samadhi in the state, HC had noted that he retired to the Himalayas at the young age of 32 years and entered a cave near Kedarnath. “Kedarnath is a Hindu pilgrimage site in Uttarakhand. The Samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya was built near Kedarnath temple. Samadhi was also revered by the pilgrims visiting Kedarnath. Samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya Ji was swept away in the Kedarnath tragedy in the month of June, 2013. Thereafter, it has not been repaired. It is in these circumstances that the present writ petition has been filed”, the order had observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-asked-to-explain-delay-in-restoration-of-kedarnath-samadhi-of-adi-shankaracharya/story-IKp6zjRQbz7HkXBcUvEHsI.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: All states, UTs to conduct dry run on January 2||After conducting a dry run of vaccination in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29, the centre has now planned to extend the drill to rest of the country so that once a vaccine shot is approved for emergency use, administering vaccine goes on without a glitch anywhere. All state capitals will conduct dry runs in at least three session sites on January 2. Some states will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support.In vaccine dry run, the entire process of transporting the vaccines from storage to the site, administering them to candidates, feeding data on Co-WIN app is practised without any real vaccine. For example, in Gujarat dry run, 475 beneficiaries underwent the dummy procedure, the main aim of which is to identify if there is any loophole in the planned process. Crowd management at a booth, maintaining social distancing guidelines inside the booth are also being practised at the mock drills.Also read: India likely to start the new year with a Covid vaccine, hints DCGIIn Gujarat, the dry run was conducted at 19 booths set up in Gandhinagar and Rajkot districts. In Punjab, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar were selected for the dry run. Nalbari and Sonitpur were the two districts of Assam where the mock drill already took place. Krishna district from Andhra Pradesh was chosen for the two-day drill. Everywhere, the drill went on successfully.The plan to extend the dry run to all states and UTs comes amid the apex drug regulator body of India indicating that India might start the new year with a vaccine against Covid-19. “We will have a Happy New Year with something in hand, that’s all I can hint at,” said VG Somani, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), on Thursday.The subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet on January 1 to consider the emergency-use authorisation application of three companies—Pfizer, Serum Institute of India that is to manufacture the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-all-states-uts-to-conduct-dry-run-on-january-2/story-e5zi7kk9CZhPzQpOkCXSSP.html
31-12-2020||India||No night curfew in Bengal on New Year’s eve, says chief secretary||Night curfew will not be imposed in West Bengal on New Year’s eve as the situation is not that adverse, a senior official has said.The state government, however, will take all precautionary measures to prevent gatherings on the occasion, he said.The current situation is not conducive to imposing a night curfew, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said.“New Year celebrations are organised at a few places in West Bengal. If people abide by the Covid-19 safety protocols and cooperate with the police and administration, gatherings can be avoided,” he said on Wednesday.The Ministry of Home Affairs has permitted states and union territories to impose local restrictions such as night curfew, if necessary, to prevent the spread of Covid-19.With a UK returnee testing positive for the mutant coronavirus strain in Kolkata, the chief secretary cautioned people and urged them to wear masks and maintain physical distancing.“People must cooperate with the administration and the police. There will be special assistance booths at places like Park Street and Victoria Memorial where a large turnout is expected,” he said.The Kolkata Police has taken measures to ensure that all Covid-19 safety protocols are adhered to and large gatherings on New Year’s eve are prevented, as per the Calcutta High Court’s order to check a spike in infections.Security has been beefed up in and around the metropolis to avoid any untoward incident.The high court had on Tuesday asked the state government to ensure that effective Covid-19 safety protocols are maintained during the year-end festivities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-night-curfew-in-bengal-on-new-year-s-eve-says-chief-secretary/story-aAdLZTNCspPmRJMM8QptbJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Plan to develop 100 villages along the Indo-China border to be sent to Centre||To curb migration and generate employment in around 100 villages near Indo-China border, Uttarakhand government would soon send a plan to the Centre for development of these villages under the International Border Development Programme, said Subodh Uniyal, state agriculture minister.The state government has selected villages from 11 blocks from bordering districts to be developed as model villages. Of the 11 blocks, four are in Pithoragarh district, one in Chamoli, three in Uttarkashi, one in Udham Singh Nagar and two blocks in Champawat district. “We have around 100 villages in blocks near the Indo-China border, which we shall develop as model villages. Under the International Border Development Programme, we are working to send a proposal to the Central government to develop these villages as Integrated Model Agriculture (IMA) villages for generating employment opportunities,” said Uniyal. He added that in this action plan, avenues of promoting agriculture, horticulture in the border areas will be explored. The work plan will also focus on other options like fisheries, animal husbandry, dairy farming, honey bee farming scheme to increase the income of farmers. “The objective of agricultural development in these areas is to prevent migration by bringing prosperity to the international border region. Preventing migration is also important from a strategic point of view,” added the minister. The proposal will be developed for areas falling under one to ten kilometres radius of the villages. Also Read: Uttarakhand govt, Centre told to reply to PIL against land transfer for new airportIn a step to boost tourism in the area and contain migration of locals from bordering villages, the state government this month ended the Inner-line permit system from the Niti Valley area in Chamoli district. In the letter written to the Union ministry of home affairs, Satpal Maharaj, state tourism minister, had mentioned some areas under Inner Line permit regime including Gartang Gali in Uttarkashi district, Timmersain Mahadev and Niti Valley in Chamoli district and Om Parvat in Pithoragarh district. Due to the requirement of an Inner-line permit, there were certain restrictions for the tourists and civilians to enter those areas. “The area of Niti Valley including Niti village has been removed from the Inner Line (permit regime) by the Centre, opening avenues of tourism and other development activities there,” said Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-develop-100-villages-along-the-indo-china-border-to-be-sent-to-centre/story-MGM1nr37Kmd5OqaeCLD24O.html
31-12-2020||India||Centre extends deadline for FASTag toll collection till February 15||The Union transport ministry on Thursday extended the deadline for collection of toll charges on National Highways (NH) through the FASTag system till February 15. The deadline was earlier set to January 1 with transport minister Nitin Gadkari saying that FASTag will be mandatory for all vehicles in the country.Speaking at a virtual summit last week, Gadkari had said that the electronic toll collection system was useful for commuters as they would not be required to stop at toll plaza for cash payments, adding that it also saves time and fuel. Making FASTags compulsory would also ensure that vehicles pass seamlessly through toll plazas as payment would be done on an electronic basis.The transport ministry had issued a notification in November which said that FASTag was mandatory from next year for old vehicles that were sold before December 1, 2017. FASTag is an electronic toll collection system in India which is operated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). It was launched in 2016; in two years, their number crossed 3.4 million. As per the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, since December 1, 2017, FASTag had been made mandatory for registration of new four-wheelers. It has also been mandated that renewal of the fitness certificate of a vehicle will be done only if it has the electronic tag.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-deadline-for-fastag-toll-collection-till-february-15/story-OT2DvsOwZYDY0y62WPFXVO.html
31-12-2020||India||India likely to start the new year with a Covid vaccine, hints DCGI||India is likely to get a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the New Year, hinted the country’s apex drug regulator during a webinar on the science behind the vaccine development that enabled it to reach from the lab to the people in less than 12 months. “We will have a Happy New Year with something in hand, that’s all I can hint at,” said VG Somani, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), on Thursday. The subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet on January 1 to consider the emergency-use authorisation application of three companies—Pfizer, Serum Institute of India that is to manufacture the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Also Read: ‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’: PM Modi for caution even after vaccinationThis will be the second meeting of the SEC with the companies to examine the data that has been produced so far. Somani said that the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. “There has been no compromise on the safety of efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data,” he said. Representatives from the industry appreciated the hand-holding and quick assessment by the regulator. The manufacturing and stockpiling licenses granted by the drug regulator also helped the companies prepare for a massive vaccination drive. “With the manufacturing and stockpiling license, Serum Institute of India (SII) has already been able to stockpile 75 million doses of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine and by the first week of January we will have 1 million doses. Nobody across the world has so much stock and we can start supplying as soon as we get the approval. After the phase 2 data of Novovax is released, we will start stockpiling the other vaccine too,” said Umesh Shalingam from SII, who was present at the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-start-the-new-year-with-a-covid-vaccine-hints-dcgi/story-UgrrZ7I6URz6mGPeBGYAyK.html
31-12-2020||India||On New Year’s Eve, Goa health minister pitches for night curfew||Barely hours ahead of New Year’s Eve celebrations and parties, Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane pitched in for implementation of a night curfew in the state on the lines of similar restrictions imposed in other states. Rane said that strictness in following the standard operating procedures for containment of Covid-19 infection was the ‘need of the hour’ if the state was to sustain the reopening of the vital tourism sector. “Goa being a tourism state, it is imperative to have strict SOPs in place, so that we are able to sustain the tourism activities in keeping with the Covid-19 guidelines. [I] spoke to the CM on imposing night curfew in the state on lines of the state of Delhi & Karnataka. The file is already in process,” Rane said via social media. He added that the Central government had advised enforcement of containment protocols. “I have received a letter from the health secretary, Govt of India (MoHFW) to ensure SOPs and strict protocols are laid down by each state, based on the situation in the respective states,” Rane said. States including Delhi and Karnataka have imposed curfews to prevent late night gatherings to celebrate the New Year. Goa has reopened for tourism and has lifted restrictions on gatherings, including parties, with the riders that social distancing should be maintained. However, visuals emerging from party hotspots have shown an alarming lack of social distancing as tourists have begun to let their guard down while on holiday. Goa has witnessed a huge spike in flight arrivals, largely fuelled by holiday makers seeking a good time during the Christmas and New Year period. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa has praised the government for ‘helping the industry’ so far with a ‘consistent policy’ instead of constant chopping and changing. “It is important that the government sensitizes tourists on the need for wearing masks and maintaining protocols as tourists; when they are on a holiday, tourists often tend to be more relaxed than when back home,” Nilesh Shah, the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, said. On December 27, the Goa airport handled 72 arrivals and 72 departures with more than 11,000 passengers arriving and nearly an equal number departing, the highest traffic since the lock down and 85% of the pre-Covid levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-new-year-s-eve-goa-health-minister-pitches-for-night-curfew/story-U4znq80ElOmtVm2tzqSxdL.html
31-12-2020||India||All calls from Jio to other networks in India to be free from Jan 1||Reliance Jio on Thursday announced that all off-net domestic voice calls from its network to other networks anywhere in India will be free from January 1, 2021. The company said in a statement that this has been done because interconnect usage charges (IUCs) for all domestic voice calls is coming to an end from Friday.“Honouring its commitment to revert off-net domestic voice-call charges to zero, as soon as IUC charges are abolished, Jio will once again make all off-net domestic voice calls free, starting 1st January 2021. On-net domestic voice calls have always been free on the Jio network,” Reliance Jio said in a statement.The company announced that Jio has delivered on that promise and made off-net voice calls free again.“Jio stands firm on its commitment to make the common Indian the beneficiary of advanced technologies like VoLTE. Jio is a customer-obsessed organisation and cares for every single user. All our users enjoy free voice calls with Jio,” it said.As per the telecom regulator’s directions, ‘Bill and Keep’ regime is being implemented in the country from January 1, 2021, thereby ending IUC charges for all domestic voice calls, the statement read.The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in September 2019 extended the timeline for implementation of the Bill and Keep regime beyond January 1. The Ambani-led firm Jio said it was left with no option but to start charging its customers for off-net voice calls at a rate exactly equivalent to the applicable IUC charge.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-calls-from-jio-to-other-networks-in-india-to-be-free-from-jan-1/story-Eor1CK1fbJxSDSm8drUBdK.html
31-12-2020||India||India’s protesting farmers hold key to self-reliance in edible oils||Indian farmer Shingara Singh has grown grain for 35 years and is one of thousands of protesters against agricultural reforms who have the power to help slash a huge annual bill of $10 billion for imports of vegetable oils.But Singh, 55, says he will only switch to growing oilseeds, such as rapeseed and sunflower, on his 15-acre (six-hectare) plot in the northern state of Punjab, if the government promises guaranteed rates for his produce.“Sometimes we grow sunflower, but we don’t get to sell it at the MSP,” said Singh, 55, referring to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) the government pays for his rice and wheat. “In fact, we often have to sell sunflower at deep discounts,” added the blue-turbanned Singh, a participant in the farmers’ daily sit-ins on the edge of the capital, New Delhi.Such a switch by farmers in the breadbasket states of Punjab and Haryana could cut shipments of edible oils that have tripled over the last two decades to rack up India’s third biggest import bill, after crude oil and gold.That would also melt bulging inventories of rice and wheat worth billions of dollars that lie unsold in government warehouses, after years of bountiful harvests.But industry experts say grain growers are unlikely to make the switch in large numbers unless the government offers financial assistance.“Farmers will shift to oilseeds if the government agrees to give incentives of a few thousand rupees per acre for diversification, which is necessary,” said veteran trader Govindbhai Patel, the head of GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co. Such a move looks unlikely during the stand-off over three new farm laws adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in September, which protesting cultivators call a ruse to abandon MSPs.These prices are set for more than 20 crops each year, but state buying agency the Food Corporation of India (FCI) applies them only to purchases of rice and wheat, blaming a lack of funds and storage space.Only the prospect of financial support will encourage farmers to switch from grain crops, with their government-set prices, to the less predictable gains of oilseeds.“We’ve requested the government to give that kind of support to farmers,” said BV Mehta of industry body the Solvent Extractors Association of India (SEA).The government, which earns 350 billion rupees ($4.77 billion) from levies on edible oil imports, can easily set aside 40 billion rupees a year for crop diversification, through more taxes on such imports, Mehta added.Higher output of oilseeds and fewer imports of oils will boost farmers’ incomes, create jobs in the domestic crushing industry and help save precious foreign exchange, he said. The growers’ transition away from grain is a key step in a government plan to boost oilseed production, said a senior government official, who sought anonymity in line with policy.Once the government resolves the farmers’ month-old agitation, it can chalk out financial incentives to drive crop diversification, industry officials say. Negotiators for both sides are to meet on Jan. 4 to try and break the deadlock.GRAIN PREFERRED TO OILSEEDSGovernment purchases, initially meant to promote self-sufficiency in domestic staples, have spurred farmers, especially those with access to better irrigation, to favour grain over the years, rather than oilseeds and pulses.That has pushed India to the rank of the world’s second-biggest producer of rice and wheat, but caused a glut. At the same time, lower oilseed output has made it the world’s biggest importer of oils, to meet nearly 70% of consumption.Such imports have surged to 15 million tonnes from 4 million two decades ago and could touch 20 million by 2030, boosted by a growing populace with higher incomes to satisfy a penchant for calorie-laden curry and deep-fried food.India buys palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia and soyoil and sunflower oil from Argentina, Brazil, Russia and Ukraine.Oilseeds are now mainly grown in rain-fed areas with low crop yields, but Punjab, with efficient irrigation, can expect higher yields, experts say.Farmers in the state and neighbouring Haryana can produce 6 million tonnes of rapeseed if they divert half the area now under wheat, bringing a domestic supply boost of 2.5 million tonnes, Mehta estimated.Farm economists say India should create a transition fund.“Both central and state governments should work out a financial package that will get this crop diversification rolling,” said former government adviser Ashok Gulati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-protesting-farmers-hold-key-to-self-reliance-in-edible-oils/story-wANIy3RATvenoects7WsnL.html
31-12-2020||India||‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’: PM Modi for caution even after vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Rajkot in Gujarat where he said that people should exhibit caution and strictly abide by coronavirus preventive norms even after vaccines are administered.“I used to say ‘jab tak davai nahi dhilai nahi’ but now our mantra for 2021 should be: ‘Davai bhi, kadaai bhi” PM Modi while addressing the event virtually.He also thanked all frontline workers for their continued service to the nation, dedicating the last day of the year to them.ALSO WATCH | ‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’: PM Modi on Covid vaccine; warns against rumours While praising the nation for fighting the coronavirus together, PM Modi asked everyone to carry forward this cooperative spirit as India starts preparing for the “world’s largest vaccination drive”. “A country such as India, with its huge population, saw nearly 1 crore of its people winning their battles against coronavirus. India has fared much better than other countries in this field and the infection rate is also going down continuously.” he added. India got one step closer to having a Covid-19 vaccine after the UK granted emergency approval to the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate. The Serum Institute of India (SII) which is manufacturing the Oxford vaccine here, expects a similar outcome. The Prime Minister confirmed that preparations for a vaccination drive are underway and people will soon be administered an India-made vaccine. “Preparations are in the last stages for the vaccination programme against Covid-19. People will get vaccines manufactured in India,” he said. Applications by SII and Bharat Biotech for emergency use approval of their vaccines were taken up by a government appointed expert panel on Wednesday. The panel is slated to meet again on Friday for another round of discussions on the same. India has the second highest number of infections in the world after the US. The SII manufactured vaccine which can be safely stored at 2 to 8 degree Celsius offers India the best chance at a successful vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawai-bhi-kadai-bhi-pm-modi-for-caution-even-after-vaccination/story-E7UN7gd1YNV99HwBZQHT8O.html
31-12-2020||India||Told to pay for cigarettes, constable crushes man to death under car: Police||Cheesed off over being asked for money for the cigarette he had bought, the police constable ran his car over a 28-year-old shop owner and crushed him to death late on Wednesday night in Bazpur area of US Nagar district, said police. Shop owner Guarav Rohella was declared brought dead when he was taken to the nearby hospital. Following the incident, Rohella’s family members, along with a large number of locals, gathered at Bazpur police station with his body, demanding stern action against the accused who fled after the crime. A manhunt was launched and the constable and his two accomplices were arrested on Thursday morning.Dipshikha Agarwal, circle officer, Bazpur said, “In the initial investigation it was found that the incident happened at around 10.30 pm when the accused constable Praveen Kumar, his brother-in-law Jivan Kumar and another Gaurav Rathore came to Rohella’s shop in their car.” “There, they asked him for cigarettes which he gave them. When they started leaving without payment, Rohella asked Praveen to pay for the cigarette which enraged him. He, along with his two accomplices, started abusing him resulting in a heated argument between the three accused and Rohella and his brother Ajay, who was also present at the shop. He then ran his car over him, crushing him under it,” said Agarwal. The accused have been booked under sections 302(murder), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, said the circle officer Bazpur. Director general of police Ashok Kumar also took serious note of the case and ordered the US Nagar district police to take strict action against the accused. “No accused would be spared in the case and strict action would be taken against them. I appeal all not to disturb the law and order,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/told-to-pay-for-cigarettes-constable-crushes-man-to-death-under-car-police/story-Sy4DlBI9ujyUADRuLWLswM.html
31-12-2020||India||‘Have to strengthen India’s role in health care in 2021’: PM Modi’s top quotes at AIIMS Rajkot event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Gujarat’s Rajkot and said that the facility will help improve healthcare infrastructure in the state. The Prime Minister termed the upcoming hospital as another link strengthening the medical infrastructure of the country.PM Modi, who was addressing the event via video conferencing, said that the number of new coronavirus cases are decreasing in the country.Here are the key quotes from PM Modi’s address:- India has emerged as the nerve centre of global health. In the year 2021, we have to strengthen India’s role in healthcare. We are working on mission mode to improve medical education in India. After the formation of National Medical Commission, the quality and quantity of health education will improve.- When your health takes a hit, every aspect of life is severely affected and the whole social circle, not just the family, is affected. So this last day of the year is to remember India’s millions of doctors, health warriors, sanitation workers, working in drug stores, and other front line corona warriors. I salute the companions who have given their lives on the duty path.-This difficult year has shown how effectively it can withstand a difficult crisis when India is united. India took effective steps in time with solidarity, the result of which is that we are in a much better position today. The country, which has more than 130 crore people, is densely populated. There are about 10 million people who have won by fighting this disease.- In 2003, Atal Ji’s government had planned to add six AIIMS to the six that existed back then. These new six were completed in 2012, a total of 9 years! In the last six years, we’ve started work on 10 new AIIMS, out of which, some are already functional. Apart from AIIMS, 20 super speciality hospitals are also being built in the country.- The kind of medical infrastructure that has been developed in Gujarat in the last two decades is a big reason that Gujarat is better able to deal with the challenge of coronavirus. AIIMS Rajkot will further strengthen, strengthen Gujarat’s health network.- Gujarat’s success in the medical sector is behind two decades of relentless efforts, dedication and determination. In the last six years, Gujarat is also getting the definite benefit of the scale on which work has been done for treatment and medical education.- Over Rs 30,000 crore of poor people’s money has been saved due to Ayushman Bharat Yojana. This scheme has freed the poor people of India from the struggles of good treatment due to lack of money.- The maternal mortality rate in India has fallen a lot compared to the past. Concentrating on the outcome isn’t enough - both implementation and impact are equally important. To bring wholesome changes in behavioural patterns, we must improve the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-strengthen-india-s-role-in-health-care-in-2021-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-at-aiims-rajkot-event/story-cYonjtBRYDghw2ekf93e2N.html
31-12-2020||India||Lone BJP MLA backs resolution passed by Kerala Assembly against farm laws||The resolution against Centre’s farm laws passed by the Kerala legislative Assembly received unlikely support - from the lone member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Olanchery Rajagopal.Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said that the resolution was passed unanimously through a voice vote at the special session of the Assembly.Rajagopal did not stage a walkout and later agreed to the points in the resolution. He was Minister of State for Railways in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet.This has come as a major embarassment for the BJP. The president of the state unit of the party, K Surendran, said he will check what Rajagopalan said in the assembly. Surendran also said that he doesn’t think a senior leader like Rajagopalan will take a contrary view.Punjab had become the first state to pass a resolution against the contentious farm laws in October.The BJP-led central government has said that the “landmark” laws are beneficial for small farmers and will give them choice to sell their produce as per their choice. The laws, passed by Parliament in September, essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces which allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales. These laws also lay down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, they will allow big corporations to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.But these laws have triggered protests near Delhi with several farmer unions coming together with the demand that the Centre repeal them. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system.Many opposition parties have supported the farmers, with the Congres reiterating their demand of scrapping of these laws. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) accused the government of not listening to the farmers.Several rounds of talks between the government and the farmers have so far failed to break the deadlock. However, in the latest (sixth) round of talks on Wednesday, the Centre acceded to the demand to spare farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices yet to be discussed. The government did not take up these core demands on Wednesday, deferring them till the next round of talks on January 4, which the farmers have agreed to participate in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lone-bjp-mla-backs-resolution-passed-by-kerala-assembly-against-farm-laws/story-OdLPlA5qwdHIuBuscrsOBO.html
31-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India records 5 more cases of mutated coronavirus strain from UK, pushing tally to 25 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5 new cases of UK Covid-19 strain traced in India, tally rises to 25India on Thursday recorded five new cases of mutated coronavirus disease pushing the total cases count to 25, the health ministry said. Out of the five fresh cases, four have been traced by National Institute of Virology in Pune and CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi. Read More‘India emerged as nerve centre of global health’: PM Modi lays foundation stone of AIIMS Rajkot Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rajkot in Gujarat and said that the nation had emerged as the nerve centre of global health. Read MoreNew Year’s Eve: All you need to know about night curbs in Delhi today, tomorrowThe Delhi government announced restrictions on the gathering of more than five persons in public spaces in the city from Thursday 11pm (December 31) to Friday 6am (January 1), and from Friday 11pm (January 1) to Saturday 6am (January 2). Read MoreKerala Assembly passes resolution demanding withdrawal of farm laws passed by ParliamentThe Kerala Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the farm laws cleared by Parliament in September. The resolution was tabled by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who said that the three laws “will only help big corporate houses”. Read MoreSurvey finds almost everyone with EV never wants to go back to traditional carsSuch is the popularity being gained by electric vehicles around the world that almost everyone who has ever bought a battery-powered car may never go back to buying a conventional petrol or diesel vehicle. Read MoreT Natarajan added to Test squad, Umesh Yadav heads back to India: ReportIndian were given a big blow during the second Test match at MCG when pacer Umesh Yadav limped off the field due to an injury he picked while bowling in the second innings. India were already missing the services of seasoned fast bowlers Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma and Umesh’s injury. Read MoreAnushka Sharma continues to rock maternity fashion, wraps up 2020 with a sizzling photoshootGearing up to play a real life star mother, Bollywood actor-producer Anushka Sharma is not to be slowed down. Owning the maternity fashion game ever since she announced her pregnancy in mid 2020, the diva has kept fans hooked and the fashion police smitten with her sartorial elegance. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-records-5-more-cases-of-mutated-coronavirus-strain-from-uk-pushing-tally-to-25-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oRke88mgqhy4aOG2lKiMgO.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly passes resolution demanding withdrawal of farm laws passed by Parliament||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the farm laws cleared by Parliament in September. The resolution was tabled by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who said that the three laws “will only help big corporate houses”.The resolution said that farmers’ genuine concerns should be addressed and the Centre should withdraw all three farm laws.While moving the resolution, Vijayan said in the one-hour special session that the country was now witnessing one of the most iconic protests ever by farmers in its history.“Legislative assemblies have the moral responsibility to take a serious view when people have anxieties about certain laws which affect their lives,” Vijayan said, adding that agriculture was part of the culture of the country.Kerala has vast experience in this regard. Kerala is a state that has successfully implemented the Land Reforms Act, said Vijayan. “In addition, Kerala has made excellent interventions in resolving agricultural crises with the participation of local bodies and co-operative terminations. After the Green Revolution in the country in the 1960s, a system was set up to provide foodgrain farmers with a minimum price for their produce,” the chief minister added.Kerala became the first state in the country to starts a Minimum Support Price (MSP)-based system for perishables. The scheme, which came into effect from November 1, fixed MSP for 16 varieties of vegetables.The MSP is determined based on the cost of production and productivity. Though it is very similar to how the Centre procures cereals, what differentiates this system is that the MSP will be made available to farmers when the market price falls lower.The cabinet observed that this will ensure price stability and good returns for the farmers. It will also help protect farmers from market price fluctuations.The 16 varieties of crops include tapioca, banana, pineapple, cucumber, tomatoes, cabbage, carrots, potatoes, beans, beetroot and garlic.The southern state has no Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), so the move is being likened to government’s direct interference in price mechanism.In fact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lashed out at the Kerala government over the issue. “Those ruling Kerala for years are joining Punjab farmers for selfies, but not doing anything for mandi system in own state,” the PM had said after releasing Rs 18,000 crore as the next instalment of financial benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme last week.“Farm reforms became necessary because poor farmers, who are over 80%, were getting poorer during rules of previous governments,” he had further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-demanding-withdrawal-of-farm-laws-passed-by-parliament/story-AEciWT0mTmIfhxNuTm08vK.html
31-12-2020||India||Kapil Gujjar’s quick entry, exit from BJP: A throwback to similar inductions||Kapil Gujjar’s quick entry and exit from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday was a throwback to similar inductions into the party in 2014 that led to a public outcry and forced similar exits. Hours after he joined the party on Wednesday, Gujjar, who fired at a demonstration against the Citizen (Amendment) Act in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, was hurriedly expelled.As social media reactions poured in criticising the party for inducting Gujjar, a red-faced BJP unit in Uttar Pradesh issued a statement claiming they had “no idea of his involvement in the controversial Shaheen Bagh incident.”This is not the first time that the party has had to issue a quick expulsion message following the public uproar.ALSO WATCH | ‘Low level politics by BJP’: Congress defends Rahul Gandhi’s foreign visit In 2014, Sabir Ali from Bihar was expelled from the party within hours of his induction. Ali’s entry into the BJP set off a furore within the party as well with some members alleging he was a sympathiser of Yasin Bhatkal, the alleged mastermind of the terror group Indian Mujahideen. BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who is now a Union minister, had tweeted against Ali’s joining but later deleted the post. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, BJP ideological fount, also backed Naqvi’s opposition to Ali’s joining.Also Read: Shaheen Bagh shooter Kapil Gujjar joins BJP, expelled two hours laterAli’s induction was discussed at the party’s highest levels with the then BJP president Rajnath Singh suggesting that such issues should be discussed internally. The same year, late Sushma Swaraj made public her opposition to the induction of B Sriramulu, an associate of Karnataka’s Reddy brothers accused in the Bellary mining scam.“I want to make it absolutely clear that B Sriramulu has been admitted in the party despite my stiff opposition,” Swaraj had tweeted even as Sriramulu was not removed from the party. The BJP was also forced to rescind the membership of another controversial figure, Pramod Muthalik, who joined the party in Karnataka’s Hubli with much fanfare in 2014. Muthalik heads the Sri Ram Sene, which led an attack on women at a pub in Mangaluru in 2009.Asked whether the party is considering a process to streamline such inductions, a BJP leader said it is impossible. “For mass-based political parties, not just the BJP, it is not possible to keep track of every entry or induction. Sometimes these inductions happen at the block level or the district level. It is only when something untoward about a candidate is brought to the notice of the state or the central leadership action is taken,” the leader said on condition of anonymity.The leader said most inductions that happen in the presence of senior party leaders at the state or the central level are arranged based on the joinee’s request.“Sometimes those who want to join request the state or the central leadership that their formal induction into the party fold be done in the presence of senior leaders otherwise there is no protocol for joining,” the leader said.Political commentator Ajay Kumar Jha said, “While it is not possible for parties to keep track of every joining, it is important that they take quick action if they find that the credentials of anyone are questionable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-gujjar-s-quick-entry-exit-from-bjp-a-throwback-to-similar-inductions-into-the-party/story-ebeVyYn8zE4uYZftCHHo5M.html
31-12-2020||India||SC questions relationship pact between actress, producer in lieu of movie role||The Supreme Court on Wednesday wondered if there can ever be a valid agreement between a man and a woman in exchange for a role in films. A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose was amused to learn about a memorandum between a Bhojpuri film actor and a producer, also a builder, with stipulations regarding movie roles and their relationship.“Can such an agreement ever be accepted as a matter of public policy? Friendship of whatever nature this may be, what is the consideration? Acting in films?” asked the bench during a hearing on an anticipatory bail plea.The contract in question was signed in May 2018 and said the 26-year-old actor and the 41-year-old producer were in a relationship since 2016 without any pressure or coercion. It added the producer, who had a divorce case pending with his estranged wife at that time, will also arrange a role for the actor in Bhojpuri films and that they will not level criminal accusations against each other over this relationship. But in July the actor registered a case against the producer-builder, accusing him of rape after deceiving and threatening her. She also accused him of blackmailing her by filming her intimate moments with another producer using a spy camera.Also Read: SC notice to AP on plea against condition of 3-year practice as lawyer to appear in civil judge examFearing arrest, the man moved the Bombay high court for protection from arrest. His plea was rejected on December 21 with the judge noting that “spy camera is really a cause for concern.”Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for the producer-builder on Wednesday, called the actor’s complaint bogus and said it was filed with the only objective of “extracting money” from his client.Rohatgi said the actor has made a similar complaint earlier too and later settled it after receiving a huge amount of money from another man. He said this is why his client decided to have an agreement with the woman.Rohatgi showed to the bench the memorandum signed between the producer-builder and the actor to corroborate his argument that the relationship was completely consensual and that his client had agreed to give the woman roles in movies.But the bench was unimpressed with the stipulations made in the agreement. It questioned Rohatgi whether such an agreement between a man and a woman can ever be a valid document. “What kind of an agreement is this? We cannot go by this.”The bench said it is disinclined to give pre-arrest bail to the accused also because of the use of a spy camera. It asked him to approach the trial court for a regular bail after the surrender.Rohatgi pleaded for some time to surrender since trial courts in Mumbai have limited functioning due to Covid. Accepting this, the bench gave the producer four weeks to surrender and apply for regular bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-questions-relationship-pact-between-actress-producer-in-lieu-of-movie-role/story-sQ5Rn2Z6LO1vI4y3e63dLO.html
31-12-2020||India||5 new cases of UK Covid-19 strain traced in India, tally rises to 25||India on Thursday recorded five new cases of mutated coronavirus disease pushing the total cases count to 25, the health ministry said.Out of the five fresh cases, four have been traced by National Institute of Virology in Pune and CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi. The infected individuals have been kept in physical isolation at state health facilities.“A total of 25 cases of mutant United Kingdom virus detected in India after genome sequencing. Four new cases found by NIV, Pune and one new case sequenced in IGIB, Delhi. All 25 persons are in physical isolation at health facilities,” the health ministry official said, reported news agency ANI.ALSO WATCH | Covid update: India confirms new strain cases; Mumbai’s lowest deaths since May India had detected 14 new cases on Wednesday, out of which eight were detected at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi, four at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru, and one each at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in Delhi and the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in West Bengal’s Kalyani.On Tuesday, six people — three from Karnataka and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh — who returned from the UK were found to be carrying the new variant.Those detected with the mutant strain are being kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by states. Their close contacts are also being put in quarantine even as comprehensive contact-tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others, according to the government.The new variant of the virus detected in Britain has triggered widespread concern and travel restrictions across the world.The variant of the coronavirus, which could be up to 70% more transmissible, is spreading rapidly in Britain, although it is not thought to be more deadly or to cause more serious illness, according to prime minister Boris Johnson and his board of scientific advisors.About 33,000 passengers arrived from the UK at various Indian airports from November 25 to December 23, the government statistics stated. Authorities have begun conducting the gold-standard RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test on these passengers in batches, though tracing all of them is becoming a difficult task with hundreds furnishing vague addresses and switching off their phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-new-cases-of-uk-covid-19-strain-traced-in-india-tally-rises-to-25/story-kKp66fk5ALRKnKgV6ZuquM.html
31-12-2020||India||PM Modi lays foundation stone of AIIMS Rajkot, says India emerged as nerve centre of global health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rajkot in Gujarat and said that the nation had emerged as the nerve centre of global health.“India will play the most important role in the future of health and the health of future,” he said, adding that the country has proven its capacity to adapt, evolve and expand on ideas when needed. “Our focus was always on humanity, the PM said, adding that India has emerged as the nerve centre of global health.“Bidding farewell to this year with a new health infrastructure reflects the difficulties we faced in 2020 and also stands for the hope we have for the year,” PM Modi said. The last day of 2020 is dedicated to all health workers who are putting their lives at stake to keep us safe, he added.The project will mean generation of thousands of jobs, good health care and development of Gujarat, the PM said. “We could only establish 6 AIIMS after so many years of independence. In 2003, Atal ji’s government took the initiative to establish 6 more AIIMS. In the past 6 years, we have started work on establishing 10 more AIIMS,” PM Modi said.About 201 acres of land has been allotted for the project, according to a release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. It will be built at an estimated cost of Rs1,195 crore, and is expected to be completed by mid-2022.Commenting on the current coronavirus situation, he said, “A country such as India, with its huge population, saw nearly 1 crore of its people winning their battles against coronavirus. India has fared much better than other countries in this field and the infection rate is also going down continuously.”Vaccine development is in its final stages in India, the PM said, adding that he was confident the nation would move forward towards vaccination, showcasing the same unity it showcased in fighting against the virus this year.“In the recent years, people have got access to health care facilities. Government schemes and awareness about these schemes go a long way in improving the health of India’s daughters,” PM Modi said, urging experts to study the effect of these schemes on the education of Indian girls. “These schemes are a big reason why there is a drop in the drop out rate of girls from schools,” he said.Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, state chief minister Vijay Rupani, Union health minister and Union minister of State (MoS) for Health Harsh Vardhan were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-aiims-rajkot/story-6jXlTkRJsHxDENAm0kPYmL.html
31-12-2020||India||Sec 144 imposed in Mangaluru City ahead of new year celebrations||In order to curb the further spread of coronavirus infections, section 144 imposed have been imposed in Mangaluru City ahead of the New Year celebrations.The prohibitory orders will be in force from 6 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, 2021. Mangaluru City police commissioner Vikash Kumar and additional district magistrate of Mangaluru city have issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 (1).The government, through guidelines and orders, has prohibited parties, and special events at clubs, pubs, restaurants, and other places that attract people in large numbers without social distancing.Gathering of five or more people at public places and roads for celebrations has been barred, but routine activities in these areas can be carried out, the Police Commissioner said in further added in the order.Seven people in Karnataka have contracted the new variant of coronavirus, informed Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday.Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had earlier said that the state government will not allow any New Year celebrations at public places in view of the emergence of a new strain of Covid-19 virus in the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sec-144-imposed-in-mangaluru-city-ahead-of-new-year-celebrations/story-A5iKIfKXknkgfRPYluaGVM.html
31-12-2020||India||PM Modi chairs 34th Pragati meeting to assess progress of schemes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired the 34th Pragati meeting and assessed projects worth around Rs1 lakh crore in 10 states and Union territories.An official statement said two centrepiece government programmes, Ayushman Bharat and Jal Jeevan Mission, were also reviewed and grievances related to the consumer affairs ministry came up for discussion at the meeting. It added Modi directed officials to ensure and expedite comprehensive resolution of the grievances. He said all states should strive for 100% enrolment in Ayushman Bharat at the earliest. Modi has been holding such meetings since he became the Prime Minister in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-34th-pragati-meeting-to-assess-progress-of-schemes/story-0GytvLD25sVTMgFViAf8bJ.html
31-12-2020||India||India now second-largest producer of PPE kits: Textile ministry||India has become the world’s second-largest personal protection equipment (PPE) manufacturer with the industry worth Rs7,000 crore of 1,100 manufacturers producing 450,000 units daily, the Union textile ministry said on Wednesday.PPE kits are the first line of defence for health workers against infectious diseases like Covid-19. Their production was ramped up in March amid growing demand for them as the Covid-19 pandemic worsened. The export of the kits and other protective equipment was banned in March, so that enough supplies could be procured by the central government, which were subsequently supplied to the states free of cost. India was producing was producing 10 million PPEs per month, on the specs that were demanded by the Central government to fight the coronavirus pandemic. The Central government had placed an order for 22 million PPEs in March to meet the demand for health workers. The government had also faced severe criticism for not being able to provide enough coveralls for essential workers.In June, the ministry allowed the export of 500,000 PPE kits monthly. In July, India exported 2,300,000 PPE kits to five countries.The government allowed the PPE exports amid demands from the industry as it started producing surplus kits. The PPE production came as a boost for the industry as it faced nearly 84% fall in apparel sales and an acute shortage of labour due to the pandemic in the first quarter.“As per CMAI [Clothing Manufacturers Association of India] research conducted with the help of AC Nielson, the total Indian market for apparel was worth Rs6.5 lakh crore in 2019,” Rahul Mehta, the chief mentor at CMAI had earlier told Hindustan Times. “We estimate it will go down by 15% in 2020 to around Rs5.85 lakh crore. However, in the quarter of April to June, most brands and retailers would not achieve more than 15-20% of their 2019 first quarter sales.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-second-largest-producer-of-ppe-kits-textile-ministry/story-0wpw6Y302b2gEmWf9iQvdJ.html
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly’s one-day special session begins, CM Pinarayi Vijayan moves resolution against farm laws||The Kerala legislative assembly is holding a one-day special session on Thursday to pass a resolution against new farm laws which have triggered widespread protests.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved a resolution which said that the country is going through a difficult situation and it was the duty of the state government to stand along with the agitating farmers. The resolution also said that the stir which was held under trying conditions and inclement weather failed to oppose eyes of the Union government.“All three laws will only help big corporate houses,” the chief minister said.“The current situation makes it clear that if this agitation continues, it will seriously affect Kerala. There is no doubt that Kerala will starve if the supply of food items from other states stops,” he added.Congress and all other parties have supported the resolution. Congress deputy leader K C Joseph even criticised the Governor for delaying permission to convene the house.O Rajagopal, the lone member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is also attending the session.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had on Monday given his assent for convening the state assembly for a one-day special session on December 31. The governor’s nod came after CPI-M led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government sent a fresh proposal to convene the assembly after he had turned down an earlier recommendation.The duration of the session is expected to be of one hour.The governor had earlier declined nod for the special session on December 23 to discuss the contentious laws, saying that the chief minister had not addressed the question raised by him on the nature of emergency warranting the very brief session.In a letter to Vijayan, Khan had also stated that the government wanted the special session to “discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution”.Vijayan had shot off a letter to Khan describing as regrettable his decision while asserting that the governor was bound by the advice of the Council of Ministers and that moving resolutions and conducting discussions in the assembly “cannot be regulated by gubernatorial powers”.A large number of farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana are demanding the repeal of the laws, contending that these would pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has been saying these fears are misplaced. A fresh round of talks - the sixth in a month - was held on Wednesday in which the Centre acceded to the demand to spare farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices are yet to be discussed.The government did not take up these core demands on Wednesday, deferring them till the next round of talks on January 4, which the farmers have agreed to participate in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-s-one-day-special-session-begins-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-moves-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-2FXIFwkz4FZrdeIofObq2M.html
31-12-2020||India||Gujarat: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of AIIMS Rajkot today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Rajkot in Gujarat on Thursday, December 31.The stone-laying ceremony is scheduled to begin around 11am via video conferencing. The governor of Gujarat, the state chief minister, Union health minister and Union minister of State (MoS) for Health will also be present on the occasion. About 201 acres of land has been allotted for the project. It will be built at an estimated cost of Rs1,195 crore, and is expected to be completed by mid-2022. The state-of-the-art 750 bed hospital will also have a 30-bed Ayush block. The medical college will also have 125 MBBS seats, and 60 nursing seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-aiims-rajkot-today/story-gOZWeSyCbSOeFOzkqN0glM.html
31-12-2020||India||Sedition case against SDPI activists shouting Pro-Pak slogans in Karnataka||In a video which has gone viral, activists allegedly belonging to the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were seen shouting pro-Pakistan slogans after victory in gram panchayat elections in Ujire near Mangaluru. SDPI allegedly shouted ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans. The Belthangady police have decided to take suo moto action against those who raised the slogans.The slogans in support of Pakistan were heard while the counting centre authorities were making announcements related to counting of votes for Mundaje gram panchayat in Belthangady Taluk.Belthangady BJP MLA Harish Poonja told the media that he had spoken to the superintendent of police (SP) of the district and asked for strict action against those who raised such slogans. BJP MP from Udupi, Shobha Karandlaje tweeted to say that the incident again revealed SDPI’s real character.‘This is neither Peshwarar of Karachi. #PakishtanZindabad slogans raised while celebrating SDPI candidate’s GP election victory in Ujire. Yet again proving the loyalty & intentions of SDPI,” she tweeted. Karandlaje appealed to chief minister Yediyurappa for banning SDPI.“Dear CM @BSYBJP sir, it’s now or never. Ban this anti-national organisation.”Also Read: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeks probe into Karnataka MLC’s death However J Athaullah, SDPI district president, denied that his party members were involved in the pro-Pak slogan shouting incident.“None of our party workers will raise such slogans. We will file a case against anybody who is trying to besmirch our name,” Athaullah said.Police officials said that a case had been filed against 15 SDPI activists under sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 124 A (sedition) and 149 (offense committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian penal code (IPC) and efforts were on to identify those responsible. Police have also sought the help of the public, asking them to send additional videos if any to help identify the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sedition-case-against-sdpi-activists-shouting-pro-pak-slogans-in-karnataka/story-EhDrJvft7iVUMMNRUs3KAP.html
31-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Hyderabad police arrest Chinese national in connection with loan apps scam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Loan apps scam: Chinese national arrested, police say he was overall head of operations of 4 firmsThe Hyderabad police on Wednesday arrested a Chinese national in connection with its probe related to mobile applications providing instant loans through their call centres. These approval of loans is quickly done on these platforms but the lenders then harass the borrowers over repayment. Read moreUttarakhand submits plan to court for monitoring Gangotri glacier regionUttarakhand government on Wednesday submitted an action taken report to the state high court, listing the steps it is planning to take for monitoring Gangotri glacier region at the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier, the origin of the river Ganga. Read moreInfighting, factionalism led to defeat for Congress in Panchkula MC electionsFactionalism and infighting have once again led the Congress party to admit defeat in a closely-contested election of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC). Losing the mayoral race to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by a narrow margin, the Congress will sit in opposition with just seven seats in the House of 20. Read moreRussia to distribute over 1 mn Sputnik V shots at home by year end, says ministerRussia will have supplied more than 1 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V to its own national inoculation programme by the end of this year, a government minister said on Wednesday. Russia, which began rolling out the vaccine in early December, has so far produced over 2 million doses in total industry minister Denis Manturov told state television. Read moreTests: You win one, you lose oneThe Melbourne Test victory was a historic win because it came after a historic loss, a loss where India folded for 36, the lowest Test innings score they’ve ever made. Next Test though India bounces back and beats the very same team, with no changes, that brought Indian cricket to its knees. Read moreAmazon to launch computer science education program in India soonAmazon has big plans for India in 2021. The company is planning to launch its computer science education program, Future Engineer, in India soon. For those of you who don’t know, Amazon had launched its Future Engineer program in the US last year. Read moreAishwarya Rai-Abhishek Bachchan are proud parents as they capture Amitabh Bachchan, Aaradhya make musicAmitabh Bachchan is in no mood to take a break from work even as his industry colleagues flock to distant locations for holidays. The 78-year-old is currently making music with none other than his 9-year-old granddaughter, Aaradhya. The actor has shared pictures from their recording session. Read moreGoogle Doodle: Special New Year’s Eve animation with twinkling lights and confetti poppers wins heartsWhile we all are gearing up to ring in the New Year, Google is also taking part in the celebrations and trying to get us in the party mood. Google is quite famous for its adorable trending doodles and their animated doodle for this New Year’s Eve has taken things up a notch. Read moreNASA shares 4 most liked 2020 Hubble images, asks netizens to pick their fave. Which one is yours?The official Twitter account for the NASA Hubble Space Telescope shared many educational and entertaining posts this past year. Now, as we start the last day of the year, take a look at some of the most liked Hubble images from 2020 tweeted by the account. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hyderabad-police-arrest-chinese-national-in-connection-with-loan-apps-scam-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Y9sHRUjGH8zCdnyeODQTcP.html
31-12-2020||India||India will have Covid-19 vaccine within days: AIIMS director||Amid concerns of the new strain of coronavirus (Covid-19) spreading in India, AIIMS Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine getting approved for use in the UK was a “big step forward” and India was days away from getting a vaccine. “This is very good news that AstraZeneca got approval for its vaccine by UK regulatory authorities. They have robust data and in India the same vaccine is being developed by the Serum Institute of India (SII). This is a big step forward not only for India but many parts of the world,” Guleria told ANI in an interview.“This vaccine can be stored at two to eight degrees centigrade. Therefore it would be easy to store and transport. Storage can be done using a simple fridge rather than what is required in the Pfizer vaccine of minus 70 degrees centigrade,” he said. “We vaccinate children and pregnant women as part of our universal immunisation program. Using the same platform to store vaccines at 2 to 8 degrees centigrade, it will be easier for us to store Covid-19 vaccines,” he added.“Now, we have a data, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been approved based on the studies in UK, Brazil and South Africa. There is also data from SII. I think, once the data is shown to the regulatory authority, we should get approval for the vaccine in the county within a few days. I would say days rather than weeks or months,” he said. Meanwhile, Pune-based SII has sought emergency approval for the vaccine--Covishield-- developed along with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University. Company CEO Adar Poonawalla  on Monday said Covishield rollout is expected in January and 40-50 million doses of the vaccine have already been stockpiled.This comes in the backdrop of Covid-19 cases in the country crossing the 10.22 million-mark on Wednesday. According to the health ministry website, there are 262,272 active cases of Covid-19 and 98,341,41 people have recovered from the disease so far. As many as 148,439 have lost their lives due to the infection.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-have-covid-19-vaccine-within-days-aiims-director/story-IIoECY3cPkFMh3THZNfz3M.html
31-12-2020||India||Northwest, central India may get brief respite from biting cold from January 1||Delhi’s minimum temperature recorded at 8.30am was 3.3 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal, on Thursday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) . According to IMD, there is likely to be relief from extreme cold briefly from Friday. IMD also recorded dense fog both at Palam and Safdarjung stations with visibility under 50 metres.Minimum temperatures over most parts of northwest and central India are likely to rise by 3-5 degrees for three days from January 1, 2021 according to Thursday’s bulletin.“Cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh in the next one day.Also Read: Expect cold wave, fog in Delhi in the next four days: IMD“Cold day” conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Madhya Pradesh during the next two days.Dense to very dense fog is likely in some pockets is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday.Ground frost is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.Air quality in many parts of northwest India has deteriorated from “poor” on Wednesday to “very poor” on Thursday. Delhi’s air quality index on Thursday morning was 331.Due to an approaching western disturbance, light to moderate rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning is likely over the Western Himalayan region and over the northwestern plains during January 2 to 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-central-india-could-get-brief-respite-from-biting-cold-from-january-1/story-6ztEPsH20UVbikEP1XUR8I.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala prohibits public gatherings on New Year’s eve||The Kerala government has issued an order prohibiting all public gatherings as part of New Year celebrations. Signed by principal secretary Dr A Jayathilak, the order has been sent to all district collectors and police chiefs says that all the celebrations on New Year’s eve (December 31) should cease by 10 pm.The decision has been taken in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “Given the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, New Year 2021 celebration by the public is likely to result in a spike in the transmission of Covid-19, if extant Covid protocols are not adhered to,” the order said.It has made wearing of face masks, maintenance of social distance and sanitisation mandatory for those celebrating new year. The order has said that lawful action will be initiated against people who fail to adhere to these norms.Kerala is the latest to impose curbs on new year celebrations int he wake of the new strain of the virus that has been found in the United Kingdom. Delhi too imposed similar measures for December 31 and January 1.Maharashtra was one of the first states to impose a night curfew once the new strain was discovered. The seven-hour curbs were imposed on December 22 and will continue till January 5.Karnataka, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Rajasthan too have announced night curfew to check the spread of the virus.All these states have prohibited large gatherings and made Covid protocols, like wearing face masks and sanitising the area, mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-prohibits-public-gatherings-on-new-year-s-eve/story-Mgxv0oKlnBo3591nAqDC2M.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: US vaccinates only 2.7 mn people, Algeria approves Russia vaccine||India is a step closer in getting a vaccine for the coronavirus disease. After the United Kingdom, which is battling a new strain of the coronavirus, approved the vaccine being made by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, India too is expected to follow suit. A meeting of the expert panel of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will take place on Friday where a decision is expected. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing the adenovirus vaccine in India, has already applied for its emergency approval.Meanwhile, China has given conditional approval for general public use to a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China National Biotec Group (CNBG). The approval is the first for general public use among a handful of Chinese coronavirus vaccine candidates in various stages of development. Colombia and Bolivia have reached deals with Johnson & Johnson and Russia respectively for a vaccine.Here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine: 1. In the United States (US), Kansas governor Laura Kelly has received the first of two vaccine shots. Kelly designated herself and 10 other state officials as eligible to commence vaccination this week. The governor added that hundreds of other, non-elected state officials have been made eligible for early vaccines by their agencies. “We’re putting them in line so that we can ensure that the state government can continue to function,” Kelly said. Till now, only about 2.7 million Americans have been vaccinated as of Wednesday evening in New York, according to Bloomberg.2. Syringe and needle makers in Brazil warned that the country’s Covid-19 vaccination program was at risk after the Jair Bolsonaro-led government set very low auction prices and further failed to draw bids for enough syringes to meet requirements. The health ministry on Tuesday had sought to purchase 331 million syringes at an electronic auction but ended up purchasing only eight million, or 2.5 per cent of the target. Brazil which is also the third worst-hit country from the pandemic has not yet approved a vaccine and is already lagging behind neighbours-Argentina and Chile in rolling out doses.Also Read| Year-end cheer: India closer to Covid-19 vaccine after UK’s Oxford nod3. On Wednesday, Britain became the first country to approve a low-cost vaccine which is partially developed by the Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Unlike the ones developed by Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech, the Oxford-AstraZeneca based vaccine does not to be stored at very low temperatures. It can be stored, transported and handled in normal refrigerated conditions which makes it cheaper to administer. Upon the approval, Prime Minister Boris Johnson congratulated the manufacturers and said the government would now move to vaccinate as many people as possible.4. Amid the news of Britain approving the use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria told news agency ANI that India would have a Covid-19 vaccine within days. “This is very good news that AstraZeneca got approval for its vaccine by UK regulatory authorities. They have robust data and in India and the same vaccine is being developed by the Serum Institute of India,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today5. Algeria is set to roll out the Russian-based Sputnik V vaccine in January. The country’s communications minister Ammar Belhimer said that the government had signed a mutual agreement with a Russian laboratory for acquiring vaccine shots from January. Meanwhile, finance ministry director general Abdelaziz Fayed told local broadcaster Echorouk that authorities will receive an initial shipment of 500,000 vaccine doses. As per the health ministry, Algeria has logged nearly 100,000 coronavirus cases and over 2,700 related deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-vaccine-updates-us-vaccinates-only-2-7-mn-people-algeria-approves-russia-vaccine/story-oLRcJ7NMWVdwsLQHH5XEdO.html
31-12-2020||India||Loan apps scam: Chinese national arrested, police say he was overall head of operations of 4 firms||The Hyderabad police on Wednesday arrested a Chinese national in connection with its probe related to mobile applications providing instant loans through their call centres. These approval of loans is quickly done on these platforms but the lenders then harass the borrowers over repayment. The police launched its investigation after several such cases were reported.The 27-year-old Chinese national was intercepted at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport as he was trying to leave the country, police said, adding that he was overall head of operations of loan apps being run by the four companies.Another person, a native of Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, who played a key role in operation of the call centres, was also arrested, police said.The Cyber Crime Police Station in Hyderabad is probing as many as 27 cases pertaining to issue of loans by alleged unauthorised loan apps and harassment of the borrowers by the companies running the apps through their call centres.A preliminary investigation into the financial transactions has revealed that close to 1.4 crore transactions worth nearly Rs 21,000 crore have taken place so far, a release from Hyderabad police said.Bulk of transactions have taken place over the last six months and further investigation is continuing, police said.Police said the probe has also revealed that another Chinese national had set up operations in India and is presently abroad.On December 22, the Hyderabad police had arrested 11 people of five call centres located in Gurgaon, Haryana and in Hyderabad, who were being used to persuade, harass and intimidate the loan defaulters.The crackdown on the loan apps began after three cases of suicide, including that of a software engineer, were reported in last one month. According to police, the engineer had borrowed Rs 8 lakh from an app that promised quick loans. When Covid-19 hit the country, the man lost his job and could not meet the repayment deadlines. With interest, the man owed the app company Rs 11 lakh.Police said he was harassed with many calls demanding repayment and soon got to know that several of his contacts had received messages branding him a “fraudster”.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loan-apps-scam-chinese-national-arrested-police-say-he-was-overall-head-of-operations-of-4-firms/story-KJGzqschnAidZllv4vfcoN.html
31-12-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of AIIMS Rajkot today||Prime minister Narendra Modi will virtually lay the foundation stone for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rajkot in Gujarat on Thursday.“At 11 AM tomorrow, December 31, will lay the foundation stone of AIIMS, Rajkot. This project will improve the healthcare infrastructure in Gujarat,” PM Modi announced on Twitter. At 11 AM tomorrow, 31st December, will lay the foundation stone of AIIMS, Rajkot. This project will improve healthcare infrastructure in Gujarat. https://t.co/xiQsibvPAVAccording to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), 201 acres of land has been provided by the government for the project. ”It will be built at an estimated cost of Rs1,195 crore and is expected to be completed by mid-2022. The state-of-the-art 750-bed hospital will also have a 30-bed AAYUSH block. It will have 125 MBBS seats and 60 nursing seats,” the statement read.Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, and Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey will also take part in the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-aiims-rajkot-today/story-ISdYcA6OSiWkIBTdb8tirM.html
31-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest highlights: Haryana CM reiterates assurance on MSP procurement||The sixth round of talks between the central government and the protesting farmers took place on Wednesday with the government agreeing on two of the four issues which caused the famers to block border points in Delhi and surrounding areas since November 26. The Centre agreed to spare heavy fines for stubble burning and continue the current mechanism of providing subsidised power for agricultural use. However, the two sides remained deadlock on the removal of the three controversial farm reforms and legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) policy. This round of negotiations was held between three Union ministers and 41-member representative group of the protesting farmers. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the meeting was held in cordial atmosphere adding that discussions would continue on the remaining two issues on January 4. “Discussions on the three farm laws and MSP are continuing and will continue in the next round of talks on January 4,” Tomar said. The minister also urged the farmer groups to send back the women, children and the elderly back to their homes due to the harsh weather conditions in the national capital. Meanwhile, the Congress party- who has been the main opposer of the farm reforms once again hit out at the Centre and said that the government should make a fresh beginning in 2021 by shedding its stubbornness and accepting the demands of the farmers . The Congress further alleged that the reforms were formed in consultation with corporates as they started building silos for storing foodgrains in Haryana and Punjab even before the reforms were introduced. Follow major highlights of the day on the ongoing farmers’ agitation:Farmers break police barricades at ShahjahanpurFarmer’s in Shahjahanpur broke barricades to enter Haryana via the Rajasthan-Haryana border.#WATCH किसान शाहजहांपुर में पुलिस बैरिकेडिंग को तोड़ते हुए राजस्थान-हरियाणा बाॅर्डर से हरियाणा में दाखिल हुए। pic.twitter.com/nuAj4XGurxHaryana CM ML Khattar says MSP procurement will go ahead unhinderedHaryana CM ML Khattar on Thursday said that Haryana will procure crops under MSP system and the process will not be affected. He also reiterated his past promise that he will leave politics if MSP procurement is affected, ANI reported. We are committed to the continuation of the MSP (Minimum Support Price) in Haryana. Manohar Lal will quit politics if anyone tries to end the MSP regime: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar pic.twitter.com/GeYGA7GD6YBJP leader calls Kerala BJP MLA’s move ‘against the spirit of the party’Kerala BJP leader KS Radhakrishnan said that BJP MLA Rajagopal, who supported the legislation against the farm bills in the state assembly, should have expressed his dissent rather than supporting the legislation. I don't understand why a person like Mr Rajagopal adopted such a surprising move against Central Government. I don't understand it. Everyone knows one member cannot do anything, but he should have expressed dissent. It's against will & spirit of BJP: KS Radhakrishnan, BJP #Kerala https://t.co/3ITwgOULm3 pic.twitter.com/fRlUs9kNZLFarmers stay put at border points in Delhi Thousands of farmers continued to camp at several border points in the national capital as the protest against the Centre’s farm reforms entered day 36. Security remained tight at the borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Kerala Assembly passes resolution against farm reformsThe Kerala Assembly passed a resolution against the farm reforms introduced by the central government. The resolution stated that concerns of the protesting farmers should be addressed and the reforms should be removed. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had tabled the resolution in the Assembly said, ““The current situation makes it clear that if this agitation continues, it will seriously affect Kerala. There is no doubt that Kerala will starve if the supply of food items from other states stops.”  Kerala Assembly passes resolution against the three farm laws brought by the Central Government. The resolution says, 'farmers' genuine concerns should be addressed and the Centre should withdraw all three farm laws.' pic.twitter.com/5fTbmobaAz‘Farmers forced to welcome New Year out on roads’: Gehlot slams Centre over stirRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot targeted the Centre for not resolving the issues of farmers by saying that farmers were forced to welcome New Year out on the roads. “It is sad that our farmer brothers and sisters, who are protesting would welcome New Year out on roads and away from homes. A sensitive, responsive govt would never let this happen,” Gehlot tweeted.  Unfortunately, govt didn’t relent & the only outcome is another round of talks on 4th January. It is sad that our #farmer brothers & sisters, who are protesting would welcome New Year out on roads & away from homes. A sensitive, responsive govt would never let this happen!2/2||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-dec-31-2020/story-SQpSymjx4Y46EUUXziW01H.html
31-12-2020||India||India calls on Sri Lanka for early release of 40 fishermen||India on Wednesday called on Sri Lanka to ensure the early release of fishermen arrested recently on the charge of poaching in Sri Lankan waters.According to a statement by Ministry of Fisheries, the Indian side also reiterated the need for releasing all fishing boats in Sri Lankan custody in line with the commitment given by Sri Lankan President during his state visit to India in November 2019.This issue came at the fourth meeting of the joint working group on fisheries through virtual mode, during which the entire gamut of issues related to fishermen and fishing boats was discussed.Referring to the recent ‘apprehension’ of 40 fishermen and 6 boats by Sri Lanka Navy, the leader of the Indian delegation called on the Sri Lankan side to ensure their early release and till such time, to provide necessary facilitation including consular access and necessary assistance, the release said.The Fisheries Ministry said that two sides also exchanged views on the status of cooperation between Navy and Coast Guard of both countries in patrolling, existing hotline between the Coast Guards and related operational matters, cooperation in preservation of marine environment as well as the schedule for the fifth meeting of the JWG. The Indian side conveyed its sincere determination to work in a constructive spirit with the Sri Lankan side for convening an early meeting of the Fisheries Ministers on both sides.Earlier this year, during the virtual bilateral Summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa held on 26 September, both leaders agreed to “continue engagement to address the issues related to fishermen through regular consultation and bilateral channels.”The Indian side highlighted the initiatives being taken by India under the new Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana and other schemes of Government of India and governments of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to diversify and reduce fishing pressure in the Palk Bay.The first meeting of the Joint Working Group was held on December 31, 2016, in New Delhi. The Second Joint Working Group was held in Colombo on April 7, 2017. Meanwhile, the third meeting was held in New Delhi on October 13, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-on-sri-lanka-for-early-release-of-40-fishermen/story-YmT6vFhSmej9hAFqb5O47J.html
31-12-2020||India||How Covid-19 pandemic hit the states||Two months into the outbreak in India at the start of May, Ladakh was by a large margin the region with the highest testing rate with 8,294 samples tested for every million residents. Delhi was second, with around 2,500 tests per million, followed by Andhra Pradesh (1962). Manipur (149 tests per million), Mizoram (151) and West Bengal (171) were the states testing the least. In terms of case fatality ratio (CFR), in Meghalaya, 8.3% of people getting infected were dying — the highest proportion in the country — followed by Madhya Pradesh (5.3%) and Gujarat (5.0%). Among the states that had reported death, fewest were dying in Kerala (0.6%), Bihar (0.6%) and Odisha (0.7%).  OCTOBER 1Jump six months to the start of October, and the states with smaller population now dominate the testing per million ranking. Ladakh was still at the top, and was followed by Arunachal Pradesh and Goa (Delhi was on the fourth spot with around 16,000 tests per million). Madhya Pradesh now was the state with the lowest testing rate in the country (25,097), followed by West Bengal (33,758) and Nagaland (37,407). Also Read | Resuming life after Covid-19 lockdownBy this time, most states had significantly improved their CFRs and the ranking had changed significantly. Punjab was now seeing the largest proportion of cases end in fatalities – 3%. In Maharashtra (by a large margin the worst-hit state in the country), 2.6% of cases were dying, while in Gujarat this number was 2.5%. States with smaller populations were again better performing in saving lives as only 0.1% cases were dying in Daman & Diu, followed by 0.2% in Arunachal Pradesh and 0.3% in Nagaland.DECEMBER 29By the end of December, Delhi had gone on a blitzkrieg of testing through early November to curb the third wave in the Capital. As a result, it again finds itself among the best-testing regions (428,000 tests per million) behind Andaman and Nicobar islands. Madhya Pradesh (55,779) still has the worst testing rate in the country, followed by Nagaland and Rajasthan. Also Read | The rise of data as an antivirusPunjab and Maharashtra, meanwhile, remain the states seeing the worst mortality rate, while low-population states (Daman & Diu, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh) continue to save more lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-covid-19-pandemic-hit-the-states/story-cW4rzUgLJ72TiVXSF3dvAL.html
31-12-2020||India||Resuming life after Covid-19 lockdown||As infections were reported first across the world, the preferred first step to control Covid-19 by most countries was a lockdown. On March 25, India went into what was one of the strictest lockdowns in the world. This first set of curbs remained in place till April 14 and was extended four times till the end of May, each time with gradual relaxations. This was then followed by seven phases of gradual unlocking till December 31.Google publishes Covid-19 Community Mobility Reports for 131 countries to show how the lockdown affected the movement of people. The report uses “aggregated and anonymised data to chart movement trends over time by geography” across a range of places such as grocery stores, parks, workplaces and places of transit and compares it to a “baseline” activity established as per pre-lockdown. A look at what it showed for India.Also Read | The rise of data as an antivirusWORKPLACESMovement at offices and workplaces dropped to its lowest in the recorded time frame touching -72% on March 25 — the day the nationwide lockdown kicked off. It averaged in the late -60s till the end of the second phase of the lockdown, from when it started showing a gradual recovery. By the last week of December a large number of offices had shifted to a work-from-home model, which meant that activity at workplaces remained around 15% below the baseline. RESIDENTIALThere was a 30% increase from baseline in mobility around residential areas on the first day of the nationwide lockdown. This remained more or less the same through the next five weeks. Through May, however, movement around residential areas started dropping every week, finally settling at around 10% above pre-lockdown levels by the end of the year. GROCERY AND PHARMACYThis is the field that has reported the biggest resumption of activity among all sectors mapped. From a 77% drop in movement at retail and recreational locations on March 25, it dropped further to 80% through April and most of May. From October onwards, activities have overtaken what was reported in pre-pandemic levels – a factor that offers some cheer for the economic recovery of the country. TRANSIT HUBSWhen the lockdown was announced, movement at transit hubs such as trains and metro stations dropped 73% from the baseline – one of the biggest drops recorded. Since then, it reported a gradual recovery, but by the last week of the year it still to remains around 8% below the baseline. RETAIL AND RECREATIONMovement at retail and recreational locations dropped 78% on March 25, the first day of the lockdown. This remained low the next few weeks, dropping as low as -87% on April 18. Through May, however, activity started recovering slightly by the end of the fourth lockdown. But even by the end of December, activity at retail and recreation centres remains around 30% below pre-pandemic levels.PARKSThis is another one of the activity centres in the Google report that has shown relatively little recovery. On May 25, data shows that 54% fewer people were logged in and around parks across the country. This went on to drop to as much as -68% by the end of March. And though it since recovered, movement at parks remained 15% below the baseline by the end of December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resuming-life-after-covid-19-lockdown/story-0CWCX2ueWl4Lddih70r21O.html
31-12-2020||India||The rise of data as an antivirus||No one could have known back in December 2019, when the first batch of infections of Covid-19 were identified in Wuhan, China, that what was happening would change the world as we know it. Events throughout 2020 would be drastically dictated, and reshaped, by the discovery of that virus. What transpired through the year was a global pandemic of a scale not seen since the 1918 Spanish Flu epidemic. But in 100-plus years since then, much has changed. Technology and globalisation now allow people to travel at a far faster rate, which ended up spreading the disease a lot quicker. But this advancement in technology also allowed scientists to track, in near real-time, how the virus was spreading; discover more about the virus almost every passing day; understand which treatments were working and which weren’t ; measure the impact of the outbreak on the economy; and most recently, monitor new mutations in the virus strain.Within weeks, government-funded as well as independent data scientists kicked off large-scale tracking exercises that generated troves of real-time data, all posted online, and shared to be used by the entire world. This data, coupled with recent advances in computing power and new analytical study methods, would go on to play a massive role as the year progressed. The role of high-quality, transparent, and disaggregated data and statistics became the pivot around which governments across the world drafted strategies to fight the outbreak.All this led to the biggest collaborative public data-gathering exercise in history, enabling thousands of people (scientists and amateur data experts alike) to break down, analyse and study how the virus behaved, and to find ways in which a pandemic could be stopped.Also Read | Year-end cheer: India closer to Covid-19 vaccine after UK’s Oxford nodAs 2020 ends , here’s a look at what a year of data told us about a new virus, and what it says about the future.DISTINCT WAVES, EACH GETTING WORSEAmong the several lessons from the 1918 influenza was that such massive viral outbreaks come in distinct waves, which generally tend to get more severe in each instance. The 1918 influenza rolled out in three distinct waves – the first peaked in early 1918, the second towards the spring of the same year, while the third peaked in winter of 1918 and early 1919. The second wave caused significantly more deaths than the first, while the third was marginally less fatal than the second. Scientists believe that the second wave was caused by a more virulent mutant virus, somewhat akin to the mutant strain of Covid-19 discovered in the UK earlier this month. The second wave was also exacerbated by troop movement for World War I.Such clear waves have been visible in the coronavirus outbreak as well – although the severity has altered to a degree. Let’s take the case of the United States (by far the worst-hit in the world with nearly 20 million cases and nearly 350,000 deaths). It is the only country to have witnessed three clear waves with each reporting more cases than the one preceding it. But deaths during the second wave didn’t rise as much, while the third wave, despite being more fatal than the second, was proportionately better than the first wave (see chart 1). Most European nations are currently grappling with the second wave – which, again, was more severe than the first in terms of cases, but better in terms of deaths.The drop in deaths in the second wave in Covid can primarily be explained by two main factors. One, thanks to advances in technology, doctors and scientists were able to work at a far more frenetic pace and were able to identify treatments far more effectively compared to a century ago. Within a few months of the emergence of the virus, they were able to learn a good deal about the treatments that work, and just as importantly, those that don’t. Second, thanks to advancement in IT, medical experts the world over are now able to instantly share any breakthrough treatment to better to protect people.POSITIVITY RATE AS AN INDICATOROne of the most crucial data aspects of Covid-19 is the positivity rate, or the percentage of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19. This is a key metric in determining how widespread the virus is in a community, with some saying it is a clearer indicator of the intensity of an outbreak than case figures. A common thread in the outbreak across the world was that the positivity rate of a region started rising a few weeks before cases did, and vice versa, dropping before cases came under control. India’s case and positivity rate trajectories serve as a good example (see chart 2).An HT analysis on September 28 showed that states and Union territories in India that had a lower positivity rate, and thus a well-calibrated testing strategy, saw a lower proportion of their population succumbing to the virus. This means that adequate testing, especially when the positivity rate in a region starts rising, forms a very crucial aspect of saving lives.According to the World Health Organization a positivity rate below 5% for at least two weeks in a region means the outbreak is under control. In India, the positivity rate has been below this threshold for a month-and-a-half now.THE SUPERSPREADER FACTORThe number of secondary cases generated from every single primary case is one of the most crucial factors that determines how fast an epidemic grows, and subsequently how dangerous it is. One of the key characteristics of Covid-19 that epidemiologists noticed early on during its spread was how certain people ended up becoming superspreaders – they were responsible for infecting a lot more people. While instances of superspreading have been reported for more than a century, dating back to 1918, a vast volume of research data was generated this year regarding Covid-19 superspreaders.A study published in October in the journal Science, on transmission patterns of Sars-CoV-2, showed that there was a wide variance in the number of people to whom infected people passed on the virus — while many were not infecting anyone, a handful of superspreaders were responsible for a majority of new infections. It showed that only 8% of all infected patients accounted for 60% of new infections (and thus become superspreaders), while 70% of infected patients did not pass the disease to anyone (see chart 3). The contact-tracing study, conducted by a group of researchers led by Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Washington-based Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP), looked at disease transmission patterns in at least 575,000 people who were exposed to nearly 85,000 Covid infections in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.Another study by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), published in early November, analysed 60 superspreaders and superspreading events to find that these have a much larger role in transmission than earlier believed, and that such examples were a lot more common than earlier estimated. The study’s lead author, Felix Wong, a post-doctoral researcher at MIT, wrote that extreme events that deviate significantly from the mean are a lot more frequent than what one would predict. “Most people generate zero or one cases, but it’s the people generating hundreds of cases that we really should be worried about,” Wong wrote.Experts say superspreaders are the real engine behind the growth of Covid. In order to contain superspreading, the MIT researchers ran mathematical simulations where gatherings were limited to 10 people, i.e. each infected person was assumed to have had only 10 contacts (and infecting only 10 even in the most extreme case). This, they found, curbed the impact of the small superspreader group, bringing down infection numbers quickly.THE AGE FACTOROne of the earliest lessons picked up by doctors and scientists about the nature of Covid-19 was how it was disproportionately fatal for those who are older, even though it infects people in the younger age groups far more. In other words, the risk of severe illness, and subsequently death, increases with age; but the risk of infection is higher among younger people. This is very clearly visible in the death trends in the US, where eight out of 10 people who have died were above the age of 65 years, according to data maintained by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). This is very similar in India as well, where nearly nine in every 10 people who lost their lives to the disease till December 16 were above the age of 45, even though only four out of every 10 reported infections fell in that age group.The role of age also explains why countries such as India performed better at saving lives than the West. Countries with a lower median age ended up seeing a better case fatality rate – the proportion of infected patients that die. In India, for instance, where the median age is around 28 years (the youngest among the world’s worst-hit countries), around 1.4% of those infected have died – the lowest among the countries worst-hit by Covid. In contrast, Italy, which has the oldest population among world’s worst-hit Covid nations with a median age of 46 years, has seen the largest proportion of deaths – 3.5%. Similarly, the UK (median age: 41) and the US (median age: 38) have both fared much worse than India in CFR – 3.1% and 1.7% respectively.SAVING LIVES: THE ENDGAMEThe final goal when battling an outbreak is to save as many lives as possible – an area where doctors and governments are improving every day. When Covid-19 surfaced, in the initial weeks, very little was understood about how the disease progressed, and a relatively larger proportion of those infected were dying.In the first few weeks of the outbreak in China, around 17% of all people getting infected were dying (for cases reported in Wuhan between January 1 and 10). By the end of January, this number had settled to around the 3% in China – the CFR number that was then widely regarded as the global average of the disease. However, when the disease gripped other parts of the world, the CFR showed massive variances. In France, for instance, one in every five people (19.7%) getting infected was dying by early May. Around the same time in Italy, around 14% of all infected people were dying. While this may be because of the relatively older population in these countries (as stated above), this high CFR was not limited to just these countries. Around the same time, over 7% of all people who had been reported infected had died the world over.But from there, things start getting better. As scientists and doctors studied the disease more, they figured out better treatments, while the lockdowns imposed roughly from May to August in the West gave some reprieve to the health care systems in these countries. By early September, the global CFR dropped to less than half the peak level – 3.4%. In fact, if we only look at the cases reported after September across the world, this number has again halved and stands at 1.6%. The overall global CFR of the disease is 2.2% at the moment.GOING FORWARD: THE ROLE OF DATA CLARITYThroughout history, humanity has never seen a time where the importance of rapidly processed, clear, open and disaggregated data and statistics has been as clearly underlined as it has been during this year. A stronger argument has never been in place to have accurate, open and readily available data at all levels – local, district, state, national, even global.Governments across the world must push to make all Covid-19 data — testing, geographical spread, availability of hospital beds, results of clinical trials, age/gender break-ups — public. In this global crisis, data collaboration between governments, doctors, epidemiologists, researchers, academia, think tanks, civil society, as well as the private sector, has been pivotal in saving lives. Independent researchers, journalists and data scientists have set up open-sourced Covid-19 dashboards to track infection data from nearly every country in the world. Data nerds across the world (this writer included) have relied heavily on dashboards such as Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 database, Worldometers, Our World in Data, and others, to analyse trajectories and trends. Sharing information openly and transparently on caseloads and deaths, gaps in the health care system, vaccine development, and scientific and medical developments, is the foundation on which scientists and governments will build the machinery to mitigate this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-rise-of-data-as-an-antivirus/story-4OJnoxDtroS2uQKOp7E8YP.html
31-12-2020||India||Grenade attack on Kathua temple misses target, blast triggers panic||Terrorists lobbed a grenade on a temple in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir Wednesday evening but it missed the target and exploded nearby, creating panic among the people there, a senior police officer said. The attack comes within days of police arresting four militant associates and scuttling their separate plans to trigger grenade explosions in Poonch and Jammu districts at the behest of their handlers in Pakistan with the intention to disturb peace in Jammu region and harm communal brotherhood.“A grenade was thrown on a temple in Hiranagar sector around 7.30 pm but luckily it missed the intended target and exploded in an open area, without causing any damage or casualty,” Kathua Senior Superintendent of Police Shalinder Mishra told PTI about the Wednesday evening attack.He said the whole area was immediately cordoned off and a massive operation was launched to nab the assailants.No one has been arrested so far, he said. Officials said the blast triggered panic among the people who ran for cover after hearing the loud noise. On Sunday, police had arrested a Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist with two grenades near Bagh-e-Bahu in Jammu, foiling his attempt to carry out an attack in the winter capital. A day earlier, three militant associates were arrested and six grenades were seized from them in Poonch district as police said they were planning to carry out a grenade attack at a religious place with the intention to harm the communal harmony in the border district.On December 25, two terrorists, hailing from south Kashmir and affiliated with ‘The Resistance Force’ (TRF), believed to be an offshoot of LeT, were arrested in Jammu with an AK assault rifle, one pistol and some ammunition .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-attack-on-kathua-temple-misses-target-blast-triggers-panic/story-M0ss3cHaEcuz5c7YikDd2H.html
31-12-2020||India||BJP, JJP suffer setback in Haryana civic polls||Haryana’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Janta Jannayak Party (JJP) combine suffered an electoral setback on Wednesday as it could win just one of the three mayoral seats for which elections were held on Sunday, an outcome that came against the backdrop of an ongoing farmers’ protest against three contentious farm laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 26, demanding a repeal of the three laws. While the BJP won in Panchkula, the Congress and the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) bagged mayoral posts in Sonipat and Ambala, respectively. It was for the first time that direct elections were held for mayoral posts in the three cities. The setback for the ruling coalition has come in the wake of the BJP sweeping mayors polls in five Haryana cities two years ago.In 2018, the party had won mayoral polls in Hisar, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak and Yamunanagar. In November this year, the ruling combine had failed to win the Baroda assembly bypolls in Sonipat, with the Congress retaining the seat.For the post of mayor in Ambala, HJCP’s Shakti Rani Sharma, wife of former Union minister Venod Sharma, emerged as a surprise winner, defeating Vandana Sharma of the BJP by a margin of 8,084 votes. The Congress candidate ended up at the fourth spot, officials said. The win came as a boost to the Venod Sharma-led party, which tasted its first win after the 2014 Haryana assembly poll debacle. Kulbushan Goyal of the BJP will be Panchkula’s new mayor. He defeated Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes.For the elections to the mayor’s post in Panchkula, 1,333 voters exercised the NOTA option.The Congress won the Sonipat mayoral polls. The party’s Nikhil Madaan defeated BJP’s Lalit Batra by 13,818 votes. Polls were also held to elect councillors of all wards in the three cities. Voting was also held to elect the president and members of the municipal council in Rewari and the municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar).In the Ambala MC polls, the BJP won eight of the 20 seats, HJCP 7, Congress 3 and Haryana Democratic Front 2. In Sonipat, the BJP won 10 wards and the Congress 9. On one seat, an Independent emerged victorious. In Panchkula, the BJP and the Congress won nine and seven seats, respectively. The JJP won two. The post of the Rewari municipal council chairperson was bagged by BJP’s Poonam Yadav. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-jjp-suffer-setback-in-haryana-civic-polls/story-UgjXb0kHIyqEINjZJj70HI.html
31-12-2020||India||Holding talks with china for return of stranded sailors: Govt||The government on Wednesday said 39 Indian sailors stuck in China will be brought back soon as diplomatic talks are on with the neighbouring country.Two cargo vessels with a total of 39 Indians on board have been on anchorage in Chinese waters as they were not allowed to unload their cargo though some other ships have managed to do so.“Diplomatic talks are going on for this successfully. Our seafarers will come to India soon,” Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in reply to a query about sailors being stuck in China for the last seven months during Cabinet briefing.China on December 25 had said that there is no ‘link’ between stranded Indian ship crew on its Chinese ports and its strained relations with India and Australia.The statement had come a day after the External Affairs Ministry had said that two cargo vessels with a total of 39 Indians on board have been on anchorage in Chinese waters as they were not allowed to unload their cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-talks-with-china-for-return-of-stranded-sailors-govt/story-MWEFczCsm4JQQFN77l7qSM.html
31-12-2020||India||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeks probe into Karnataka MLC’s death||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday called for a “high-level probe” into the death of Karnataka legislative council deputy chairman SL Dharmegowda.“Anguished at the sad news of demise of Deputy Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council, Shri S. L. Dharmegowda. My condolences to his family. The unfortunate incident in the House, when he was in Chair, is a serious attack on democracy. It is necessary to have a high level probe through an independent agency into his death,” Birla said. According to an official statement, the Lok Sabha Speaker said: “It is the duty of all of us to safeguard the prestige of legislative bodies and dignity and freedom of presiding officers.”Following Birla’s statement, Parliament officials said that there hasn’t been any such instance in the recent past where the Speaker has sought a high-level probe into the murder of a presiding officer of a state assembly. “It is the state government that usually asks for an investigation as law and order is a state subject,” said an official, speaking on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Karnataka council deputy chairman SL Dharme Gowda found dead near railway trackDharmegowda’s body was recovered from railway tracks in Chikmagalur district on Tuesday. Investigators suspect that Dharmegowda may have died by suicide and are examining a purported death note found near his body.According to a police official familiar with the matter, Dharmegowda drove to Gunasagar in his personal car with his driver on Monday evening. There, he asked his driver to leave him alone, officials said. A search was launched after his family alerted officials when he did not return home that night.Based on mobile phone signals, his body was located on the Mankenahalli railway tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-seeks-probe-into-karnataka-mlc-s-death/story-ZOFxrUnXKNt8xmCefuEXdJ.html
31-12-2020||India||India extends suspension of UK flights till January 7||India has extended the suspension of flights to and from the UK until January 7 from December 31 in bid to contain the spread of a new, more transmissible strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that originated in that country, and at the same time delayed by a month the planned resumption of regular international commercial flights. A decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to and from the UK till 7 January 2021. Thereafter, strictly regulated resumption will take place, for which details will be announced shortly,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Twitter on Wednesday.Flights to and from the UK were suspended on December 23 after the UK government announced the detection of the highly infectious variant of the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The tighter screening process imposed on the last batch of returnees has already resulted in 20 cases of Covid-19 caused by the variant being detected; other returnees, over the past month, are being traced across India. Details of the restrictions that will be imposed on India-bound flights from the UK after January 7 are being drafted, Puri wrote on Twitter .According to officials aware of the development, the government may mandate the Reverse Transcription- Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test for all passengers flying in from the UK after January 7 in addition to mandatory quarantine.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) , the aviation regulator,on Wednesday also extended until January 31 the suspension of regular international flights until January 31.Also Read | New coronavirus strain in India: Here are some states where cases have been foundIndia has been operating international flights through special arrangements called transport bubbles reached with 24 countries including Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, the Maldives, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Rwanda, Tanzania, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates (UAE), the UK and US since suspending scheduled overseas flight operations in March.Puri had said at a press conference on Tuesday that the suspension of flights to and from the UK was likely to be extended. “I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” Puri said.The minister said passengers who arrived from the UK on December 21 and 22 were made to take an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport, with only those who tested negative being allowed to go home, where they were told to stay in isolation for seven days. Anyone who tested positive was taken to institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-suspension-of-uk-flights-till-january-7/story-R4KYDSmqFutaB03v7NmaVL.html
31-12-2020||India||Cold wave conditions prevail in North India||Cold wave conditions continued to prevail in the northern states of the country on Wednesday, while dense fog enveloped several areas, including Jammu where nine flights were cancelled due to poor visibility.The India Meteorological Department said a cold wave swept through Delhi as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius.    The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.5 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 16.4 degrees Celsius.The weather stations at Jafarpur and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, it said.During nighttime, “dense” fog reduced visibility to 50 meters in the Palam area. However, it improved to 400 meters by 9 am. The visibility at Safdarjung was 500 meters.Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Wednesday. The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 290.Nine flights to and from Jammu Airport were cancelled as a dense fog enveloped the region for a second day, while the prevailing cold wave condition tightened its grip after the recent snowfall in the high altitude areas. Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria said five more flights have been delayed.A dense fog returned to Jammu city amid a drop in the night temperature which settled at 2.9 degrees Celsius, 4.5 notches below normal during this part of the season.However, the sun came out around noon provided some relief from the bone-chilling cold and improvement in the visibility in some areas.Bhaderwah in Doda district was the coldest recorded place in Jammu region with a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius, a spokesman of the MET department said.The shrine atop Trikuta hills and adjoining areas also experienced the first snowfall of the season on the weekend. Intense cold wave conditions swept Kashmir as the mercury fell below the freezing point across the valley.The cloud cover ahead of Tuesday’s snowfall had kept the night temperature around the freezing point for two consecutive nights in most parts of the valley but the respite ended as the mercury plunged to minus 11 degrees in Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the officials said.They said Gulmarg tourist destination was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 9 degrees Celsius -- a drop of six notches in 24 hours.The officials said the minimum temperature in Srinagar - the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir - was minus 2.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night.There was dense to very dense fog at isolated places in western Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday and cold wave conditions prevailed at a few places across the state.The Lucknow meteorological office said day temperatures fell markedly in Allahabad division, while there was no large change in the state’s other divisions.The day temperature was appreciably below normal in Jhansi, Agra and Meerut divisions and normal in the others. The lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Fursatganj at 3.6 degrees Celsius, while the highest was recorded in Banda at 23.6 degrees Celsius.The weather office forecast said it would most likely remain dry in the state and warned that dense fog was likely in western UP and isolated places in the eastern part of the state.Cold wave conditions are likely to prevail at isolated places in the state, the weather office said. The Meteorological Department has forecast rain and snowfall in Himachal Pradesh from January 3 to 5. The Shimla MeT Centre has predicted rainfall in plains and low hills, and rain and snowfall in mid and high hills of the state from Sunday to Tuesday.  Meanwhile, the weather remained dry in the state in the last 24 hours, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.  Keylong, Kalpa, Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri shivered at sub-zero temperature on Wednesday, Singh said.  Tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 12.7 degrees Celsius, he said.  Shimla recorded a low of 0.9 degree Celsius.Cold conditions persisted in parts of Rajasthan where mercury dipped below freezing point at two places.Mount Abu shivered at minus 4 degrees Celsius, while in the plains Churu was the coldest, recording a minimum temperature of minus 1.5 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the mercury settled at 0.5 degrees. Cold wave conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana, even as a thick layer of fog enveloped the two states in the morning.The minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at most places, even though there was a marginal increase as compared to Tuesday’s temperatures.At a low of 1.8 degrees Celsius, Amritsar was the coldest place in Punjab.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a cold night at 4.6 degrees Celsius.Narnaul was the coldest place in Haryana recording a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius, while Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani also reeled under biting chill with respective minimum temperatures of 3.7, 3.6 and 3.9 degrees Celsius.According to the MeT department officials, barring Rohtak, a thick blanket of fog enveloped the two states in the morning, reducing visibility levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-prevail-in-north-india/story-KLpSUlV7AIbb4powr5JFTM.html
31-12-2020||India||‘Landmark decision’: Amit Shah on cabinet’s nod to export Akash missile||Union Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday hailed the Union Cabinet’s decision to approve export of Akash missile system and said this will further propel India’s effort to achieve the target of USD 5 billion of defence export.In a series of tweets, Shah also said approval of the proposals for industrial corridors worth Rs 7,725 crore will generate more than 2.8 lakh jobs.  “A landmark decision to boost India’s defence export. PM Narendra Modi-led cabinet approved the export of Akash Missile System and a committee has also been created for faster approvals. This will further propel India’s effort to achieve target of USD 5 billion of defence export,” he said.The home minister also said, “I congratulate PM Narendra Modi ji, for approving proposals for Industrial Corridors worth Rs 7,725 crore in today’s cabinet, which will generate more than 2.8 lakh jobs. These projects will provide an impetus to ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and boost investments across the country.” In another tweet in Hindi, Shah said the prime minister has reiterated his resolve for farmer welfare by taking an unprecedented decision to increase the distillation capacity for ethanol production from agricultural produce for doubling the income of farmers.“This will create farmer empowerment and employment, and will get rid of pollution,” he said.Read more| Amit Shah pays tributes to Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversaryIn a major move to boost domestic defence manufacturing, the Union Cabinet approved the export of indigenously developed surface-to-air Akash missile system and set up a panel to ensure faster approvals for acquisition proposals by various countries.The Akash missile systems have over 96 per cent indigenous components and the weapon can hit targets at a range of 25 km.The cabinet also approved a proposal to set up industrial corridor nodes at Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Tumakuru in Karnataka under the under the Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC). The proposals have a total estimated cost of Rs 7,725 crore and an estimated employment generation of more than 2.8 lakh people, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said. The cabinet also approved a scheme to provide bank loans at lower rates to distilleries producing ethanol for doping in petrol, with a view to raising India’s ethanol production capacity to suck out surplus sugar as well as cut oil imports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-decision-amit-shah-on-cabinet-s-nod-to-export-akash-missile/story-Yuh742EJxY0IluE3n3yhKM.html
31-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Interfaith couple booked for religious conversion in violation of law||An interfaith couple who had approached the Uttarakhand High Court seeking protection has been booked here along with two others for allegedly not following the provisions of the state’s anti-conversion law, police said on Wednesday. According to police, this is the first case of violation of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act in the state since it came into force in 2018. An FIR was lodged at the Patel Nagar police station here on Tuesday against the couple who got married in September, the husband’s uncle in whose presence the ‘nikah’ took place and the qazi who solemnised the alliance, Patel Nagar SHO Pradeep Rana said.The high court, after the couple approached it seeking protection, had directed the District Magistrate to inquire into the matter, police said. The police found that the woman had converted to Islam without informing her parents or the district authorities prior to her marriage as is required by the law, SHO Rana said.Circle Officer Anuj Kumar said it was in violation of sections 3, 8 and 12 of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018.Section 3 of the Act prohibits conversion either directly or otherwise, by use of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage.  Section 8 of the Act says, “One who desires to convert his religion, shall give a declaration at least one month in advance to the District Magistrate or any official authorised by him for the purpose saying that he wishes to convert his religion on his own and at his free consent and without any force, coercion, undue influence or allurement.“The religious priest, who performs purification Sanskar or conversion  ceremony for converting any person of one religion to another religion, shall give one month’s advance notice of such conversion to the DM or someone authorised by him.” It further says any contravention of the provisions shall have the effect of rendering the said conversion, illegal and void.Section 12 says when an offence is committed under this Act everyone deemed to have taken part in its commission by way of aiding, abetting or counselling conversion shall be charged as if he has actually committed it.  This is the first case of violation of the Act since it came into force in 2018, the Circle Officer said. In another case, the Uttarakhand High Court had recently asked the Haridwar administration to give protection to a couple after the wife cited a threat from her family due to their interfaith marriage. The woman had filed a notice before the district magistrate of Haridwar for changing religion from Islam to Hinduism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-interfaith-couple-booked-for-religious-conversion-in-violation-of-law/story-pc2GyOM7SLRDakbwJFjinI.html
31-12-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh shooter Kapil Gujjar joins BJP, expelled two hours later||Kapil Gujjar, the man who allegedly fired at least two shots in the air close to New Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh in February and warned anti-CAA protestors assembled there to disperse, formally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday, only to be thrown out less than two hours later when the local unit of the party realised who he was.Functionaries of the BJP said Gujjar joined the party together with his supporters at the city unit’s office in the Nehru Nagar area in a ceremony where sweets were distributed and his admission to the party was cheered.“Today, Kapil Gujjar joined with hundreds of his supporters and he has influence in his area. The youth have joined the party as they like our party’s policies; the way our Prime Minister works; the way our chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji works and also the way our state president Swatantra Dev Singh ji is working to strengthen the party,” Sanjeev Sharma, president of the BJP’s city unit, told reporters.“These youth were working for Hindutva and were working in other parties. But today they all came under one flag and met the state president who directed me to arrange for their joining,” Sharma added.Near the Shaheen Bagh protest site on February 1, Gujjar fired at least two shots in the air from a pistol, warned protestors against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to disperse and shouted communal slogans. The police registered a case against him under the Arms Act; he received bail from a city court on March 7.On Wednesday, the city unit of he BJP was caught on the back foot when news of Gujjar’s entry into the party went viral on social media. Sharma hurriedly released a statement that said some members claiming to be from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had approached the BJP for admission and Kapil Gujjar was among them. He said Gujjar’s link with the Shaheen Bagh controversy hadn’t been known to the party, and once it came to light, the state leadership directed the city unit to cancel his membership with immediate effect.“He came with his supporters at around 2pm for joining. We had no clue about the controversy related to Shaheen Bagh. So by 4pm, we cancelled his joining and also of others who came with him. We got directions for cancellation from our senior leaders,” Sharma said.He didn’t reply when asked whether the BJP had checked Gujjar’s credentials before he was admitted.BSP district president Kuldeep Kumar said Gujjar and the others who joined the BJP were neither the party’s members nor its supporters. “The BJP unit is trying to drag our party’s name into controversy due to frustration as their act (Gujjar’s admission) came to light. We have absolutely no connection with Gujjar whatsoever,” he added.Gujjar had said at his admission ceremony that he wished to do “big for Hindutva”.“The BJP is strengthening Hindutva and wants to take it forward. Most of the works are for mostly for Hindus. I also want to work for Hindutva and want to do big,” Gujjar told reporters.BJP’s Uttar Pradesh state spokesperson Chandra Mohan noted that the Ghaziabad unit had immediately cancelled the membership of Gujjar and his associates after coming to know of the Shaheen Bagh controversy. “At the party level, we are conducting an inquiry of all people attached to Gujjar’s joining and suitable action will be taken,” Chandra Mohan added.Delhi police officers said on Wednesday that they were yet to file a charge sheet in the case against Gujjar because they were still awaiting the forensic report on the bullets and the pistol he used. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rakesh Pawaria said: “The forensic report pertaining to the firearm that was used in the offence is still awaited. The probe is still on.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaheen-bagh-shooter-kapil-gujjar-joins-bjp-expelled-two-hours-later/story-dY93Ht6MSS2x2ZuFoIjoEI.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19 hits India’s biggest ceremonial event, Republic Day parade curtailed||The Republic Day parade of 2021 will be shorter, involve fewer participants and only a fourth of the usual number of spectators will be allowed at Rajpath to witness the country’s military might and cultural diversity, with India’s grandest ceremonial event being curtailed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday. This year’s Independence Day celebrations were also muted because of the coronavirus disease outbreak and measures imposed to check the spread of the disease.Fewer people will be allowed to witness the parade on January 26, with the government following strict social distancing protocols, and the parade itself will be shorter and with smaller marching contingents compared to previous years, the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageNot more than 25,000 spectators will be allowed at Rajpath this year, compared to over 100,000 people who usually turn up for the parade, braving cold weather and standing in queues before the crack of dawn to enter the area. Children below the age of 15 will not be permitted at the parade. The size of the marching contingents from the armed forces and the paramilitary will be smaller. These squads will only have 96 participants compared to 144 in the ordinary course, the officials said. The shortened route of the parade will end at the National Stadium instead of the Red Fort, the officials said, adding that the cultural programmes will also be fewer. Also Read | Boris Johnson accepts India’s invite, will be Republic Day parade chief guestIndependence Day celebrations were also hit by the pandemic this year, with fewer VIPs attending the annual August 15 event at Delhi’s Red Fort while schoolchildren skipped it altogether. The Republic Day-2020 parade had many firsts to it. For the first time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid a wreath at the National War Memorial. Until 2019, tributes were paid to martyrs at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate. Also, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) showcased its anti-satellite weapon for the first time. Jammu and Kashmir took part in the 2020 parade for the first time as a Union territory. In August 2019, the government revoked the special status of the state by scrapping Article 370 of the Constitution and also bifurcated J&K into two Union Territories – J&K and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hits-india-s-biggest-ceremonial-event-republic-day-parade-curtailed/story-I2RHUW0HzkuhiD8zkfRG3L.html
31-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s December 31, the end of the year, and India may be just a day away from approving a vaccine. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) reviewed on Wednesday data submitted by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech as sought by it in its last meeting. In that meeting, in response to SII’s emergency use authorisation application for Covishield (the name given by the company to the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca/Oxford that it is manufacturing here), the committee asked for more data on safety and efficacy. SEC also indicated that it would wait for an approval of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine by the UK drug regulator, Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). The data was submitted last week, and on Wednesday morning, MHRA approved the vaccine (the Phase 3 trials were carried out in the UK and Brazil; Indian phase 3 trials are ongoing, and it is believed that some of the interim findings from that are part of the data submitted by the company). Bharat Biotech is also believed to have submitted some data although it isn’t clear whether this includes interim findings from its ongoing Phase 3 trials. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageSEC has said it will meet again on Friday. It’s possible that an approval for Covishield could come the same day. This means India could start vaccinating people as early as next week if everything else is in place.A combination of circumstances and events has made this possible, but no one could have scripted it better – to end what may well be the worst year of this millennium with an inexpensive locally made vaccine which is easy to transport and store is the best of all possible outcomes. The new year will be more about vaccines and vaccination than anything else (even the new strain, which, as expected, has surfaced in more places and people in India). As The Who sang, “Got a feeling ’21, is going to be a good year.”The UK has said it will start vaccinating people with the AstraZeneca/Oxford shot on Monday. Phase 3 trials have shown the vaccine to be 62% effective when two full doses are administered. That compares unfavourably with the 95% efficacy shown by vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna, but over the weekend, AstraZeneca’s CEO told The Sunday Times that the company has submitted more data to the UK drugs regulator that shows that its efficacy “after two doses, is up there with everybody else”. This data is yet to be published, but 62% efficacy is not all that bad – indeed, if AstraZeneca/Oxford had been the first to declare the results of Phase 3 trials, and put out an efficacy number of 62%, the news would have been met rapturously.Ravaged by a new mutant strain of Sars-CoV-2 – the seven-day average of daily cases in the country is nearing 40,000; the tally for December 29 was around 53,000 – the UK has taken the brave (and radical) decision of giving one shot of the two two-shot vaccines it has approved (Pfizer/BioNTech and AstraZeneca/Oxford) to as many people as possible, instead of stocking up for scheduled second shots. This could mean an increase in the time between the two shots to as much as 12 weeks, instead of the recommended four. The UK’s decision will affect the efficacy of the vaccines for sure – only detailed studies will show to what extent – but the country’s hand may have been forced by the surge in cases that has already overwhelmed its health system. India may be tempted to follow suit, but given that the seven-day average of daily cases is at a six-month low, the country would do well to stick to its plan of administering two shots of the vaccine to 300 million people in its primary priority group (the deadline to do this is June). Serum Institute expects to increase its capacity to 100 million doses a month by March and 300 million doses by July.The challenges posed by the pandemic are not over, and 2021 will see more challenges related to what will be the world’s biggest vaccination drive, but a dashboard of vaccinations will be a welcome addition to HT’s Covid-19 database.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-aP78IX9rDZpH8aBIyTe7gM.html
31-12-2020||India||14 more cases of new Covid-19 strain in India; 4 in Delhi||Fourteen more people have tested positive for a hyper-infectious, mutant strain of the coronavirus in India, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, taking the tally of such cases in the country to 20. Four of the new patients were from Delhi, officials in the city-state confirmed.On Tuesday, six people — three from Karnataka and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh — who returned from the UK were found to be carrying the new variant, which is known as VOC-202012/01. Of the 14 new cases on Wednesday, eight were detected at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi, four at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru, and one each at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in Delhi and the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in West Bengal’s Kalyani.Apart from the four Delhi residents, a 33-year-old woman from Noida’s Sector 50, who returned from the UK on December 18, was found to be infected by the mutant strain on Wednesday. Also Read | A year of trials: Controversies, pitfalls AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine faced“As of Wednesday, of the total Covid positive UK returnees having the new strain, four are residents of Delhi. This is as per the reports conveyed to the Delhi government by NCDC,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity. This number was later confirmed by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev.Elsewhere, while Bengal confirmed its first case of the new strain, the Karnataka government said a total of seven people, including the three detected on Tuesday, tested positive in the southern state after genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) labs. The place of residence of the other new patients was not known immediately. Positive samples of those who returned from the UK recently have been sequenced in six of the 10 designated, government-run Insacog labs across the country. According to government estimates, about 33,000 passengers arrived from the UK at various Indian airports from November 25 to December 23. Authorities have begun conducting the gold-standard RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test on these passengers in batches, though tracing all of them is becoming a difficult task with hundreds furnishing vague addresses and switching off their phones. Those found negative in RT-PCR tests are sent to a seven-day home quarantine, while the genome sequencing of positive samples are done at Insacog labs for the detection of the possible UK variant of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThose detected with the mutant strain are being kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by states. Their close contacts are also being put in quarantine even as comprehensive contact-tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others, according to the government.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the States for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing & dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” a health ministry statement said.India also extended the suspension of flights to and from the UK until January 7 from December 31, in a bid to contain the spread of the new strain believed to have been originated in that country. In West Bengal, the son of a senior official of the state health department tested positive for the new variant after returning from London 10 days ago, news agency PTI quoted an unnamed official as saying.“He is undergoing treatment at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital’s super-specialty section. He is under observation. We have advised all those who have come in contact with him to isolate themselves,” the official told PTI. He added that the patient was not having “serious health issues” at the moment.In Karnataka, health minister K Sudhakar said of the seven people found positive for the mutant strain, three were from Bengaluru and four from Shivamogga. The swab samples of 26 people who tested positive for Covid-19 were sent to NIMHANS to ascertain whether it was the new strain, he said. The 26 were among the 1,614 UK returnees, who underwent the tests.First detected in London and Kent in mid-September, the variant was identified by UK authorities as a matter of concern on December 14. They later disclosed evidence that it appeared to be more transmissible, and was behind a spike in cases in the country’s capital as well as its south-east. The variant has 23 changes in its genome, eight of which appear to influence the spike protein that the pathogen uses to latch on to host cells. Some of the other changes could make it more adept at infecting susceptible cells and possibly even evade some immune response, although detailed studies are underway. In a preliminary assessment released late on Monday, UK scientists estimated that VOC-202012/01 did not lead to more deaths or hospitalisations but caused noticeably more secondary infections than the older variant. The new variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. Clinical microbiologists said the new variant did not seem to be posing a big threat in terms of severity of the disease, even though it is capable of infecting more people in a given time.“Increased transmissibility means more people will get infected...since there are no implications on pathogenicity, which is the ability to cause the disease, it isn’t much of a concern at the moment. For Covid-19 detection, the same RT-PCR testing will be conducted, and the government’s surveillance system is already in place to conduct large-scale genome sequencing to check for the new variant. So, nothing essentially changes on ground,” said Dr Navin Kumar, head, clinical microbiology and infection prevention, Manipal Hospital, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-more-cases-of-new-covid-19-strain-in-india-4-in-delhi/story-GDKIu5LaMcznXwKjhpheoK.html
31-12-2020||India||Year-end cheer: India closer to Covid-19 vaccine after UK’s Oxford nod||The UK approved on Wednesday the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, paving the way for its rollout at a time when the country is in the grip of its worst wave of infections, and offering an important endorsement that will likely be taken into account in India, where authorities reviewed the inoculation later in the day.While the UK said it will begin administering the first shots from next week, Indians will likely need to wait a little longer since the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) – which is vetting the data from safety and efficacy trials – said it is yet to reach a decision and a further meeting will be convened on Friday. The SEC decision is likely to factor in the approval by UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). The adenovirus vaccine is being manufactured by Pune‘s Serum Institute of India (SII). Described as a “vaccine for the world”, it is the most likely candidate to meet a large chunk of India’s vaccination needs because it is cheaper, easier to store and transport, and likely to be more available than the two other vaccines so far approved in other countries -- mRNA ones developed by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna. Also Read | A year of trials: Controversies, pitfalls AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine facedUK’s MHRA, on December 2, approved the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, making it the first inoculation to be approved anywhere in the world after due scientific process. The Moderna vaccine was approved by the US on December 18.Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent several days in intensive care with Covid earlier this year, called the approval to the Oxford vaccine a “truly fantastic news” and “a triumph for British science”. “We will now move to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible,” he added. On Tuesday, 53,135 new Covid cases were recorded in the UK -- the highest single day rise since mass testing began - as well as 414 more deaths, reinforcing the need for the country to speed up its vaccination process. London, which is among areas in south-east England where a new, more transmissible variant has been spreading, registered 14,875 new cases. The UK’s state-funded hospital system has come close to being overwhelmed, with 21,286 Covid-19 patients, forcing some hospitals to cancel other procedures. In New Delhi, the SEC of CDSCO held its second meeting on coronavirus vaccines, attended by representatives from SII, which has sought the emergency use approval. Pfizer-BioNTech and Bharat Biotech too sought approvals, which was discussed at the meeting.“…Further time was requested on behalf of Pfizer. The additional data and information presented by SII and Bharat Biotech Pvt. Ltd. was perused and analysed by the SEC. The analysis of the additional data and information is going on. SEC will convene again on 1st January 2021 (Friday),” said a statement by the government. The SEC had asked SII and Bharat Biotech for information December 9.The Union government has announced that India targets to vaccinate at least 300 million high-risk people against Covid-19 by July next year. It is currently drafting a list of recipients to be put on the priority list. In the UK, the priority list includes about 25 million people, the BBC reported. Till December 24, the last date for which data was available, according to Our World in Data, 800,000 of these people had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the Oxford Vaccine Trial, said: “The regulator’s assessment that this is a safe and effective vaccine is a landmark moment, and an endorsement of the huge effort from a devoted international team of researchers and our dedicated trial participants.” Pascal Soriot, AstraZeneca chief executive, said the company could provide the UK with up to 2 million doses a week, with the first doses arriving on Wednesday or Thursday: “Vaccination will start next week and we will get to 1 million a week and beyond that two million a week very rapidly.”UK health secretary Matt Hancock said: “Because we’ve got enough of this vaccine on order to vaccinate the whole population – we’ve got 100 million doses on order – add that to the 30 million doses of Pfizer and that’s enough for two doses for the entire population”.But the import of UK’s decision is seen as relevant for other countries because the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is cheaper than its rivals and easier to store or move. The ultra-cold or freezer temperature storage required by other vaccines is “very impractical” in developing countries, said Dr Gillies O’Bryan-Tear, chair of policy and communications for Britain’s Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine, Reuters reported. It means the AstraZeneca one “may reach more parts of the world than the Pfizer one,” he said. The company has also said it will sell it for $2.50 a dose and plans to make up to 3 billion doses by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-end-cheer-india-closer-to-covid-19-vaccine-after-uk-s-oxford-nod/story-j1p1zKTmSP6fH3tVvGpSOM.html
31-12-2020||India||Farm laws stir: Breakthrough as govt accepts two demands of farmers||The widely anticipated sixth round of talks finally led to some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions on Wednesday, with the Centre acceding to the demand to spare farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, with the two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices yet to be discussed, the light at the end of the tunnel is still faint. The government also offered to form a five-member panel to examine the farm laws, which was also rejected by the farmers. “On the farm unions’ demand for the repeal of farm laws, the (agriculture) minister said that this too can be referred to a committee which will study the constitutional validity and propriety keeping in mind the welfare of farmers,” a government statement said.The farm unions have been asking the government to scrap three new agricultural laws approved by Parliament in September, and to bring a new legislation guaranteeing that all farm produce be bought at federally fixed assured rates. The government did not take up these core demands on Wednesday, deferring them till the next round of talks on January 4, which the farmers have agreed to participate in.When farmers raised the issue of repealing the farm laws, the government side asked the union leaders to come up with “alternatives” to a roll-back of the laws, an official aware of the discissions said, requesting anonymity. The farmers rejected this proposal, and insisted that their protest on the outskirts of Delhi would continue until the laws were repealed.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also asked the farm leaders to detail what their issues with the three laws were, the official added.On the issue of a legal backing for MSP, the government “proposed to form a committee to look into the demand, which we rejected”, said Kavitha Kuruganti, the lone woman representative of farmers who participated in the talks.Also Read | The farm laws: How not to do reformsUnion ministers Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash led the government side, while 41 leaders of farm unions represented the farmers.Progress was made when the three ministers declared that the government would keep farmers out of the Delhi-NCR anti-pollution ordinance, and make changes in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect their interests.The anti-pollution ordinance invoked in October has harsh provisions to fine polluters up to ₹1 crore, including farmers. The burning of crop residue is one of the major causes of severe pollution in northern India. The government had also proposed to switch to giving direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy, which farm unions had opposed, saying the move will increase irrigation costs. The government agreed not to go ahead with this change. “We have been able to agree on two out of four major demands. There were mutual agreements on the electricity amendment bill and on keeping farmers out of the anti-pollution ordinance,” farm minister Tomar said. The minister said the talks were held in a very “cordial atmosphere”. He said the remaining two demands — on repealing the laws and a legislation on MSP — would be discussed on January 4. “I once again appeal to farmers to at least send back the elderly, women and children taking part in the protests in this extreme cold weather,” Tomar said.Although the farmers wanted the discussions to focus first on the repeal of the farm laws, Tomar suggested that the easier issues be taken up first and then declared the government’s intention to accede to the demands on changes in power subsidy and the anti-pollution law.There appeared to be greater bonhomie between both the sides, with the three Union ministers seen sharing meals the farm leaders had brought with them during the lunch break. The farm leaders reciprocated the gesture by having tea served by the government. In five earlier rounds of talks, the farm leaders had refused to partake of meals served by the government.But the farmers, at the same time, said they would intensify their agitation until the two larger demands were met. “We consider the two demands that were accepted today to be the minor demands, while the government deferred the more solid, core demands of repealing the laws till the next talks on January 4. In its December 9 proposals, the government had already hinted it would accede to these demands,” Kuruganti said.Darshan Pal, the leader of Krantikari Kisan Union, said the acceptance of the two demands on Wednesday was a “step forward” but the agitation would continue.Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces; allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales; and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, they will allow big corporations to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system.“The government’s acceptance of the two demands today was predictable since these were the less complicated of the four demand,” said RS Mani, a former economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.Mani said the government was right to propose a committee to examine the demand for a law on MSP for its economic consequences.Kuruganti said the farm leaders rejected the idea of a committee because “farmers have a long history of experiences with government committees which are used cleverly to water down demands”.On Wednesday, in an interview to wire service ANI, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh called farmers the “backbone of the country”. He said he didn’t approve of farmers being branded “Naxals” and “Khalistanis”.“I don’t know who is making these allegations, but farmers are farmers.”“I appeal to farmers to at least wait for two years, give a chance to the farm years as an experiment and see the results,” the defence minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-breakthrough-as-govt-accepts-two-demands-of-farmers/story-SfTtFZ6G12lWsaXbBpBP1J.html
31-12-2020||India||Indian sailors stuck as freight forwarder doesn’t want to adjust plans due to commercial interests: China||China on Wednesday said that the “real” reason for the Indian sailors stuck in China is that the “freight forwarder doesn’t want to adjust plans due to commercial interests”.The spokesperson of Chinese Embassy in India Counselor Ji Rong has also said that the Chinese authorities have “never denied any vessel departure”.Taking to Twitter, the spokesperson said: “Chinese authorities have been in close communication with Indian side & provided timely assistance & necessary supplies to Indian sailors. China has never denied any vessel departure. Real cause of situation is freight forwarder doesn’t want to adjust plans due to commercial interests.” Earlier today Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Indian sailors stuck in China will be brought back to India soon, as diplomatic talks are on with the neighbouring country.“Diplomatic discussion is going on this issue. Our seafarers will be returning to India very soon,” said Mandaviya on being asked ‘what action has the government taken to bring back 39 seafarers stuck at Chinese ports for the last seven months.“Cargo vessel MV Jagannath is on anchorage near Jingtang port in China since June 13 and has 23 Indian nationals on board. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, which has 16 Indian nationals is on anchorage near the Caofeidian port in China since September 20. Both ships are waiting for discharge of cargo,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.“Our embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China in this matter. They are requesting that the ships be allowed to discharge their cargo as well as crew members be allowed to be changed,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-sailors-stuck-as-freight-forwarder-doesn-t-want-to-adjust-plans-due-to-commercial-interests-china/story-a9UL9Cl79QzBqKvUTyXnyM.html
31-12-2020||India||New conditions okayed for Central Vista revamp||The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has conditionally approved new terms of reference for the development or redevelopment of common central secretariat buildings .a central conference centre, the Prime Minister’s Residence, Vice President’s Enclave and a building for the Special Protection Group (SPG) as part of the Central Vista project.EAC specified as many as 18 conditions, asking the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to list the environmental, social and economic benefits of the project and the cumulative impact of all developements undertaken in the Central Vista avenue including its effect on baseline environmental quality, according to the minutes of a December 17 EAC meeting published on Monday.CPWD was asked to provide data on land, groundwater, surface water, air, biodiversity, noise and vibration, socio-economic and health impacts and spell out detailed plans for the demolition of existing structures, groundwater recharge and traffic management and submit a recommendation from the Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC).CPWD, the project developer, submitted in a presentation to EAC that the common central secretariat will consolidate all ministries of the Centre and improve productivity and efficiency of administration.Read more| Central Vista green approval: Consolidated plan submittedThe central conference centre will cater to the ministries’ conferencing needs. These will also be connected by an automated people mover to the Delhi Metro. Modern and secure residential facilities will be built for the Prime Minister and the Vice President, according to the minutes of the EAC’s December 17 meeting.An earlier application by CPWD to amend the terms of reference for the project to add several new components of construction was rejected by EAC on grounds that the former had been seeking clearances in a piecemeal fashion.. EAC observed in the minutes of a meeting published on November 25 that CPWD should refrain from the piecemeal approach for the proposed development and redevelopment of projects in the Central Vista.Approval for terms of reference signifies the initial clearance needed for any development project. After its application to amend was rejected, CPWD submitted a fresh proposal . In CPWD’s revised proposal, there was no mention of the Prime Minister’s Office, which found a mention in previous one. The total built-up area has been reduced from 18,37,057 sq.m to 17,21, 500 sq.m, but the cost of the redevelopment project has increased by Rs 1,656 crore, from Rs.11,794 crore to Rs. 13,450 crore.According to the minutes of the latest EAC meeting, 10 petitions against various features of the Central Vista project are pending in the Supreme Court.Read more| Central Vista revamp: MPs’ offices to come up in place of two buildingsThe minutes suggest that around 4,58,820.0 sq m of built-up area will need to be demolished as part of the project. The buildings on the site include the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Shastri Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, VP Residency, National Museum, Jawahar Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Raksha Bhavan and INS Hutments.“All buildings are RCC {reinforced concrete} frame structures with infill masonry walls. The structures are of G+5 to G+6 storey. Since the building is situated in a very sensitive area, adequate care and precaution will be taken to reduce noise and dust while ensuring appropriate safety. Buildings will be fully covered from all sides with appropriate staging/barricading and covering using appropriate green cloth or sheets for full building height so as to control and contain the dust/debris within the building premises,” CPWD said in its proposal.When asked to respond on the pollution impact of the redevelopment project, a ministry of urban affairs spokesperson said: “Utmost care with sprinklers and water guns and high barricading will ensure minimal pollution.” “The minutes do not reflect the enormous scale of challenges posed by this project even though these issues have been communicated to the EAC several times through numerous letters and has been discussed in the media and in courts all through 2020. The EAC has asked the project to explain the benefits of this project. Why is the EAC not interested in the problems that citizens have identified with this project? Who will be a neutral referee for this government project’s environmental assessment?” asked Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.Read more| ‘Shouldn’t be a fait accompli’: Supreme Court allows Central Vista ceremony, not workAccording to the tender for the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project— the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue, which includes most of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that are parallel to it-- the contractors will have to install air purifiers and keep construction noise under preset thresholds, HT reported on November 9.The successful bidders shall follow green construction practices and get a periodic green audit conducted. “The contractor will also have to install air quality monitors, requiring a number of air purifiers to maintain air quality index below acceptable levels of PM 2.5 -- within 150 [for] up to 500m from the site of work -- during the entire construction period,” the tender said.The second phase of the project will include the demolition of dozens of office buildings. Broadly, the plan includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are spread over 30 buildings now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-conditions-okayed-for-central-vista-revamp/story-he9ahrR2WP0qaHoJhHVwON.html
31-12-2020||India||‘My love for theatre has grown two folds’||Actor Neha Garg is a socio-political theatre artiste and accepts that her love of stage has only gone up with time. “Theatre has given me all and made me what I always wanted to be: that is, an actor who knows her craft. Over the years my love for acting and theatre has grown two folds,” said ‘The Lust Ichaa’ actor. Talking about how acting happened, Neha said, “I started my career as an engineer and was working for a semi government firm. I was doing well for myself, but soon I decided to quit and joined a theatre group in Delhi and worked with them. I started my acting career from a scratch because I knew this was my calling. My mother thought that I was under some black magic (laughs) and took me to some religious gurus.” Neha made her debut with Oscar nominated film ‘The Last Color’. “After three years in theatre, I got a solo play ‘A Woman Alone’ that won me accolades and soon got offer for ‘The Last…’ that took me to Varanasi and Lucknow for shoot. Meeting Neena (Gupta) maam and working with her was an experience of a life time. Chef Vikas Khanna is one of the best film makers we have today.” The New Year will see her in two short films along with Neha’s first lead film ‘Samosa and Sons,’ directed by national award winner Shalini Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-love-for-theatre-has-grown-two-folds/story-PRs9XSuU13DnsWjYlplMcM.html
31-12-2020||India||Delhi-Bengaluru flight makes emergency landing at Indore to rush baby to hospital||A Bengaluru-bound Indigo flight from Delhi made an emergency landing at Indore airport on Wednesday evening after an ailing child’s condition deteriorated. However, he couldn’t be saved and was declared brought dead at a private hospital, Airport Authority of India (AAI) l and the hospital administration said. “A message was received at 5.35 pm that an Indigo flight- 6E-2248 from Delhi to Bengaluru was diverted to Indore due to a medical emergency. The flight landed at Indore at 5.55 pm. An ambulance immediately took the patient - a kid identified as Dev Jaiswal, and his parents Durgesh Jaiswal and Anu Jaiswal to Bhatia Hospital along with paramedical staff from Shelby Hospital. Due to his critical condition, he was further referred to Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Science (SAIMS)’s hospital. The patient and his family were from Gorakhpur,” Indore airport director Arayama Sanyal said,Head of paediatric department at SAIMS, Indore Dr Gunjan Kela said the baby died on the way.“The 7-month-old male child was suffering from hydrocephalus. The parents were taking the child to an institute at Bengaluru for treatment due to some emergency when the child started gasping and then there was emergency landing of the flight for treatment here. However, the child expired on way to the hospital,” Dr Kela said.According to doctors, hydrocephalus is a condition which causes accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the brain. The flight took off for Bengaluru after the child was shifted from the airport to the hospital. (With input from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-bengaluru-flight-makes-emergency-landing-at-indore-to-rush-baby-to-hospital/story-c0t8mA7tvYGZJRDwgIpXvI.html
31-12-2020||India||Man abducts boy to bribe his way to become a police constable||In a joint operation, a team of Bihar’s Khagaria and Naugachhia police rescued an eight-year-old son of a well-known cook who was kidnapped for ransom of Rs 7 lakh from Narayanpur village under Bhawanipur police outpost of Naugachhia police on Wednesday.Three alleged kidnappers, identified as Rakesh Kumar Roushan (30) Sourabh Kumar (25) and Shivam Kumar, were arrested and the child was rescued. The fourth abductor is still at large.Police said that during interrogation, Sourabh revealed that he wanted a job as a police constable and a middleman asked him to arrange money. Thereafter, Sourabh hatched a conspiracy with Roushan and Shivam and abducted the boy for money.Also read: Bars, restaurants to restrict entry, limited parking at Connaught PlaceAccording to Niraj Kumar, station house officer (SHO) at Bhawanipur police outpost, the boy, identified as Suraj Kumar, had been missing since December 25 when he was playing outside his house. His father Amarjeet Kumar Rajak, a popular cook in the area, had lodged a missing complaint in this connection. On December 27, a call was made from two different numbers seeking a ransom amount of Rs 7 lakh for the safe release of the abducted boy. The abductors were speaking to the family through WhatsApp calls and were constantly on the move.The father, unable to pay ransom, informed the police.The SHO said an informer had tipped them off that kidnappers were changing their location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-abducts-boy-to-bribe-his-way-to-become-a-police-constable/story-LbNYR7dPo4hGWxz439eK3I.html
31-12-2020||India||HC pulls up Andhra govt for attacking judiciary||Criticising the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government for alleged infringement of fundamental rights of the people and blatantly attacking the judiciary, the Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday expressed dissent over the Supreme Collegium’s recommendation for the abrupt transfer of chief justice J K Maheshwari. A division bench headed by justice Rakesh Kumar made the comments in disposing of a petition filed by the state government asking the judge to recuse himself from a case pertaining to the sale of government lands under a scheme called Mission Build AP to raise funds for social welfare schemes. Justice Kumar, who will be retiring on Thursday, directed the Registrar General of the high court to file a criminal case against senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Praveen Kumar, special officer of Mission Build AP, for wrongly attributing some comments to the judge that he said he had never made. In an affidavit filed on December 16, the IAS officer expressed concern that Justice Kumar may be biased against the government and his continuance on the division bench could deprive it of a fair hearing. He quoted media reports as saying that the judge had made “unwarranted” comments on the alleged breakdown of constitutional machinery in the State. Describing the allegations made by the IAS officer as false and malicious, justice Kumar said the affidavit was contemptuous and it amounted to interference in the discharge of judicial functions. He called for an explanation form the officer as to why he cannot be prosecuted for contempt of court and gave him six weeks’ time to reply. Read more| Woman who fled to Andhra Pradesh has UK strainIn his 55-page judgement, justice Kumar referred to the criminal cases pending against the chief minister and recalled reports of how he allegedly misused power to force the police to withdraw cases against him. He also referred to Jagan Reddy’s letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde on October 6 that made allegations against Supreme Court judge N V Ramana, state high court chief justice J K Maheshwari and a few other judges and the ensuing leak of the letter to the media three days later. He said the transfer of high court chief justice on December 14 would send a wrong message to the people.”... fact remains that he succeeded in getting undue advantage at the present moment (through the transfer of the high court CJ),” justice Kumar said. There had been friction between justice Maheshwari, who took over as Andhra Pradesh chief justice in October 2019, and Jagan Reddy. In March, the high court put a spoke in the state government’s decision to paint panchayat buildings with the colours of the ruling party . A month later, the high court set aside Reddy’s decision to introduce English as the medium of instruction in government schools.For months, the tussle between the government and judiciary in the state continued over several issues, finally reaching a flashpoint in September when the high court issued a gag order barring the media from reporting the contents of a first information report (FIR) in a land scandal in the city of Amaravati involving former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas and daughters of a sitting Supreme Court judge, justice NV Ramana.Read more| Woman dodges Delhi officials, reaches Andhra after testing +ve on arrival from UKIn October, Reddy wrote a letter to CJI Bobde, complaining that justice Ramana was trying to influence cases in the high court to destabilize his government. Justice Kumar said that due to the transfer of the chief justice, the Jagan Reddy government was bound to get undue benefit, especially with regard to the hearings on petitions filed by poor farmers of Amaravati against the bills to create three Andhra Pradesh capitals. Amaravati had been designed the capital of Andhra Pradesh by Jagan Reddy’s predecessor N. Chandrababu Naidu. “Now, the final hearing on the batch of petitions on Amaravati has been stopped. There is every likelihood that some time may be consumed in reconstitution of the Bench and thereafter from zero hearing in those cases may commence,” he said. Justice Kumar also referred to criminal cases being dealt with by central agencies against Jagan Reddy. “After the Supreme Court bench headed by Justice N V Ramana in September ordered speedy disposal of criminal cases pending against politicians, the Andhra police on September 23 closed seven or eight criminal cases against Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he pointed out. Justice Kumar said the court was finding it difficult to protect the fundamental rights of citizens in Andhra Pradesh because of the violation of their rights. He referred to several Habeas Corpus petitions filed before the court following alleged illegal detentions. He recalled that in one such petition, he had even summoned the director general of police to the court on the enforcement of rule of the law in the state. He defended the observations he made on Wednesday. “But since on the verge of my retirement, my impartiality has been questioned by the government of Andhra Pradesh on my face, in my defence, I was constrained to record above facts which may not be disputed. My only endeavour is to uphold the majesty of law,” justice Kumar said.Government chief whip G Srikanth Reddy said it was unfortunate that the high court judge had made such observations against the state government on the verge of his retirement. “It clearly shows he has recorded the comments in the judgement out of some personal grudge against the chief minister and the government. We don’t have anything personal against him, but such comments would only reflect badly on his credibility. I am afraid people may lose their faith on the judiciary with such personal comments against the chief minister,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-andhra-govt-for-attacking-judiciary/story-HX6ThUsMlob18RGDk6BJrO.html
31-12-2020||India||Cardin’s innovation was across disciplines: Rajeev Sethi||Renowned designer Pierre Cardin, who died on Tuesday aged 98, was the first international designer to hold a fashion show in India – this was back in 1967 and it was held to a packed audience, which included the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, in the Ashoka hotel. HT spoke to Rajeev Sethi, designer and founder of Asian Heritage Foundation, who met Cardin around that time and went on to work in his atelier for three years between 1969-71. Read edited excerpts.What was your first memory of meeting Pierre Cardin?I think it’s extremely important that India knows that its journey in fashion internationally started because of Pierre Cardin. He bought a whole lot of things from the market and the Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India Ltd in 1967. Pupul Jayakar, who was heading the HHEC at the time, invited him to the country. I went to audition as a model for a fashion show that he was doing at the Ashoka hotel, but that was just ostensibly because I carried with me all my sketches and paintings to show him. I didn’t model but he liked the drawings very much and asked me to work for him in Paris. That was a seminal show, and it was the first time we saw international fashion.Tell us a bit about the work that you did with himI got a scholarship from the French government to go to France, and since I had met Cardin earlier, I went to see him. I ended up working with him all of 1969, ’70 and ’71. I helped his atelier to set up his laboratoire d’idees or laboratory of ideas, where we were going into trans-disciplinary experiments and experiences and do (a lot in) theatre, culinary art, experiential exhibitions. It was like a circus. But this was before he bought the Theatre des Ambassadeurs on Avenue Gabriel and renamed it Espace Cardin (it opened in 1971 complete with a full-fledged theatre). He believed in the synergy of art, fashion and theatre. It had more to do with the lifestyle beyond the haute couture that Paris was known for. In 1970, he sent me back to India to collect items for an exhibition on India at Espace Cardin, called Des Indes Moderne. Eventually, the exhibition had works designed by me, including items of furniture.What is the contribution that Pierre Cardin will be most remembered for?By the time I got to Paris and joined him, he was already a global brand. What attracted me was that he was moving beyond fashion into things that touched life as a whole. He could link this kind of trans-disciplinary market with commerce. Of course, people had made perfumes but no one had made it at a scale that Cardin did. Branding idea is not new, but what you can do with branding, from the glamour industry, and take it to a more prêt-a-poter line, is his innovation. He said you could do all the things that Haute Couture does, and you could do it so bespoke that it could become even ready-to-wear. He was the first to break the dichotomy between the two, and he made high fashion think seriously about the fashion that goes out to more people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cardin-s-innovation-was-across-disciplines-rajeev-sethi/story-YssBwKYqDqk6Me8FmrOCLJ.html
31-12-2020||India||100 booked as tensions flare in Madhya Pradesh||Police invoked prohibitory orders and booked nearly 100 people in two districts of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday to stamp down on communal tensions that flared up a day ago after two separate attempts to damage Muslim shrines. The tensions were sparked during rallies organised by some Hindu groups to raise funds for construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, according to police and leaders from both sides. These rallies were passing through Muslim-dominated areas on Tuesday when the disturbances occurred, they said. In both cases, police said it arrested miscreants responsible for the incident and that no damage was done to the shrines. Madhya Pradesh police said 96 people were booked across two districts and 28 arrested.The first incident was reported from Dorana village in Mandsaur district. Police said some men climbed atop a local mosque, and put a saffron flag on the structure. The incident was also captured in a viral video shot during the rally. “There was no damage to the shrine. The police immediately swung into action and removed those who were atop the shrine,” said Mandsaur superintendent of police Siddharth Chaudhary.Police lodged four FIRs for alleged desecration of a religious place and alleged vandalism. Two separate FIRs were lodged by Hindu groups against Muslims, alleging they were abused and attacked, police said. In rural Indore, at least eight people were injured during stone pelting and clashes during a ”jan jagran rally” by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The incident occurred at Chandankhedi village and one person was injured in a separate firing incident as well, police said.Soon after this incident, police added, some people climbed a Muslim shrine in nearby Gautampura and attempted to damage a part of the structure. They were removed by the police and an FIR was lodged against unknown people under section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). “There was no damage to the shrine as police acted swiftly. During violence a motorbike was set afire and a man sustained injuries in a firing incident,” said Indore superintendent of police Mahesh Chand Jain. The Hindu side lodged counter FIRs against local Muslims. In all, four FIRs were registered in the case, Jain said. A video of this incident went viral on social media.The incidents in Indore and Mandsaur on Tuesday came days after stone pelting during a similar rally in Ujjain’s Begumbagh on December 25. Over 10 people were injured in the incident. Eight people, including two women, from Ujjain were booked for the violence and six of them, all men, under the National Security Act.Begumbagh is a locality near Ujjain’s famous Mahakal temple where several Muslim organisations staged a sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in January and February. Jain and Chaudhary said prohibitory orders were issued in both districts to prevent further tensions and additional police forces deployed. On Wednesday, Muslim groups in Mandsaur submitted a memorandum to the district administration and police, alleging community members and the Dorana shrine were targeted in a pre-planned manner and the guilty should be booked under National Security Act (NSA). Shakeel Ali, a member of Waqf Board in Mandsaur said, “There are deliberate attempts in the region to target us and vitiate the atmosphere by people from certain right wing groups. Police already knew that rally was being taken out to target members of a particular religion and create communal tension but police remained mute spectators.” The Hindu groups rejected the charges. “The fact is our jan jagran rallies are completely peaceful but there was provocation from the other side through stone pelting incidents. The rallies were planned as a prelude to our fund-raising campaign to begin from January 14. There was no violence from any of the participants of the rallies,” said Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) state vice-president Anil Goel.(With inputs from Anand Nigam in Ujjain and Rohit Soni in Mandsaur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-booked-as-tensions-flare-in-mp/story-NAfiGTWz6MHc3fIKsskT9I.html
31-12-2020||India||Airport operators told to draft SOPs for Covid-19 vaccine transport||The Centre has instructed airport operators, including state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI), ground handling service providers and airlines to put in place standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines that will be approved by the government, civil aviation ministry officials said.The SOPs will be drafted in coordination with the ministry of health and the department of pharmaceuticals, which will be spearheading the formation of a multi-mode cold chain that will ensure the refrigerated production, transport, storage and distribution of the vaccines .“All the main stakeholders -- the airports, the ground handlers and the airlines -- have been alerted and they have been asked to draw up their plans,” aviation secretary Pardeep Kharola said. He added: “The exact SOPs will be formulated with the ministry of health and department of pharmaceuticals when we know the exact quality of the vaccines in terms of what are the precautions that need to be taken, how it has to be transported and what all measures are required. All this has to be factored in. That will be done nearer to the date of transportation and the detailed SOPs will be laid down.”The aviation ministry has held a round of meetings with airline executives on transport logistics. The central government has started preparations for setting up a cold storage chain for the Covid-19 vaccine that will eventually be approved for use in India, HT reported on December 7.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri told reporters on Tuesday that a vaccine may be available in India by January and the Centre aims to inoculate at least 300 million people until July 2021 for which at least 600 million doses will be required.Kharola said temperature regulation will be the most important factor across the entire vaccine supply chain that is being established.“From the place of manufacture to the place of consumption is a long chain and there will be different modes; there will be road travel, air travel, there will be storage, there will be distribution and then there will be administration of the vaccine. This entire process is being prepared on a war footing,” Kharola said on Tuesday.“In the administration of the vaccine, transportation is going to be a very important component. This vaccine has to be moved from the place of manufacturing to all corners of the country. The movement of the vaccine will be multi-modal, it cannot be merely civil aviation. It will be a combination of different modes. For our part, we are coordinating with the ministry of health and {department of} pharmaceuticals. We have also had meetings with airports and airlines regarding the transportation plan for the vaccine,” he added.Several airlines too have begun preparations for transportation; and started partnering with pharmaceutical transportation companies offering cold storage. On Monday, low-cost airline SpiceJet announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Pluss Advanced Technologies (PLUSS) for the supply of indigenously developed, precise temperature controlled boxes.“While transporting pharmaceutical products, biological products or vaccines in particular, the need to maintain precise temperature ranges is very important and the efficacy of vaccine can be impacted if the temperature goes above or below the specified range. PLUSS, an India based material solutions company, has designed and manufactured a precise temperature-control delivery solution that is required for vaccine delivery to the last mile,“ PLUSS said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airport-operators-told-to-draft-sops-for-vaccine-transport/story-tcRgCt1XFMI9vKQqVKs1YO.html
31-12-2020||India||China blames companies handling cargo for stranded Indian sailors on two ships||China on Wednesday blamed commercial companies responsible for handling the cargo on two merchant vessels for the predicament of 39 Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters for months, saying it was provided assistance to the crew members. The Indians are part of the crew of the two ships carrying Australian coal that haven’t been allowed to offload their cargo. The situation is believed to be the outcome of the China-Australia trade row, and reports have suggested more than 1,400 seafarers and about two million tons of Australian coal are stuck on vessels outside Chinese ports. There are 23 Indian crew members on the bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand, in anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13. Another 16 Indian crew members are on MV Anastasia, in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. “Chinese authorities have been in close communication with Indian side [and] provided timely assistance [and] necessary supplies to Indian sailors,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said on Twitter on Wednesday evening. “China has never denied any vessel departure. Real cause of situation is freight forwarder doesn’t want to adjust plans due to commercial interests,” she said. Shipping minister Mansukh Mandaviya told reporters that the government is in talks with the Chinese side to bring back the Indian sailors. “Diplomatic talks are going on for this successfully. Our seafarers will come to India very soon,” he said, without giving details. The external affairs ministry said last week that other foreign vessels had been allowed to enter Chinese ports and discharge their cargo in the months during which two ships with Indian crew members were prevented from doing so on the grounds of Covid-19-related restrictions. “We understand that some other ships, which arrived after the Indian ships arrived, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave. The reasons for this are not clear,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told reporters at a news briefing. Both Jag Anand and Anastasia are carrying Australian coal. Chinese Customs haven’t cleared Jag Anand’s cargo and local authorities haven’t allowing the crew to leave the vessel, citing Covid-19-related restrictions. Jag Anand’s charterer has refused to allow it to sail to another port to relieve the crew. Anastasia’s second officer, Gaurav Singh, told the media that mental health issues, lack of medical support and a decline in drinking water quality had compounded the problems of the crew. Srivastava said the “unprecedented situation” had resulted in stress among the crew. The Indian side has requested Chinese authorities to allow the ships to discharge their cargo and change their crew members. The Chinese side has said crew change is not permitted at Jintang and Caofeidian ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-blames-companies-handling-cargo-for-stranded-indian-ships/story-uVzzzqrgNw9nLFLsQy0hvO.html
31-12-2020||India||After Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha bans new year celebrations. Check full list||In the view of the Covid-19 pandemic, New Year celebrations on December 31 will be a muted affair across the world and as well as in India this time. The outbreak of the new Covid-19 UK variant has also spread fear forcing several states governments to ban new year celebrations. However, not all tourist spots can afford to shut their doors to revellers.The Union Health Ministry has asked all states to keep a strict vigil on New Year celebrations that could be potential Covid-19 super-spreader events and also to curb crowding as a precautionary measure during the winter season. In a letter to states and Union Territories, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated that the number of active cases has been declining steadily in the country for the last three-and-half months.“You will appreciate that in the wake of New Year and various celebratory events associated with it as well as ongoing winter season, strict vigil is required to be maintained to curb all potential ‘super spreader’ events and places where crowds may gather,” Bhushan said in the letter.Here is all you need to know:States where New Year celebration is bannedKarnatakaUttarakhandRajasthanTamil NaduOdishaPunjabWhere celebrations are allowed under restrictionsShimla> Rs 1,000 fine for not wearing masks> Curfew from 10pm to 6am in Shimla, Kullu, Kangra and Mandi. > A strict vigil will also be kept on the tourists through CCTV cameras and drones. GoaThere is no night curb in Goa, though in Mumbai, new year celebration will be muted. However, there will be no foreign tourists this time as no chartered flight is allowed yet.Mumbai> Hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars in Maharashtra will remain open till 11 PM on December 31.> Gathering of five or more people at public places is prohibited.KolkataA division bench of the Calcutta High Court has directed the West Bengal government to ensure that all Covid-19 safety protocols are followed and there is no large gathering in the city for celebrations on the New Year’s eve, which could lead to a spike in the coronavirus infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-centre-warns-of-covid-19-super-spreader-states-restrict-new-year-celebrations-full-list/story-tEDPujnvfAXXBgH6P0ja3J.html
31-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar trashes RJD’s claims of defections from JD (U), says party is united||In a big relief to the NDA camp in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar said Wednesday that JD (U) was united and there was no truth in claims about party leaders defecting to any other party. His reaction came after the opposition RJD in the backdrop of growing uneasiness between the BJP and JD (U) over developments in Arunachal Pradesh claimed that 17 JD (U) MLAs were willing to change sides.RJD leader Shyam Rajak claimed that 17 legislators from Nitish Kumar’s party were in touch with them and all set to join the opposition party. “Seventeen JD (U) legislators are in touch with RJD through me. They are desperate to join RJD at the earliest but we have stopped them as they will lose their membership due to anti-defection law,” said Rajak. The RJD leader claimed that JD (U) legislators were unhappy about the way BJP was asserting itself on Nitish Kumar in the new government. Rajak, a former JD (U) minister, who returned to the RJD before the assembly election, said that talks with others are also on. “To evade anti-defection law, at least 25 to 26 legislators should defect at a time,” he said and added that this will happen soon. Nitish Kumar, who stepped down from the JD (U) national president’s post last Sunday called it a “baseless talk” “All is well in JD (U). There is no weight in RJD claims. All these are baseless,” the chief minister said.JD (U) state president Bashistha Narain Singh advised RJD to stop talking absurdly. “First set your own house in order. Everything is fine in NDA,” he said while the party’s spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said JD (U) legislators were united and RJD should keep its flock together. “There is no resentment in JD (U). Our party is upset over what happened in Arunachal but this does not mean that our legislators will get misguided. RJD in turn should keep its house together as many of the legislators are unhappy with Tejashwi Yadav’s style of functioning,” said Ranjan. Nitish Kumar’s strong denial to RJD’s claim has come as a big relief to NDA partners particularly the BJP, which found itself on the backfoot after the JD (U) took aggressive posture following Arunachal Pradesh developments where six JD (U) MLAs defected to the BJP. “Nobody can break our (NDA) house. Nitish ji is our guardian and our mukhiya is strong,” said deputy CM Renu Devi of the BJP. On Tuesday, some RJD leaders had tried to lure Kumar by projecting him as PM candidate if he made way for Tejashwi Yadav as Bihar chief minister. “Nitish Kumar should give up the chief minister’s chair and pull out of the NDA. He should help Tejashwi Yadav form the new government and the RJD would return the favour by backing him as prime ministerial candidate in 2024,” Uday Narain Chaudhary, a former state assembly speaker and RJD leader had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-trashes-rjd-s-claims-of-defections-from-jd-u-says-party-is-united/story-0uWztgDx0E5wZgQna8JMkM.html
31-12-2020||India||Farmer in Madhya Pradesh declares dog legal heir in will along with wife||A 50-year-old farmer in a village in Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh, apprehensive that his dog may not be taken care of after his death, has named the canine and his wife as his legal heirs in his will.Omnarayan Verma of Badiwara village in Chaurai tehsil made the will about a week back as his ‘first and last will’. According to the will, his legal heirs include his wife Champa Bai, 47, and Jackie, 11-month-old, his pet dog. “My wife Champa Bai lives with me and takes care of me. Jackie is my pet dog and it also takes care of me. I immensely love both of them. I am in good health at the moment. I fear that my pet dog may become an orphan after my death. I wish to give Jackie a share in my property so that he doesn’t become an orphan and he is well taken care of. I strongly believe that the two will take care of me till my last breath and after my death they will perform my last rites,” Verma stated in his will.The farmer went on to emphasize in his will that the two will be his legal heirs and after his death they would be owners of his properties. “Whoever will take care of Jackie after my death will use his share in my properties to look after him and will become owner of Jackie’s share of the property after his death”, states the will. The properties mentioned in the will include agriculture land of about 21 acre. Verma said he made will after a domestic dispute and hinted that for practical purposes, the will is all but cancelled. “I have loved dogs since my childhood. I got the puppy from my son-in-law after my previous dog died. I got the will notarised after a domestic dispute when I thought that Jackie might be abandoned after my death. My son was upset with me. The village sarpanch came to me and asked me to cancel the will. Though the will is not cancelled yet, the issue stands resolved within the family,” Verma said.Sarpanch of the village Jamuna Prasad Verma said, “I went to Verma’s house along with some other members of the panchayat and tried to reason with him that such a will had no value but it would definitely cause a rift in his family. I think he wrote the will and got it notarised out of anger. He has assured me that he would cancel the will.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-in-madhya-pradesh-declares-dog-legal-heir-in-will-along-with-wife/story-kG8cESOcrycEoOdUBAPfmO.html
31-12-2020||India||Farmers protest updates: With some progress, govt and farmers decide to meet again on January 4||Government and farmers’ unions met at 2 pm on Thursday, as protests against the three farm laws enter day 35. On Monday, the government had proposed to hold the sixth round of talks on Wednesday, with the farmers’ unions accepting the proposal a day later. Initially, responding to the Centre’s offer to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time as convenient to the farmers, the unions had on Saturday proposed to hold the dialogue at 11 am on December 29. The unions had earlier rejected the government’s first proposal in this regard.After the meet, the stakeholders have decided to come together for a seventh round of talks on January to end the stalemate. Previous five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5 have failed to resolve the impasse. While the Centre has refused to repeal the laws and has instead suggested amendments, the farmers are adamant on a complete rollback.On Tuesday, day 34 of the protests, police in Patna had to lathi-charge a group of protesters who were trying to march to the Bihar governor’s residence to express their support for the farmers protesting at various borders of Delhi. Also on the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), whose government is in power in Delhi, announced that it would provide free wifi to the protesting farmers. The AAP has, on a number of occasions, expressed its support for the farmers, with party convenor and Delhi chief minister visiting the Singhu border, the epicentre of the protests, twice. Last month, Kejriwal had rejected the Delhi Police’s request to turn the city’s stadiums into temporary jails, as the police tried to stop the protesters from entering the national capital. Then, on December 17, Kejriwal and AAP MLAs had torn copies of the three laws at a special one-day session of the Delhi Assembly.Here are the updates from day 34 of the anti-farm law protests:With some progress, govt and farmers decide to meet again on January 4The government and farmers union on Wednesday reached some consensus as ministers said that meet concluded positively. “Today’s talks were held in a very good environment and it concluded on a positive note. Consensus on 2 out of 4 issues was reached between both sides,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said after the sixth round of talks with farmers’ unions at Vigyan Bhawan. At crucial talks with farmers, govt proposes committee to scrutinise farm lawsThree Union ministers holding their sixth round of talks with protesting farm leaders have not agreed to repeal three farm laws but proposed a committee to examine the laws. The farmers have maintained that the laws will hurt their livelihoods and reduce their earnings.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash also discussed the possibility of a law on guaranteeing minimum prices for farm prices, a senior farmers’ representative present in the talks. Congress attacks BJP for ‘aiding corporate interests’, seeks swift resolution to farmers’ protestsThe Congress on Wednesday hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “only aiding corporate interests” while seeking a swift resolution to the farmers’ protests and repealing of three farm laws enacted in September.Read more. Vehicle carrying food for farmers reaches Vigyan BhawanA ‘Kar Sewa’ tempo, carrying food for farmers delegation, seen at Vigyan Bhawan where the sixth-round of talks over Farm Laws between Centre and farmer unions is currently underway. Delhi: A 'Kar Sewa' tempo, carrying food for farmers delegation, seen at Vigyan Bhawan.Sixth-round of talks over Farm Laws between Centre and farmer unions is currently underway https://t.co/LVIVnQCGQu pic.twitter.com/zj1hUwKZ0cFarmers leaders demand justice and compensation for the families of the farmers who died during the protestFarmer leaders on Wednesday asked the government to compensate the kin of farmers who died during the protest, reported news agency ANI. Sixth round of talks between Centre and farmer unions begins in DelhiFarmer unions and Centre have started discussion on the new farm laws. Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar started the discussions with a short speech, according to an official familiar with the developments. He suggested the farmer unions to discuss the easier issues first. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal reach Vigyan BhavanUnion ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal have reached Vigyan Bhavan to hold discussions on the farm bills with leaders of the farmers’ union. Delhi: Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders pic.twitter.com/EkuaE6E2GnFarmer leaders arrive for sixth round of talksA delegation of farmer leaders arrives at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the Centre. Delhi: A delegation of farmer leaders arrives at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the Union GovernmentA farmer leader says, "Our stand is clear that the three farm laws should be taken back." https://t.co/XqNmjQkfZm pic.twitter.com/dah0LfIkjOReliance Jio writes to Punjab CM, DGP over vandalisation of mobile towersReliance Jio Infocomm writes to Punjab CM and DGP seeking their intervention into “incidents of sabotage and vandalism at Jio Network sites” in Punjab by unknown personsDelegation of farmer leaders leave for sixth round of talksA delegation of farmers leaders leave Singhu border to hold talks with Centre over three farm laws. A delegation of farmers leaders leave Singhu border to hold talks with Centre over three farm lawsUnion Government will hold sixth round of talks with the protesting farmers today. pic.twitter.com/RamZKPxwrQHope that farmers’ agitation ends today: MoS (commerce and industry) Som Parkash“We hope that the talks will be decisive. Talks will be held on all issues including MSP with an open heart. I hope that farmers’ agitation ends today,” says MoS (commerce and industry) Som Parkash.Farmers’ union says don’t expect to reach a solution today as wellFive rounds of talks between farmers and government have taken place. We don’t think we will reach a solution even today. The three farm laws should be repealed: Sukhwinder Singh Sabra, joint secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab.No question on the integrity of Sikhs: Rajnath SinghOur Sikh brothers have always protected the culture of India. Their contribution will be remembered for protecting the country’s self-respect. There is no question on their integrity: Rajnath SinghNo question of being ‘insensitive’ towards farmers, says Rajnath SinghThere is no question of being insensitive towards farmers. Our farmers are holding demonstrations and I am not the only one pained but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is pained as well: Rajnath SinghFarmers shouldn’t be called ‘Naxals,’ ‘Khalistanis’: Rajnath Singh“These allegations should not be made by anyone against farmers. We express our deepest respect towards them. Our heads bow in respect towards our farmers. They are our ‘annadatas’,” says Rajnath Singh.‘Some forces’ trying to create misconceptions among farmers, Rajnath Singh tells ANI“Some forces have tried to create some misperceptions amongst farmers. We’ve also spoke to several farmers. My only request to farmers is that clause-wise discussion should be done and not seek ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer. We will find a resolution,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tells news agency ANI in exclusive interview.Unions adamant on total rollback of lawsIn their reply to the Centre on Saturday, the farmers’ unions that the talks will only be will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new farm laws and giving a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP), among other issues.Centre-farm unions to meet at 2 pm for sixth round of talksSixth round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ unions will take place at 2 pm on Wednesday after the unions, on Tuesday, accepted the government’s offer in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-30-2020/story-dWNO51qgC34mRjma8aPwkK.html
31-12-2020||India||Get ready for long weekends in 2021||Though Covid-19 has restricted travellers for the maximum part of 2020, excitement over long weekends remains unabated. In 2021, there are at least 15 long weekends to take a short break depending on how the Covid-19 situation shapes up in the new year.Long weekends are holidays before or after weekends. Or, if the holiday is on Tuesday, or Thursday, then you can make it a long weekend by taking Monday or Friday off.Here is the complete list:JanuaryJanuary 1 (Friday)- New Year’s DayJanuary 2 - SaturdayJanuary 3 - SundayJanuary 14 (Friday)- Makar SankrantiJanuary 16- SaturdayJanuary 17 - SundayJanuary 23- SaturdayJanuary 24 - SundayJanuary 26 (Tuesday)- Republic Day FebruaryFebruary 13 - Saturday February 14 - SundayFebruary 16 (Tuesday)– Vasant Panchami MarchMarch 11 (Thursday) – Maha Shivratri March 13 - SaturdayMarch 14 - Sunday March 27 - SaturdayMarch 28 - SundayMarch 29 (Monday) - HoliApril April 2 – Good Friday April 3- SaturdayApril 4 - SundayMayMay 13 (Thursday) – Eid ul-Fitr May 15- SaturdayMay 16- SundayThere is no long weekend or any possibility in June.JulyJuly 10 -- Saturday July 11 -- SundayJuly 12-- (Monday) Rath YatraJuly 17 - SaturdayJuly 18 - SundayJuly 20 (Tuesday) -- Bakri Eid.AugustAugust 28 - SaturdayAugust 29 - SundayAugust 30 - (Monday) – Janmashtami SeptemberSeptember 10 (Friday)– Ganesh Chaturthi September 11 - SaturdaySeptember 12 - SundayOctoberOctober 15 (Friday) - Dussehra October 16 - SaturdayOctober 17 - SundayNovemberNovember 19 (Friday) – Guru Nanak Jayanti November 20 - SaturdayNovember 21 - SundayDecemberDecember 24 - FridayDecember 25 (Saturday)– Christmas December 26 - Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-long-weekends-in-2021/story-Uy2T8bRrHZT8blnkXkwJOM.html
31-12-2020||India||Mandatory FASTags, Quarterly GST filing and WhatsApp services: Rules that are changing from Jan 1||From January 1, 2021, many rules related to the implementation of Positive Pay system, cheque frauds, FASTags for all four-wheelers across India and new mode of Goods and Services Tax (GST) return filing facility for small businesses are set to change.Here’s a look at the new rules before their rollout:1. FASTag mandatory for all four-wheelers: The Union ministry of road, transport and highways has issued a notification making FASTag mandatory for all four-wheel vehicles that were sold before December 1, 2017, after amending the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.2. ‘Positive Pay’ system for cheques: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decided to introduce the ‘Positive Pay’ system for cheques from January 1, 2021. Re-confirmation of key details may be needed for cheque payments beyond Rs 50,000 under the system. The issuer of the cheque will have to provide information such as the cheque number, its date, payee name, account number, amount among other details.3. Contactless card transaction limit increased: RBI has also enhanced limits for contactless card payments from ₹2,000 to ₹5,000. However, this will be at the discretion of the user.4. Quarterly Goods and Services Tax (GST) return filing facility: About 9.4 million small businesses are set to come under a simpler, quarterly Goods and Services Tax (GST) return filing facility. These firms with sales up to ₹5 crore will need to file only four returns showing the summary of all transactions in the quarter in the new regime instead of 12 that are now filed once every month.5. Dial zero before making landline to mobile calls: The department of telecommunications (DoT) has made it mandatory to prefix zero for all calls made from fixed lines to mobiles, effective January 15.6. WhatsApp to stop working on select phones: WhatsApp is going to withdraw support from some platforms from January 1. The WhatsApp page mentions that it provides support for and recommends using these devices: Android running OS 4.0.3 and newer; iPhone running iOS 9 and newer; and select phones running KaiOS 2.5.1 newer, including JioPhone and JioPhone 2.7. Hike in car, two-wheeler prices: Automakers are preparing to enter 2021 with a revised price list. India’s biggest carmaker Maruti Suzuki will increase the prices of its models from January which will vary for different models. MG Motor has announced that it will be increasing the prices of its offerings in India. Renault India has announced that it will be increasing the prices of all its cars in India. The company confirmed that car prices will be increased by up to ₹28,000 from January. Two-wheeler company Hero MotoCorp also announced that it will increase the prices of its vehicles by up to ₹1,500 from January 1, 2021, to offset the impact of rising input costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-positive-pay-to-quarterly-gst-filing-rules-that-are-changing-from-january-1/story-zcMCw2O8rmLXBkckiYSgoI.html
