30-09-2020||Today's||Affordable housing is the solution to urban inequality, exclusion||In the Delhi elections, the promise of “Jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan” (where the house, there the home) resounded across party manifestos. Today, it faces a grave challenge — a recent order from the Supreme Court directing the possible forced eviction of 48,000 households on railway land. The order is currently stayed with the railways promising no “coercive action” for four weeks. The court has tasked the railways, the Delhi government and the central government to instead come up with a comprehensive housing plan for these households. What should such a “plan” look like?First, any plan must be understood within the realities of housing in Delhi. Despite the language of “encroachment” and widespread “land grab,” bastis (slums) are on a minute portion of city land — less than 0.6% of total land area, and 3.4% of residential land in the 2021 Delhi Master Plan. This tiny percentage supports no less than 11-15% but possibly up to 30% of the city’s population, most settled for decades. One example shows how skewed this number is. In 2017, parking Delhi’s 3.1 million cars used 13.25 sq km of land, or 5% of all residential area. Cars, then, have more space than the housing of workers, residents, and families. The basti is not an encroachment for personal gain, it marks State and market failure to provide affordable and legal housing. It is, instead, the only affordable housing stock built at scale by any actor in the city. It is the starting of a solution to urban inequality rather than a problem to be solved.Second, settlements are not just houses, but housing. The difference between the two is how workers survive in cities despite low wages. Housing requires not just a pucca structure but the possibility of employment and affordable mobility. It is linked to admission for children in local schools, employers’ homes that domestic workers can walk to, public institutions were trust has been built, arrangements for child-care with known neighbours, and streets that vendors and rickshaw drivers have mastered as markets. This is why both the central and state governments are right to promise “jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan”. A house can be resettled, perhaps, but housing cannot simply be transplanted. Media reports on the plan, however, indicate a worrying reliance on peripheral resettlement, often to sites in the northwest and southwest corners of the city despite a clear limit of five km in the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) 2015 policy. Repeated studies on peripheral resettlement show that it is a shock that pushes a generation back into poverty, let alone when it comes amid an economic recession. These under-construction units must not become the default plan. How can in-situ upgradation be prioritised and peripheral resettlement minimised? Regularising settlements on an “as is where is” basis (as was done with unauthorised colonies) is the fastest, cheapest, safest and most effective way to secure tenure and respect a lifetime of investment. At a mere one sq km of built-on railway land in total, it is also efficient. No new houses need to be built — households will do this themselves over a period of time as their economic security grows with legal tenure. Communities and experts can even offer solutions on how to manage restrictions in a safety zone, with mitigation ideas not based on forced evictions. Resettlement plans similarly must not limit themselves to the sites already in progress. Instead, they must leverage all available land — land that the three largest landholders in the city certainly have — and remain strictly limited to the five km rule. A pandemic is raging. More have already left our cities than during the Partition. Evictions and peripheral resettlement would mean that we have learnt little from it about the exclusionary nature of our urbanisation. Delhi has, in the recent past, found land for large infrastructure projects, transport, stadiums and malls. Jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan is possible. The decision is not if it can be done but if we are willing to do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/affordable-housing-is-the-solution-to-urban-inequality-exclusion/story-2lxI9nIzrMekwC1s9nX3KI.html
30-09-2020||Today's||Donald Trump in attack mode, but fails to dent Joe Biden | Opinion||United States (US) President Donald Trump had a choice when he went into this election’s televised presidential debate: Woo the undecideds or woo his base. He decided to do the latter, resulting in the most acrimonious and bad-tempered such debate in US history. The initial run of instant polling, focus groups and commentary give Democratic candidate Joe Biden a slight edge among watchers. But the 30 to 40% who said they felt Trump was the winner indicate his followers liked his tough guy act.Trump deliberately sought to throw off the Democratic Party hopeful with constant interruptions, attacks on his family members and a stream of non-facts about his opponent’s record. The Republicans have sought to portray Biden as too forgetful and doddering to be serve in the White House. Biden is 77, Trump just three years younger. On this point Trump failed. Biden rolled with the punches. A number of undecided voters in focus groups said they didn’t buy Trump’s talk of “Sleepy Joe” any more. Biden’s campaign netted $3.8 million during the debate, a record one-hour haul for him.Trump’s second line of attack was to paint Biden socialist red. He has long claimed the Democratic Party’s support for full healthcare, green energy and welfare would herald the beginning of “socialism” in the US. Biden was not vigorous in his defence, perhaps because he fears alienating the leftwing of his party – which backs many of these policies. Or because he does plan to introduce watered-down versions if he makes it to the White House. The result was Biden failed to outline a vision, leaving the impression of a nice guy whose strongest point is that he is not Trump.Trump, who dominated the debate in the worst possible way, declined to disavow white supremacists who have been the main source of bloodshed at the anti-racist protests and riots still taking place across the US. The race card remained in play with code phrases like “law and order” and claims that Biden was disliked by the police. Climate change was played down and declared to have no role in the record wildfires burning across the Pacific coast.Trump doubled-down on what worries the US commentariat the most: That he will use batteries of lawyers to contest a Biden victory. He insinuated mail-order ballots, which are likely to be skewed towards Democrats, were suspect and airily said “it could be months” before it is clear who would win. “If I see tens of thousands of ballots being manipulated, I’m not going to accept it.” Biden sidestepped attacking the conservative Christian supreme court nominee Trump has chosen, knowing she may cast the deciding vote if the contest has to be decided by the judiciary. Burying his rivals with legal cases was a standard operating procedure for Trump the real estate man. Which is why the Democrats are already lining up hundreds of lawyers in expectation.The President’s nemesis in this election is less Biden than the Covid-19 virus. The pandemic wrecked a roaring US economy. The memory of that growth is strong enough that US voters still say they have more faith in Trump than Biden when it comes to the economy. The virus also sharply revealed the depths of the Trump’s administration’s dysfunctionality. Suburban women, “soccer moms” and similar social groups, are a large chunk of the vote and the most concerned about family and community safety. They voted for Barack Obama, but dumped Hillary Clinton in favour of Trump. They have been tracking consistently for Biden largely because they are appalled by the President’s handling of Covid-19. In this debate, as in real life, Trump fumbled in his responses about the pandemic, noting he carried a mask, claiming a vaccine was around the corner and claiming India and Russia – two of the few countries he has had positive things to say about – lie about their Covid numbers.US voters who wanted a genuine election debate about policies and vision will have to wait when the vice-presidents, seasoned politicians Mike Pence and Kamala Harris, meet on October 6. Biden continues to lead Trump by 3.5% in the battleground states, the number that matters. This debate won’t change that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/donald-trump-in-attack-mode-but-fails-to-dent-joe-biden/story-saQlJClOCbfryjPfl7z1sL.html
