22-05-2020||World||At least 57 dead as Pakistan plane crashes in residential area in Karachi||At least 57 people were killed when a Pakistan International Airlines plane with 99 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport here on Friday, officials said, nearly a week after the COVID-19-induced air travel restrictions were lifted by the government.Flight PK-8303 from Lahore was about to land in Karachi when it crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir, minutes before its landing, they said. The PIA Airbus A320 carrying 91 passengers and eight crew members has crash- landed into the Jinnah Housing Society located near the airport, a spokesperson of the national carrier said.Thick black smoke rose from the accident scene of devastation in the Model Colony area.Earlier, a PIA spokesperson and many media reports said that there were 107 people on board the aircraft.Sindh Health Minister Azra Pechuho and rescue officials confirmed that 57 dead bodies have been recovered so far from the site of the crash. “But we are still to determine whether these 57 people were all on board the flight or include area residents as a number of houses have been badly damaged by the aircraft when it crashed,” she said. The minister said there are three survivors including President of the Bank of Punjab Zafar Masood. He called up his mother to inform her of his well-being.Faisal Edhi of the Edhi Welfare Trust said that around 25 to 30 residents whose houses were damaged by the plane have also been taken to the hospital, mostly with burn wounds.The aircraft wings during the crash landing hit the houses in the residential colony before crashing down.“At least 25 houses have been damaged in this incident,” Edhi said. “The first priority is to rescue the people. The main hurdle is narrow streets and presence of ordinary people who gathered at the place after the crash but they have been dispersed,” the minister said.According to a PIA official, the captain informed the air traffic control that he was having problems with the landing gear before the aircraft disappeared from the radar.Thick black smoke rose from a scene of devastation in the Model Colony area.Television footage showed rescue crews combing through debris strewn across the streets of the district - 3 km north-east of the airport - where a number of houses have been destroyed.The cause of the crash is yet to be confirmed. PIA chief executive Air Vice Marshal Arshad Malik said the pilot had told traffic control that the plane was experiencing “technical difficulties”.Malik rejected reports that the plane had problems even before flying. Talking to the media, he said the aircraft was completely safe and sound.He said all checks and procedures were done and “technically as well as administratively everything was in place and perfect”. The plane with 99 people on board came for landing but just before landing the pilot said he was going for a go-around. While coming for a second landing, it developed some problems and crashed. “The real cause of the mishap will be known after inquiry, which will be free and fair and it will be provided with media,” he said. He said some houses were damaged but none of them collapsed. There was no death on the ground so far. Malik said that the entire operation will take two to three days to complete. Pakistan’s Dunya News said it had obtained a recording of the conversation, also posted on monitoring website liveatc.net. In it, the pilot says they have “lost two engines”. Several seconds later he calls “Mayday, Mayday, Mayday” and there is no further communication. Meanwhile, President Arif Alvi expressed grief and sorrow over the loss of lives in the plane crash. Prime Minister Imran Khan, while expressing deep sorrow over the loss of precious lives as a result of the PIA passenger plane crash in Karachi, has ordered an immediate inquiry into the incident. Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa condoled the loss of lives and directed the military to provide full assistance to the civil administration in rescue and relief efforts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the loss of lives in the plane crash and wished a speedy recovery to those injured. The flight was coming from Lahore to Karachi after the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) allowed limited resumption of domestic flights last Saturday following weeks of lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. Television channels showed several houses and cars damaged in the society where the aircraft crashed. The plane lost contact with the air traffic control at 2.37 PM (local time), PIA spokesman Abdullah Hafeez said. He said that the passengers included, 31 women and nine children. A resident of the colony who witnessed the crash told Ary News channel that the aircraft had fire coming from its wings which crashed into rooftops of some houses before it crash-landed. This is the first major aircraft crash in Pakistan after December 7, 2016 when a PIA ATR-42 aircraft from Chitral to Islamabad crashed midway. The crash claimed the lives of all 48 passengers and the crew. Friday’s accident occurred on a day when the interior ministry announced Eid holidays from May 22 to May 27, even as the country was facing a spike in the coronavirus cases. The COVID-19 cases in the country have crossed the 50,000-mark after a record 2,603 more patients were diagnosed on Thursday. The death toll stands at 1,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-57-dead-as-pakistan-plane-crashes-in-residential-area-in-karachi/story-naucw23a7Ui5S9yashEikO.html
22-05-2020||World||UK arrivals to face $1,200 fines for breaking coronavirus quarantine||Passengers arriving in the U.K. will be forced into quarantine for two weeks and face fines of 1,000 pounds ($1,200) if they break the rules.The plan, which will take effect from June 8, is designed to stop travelers bringing coronavirus into the country after becoming infected overseas, and is likely to have a major impact on the aviation industry’s attempts to recover after the lockdown.Home Secretary Priti Patel set out the details of the new quarantine system at the daily government press conference on Friday. The measures will be reviewed every three weeks, along with the rest of the government’s coronavirus response.“As we are taking this action, we’re taking it at a time when it will be most effective,” Patel said. “Now we are past the peak of this virus, we must take steps to guard against imported cases.”Spot checks will be carried out to ensure people are complying with the rules, she said. Patel said there would be a small list of exceptions. They include freight drivers, health staff and foreign officials such as the French police, according to Paul Lincoln, director general of Border Force.Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said on Monday that ministers are considering “air bridges” to allow quarantine-free travel to and from countries where virus infection rates are low -- but Patel made no mention of this in her opening statement.“Introducing a quarantine at this stage makes no sense and will mean very limited international aviation at best,” said Tim Alderslade, chief executive officer of industry lobby group Airlines U.K. “It is just about the worst thing government could do if their aim is to restart the economy.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-arrivals-to-face-1-200-fines-for-breaking-coronavirus-quarantine/story-O5VYhtkRrlJZ11Up00pygI.html
22-05-2020||World||UN expert calls move to forgive Khashoggi killers called a ‘Parody’||The decision of Jamal Khashoggi’s family to forgive Saudis accused of his murder was described as both shocking and anticipated by a United Nations investigator who has said the former columnist was the victim of a “state killing.”“All of us who, over the last 20 months, have reported on the gruesome execution of Jamal Khashoggi, and absence of accountability for his killing, expected this,” Agnes Callamard, an expert on extrajudicial executions at the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a statement Friday. “The Saudi authorities are playing out what they hope will be the final act in their well-rehearsed parody of justice in front of an international community far too ready to be deceived.”Khashoggi was a Saudi writer and former government insider who moved to the U.S. in 2017, where he began writing a column in the Washington Post that was often highly critical of the kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. His murder and dismemberment at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October 2018 sparked international outrage, shocked investors in the kingdom and led to Callamard’s UN probe.Khashoggi’s family announced on Friday that they forgave the killers, a decision likely to result in a legal reprieve to the five men sentenced to death for the operation. “We, the sons of the martyr Jamal Khashoggi, announce that we forgive those who killed our father as we hope and seek reward from God Almighty,” Salah Khashoggi, one of the writer’s sons, wrote on Twitter.A Saudi court sentenced the men to death in December but ruled that the assassination wasn’t premeditated and said it didn’t have enough evidence to incriminate two top officials close to Prince Mohammed.A report by Callamard last year found that Saudi agents were recorded discussing how to dismember Khashoggi’s body several minutes before he had entered the consulate in Istanbul, referring to him as a “sacrificial lamb.” Callamard recommended further investigation into Prince Mohammed and his adviser, Saud al-Qahtani, over the murder.“A follow-up investigation must now be undertaken – an investigation focused on the chain of command and associated individual liabilities, including at the highest levels of the state,” she said on Friday. “Justice for Jamal means that we as an international community must do all we can to prevent and stop executions of journalists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-expert-calls-move-to-forgive-khashoggi-killers-called-a-parody/story-e51ouGnYYxiUXARpFyTCBJ.html
22-05-2020||World||Tracing 8 fatal plane crashes of Pakistan airlines between 1965 and 2020||A Pakistani International Airlines flight with 99 people onboard crashed on Friday in a crowded neighborhood near the airport in Pakistan’s port city of Karachi after an apparent engine failure during landing. According to the officials, there were at least three survivors from the plane, and it was unknown how many people on the ground were hurt, with at least five houses destroyed.News agency Associated Press reported that a transmission of the pilot Sajjad Gul’s final exchange with air traffic control, posted on the website LiveATC.net, indicated he had failed to land the aircraft and was circling over the congested neighbourhood of Model Colony to make another attempt.Airworthiness documents showed that the plane last received a government check last year on November 1. The international airline’s chief engineer signed a separate certificate n April 28 confirming that all due maintenance of the aircraft that crashed had been conducted. The aircraft, certificate stated, is “fully airworthy and meets all the safety” standards.The papers confirming the ill-fated aircraft’s ownership showed that the Airbus A320 had been previously used by China Eastern Airlines from 2004 to 2014, following which it was inducted in PIA's fleet, news agency AP reported. Here is a look at previous fatal crashes of Pakistani International Airlines:• 1965 - PIA Flight PK 705: A Boeing 720 airliner crashed on May 20, 1965 while descending at Cairo International Airport. Of the 121 passengers and crew on board, all but 6 were killed. This was the inaugural flight of the airline to Cairo which crashed on its efforts to land. The accident, the fourth and worst involving a Boeing 720, was the deadliest to occur in Egypt at the time and remains the third-deadliest.• 1966 - PIA Flight PK 17: On February 2, 1966, a Sikorsky S-61 twin-engined helicopter crashed near Faridpur on a flight from Dhaka to Faridpur after an oil leak developed in the aircraft and the main gearbox failed. 20 passengers and three crew members onboard were killed. One passenger survived.• 1979 - PIA Flight PK 740: A Boeing 707 and also a Hajj flight originating from Kano, Nigeria to Karachi was on its way from Jeddah Saudi Arabia crashed shortly after take off from Jeddah International Airport on November 26, 1979. All 156 people on board were killed.• 1989 - PIA Flight PK 404: Logging a mysterious disappearance with no wreckage in sight, a Fokker F27 Friendship went missing from the radar shortly after takeoff on August 25, 1989.The flight took off from the northern city of Gilgit and was on its way to Islamabad. The aircraft is believed to have crashed in the Himalayas, but the wreckage has never been found.• 1992 - PIA Flight PK 268: In what has been known as the deadliest aviation accident on Nepal’s soil, an Airbus A300 headed to Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport on September 28, 1992 crashed killing all167 people onboard. • 2006 - PIA Flight PK 688: A Fokker F27 from Multan to Lahore and Islamabad crashed into a field when one of its two engines failed shortly after take-off on July 10, 2006. The aircraft was carrying 41 passengers and four crew members who were killed.• 2016 - PIA flight PK-661: A Fokker F27 carrying 48 passengers and crew crashed on its way to Islamabad from Chitral on December 7. There were no survivors reported from the fatal crash. • 2020 - PIA flight PK 8303: An Airbus A320 carrying approximately 91 passengers and seven crew members from Lahore to Karachi crashed on May 22, 2020 in a densely populated locality as it approached the Karachi airport for landing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-plane-crash-tracing-8-fatal-pia-accidents-between-1965-and-2020/story-2hZTugYnLtPm2NQaD5JTQL.html
22-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Natco Pharma supports Columbia University trials for CQ tablets to prevent infections||Natco Pharma Ltd on Friday said it will support a clinical trial conducted by Columbia University, New York to determine the effectiveness of Chloroquine Phosphate in treatment of Covid-19. The company through its marketing partner in the US, Rising Pharmaceuticals will donate Chloroquine Phosphate (CQ) tablets to support the Phase 2 of a clinical trial at Columbia University, Natco Pharma said in a regulatory filing.  “The trial aims to determine the effectiveness of CQ in preventing COVID-19 infection in healthcare workers with moderate to high risk of exposure to the virus,” it said. Recently, NATCO had donated CQ tablets to a global clinical trial conducted by the CROWN(COVID-19 Research Outcomes Worldwide Network) Collaborative at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. The company said researchers at Columbia University are conducting this critical study to assess CQ as prophylaxis against COVID-19 in healthcare workers. The Phase 2 trial will enrol 350 volunteers who work in direct patient care roles at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and who have contact with patients, who may have COVID-19 infection. NATCO has been supplying CQ tablets, a USFDA approved drug, through its marketing partner to the US since 2011. Columbia University is renowned across the world for its expertise in conducting well designed clinical trials and NATCO is glad to work with them on this path-breaking trial, the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-natco-pharma-supports-columbia-university-trials-for-cq-tablets-to-prevent-infections/story-vyoaLciH2ZJGRF0DX9DvSL.html
22-05-2020||World||New study shows hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients raises mortality risk||An antimalarial drug touted by President Donald Trump as a “game changer” in the treatment of Covid-19 significantly increased the risk of death and potentially fatal heart problems among hospitalized patients, in a new and largest analysis yet of use of this medicine published Friday.The study, which was led by an Indian American professor at Harvard Mandeep Mehra, covered 96,000 patients at 671 hospitals on 6 continents.“I wish we had had this information at the outset,” Mehra told The Washington Post, “as there has potentially been harm to patients.”After controlling the data for age, gender, ethnicity and underlying medical conditions, the analysis found that the risk of mortality was 34% higher among patients administered hydroxychloroquine and 137% higher was the chances of developing heart arrhythmias.The mortality risk was even higher at 45% among patients given the antimalarial drug along with an antibiotic — a combination that the US president has promoted with great enthusiasm. The risk of developing heart arrhythmias was significantly higher. Chloroquine fared just as dismally.An earlier observational study of 1,400 Covid-19 patients in New York state hospitals had shown no significant benefit of hydroxychloroquine and an antibiotic among hospitalized patients and had, in fact, pointed higher risk of cardiac arrest among these patients.The new findings come just days after President Trump revealed he had progressed from promoting the drug cocktail to consuming them, with the consent of his White House physician. He started on a two-week regimen after two White House staffers had tested positive for the coronavirus.Trump told reporters Thursday he still has a day to finish the course. He had not commented on the last two studies, but has called one before, any analysis of patients on Veteran Affairs hospital as “false” and called it the work of people who are “not friends of the administration”.President Trump continued to push for expedited opening of the country, with an eye on the November elections when he seeks a second term. Defending his decision to order a ban on travelers from China, Trump said Thursday, “They came in and we did the right thing. We would have lost millions of lives. We did the right thing, but now we’re opening up again. .”All 50 states are now partially open as the deadly virus has continued to take a toll on the country. Fatalities went up by 1,263 in the last 20 hours to 94,729 and infections rose by 25,294 to 1.57 million.Among those killed was Wilson Roosevelt Jerman, who was the longest serving White House employees. He was 91 and had served 11 presidents. His granddaughter told reporters Jerman has started as a cleaner and rose to become a doorman and butler. He retired in 2012. He died last week.“With his kindness and care, Wilson Jerman helped make the White House a home for decades of First Families, including ours,” Michelle Obama, the former first lady, said in a statement. “His service to others –– his willingness to go above and beyond for the country he loved and all those whose lives he touched –– is a legacy worthy of his generous spirit. We were lucky to have known him. Barack and I send our sincerest love and prayers to his family.” Tributes came from other former first families as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-study-shows-hydroxychloroquine-for-covid-19-patients-raises-mortality-risk/story-B9dMfMYcMruGJkmOd6Lx9L.html
22-05-2020||World||Covid-19 update: UK extends visas of stranded Indians, others until July 31||The Boris Johnson government on Friday extended until July 31 the visas of Indian and other non-EU citizens currently in the UK whose visas have expired or are about to expire and are unable to return to their home countries due to lockdowns imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. Their visas had previously been extended until May 31, but a large number of Indians and others are still unable to leave the UK. Over 2,000 stranded Indians have so far returned home in repatriation flights.The visa extension will apply to anyone whose leave expired after January 24 and cannot leave the country because of travel restrictions or self-isolation, the Home Office said, adding that those currently on temporary visas, such as visitor visas, should return home as soon as it is safe and possible to do so.Home secretary Priti Patel said: “By extending people’s visas further, we are giving them peace of mind that they are able to stay in the UK until the end of July if they are unable to leave the country safely”.“This is one of a number of unprecedented measures the government has made to support people during this time, however, as we begin a cautious return to normality those currently in the UK on expired visitor visas should return home as soon as possible”.A dedicated coronavirus immigration team in the Home Office is working with individuals to make the process as straightforward as possible, officials said, adding that anyone in this situation needs to contact the team via an online form to let them know their visa has expired and they will be issued with an extension. No immigration enforcement action will be undertaken during this time against those who contact the Home Office.The Home Office also extended the in-country switching provisions until July 31, which means that people can apply to switch into long-term visa routes whilst remaining in the UK.In light of the current advice on self-isolation and social distancing, the Home Office is also waiving a number of requirements on visa sponsors, such as allowing non-EU nationals here under work or study routes to undertake their work or study from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-uk-extends-visas-of-stranded-indians-others-until-july-31/story-lnLns2vSBRfe3pdLvwLsvO.html
22-05-2020||World||US wants WHO review of Covid-19 response to start ‘now’||The United States says it wants the World Health Organization to start work “now” on a planned independent review of its coordinated international response to the Covid-19 outbreak, at a time the Trump administration has repeatedly criticized the agency and is threatening to cut off U.S. funding for it.Adm. Brett Giroir, an assistant secretary in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, sent a letter to the U.N. health agency’s executive board meeting on Friday saying the United States believes the WHO can “immediately initiate” preparations such as bringing together independent health experts and setting up guidelines for the review.“This review will ensure we have a complete and transparent understanding of the source, timeline of events, and decision-making process for the WHO’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic,” wrote Giroir, who is one of the board’s 34 international members. Giroir did not participate in the board’s first-ever “virtual” meeting.Giroir alluded to a resolution passed Tuesday by the WHO’s assembly calling on Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to launch a “comprehensive evaluation” of the WHO-coordinated international response to the outbreak “at the earliest appropriate moment.”Tedros, for his part, spoke to the board and pointed proudly to a long list of actions taken by WHO to respond to the outbreak — without directly alluding to the Trump administration pressure that was highlighted by Giroir.“As President Trump just made clear in his May 18 letter to Director-General Tedros, there is no time to waste to begin on the reforms needed to ensure such a pandemic never happens again,” Giroir added. “We applaud the call for an impartial, independent, and comprehensive review, to be undertaken in consultation with member states, and urge that work begin now.”In that same letter, Trump warned he would make permanent a temporary freeze on U.S. funding for the WHO unless it commits to “substantive improvements” within the next 30 days. He has repeatedly criticized the WHO for its early response to the outbreak and praise for China, at a time when Trump’s own response of the outbreak in the United States —the largest in the world — has come under criticism.Giroir, in his statement with a decidedly more diplomatic tone, said the United States was “encouraged” by an initial review by the WHO’s Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee over the January to April period.“We further appreciate the mandate given to the WHO in the resolution to investigate the origins of (the coronavirus), and we are confident that researchers and medical practitioners around the world will be empowered in the pursuit of vaccines and other countermeasures through this knowledge,” Giroir wrote.In a possible sign of the timetable that the United States expects, Giroir said a meeting of the WHO’s assembly this fall “must address the outcome of the review process and lessons learned” from the pandemic response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-wants-who-review-of-covid-19-response-to-start-now/story-fkL1phkrrEoHwxoTCmLoTL.html
22-05-2020||World||Coronavirus is a stress test many world leaders are failing||If a leader has a political weakness, novel coronavirus is finding it.It’s too early to score countries on their overall responses to a pandemic whose life cycle is likely to be measured in years. Yet it’s clear already that some used the time they had to prepare and act in the critical, early stage of the outbreak far less well than others.In China, the virus revealed a damaging addiction to secrecy, shared by local officials and President Xi Jinping alike. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s blustering approach to policy cost not only time, but almost his life. In the U.S., President Donald Trump’s chaotic management style and politicization of the outbreak appears to have hampered a rapid, coordinated federal response.In the age-old debate over whether leaders matter in deciding history, the answer from the first few months of 2020 is a resounding “yes they do,” says Francois Heisbourg, a former official in the French foreign and defense ministries who now advises the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London.The costs of being found wanting are potentially high. The death toll from the virus to date is over 330,000, global supply chains have ruptured and millions of jobs have been destroyed. A Bloomberg Economics estimate, based on optimistic recovery scenarios, projects the pandemic will carve $6 trillion out of the global economy.Much of the political impact from mistakes made has been obscured to date by a “rally around the flag” effect that has – with a few exceptions – shielded leaders across the board from criticism and seen their popularity rise, a pattern familiar from times of war. But that protective effect is starting to fade.On Wednesday, U.K. opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer attacked Johnson in Parliament for having been late to protect care homes from Covid-19, late to expand testing, and now late with the rollout of tracing and isolation policies that helped Germany and South Korea control the pandemic.The contrast between Johnson’s early counter-virus efforts and those of Germany, led by trained chemist and Chancellor Angela Merkel, is stark. The virus was discovered in both countries at the end of January, but by early March – a time when Johnson was still making a show of shaking hands in crowds - Germany was declaring a protective equipment emergency and was developing tests for mass production. The number of Covid-19 deaths per million inhabitants is now four times as high in the U.K. as in Germany.Urged by Johnson on Wednesday to be less negative and recognize the government’s plan to have a “world beating” test, track and isolate system in place by June 1, Starmer replied: “34,000 deaths is negative. Of course I’m going to ask about that.” On Thursday, the official fatality number stood at 36,042.Still, Johnson has carefully deferred to scientists and made a big pitch to depoliticize the crisis by lavishing praise and attention on the National Health Service, sometimes described as the closest Britain has to a national religion. Not so Trump.Across the Atlantic, the crisis supercharged the president’s tendency to dismiss science, politicize the most technical of issues and institutions, and eschew international cooperation. He also muddied any consistent federal role or messaging by imposing himself in some areas while disclaiming responsibility in others, and by diverting attention to other issues with as many as 126 tweets in a day.It isn’t clear whether voters will see the resulting chaos as failure on Trump’s part when they decide whether to re-elect him on Nov. 3. In the latest Quinnipiac University poll, released on Wednesday, 50% of registered voters said they backed presumed Democratic nominee Joe Biden, against 39% for Trump.China’s response revealed two core weaknesses of Xi and the one-party system he leads, according to Willy Lam, adjunct professor at the Center for China Studies in the Chinese University of Hong Kong. The first is a lack of transparency, from lowly officials reluctant to pass bad news upward for fear of damaging their careers, to Xi and other party leaders determined to announce only success.The delays this caused in tackling the disease before it could spread abroad have cost Xi in terms of international soft power, says Lam. They also handed ammunition to Trump, as he sought to place blame for U.S. Covid-19 deaths on China and the World Health Organization.Xi’s iron grip on China’s institutions means “he remains as powerful as ever,” said Lam. Yet a second weakness exposed by the crisis – reliance of the unelected Communist Party on rapid economic growth for its legitimacy – could prove damaging, he added, as a global recession makes greater prosperity impossible to deliver.The government on Friday abandoned its decades-long practice of publishing a hard growth target, reflecting its concern over how the economic showdown will play at home. In a sign of the geopolitical implications such insecurities could have going forward, China also confirmed it was introducing national security laws on Hong Kong that would effectively bypass the city’s legislature.In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi retains strong popular support so far, even as economic hardship from the nation’s 50-day lockdown has begun to bite. Yet Modi suffers in comparison with his own nation’s Kerala state where, according to news reports, a health minister kept the population of almost 35 million all but untouched by launching an aggressive test, track and isolate operation in late January, long before the national government began to act in March.Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro, who continues to deny the seriousness of the virus, looks more exposed. The former army captain has so far burned through two health ministers during the crisis and clashed with regional governors over lockdown restrictions, putting his lack of management experience into sharp relief. Until he became president last year, Bolsonaro had never held an executive role in government.Leadership is just one factor that may explain the huge variations in the impact Covid-19 has had in different countries. Among the most important: whether nations had recent experience with similar epidemics, a reason nations in Asia and Australasia have tended to be more sure-footed in their responses. Other factors include age demographics, population density, health system capacity and culture.Still, leadership has an effect. In Russia, President Vladimir Putin’s reputation for crisis management has taken a pounding – and not necessarily because of Covid-19 infection or death rates. Anger is rising over damage to the economy, forecast to shrink 5.5% this year. With government coffers already suffering from low oil revenues -- made worse by Russia’s price war with Saudi Arabia -- and sanctions imposed after Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea, Putin has been either unable or unwilling to release sufficient funds to cushion the blow.“Resentment toward the authorities is far deeper than it was before the pandemic,” said Olga Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist who studies the elite at the State University of Management in Moscow. A recent survey by the independent Levada polling agency gave Putin 59% support, down from 63% a month earlier and his lowest rating since 2000.In Russia, though, as in some other countries, it may be difficult to separate leadership missteps from those of the state. Heisbourg, the former French official, served on a pandemic preparation committee after SARS-CoV, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, threatened Europe in 2003. On its recommendation, France bought and stockpiled 1.25 billion face masks, among other measures, he says, but then failed to maintain the stocks as they expired over the years.Rather than acknowledge the mistake and correct it when the coronavirus struck this year, the French government spent weeks arguing that masks – ubiquitous in the fight against the virus in Asia -- had little utility. President Emmanuel Macron’s imperious style of governing, often described as Jupiterian, appeared to exacerbate a weakness that’s deep in the DNA of the French state.“We have a Napoleonic system,” said Heisbourg, “and in a Napoleonic system the state can do no wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-is-a-stress-test-many-world-leaders-are-failing/story-sOwMZjNw0Rc6LFyi8vkOOK.html
22-05-2020||World||In Pakistan plane crash with 99 on board, at least 2 miraculous survivors||At least two people are believed to have survived the crash of a Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane near Karachi that had 99 passengers and crew on board on Friday, according to Pakistan’s civil aviation officials.The two officials spoke on condition of anonymity and said so far two people were believed to have survived the horrific crash but there maybe other survivors.Karachi’s mayor had earlier said all those on board had died in the air crash. Pakistan’s local television channels, however, ran footage of a man on a stretcher who they said had survived the crash.The plane went down in a crowded neighbourhood on the edge of the international airport near Karachi.ALSO READ | ‘We lost an engine’: Pakistan plane pilot told ATC moments before crashDirector Programming of 24 News Ansar Naqvi and Bank of Punjab President Zafar Masood were among the passengers. Masood’s family has confirmed that he survived the crash.According to Pakistan’s Geo News, Bank of Punjab (BOP) chief executive Zafar Masud is among the survivors. He has been taken to hospital, where his brother is with him. He is reported to be stable. Eyewitnesses said the Airbus A320 attempted to land two or three times before crashing in a residential area near the Karachi airport.Jinnah Hospital has said that several injured people had been brought to their facility. One of them was badly burnt and has been shifted to the burn ward of the hospital, Geo News reported.Among the injured there are women and also reportedly a seven-year-old boy. The injured people are all believed to be residents of the area where the plane crashed.Most of the passengers, however, are feared dead in the plane crash with 99 people on board. The plane crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport. The air crash occurred nearly a week after commercial flights resumed on a limited basis amidst the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.The flight from Lahore was about to land in Karachi when it crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir, just a minute before its landing, Pakistani civil aviation officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-pakistan-plane-crash-with-107-on-board-at-least-2-miraculous-survivors/story-roy7ckd4a34tZUVpN65JgL.html
22-05-2020||World||Lancet study finds no benefit for hydroxychloroquine in Covid-19 patients||Boston, May 22 (PTI) Treatment for Covid-19 with the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, either with or without the antibiotic azithromycin, offers no benefit for Covid-19 patients, according to a large observational study. The research, published in the journal The Lancet, analysed data from nearly 15,000 patients with Covid-19 who received chloroquine or its analogue hydroxychloroquine, taken with or without the antibiotics azithromycin or clarithromycin, and 81,000 controls. According to the researchers, including Mandeep Mehra from Brigham and Women’s Hospital in the US, Covid-19 patients on these drug regimens, experienced an increased risk of serious heart rhythm complications. The scientists said these drugs should not be used to treat Covid-19 patients outside of clinical trials until results from randomised clinical trials are available to confirm their safety and efficacy for Covid-19 patients. They explained chloroquine, an antimalarial drug and its analogue, hydroxychloroquine, are commonly used to treat autoimmune diseases including lupus and arthritis. Both these drugs have a good safety profile as treatments for those specific conditions, and the current research said these patients should not stop taking these drugs if they are prescribed for approved conditions. While these drugs have shown antiviral effects in laboratory tests, and are of interest as potential treatments against SARS-CoV-2, the current study has found that they do not benefit patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19. “This is the first large scale study to find statistically robust evidence that treatment with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine does not benefit patients with Covid-19,” Mehra said. According to Mehra, the findings suggest the drugs may be associated with an increased risk of serious heart problems and increased risk of death. “Randomised clinical trials are essential to confirm any harms or benefits associated with these agents. In the meantime, we suggest these drugs should not be used as treatments for Covid-19 outside of clinical trials.” he said. In the current study, the scientists analysed data from 96,032 patients hospitalised between 20 December 2019 and 14 April 2020 with laboratory confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection from 671 hospitals. All of the patients included in the study had either been discharged or had died by 21 April 2020, the scientists said. They compared outcomes from patients treated with chloroquine alone, hydroxychloroquine alone, chloroquine in combination with azithromycin or clarithromycin, or hydroxychloroquine with one of the antibiotics. Patients from these four groups were compared with the remaining control group of 81,144 patients, the researchers said. At the end of the study period, around one in 11 patients in the control group had died in hospital, they said. According to the scientists, all four of the treatments were associated with a higher risk of dying in hospital. The team also found that serious irregular heartbeats called arrhythmias, which cause the lower chamber of the heart to beat rapidly, were more common in the groups receiving either of the four treatment regimens. The researchers said around one in six of those treated with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine alone had died. When used in combination with one of the antibiotics, the study said the death rate rose to more than one in five for chloroquine, and almost one in four for hydroxychloroquine. According to the study, some of the difference in the rates of mortality is due to underlying differences between patients who received the treatments and those who didn’t. It noted that on accounting for factors like age, race, body weight, and underlying health conditions such as heart disease, lung disease, and diabetes, the drug regimens were associated with an increased risk of death. The excess risk attributable to the use of the drug regimen rather than other factors such as co-morbidities ranged from 34 to 45 per cent, they said. If the rate of mortality is 9.3 per cent in the control group, the scientists said, on adjustment for other clinical factors, the rate attributable to the use of the drug regimens would rise to 12.4-13.4 per cent. However, they said it is not possible to exclude the possibility of unmeasured factors being responsible for the link. They said this is due to the design of observational studies, and warned that randomised trials are urgently needed to validate the findings. While several countries have advocated use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, either alone or in combination, as potential treatments for Covid-19, the evidence that they help patients recover from the disease is small, the scientists concluded. “Justification for repurposing these medicines in this way is based on a small number of anecdotal experiences that suggest they may have beneficial effects for people infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus,” said Frank Ruschitzka from the University Hospital Zurich in Germany, who also co-authored the study. Ruschitzka said, previous small-scale studies have also failed to identify robust evidence of a benefit from these drugs, adding that larger, randomised controlled trials are not yet completed. “However, we now know from our study that the chance that these medications improve outcomes in Covid-19 is quite low,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lancet-study-finds-no-benefit-for-hydroxychloroquine-in-covid-19-patients/story-wylQ8uQS68z2B67NEbz9xI.html
22-05-2020||World||UK’s Covid-19 study aims to vaccinate more than 10,000||British researchers testing an experimental vaccine against the new coronavirus are moving into advanced studies and aim to immunize more than 10,000 people to determine if the shot works.Last month, scientists at Oxford University began vaccinating more than 1,000 volunteers in a preliminary study designed to test the shot’s safety. Those results aren’t in yet but on Friday, the scientists announced they’re expanding to 10,260 people across Britain, including older people and children.If all goes smoothly, “it’s possible as early as the autumn or toward the end of the year, you could have results that allowed use of the vaccine on a wider scale,” predicted Andrew Pollard, head of the Oxford Vaccine Group.But Pollard acknowledged there were still many challenges ahead, including how long it will take to prove the vaccine works — particularly since transmission has dropped significantly in Britain — and any potential manufacturing complications.The Oxford shot is one of about a dozen experimental vaccines in early stages of human testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the U.S. and Europe. Scientists have never created vaccines from scratch this fast and it’s far from clear that any of the candidates will ultimately prove safe and effective.Moving on to such a huge late-scale test doesn’t guarantee the Oxford candidate will reach the finish line, either. Pollard couldn’t provide any data from the first tests, but said an oversight board hasn’t seen any indications of worrisome side effects.A small study in monkeys offers a note of caution: The Oxford team and researchers from the U.S. National Institutes of Health found the vaccine protected against pneumonia but didn’t eliminate the coronavirus in the nose. Pollard said it was still an open question whether the shot could make a dent in how the disease spreads.Another question addressed in the next stage of testing is how the shot will affect older adults, who are at high risk from COVID-19. Pollard noted those over 70 often don’t get as much protection from vaccines as younger people.Earlier this week, drugmaker AstraZeneca said it had secured its first agreements to produce 400 million doses of the Oxford-developed vaccine, bolstered by a $1 billion investment from a U.S. government agency.The AstraZeneca investment hopefully will make the vaccine available globally, including in developing countries, said Lawrence Young of the University of Warwick. But he cautioned the shot’s effectiveness still is unclear, citing the monkey research.“This raises serious questions about the ability of this vaccine to protect against infection in humans and to prevent virus transmission,” he said in a statement. “We need to be urgently exploring other vaccine candidates.”Often, possible vaccines that look promising early fail after testing expands to thousands of people — one reason the crowded field is important. Many of the candidates work in different ways, and are made with different technologies, increasing the odds that at least one approach might succeed.Most of the vaccines in the pipeline aim to train the immune system to recognize the spiky protein that studs the new coronavirus’ outer surface, so it’s primed to attack if the real infection comes along. The Oxford vaccine uses a harmless virus — a chimpanzee cold virus, engineered so it can’t spread — to carry genes for the spike protein into the body. A Chinese company created a similar shot.Other leading vaccine candidates, including one from the NIH and Moderna Inc., and another by Inovio Pharmaceuticals, simply inject a piece of the coronavirus genetic code that instructs the body itself to produce spike protein that primes the immune system.Meanwhile, companies and governments are beginning to scale up production now, aiming for hundreds of millions of doses of the candidates they think might win the vaccine race.It’s a huge gamble that could waste a lot of money if their choices fail and must be thrown away. But if they get lucky and a stockpiled vaccine pans out, it could help mass vaccinations start a few months faster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-covid-19-study-aims-to-vaccinate-more-than-10-000/story-Icu84QqvjPd7tcqVpY9KlJ.html
22-05-2020||World||‘We lost an engine’: PIA plane pilot calmly tells ATC moments before crash||Sajjad Gul, the pilot of the Pakistan International Airline plane that crashed near Karachi airport on Friday afternoon, told air traffic controllers moments before crashing into a residential area that he had lost an engine, according to audio tapes of his last conversation played by news channel ARY.The plane had taken off from Lahore airport with 99 passengers a little after 1 pm.Sajjad Gul, described by Pakistan Airline Pilots Association as one of its most experienced members, had made one aborted landing attempt before reporting the technical problem that he faced, according to local media reports. “We have lost an engine…. Mayday, Mayday, Mayday,” the pilot is heard calmly telling the traffic controllers who told him to land on any of the two runways that had been left open for him. تسجيل صوتي للمحادثة الأخيرة بين قائد الطائرة المنكوبة والمراقب الجوي يقول فيها بأنهم "قد فقدوا محرك " We have lost an engine pic.twitter.com/6xV2rAaMgBAlso read: Pakistan plane, about to land, crashes near Karachi; 99 on boardThe pilot, however, went for a go-around, said PIA chief executive officer Air Vice Marshal Arshad Malik. Communication between the ATC and the plane snapped soon after.Watch l Pakistan Airlines plane crashes in Karachi, rescue ops underway There are no immediate reports on the number of casualties. News agency AP quoted Karachi Mayor saying there were no survivors but there were multiple people on social media who contradicted this claim.Geo News said the plane had come down among houses at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir. Local television reports showed visuals of plumes of smoke that could be seen from a distance.PIA spokesman Abdullah Hafeez said there were 91 passengers and seven crew on board the flight, which lost contact with air traffic control just after 2.30 pm, news agency AFP said.Also read: 3 amateur videos capture moments after Pak plane crashes near KarachiOn the ground, rescue workers and local residents pulled people from the debris, as firefighters tried to put out the flames. “I heard a big bang and woke up to people calling for the fire brigade,” said Karachi resident Mudassar Ali.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said he was “shocked and saddened” by the crash, tweeting that he was in touch with the airline’s chief executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-lost-an-engine-pakistan-plane-pilot-told-atc-moments-before-crash/story-4ces3vWogTAViepryfbh2H.html
22-05-2020||World||Second Pakistan International Airlines plane crashes in less than 4 years||An Airbus SE jet operated by Pakistan International Airlines crashed with 107 people on board as it approached its destination of Karachi.Flight PK 8303, which took off from Lahore, was carrying 99 passengers and 8 crew, Pakistan’s Civil Aviation Authority said. The country’s army tweeted that troops had reached the site to conduct relief-and-rescue efforts. The A320 narrow-body jet built in 2004, data from Flightradar24 showed.It’s the second plane crash for the Pakistani carrier in less than four years. The airline’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR 42 turboprop killed 47 people. Friday’s crash happened on the first day of the Muslim festival of Eid al-Fitr, when many Pakistanis return home to celebrate.Also read: 3 amateur videos capture moments after Pak plane crashes near KarachiPakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted he’s in touch with the airline’s chief executive officer and that an investigation would be conducted soon.A CAA representative couldn’t immediately confirm the number of casualties and said the authority is waiting for more information. An Airbus representative said the company is in touch with the airline to gather more information and declined to comment further.Like other carriers worldwide, PIA struggled with plane groundings in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The company, which hasn’t made a profit since 2004, asked the government for financial support in March.But signs of a recovery were in sight as the country began emerging from a two-month lockdown. Pakistan recently began resuming domestic flights last week, starting with 20% of capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-pakistan-international-airlines-plane-crashes-in-less-than-4-years/story-Ds0gJiSkBZCzMeEkeVoJ7I.html
22-05-2020||World||China initiates process of sharing hydrological data for Sutlej, 10 days before scheduled date||Nearly 10 days before its scheduled date, China has initiated the process of sharing hydrological data for the Sutlej river with India, an annual practice during the monsoon which is crucial for generating information on floods in north India, officials said on Friday. According to an agreement signed between the two countries, China shares hydrological data of the Brahmaputra and Sutlej rivers with India from May 15 and June 1, respectively, until the end of October. For the Sutlej river, known as Langqen Zangbod in China, data is shared from a station at Tsada, the officials said. The river, a major tributary of the Indus, originates in Tibet and enters India through Himachal Pradesh. This year, China initiated the process on May 18-19, nearly 10 days before the scheduled date, the officials added. The development comes amid the recent face-offs between the armies of the two countries at the eastern and northern borders of India. On Thursday, India had said that the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and Sikkim. It also strongly refuted China’s contention that the escalating tension between the two armies was triggered by trespassing of Indian forces across the Chinese side. Around 250 Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in Pangong Tso area in Eastern Ladakh on May 5. Four days later, there was a similar face-off near Naku La Pass in North Sikkim. The data is crucial for India for generating flood-related information in north and northeast India, the officials said. Prior to the sharing of data, both sides check whether the existing data sharing systems are working fine. Accordingly, China sends a test mail with data that has to be acknowledged by India, signifying that the communication line is working fine. But this usually happens two to three days before the actual data sharing begins, the officials said. Data sharing for the Brahmaputra river started from May 15. In 2017, China had stopped sharing the data citing that the hydrological data gathering sites were washed away due to floods. It also coincided with the 73-day Doklam stand-off between the two neighbours that took place during the peak monsoon period. It resumed sharing data from 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-initiates-process-of-sharing-hydrological-data-for-sutlej-10-days-before-scheduled-date/story-OFBxcZIoEg6xCvZICnlaiO.html
22-05-2020||World||Airbus A320 jet crashes in Pakistan, PM Imran Khan says immediate probe to follow||An Airbus SE jet operated by Pakistan International Airlines crashed with 107 people on board as it approached its destination of Karachi.Flight PK 8303, which took off from Lahore, was carrying 99 passengers and 8 crew, Pakistan’s Civil Aviation Authority said. The country’s army tweeted that troops had reached the site to conduct relief-and-rescue efforts. The A320 narrow-body jet built in 2004, data from Flightradar24 showed.It’s the second plane crash for the Pakistani carrier in less than four years. The airline’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR 42 turboprop killed 47 people. Friday’s crash happened on the first day of the Muslim festival of Eid al-Fitr, when many Pakistanis return home to celebrate.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted he’s in touch with the airline’s chief executive officer and that an investigation would be conducted soon.A CAA representative couldn’t immediately confirm the number of casualties and said the authority is waiting for more information. An Airbus representative said the company is in touch with the airline to gather more information and declined to comment further.Like other carriers worldwide, PIA struggled with plane groundings in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The company, which hasn’t made a profit since 2004, asked the government for financial support in March.But signs of a recovery were in sight as the country began emerging from a two-month lockdown. Pakistan recently began resuming domestic flights last week, starting with 20% of capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/airbus-a320-jet-crashes-in-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-says-immediate-probe-to-follow/story-yjJ5wLuIPaszxXEiS0bekO.html
22-05-2020||World||Joe Biden accuser’s life marred by abuse and financial hardship||One thing is clear in the complicated, sometimes contradictory and often chaotic story of Tara Reade: Her life has not been easy.Her earliest childhood memory was of being abused by her father, she told her former husband, a man she would later leave after he abused her, too.She was also a child of big dreams, of being an Olympic skier and studying acting at Juilliard, before developing an interest in politics. She was hired in 1992 for a low-level staff job for one of the nation’s highest-profile senators at the time, Joe Biden. Less than a year later, Reade said, she was again the victim of abuse, assaulted by Biden in the hallway of a Senate office building — an allegation he vehemently denies.That accusation, which Reade made publicly for the first time in March, has revived difficult questions about how to evaluate allegations of assault in the era of #MeToo. It also has thrust Reade’s life story into the 2020 presidential race and, with it, scrutiny of a woman with a winding trail of extreme debt, an unfounded claim of educational attainment and questionable business practices. Along the way, some people who dealt with her found her duplicitous and deceitful, while others found her a heroic survivor.And Reade’s story about the alleged assault by Biden is hardly a straight line. It has changed over the past year, from accusations of uncomfortable, harassing behavior to allegations of assault. Reade came forward publicly with her most serious accusation just as Biden was securing a path to the Democratic presidential nomination.It is often not possible to conclusively resolve an allegation like the one Reade has made, where there are no witnesses and no timely police report.So how her claim is evaluated turns largely on her credibility.By some accounts, Reade is a bright and engaging woman who has tried her best as a single mother to raise her daughter while constantly looking for a fresh start. In others, Reade uses her charm and flair for drama to manipulate those supporting her until their goodwill runs out.Reade says her critics have her wrong.“I’m not a lying, manipulative user,” she said in a Wednesday interview with The Associated Press. “I’ve really understood what it’s like to be struggling and poor. I’ve really tried to help people when I could.”This account of Reade’s life is based on interviews with more than a dozen of her friends, relatives and personal and professional associates, as well as numerous interviews with Reade. The AP also reviewed hundreds of pages of court documents, emails and Reade’s own writings.CHILDHOOD OF DREAMS, DISAPPOINTMENTReade was born Tara Moulton in the coastal town of Monterey, California, and says she spent most of her childhood living on a farm in northern Wisconsin. Her father, Robert Reade Moulton, worked as a sportswriter for the Wausau Daily Herald in the 1960s before taking a public relations job with a defense contractor in Minnesota; Reade said her mother, Jeanette Altimus, was an artist.Reade has written that she was an accomplished skier who qualified for the Junior Olympics team in downhill skiing at age 12 in Wisconsin and trained for three years before her parents’ divorce prompted a move to Athens, Georgia.A stepbrother said most people in Wausau skied, mainly at nearby Rib Mountain, but he does not remember Reade being a standout.“I’m sure Tara did, but I don’t really remember her getting some significant accolades for her performance,” said Scott Thoma, 56, of Mound, Minnesota, who was a year ahead of Reade in middle school, when his mother married her father.Reade and her brother Collin lived with her mother after her parents’ split, eventually moving to Georgia, while Moulton and his new wife moved to the Minneapolis area.Another of Reade’s aspirations was to be an actress, performing in “school theatre, community and regional theatre, sprinkled with some radio and television commercials,” according to her blog. She set out for California to pursue acting at age 17 and said she got a referral from a friend to informally train with Robert Reed, an actor best known for his role as the “Brady Bunch” father. She also said she scored an audition in New York for The Juilliard School’s exclusive acting program.Reade said she learned at the audition that no scholarships were available and returned home brokenhearted when her father said he wouldn’t pay the tuition. The school declined to confirm whether Reade was selected for an audition.She wrote in January that her father, who died in 2016, was physically and emotionally abusive throughout her childhood.“Thwarting my college dreams was the mild bit, the rejection and the physical assaults set the stage for how I would walk into the world,” she wrote.Reade often discussed the issue with her former husband, Ted Dronen, according to Dronen’s account in the couple’s divorce filings.“She referenced a long history of events dating back to her first memories in which her father would physically and emotionally, and mentally abuse her. She stated also that her mother seemed not to interfere with petitioner’s father’s abuse,” he wrote.Thoma described Reade’s parents as alcoholics but said he never saw Moulton become angry when he drank, or emotionally or physically abuse Reade or anyone else.“He got frustrated at her,” said Thoma, adding that Reade started more things than she finished. “He would have to put the kibosh on whatever she wanted. But no, I never saw Bob lay a hand on any of us kids, or Collin and Tara.”Dronen, in the court documents, described Reade as also having a sometimes tumultuous relationship with her mother, who he said kicked her out of her house during a fall 1994 argument while Reade was in the late stages of a pregnancy.Reade has said her mother, who also died in 2016, was one of the few people she confided in about Biden’s alleged assault.Early abuse can inform a victim’s relationships for the rest of his or her life, according to Barbara Ziv, a forensic psychologist and sexual assault expert.“If you grow up in an abusive household, where your needs, your basic needs aren’t met and you aren’t taught to appropriately identify boundaries or emotions, then that’s going to impact the way that you develop as an adult,” Ziv said.AN EYE TOWARD POLITICSThere’s little public accounting of the next few years of Reade’s life, after she says her Juilliard dreams were dashed.She eventually attended Pasadena City College, where she says her strong performance in a political science class helped her land an internship in Washington with then-California Rep. Leon Panetta.Reade said in the 2019 interview that she then worked as a field manager for Santa Barbara County Supervisor Gloria Ochoa in her campaign against Rep. Michael Huffington, the former husband of Arianna Huffington. A few days after Ochoa’s loss, Reade said, she got a call to interview for a job with Biden — which she described as a dream job. It was unclear how that interview came about.“I just always wanted to work for Biden. Because at the time, he was the champion of women’s legislation, women’s rights legislation,” she told the AP.Reade said she traveled to Washington and was interviewed by Biden’s executive assistant, Marianne Baker. During their conversation, she said, Biden walked in and was introduced to the young job prospect.“He kind of smiled and said, ‘Hire her,’” Reade said. “That was it.”WORKING FOR BIDENOnce she was in Washington, multiple friends described Reade as a young woman coming into her own.Stacey Lentz, a friend at the time who worked in North Dakota Sen. Kent Conrad’s office, said the two would get together for lunch on Capitol Hill, and on days off, they’d peruse antique shops or enjoy a ballgame.Another close friend of Reade’s, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect her family’s privacy, described her as a laid-back Californian in contrast to her own East Coast conservative upbringing. All three lived in Thompson Markward Hall, a women’s dormitory across the street from the Hart Senate Office Building.Over the years, Reade spoke favorably about working for Biden.Margie Estberg, of Aptos, California, said she got to know Reade after hiring her in late 2017 to pet sit. Over a pizza dinner and cocktails in 2018, Estberg said she asked Reade what Biden was like — and whether Biden was one of the “bad guys.”“I said, ‘Is he a nice guy?’ And she said, ‘Yeah, he is,’” Estberg recently recalled. “I said, ’Oh, good. Because I hate to see somebody who you think is a decent person and somebody shuts them down and says, ‘No, they aren’t.’”Reade said she didn’t share details of the alleged assault with Estberg because she wasn’t ready to discuss it.But Reade’s friend, the one who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity, said Reade told her a much different story about Biden in 1993. That’s when Reade says she was asked to deliver a gym bag to Biden in a Senate office building; when she met him, she says, he kissed her and digitally penetrated her.The friend said Reade called her a few nights after the assault allegedly occurred, and the friend described in vivid detail feeling “so physically sick” at the disclosure that she ran to the bathroom and threw up in the middle of their conversation.Reade recommended that the AP interview the friend, and reporters spoke to her multiple times, beginning in 2019. Initially, the friend confirmed Reade’s original, limited account of harassment by Biden. When Reade added assault to her allegation in March of this year, this friend also added those details to her own recollection.This friend says she counseled Reade not to file a police report, and now expresses deep regret for what she characterized as leading Reade astray in dealing with the situation.Reade left Washington shortly after the alleged assault. She says she tried to complain about harassment by Biden — but not assault — to a Senate personnel office and the senator’s top advisers, but felt retaliated against and ultimately said she was encouraged to find another job and quit.MARRIAGE, DIVORCE, ABUSEDuring her time in Washington, Reade met Ted Dronen, whom she describes in a 2009 essay as “a smiling 6’4” blonde Nordic-looking man” who playfully shot her with a water gun at a party one spring night in 1993.Facing financial difficulties after leaving Biden’s office, Reade moved in with Dronen and ultimately asked to follow him to North Dakota, where he was working on a campaign that winter, according to his account in court records.In her divorce filing, Reade described early warning signs that Dronen was explosive and unstable and says she fled North Dakota for California after Dronen became upset that she was pregnant. She soon came back to him, however, and they married in July 1994 and had a daughter that November.In a domestic violence case filed 15 months later, Dronen admits that he attacked Reade but alleges that Reade got violent with him as well.“I admit that on February 21, 1996 my wife and I were involved in a heated argument and during that argument that I may have acted out in an inappropriate manner. During our marriage my wife and I had arguments. She has on past occasions struck me; specifically, in the face. That fact, however, does not excuse my conduct on the date in question,” he states.Dronen did not respond to several requests for comment.In court documents, he suggested that Reade conflated childhood traumas with her recollections of abuse by him.“I believe these incidences, in addition to the abuse, harassment and other truamatic (sic) events in Petitioner’s life, color Petitioner’s perception and judgment in the instant case and I believe them to be the underlying psychological reasons that Petitioner is making me out to be some sort of monster,” he said.During their divorce proceedings, Dronen also told the court that Reade said she was harassed while working in Biden’s office, but made no mention of assault, a detail that was first reported by the San Luis Obispo Tribune.“On several occasions petitioner related a problem that she was having at work regarding sexual harassment in U.S. Senator Joe Biden’s office,” he wrote. Reade “eventually struck a deal” with Biden’s chief of staff and left the office, and Dronen supported her financially as she looked for work.TURBULENT TIMESThe past two decades of Reade’s life have been tumultuous. In her own telling, she had to flee Dronen’s abuse, took shelter in domestic violence safe houses and moved to Washington state, where she changed her name to Alexandra Tara McCabe. She also said she received a new Social Security number to protect her safety, putting her in a “really vulnerable economic situation.”She said the focus on her financial difficulties since coming forward with her allegation against Biden was “classist” and should have no bearing on the credibility of her accusation.“How high does your credit score have to be to be believed as a victim of sexual assault?” Reade asked.Reade’s resume states that she graduated from Antioch University with a bachelor’s degree in political science and later worked at the school’s Seattle campus as an “Ongoing Online Visiting Professor for degree completion.” But school officials said she did not graduate and was never a faculty member, though she was paid to do several hours of administrative work as an independent contractor.Reade disputed this, but could not produce evidence that she graduated.She was accepted to Seattle University Law School through an alternative admissions program and obtained a law degree in 2004, but struggled to keep a job. She was helped by sympathetic strangers drawn to her story of escaping abuse, but often failed to meet financial obligations and was perpetually in debt and frequently entangled in legal battles.By May 2006, she was back in California, working as a victims’ advocate for the Monterey County YWCA.There, Reade lodged a series of complaints with the chapter’s board within months of taking the job, alleging that she and others were harassed and discriminated against by managers, which formed the basis of a 2007 lawsuit.Reade and three co-workers alleged that two managers, who were both black, potentially misspent funds and favored African American employees who were members of their church. One supervisor, the lawsuit alleged, made racist comments. Meanwhile, Reade and her three co-workers, all of whom were white, said they were denied benefits and promotions.“I find your response to my recent complaint unacceptable. Therefore, I am taking the next step to get some resolution,” Reade wrote in a Nov. 9, 2006, memo to her boss.She was also upset because someone called her “whitebread,” according to the memo, which was circulated to the board.Bridgette Allen, the former YWCA chapter president, was among those sued. She said she viewed Reade’s persistent emails as an effort to build a court case.“I was the first black board president in the history here. You have to look at the dynamics: It was four white women that accused three black women,” Allen said.But to some of Reade’s co-workers, she was a hero empowered by a difficult past.“She was such a great example of what I wanted to be as a mom and a woman and an advocate,” said Diane Wegner, a former YWCA employee who was part of the lawsuit, which was settled out of court for an undisclosed sum.Reade soon found a new job as executive director at the Animal Friends Rescue Project in Pacific Grove.She also needed a new place to live and, in 2008, turned to Austin Chung, an inexperienced property manager, and inquired about a cottage he was renting out that offered a glimpse of the waves at nearby Monterey Bay.She told him she was fleeing abuse and had no credit history, explaining her change of name and Social Security number. But she did have a law degree and a job, she told him.“My heart went out to her right away,” Chung said.Chung said he had the interior painted and installed new flooring to make the home welcoming.Within five months, she was behind on rent. Pretty soon, she was out of a job, too, after her management style grated on some employees and supporters of the animal shelter, according to former board members.“There wasn’t any one big thing that happened. It was just, over time, her not really being competent,” said Carie Broecker, a longtime former board member. Broecker said she remained friends with Reade until Reade recently threatened to sue her because she publicly discussed her tenure at the agency.Reade said she was proud of her work for the animal shelter.Chung moved to evict Reade after she fell $3,600 behind on rent; Reade accused him of harassment in an email.She eventually left behind a house in need of $8,000 in repairs that included carpets so stained by animal waste that they needed to be replaced, according to Chung, who provided emails and video footage of the home’s interior.In 2011, Reade was again in a relationship that turned violent. Neighbors called Santa Cruz police to her home, and her live-in boyfriend, Edward Walker, was charged with corporal injury and battery against Reade and her daughter.“Male subject battered live-in girlfriend, causing visible injury. During the altercation, the suspect also battered the victims daughter,” police said in an April 3, 2011 report.Reade, who had spent years testifying in court as an advocate for domestic violence victims, acknowledged that Walker slapped her daughter at one point. She paid his bail and continued to live with Walker, caring for him after he suffered a stroke in 2012, court records show.Walker, who could not be reached for comment, pleaded guilty and was given probation. A judge dismissed the charges in 2016.Financial and legal turmoil followed her as she continued to move around California’s central coast, living in some of the most scenic and affluent parts of the state:— She sought a restraining order in 2012 against a neighbor whom she accused of harassment and making racist threats against Walker. A judge dismissed the petition, and Reade dropped the matter.— Months later, Reade was evicted again over $12,750 in unpaid rent. She filed for bankruptcy and listed $406,407 in debts, including nearly $300,000 in unpaid school loans, $1,715 owed to a bail bondsman and $2,100 due to a locally owned grocery store.— Reade enrolled in an advanced legal degree program through Southwestern Law School. The school sued Reade in 2016 over $22,000 in loans, which remain unpaid, according to an attorney working on the case.— She launched a charity that aimed to provide pet food to impoverished animal owners. The group’s nonprofit status was revoked in 2017 after Reade failed to submit three years of mandatory tax filings, though she continued to solicit donations. In 2016, Reade tweeted that she was raising money for a nonprofit called Boudicca Rising Legal Assistance, which included a link to a GoFundMe page she created. There is no record of a nonprofit by that name in the IRS database. Reade raised $210 but said she eventually abandoned the effort because it was too difficult to sort out the logistics.In 2014, Reade started volunteering at a Watsonville, California, nonprofit horse farm called the Pregnant Mare Rescue. She proved to be a dedicated volunteer who excelled at caring for abused horses, but “always had drama and craziness going on in her life,” according to Lynn Hummer, the organization’s founder.“She was always broke and in a crisis,” Hummer said.The two had a falling out in 2016 after Reade charged $1,400 in veterinary care for her horse to the Pregnant Mare Rescue, billing records show.In a June 8, 2016, email to Hummer, Reade acknowledged that she charged the bill to the organization but said that she was poor, that her mother’s health was failing and that she was “disgusted and appalled” that Hummer would “villainize” her poverty.Reade said that she planned on paying back the money but decided against it after Hummer “started trashing me” on social media.At the time, Reade had been asking for money to finance a cross-country move to take care of her mother. She also told acquaintances that Dronen, her ex-husband, had reappeared and was harassing her.According to a letter from a domestic violence advocacy group that Reade shared, Dronen sent her and her daughter “friend requests” via Facebook after 15 years without contact, and the two were scared for their safety. She also inquired about changing her legal name back to Tara Reade, which she goes by now.Eventually, a man in Seattle raised $3,500 for her through GoFundMe.FALLOUTReade says her decision to go public with her claims against Biden has brought her more hardship. She describes facing death threats online and feeling abused and abandoned by the Democratic Party, which she says she’s supported her whole life. Numerous prominent Democrats have said they believe Biden’s denials.But she’s targeted critics, too. Reade said she recently filed a police report against Hummer in Nevada County, California, and Reade’s attorney, Douglas Wigdor, followed up last week with a cease-and-desist letter, accusing the former friend of making statements that were “intended to tarnish and impugn Ms. Reade’s character and reputation.”Still, Reade, a woman who’s spent her life trying to regain her footing in the face of myriad setbacks, said her decision to come forward has been empowering.“It’s made my life so difficult in so many ways, but I’m doing this for more of an existential reason, and also for my own justice,” she said. When she first spoke out about the sexual assault allegation, Reade said, “I felt this release, of this burden, this secret that I’ve kept.”___Jaffe and Slodysko reported from Washington; Dale reported from Philadelphia. Associated Press writers Stephen Braun in Washington and Don Thompson in Sacramento, Calif., and news researchers Monika Mathur, Rhonda Shafner and Jennifer Farrar contributed to this report.___Catch up on the 2020 election campaign with AP experts on our weekly politics podcast, “Ground Game.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-accuser-s-life-marred-by-abuse-and-financial-hardship/story-OdhWUQG3SDumMQB8uWm0zO.html
22-05-2020||World||Pakistani passenger plane, with 99 passengers onboard, crashes near Karachi||A passenger plane belonging to state-run airline Pakistani International Airlines has crashed near the southern port city of Karachi, according to Abdul Sattar Kokhar, spokesman for the country’s civil aviation authority.There were no immediate reports on the number of casualties. The aircraft arriving from the eastern city of Lahore was carrying 99 passengers and seven crew members, he said.Local television reports showed smoke coming from the direction of the airport. Ambulances were on their way to the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-passenger-plane-with-107-onboard-crashes-near-karachi/story-U8TqX7ee4tRkqDY7Cq4p6I.html
22-05-2020||World||Suspected Islamic State member arrested after being deported to Germany||A German woman suspected of joining the Islamic State group in Syria has been taken into custody in her homeland after being deported from Turkey.The suspect, identified only as Zeynep G. in line with German privacy rules, was arrested at Frankfurt airport on Thursday. Federal prosecutors said she was brought before a judge on Friday and he ordered her held pending a possible indictment.Prosecutors allege that she left Germany in 2014 for Syria, where she married a Chechen IS fighter and joined the extremist group. They say she married a second IS fighter, this one from Germany, after her husband was killed in fighting in 2015. The two had a child in 2016.Zeynep G. was captured by Kurdish forces in early 2019 and escaped about a year later from a refugee camp in northern Syria, according to prosecutors. She was then arrested after entering Turkey.German federal police told news agency dpa that two women and their four children landed in Frankfurt on Thursday evening on a flight from Ankara. There was no arrest warrant against the other woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspected-islamic-state-member-arrested-after-being-deported-to-germany/story-5JjtuhCvnGCi4vuviuXVdL.html
22-05-2020||World||Militaries of India and China on high alert as border tensions escalate||Talks between the Indian and Chinese military to end escalating tensions along their disputed border have ended in a deadlock as the fragile peace shows signs of breaking down.Border incidents are at their highest since 2015, senior Indian security officials said. The two sides held talks on Tuesday aimed at lowering the temperature between the nuclear-armed neighbors, however neither army was willing to compromise, the officials said, asking not to be identified citing rules on speaking to the media.The armies are currently on a high-alert at two locations along the Line of Actual Control -- the 3,488 kilometer (2,167 mile) unmarked boundary between India and China. Additional troops have been rushed to the border by both sides, the officials said. They are facing each other at the Galwan River, which was one of the early triggers of the 1962 India-China war, and at the disputed Pangong Tso -- a glacial lake at 14,000 feet in the Tibetan plateau, portions of which are claimed by both.The inconclusive talks came as the US issued a tough statement on China. In Washington, senior diplomat Alice Wells said the clashes were a “reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical.”“Whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” Wells, acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asia, said on a briefing call to reporters on May 20.China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not immediately availabe for comment, however spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters at a regular briefing in Beijing on May 13: “We urge the Indian side to work with China, refrain from taking any complicating moves so as to create enabling conditions for the development of our bilateral relations and peace and stability in border areas.”“Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the Western Sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesman for India’s Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement on Thursday. “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns.”Contentious RoadAccording to data from Indian security officials, the India-China border has been unusually active since last year with a 64% rise in incidents since 2018. Along the sensitive “Eastern Sector” -- from Bhutan, stretching east along the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh -- incidents doubled last year in comparison to 2018. China claims a 2,000-sq km stretch of land in this sector, which is defended by at least 20,000 Indian soldiers along with paramilitary forces.Border incidents in the “Western Sector” -- stretching from northwestern Tibet, along the Indian state of Uttarakhand and the Union Territory of Ladakh, stretching to the critical Karakorum Pass -- have witnessed a 75% rise in 2019.The Indian officials say China is objecting to a road it’s building at the Pangong Tso that connects to disputed border. On May 5 and 6, troops clashed on the banks of the lake, leaving scores of soldiers on both sides injured. On May 9, several soldiers were injured when the two armies clashed near a three-way junction between Bhutan, China and India, close to the site of the Doklam standoff.The Indian Army would not comment on the tensions, with spokesman Aman Anand on Thursday referring Bloomberg to a statement issued on May 12 that acknowledged incidents of aggressive behavior along the border.”I take the current border situation very seriously,” said Ashok K. Kantha, director of the New Delhi-based Institute of Chinese Studies and a former Indian ambassador to Beijing, adding that he didn’t “see these as isolated incidents but in conjunction China’s aggressive behavior in the South China Sea. There is a larger pattern to border incidents.”Informal SummitsThere had been a significant dip in tensions in 2018 that followed an informal summit between India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping in the Chinese city of Wuhan. The meeting between the leaders -- held after stand off of more than 70 days between the two armies on the Doklam peninsula in 2017 -- was followed up with a second summit in Mamallapuram near the southern Indian city of Chennai in October last year.At that meeting, Xi and Modi agreed to give “strategic guidance” to their respective armies. That included less aggressive patrols on the border, informing the other side of incoming patrols and more contact between local military commanders to reduce friction.In a recent interview with Bloomberg, India’s Chief of Defense Staff Bipin Rawat said the strategic guidance was working, but noted a hot-line connecting the top leaders of the two armies that was proposed as far back as 2013 would help reduce tensions. “I think the hot-line between the two armies is required,” Rawat said. Even though the two countries are in touch through diplomatic channels, he added “we would like a military level communication as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/militaries-of-india-and-china-on-high-alert-as-border-tensions-escalate/story-jMuroxwVnpIXZoR8x8YLwO.html
22-05-2020||World||3 amateur videos capture moments after Pakistan plane crashes near Karachi airport||A Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crashed in Karachi on Friday. The flight was on its way from Lahore to Karachi.News agency Reuters reports that the plane had 99 passengers onboard when it crashed.Pakistan Armed force spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar said that the army’s Quick Reaction Force and Pakistan Rangers’ Sindh troops have reached the incident site. In the update posted on the official Twitter handel of DG ISPR, the spokesperson said that the security forces will assist civil administration in relief and rescue efforts. Update #PIA Incident: Army Quick Reaction Force & Pakistan Rangers Sindh troops reached incident site for relief and rescue efforts alongside civil administration.Details to follow.Users on social media started posting images and videos of the residential area where the plane crashed. The videos show smoke billowing from the plane. Others have a close-up short of the area where the crash took place.“PIA Flight crashed near Karachi’s Model Colony Area. Flight enroute from Lahore to Karachi!!” tweeted a user Annie Frank. PIA Flight crashed near Karachi's Model Colony Area.Flight enroute from Lahore to Karachi!!#BREAKING pic.twitter.com/98JVf6jDJl“#Plane_Crash Near Model Colony .. PIA Air Plane A320 flight with 100 passenger .. arrive from Lahore to Karachi @Jinnah_Club,” tweeted Rashid Khan, a journalist. #Plane_Crash Near Model Colony .. PIA Air Plane A320 flight with 100 passenger .. arrive from Lahore to Karachi @Jinnah_Club pic.twitter.com/tVw5pkqXZOOthers users had videos from the crash site, and they claimed that at least five houses were destroyed in the crash.“Pia Plane airbus 320 crash near karachi airport,hits 4 to 5 houses,91 passenger onboard,” said Khurram Ansari. He used the hashtag #planecrash with his tweet. Pia Plane airbus 320 crash near karachi airport,hits 4 to 5 houses,91 passenger onboard.#planecrash pic.twitter.com/NtetVn0BzMAs soon as the news spread, Karachi started trending on Twitter with more than 19,000 tweets already posted on the place crash.Black smoke could be seen from afar at the crash site, said eyewitnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-passenger-plane-with-107-onboard-crashes-in-karachi-moments-before-landing/story-CVo8fjve9ThPej56NV5EAL.html
22-05-2020||World||‘Trump enemy statement, political hit job’: How US President targeted scientists||“A Trump enemy statement,” he said of one study.“A political hit job,” he said of another.As President Donald Trump pushes to reopen the country despite warnings from doctors about the consequences of moving too quickly during the coronavirus crisis, he has been lashing out at scientists whose conclusions he doesn’t like.Twice this week, Trump has not only dismissed the findings of studies but suggested — without evidence — that their authors were motivated by politics and out to undermine his efforts to roll back coronavirus restrictions.First it was a study funded in part by his own government’s National Institutes of Health that raised alarms about the use of hydroxychloroquine, finding higher overall mortality in coronavirus patients who took the drug while in Veterans Administration hospitals. Trump and many of his allies had been trumpeting the drug as a miracle cure and Trump this week revealed that he has been taking it to try to ward off the virus — despite an FDA warning last month that it should only be used in hospital settings or clinical trials because of the risk of serious side effects, including life-threatening heart problems.“If you look at the one survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old, almost dead,” Trump told reporters Tuesday. “It was a Trump enemy statement.”He offered similar pushback Thursday to a new study from Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health. It found that more than 61% of COVID-19 infections and 55% of reported deaths — nearly 36,000 people — could have been been prevented had social distancing measures been put in place one week sooner. Trump has repeatedly defended his administration’s handling of the virus in the face of persistent criticism that he acted too slowly.”Columbia’s an institution that’s very liberal,” Trump told reporters Thursday. “I think it’s just a political hit job, you want to know the truth.”Trump has long been skeptical of mainstream science — dismissing human-made climate change as a “hoax,” suggesting that noise from wind turbines causes cancer and claiming that exercise can deplete a body’s finite amount of energy. It’s part of a larger skepticism of expertise and backlash against “elites” that has become increasingly popular among Trump’s conservative base.But undermining Americans’ trust in the integrity and objectivity of scientists is especially dangerous during a pandemic when the public is relying on its leaders to develop policies based on the best available information, said Larry Gostin, a Georgetown University law professor who is an expert in public health.“If the president is politicizing science, if he’s discounting health experts, then the public is going to be fearful and confused,” Gostin said, calling it “dismaying.”The White House rejected that thinking, noting that Trump has followed his administration’s public health officials’ recommendations through much of the crisis.“Any suggestion that the president does not value scientific data or the important work of scientists is patently false as evidenced by the many data-driven decision he has made to address the COVID-19 pandemic, including cutting off travel early from highly-infected populations, expediting vaccine development, issuing the 15-day and later 30-day guidance to ‘slow the spread,’ and providing governors with a clear, safe road map to opening up America again,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere.Yet Trump has made clear that, at least when it comes to hydroxychloroquine, he has prioritized anecdotal evidence, including a letter he told reporters he’d received from a doctor in Westchester, New York, claiming success with the drug.Asked this week what evidence he had that the drug was effective in preventing COVID-19, Trump responded: “Are you ready? Here’s my evidence: I get a lot of positive calls about it.”That veterans study, funded by grants from the NIH and the University of Virginia, was not a rigorous experiment, but a retrospective analysis by researchers at several universities looking at the impact of hydroxychloroquine in patients at veterans’ hospitals across the nation. It found no benefit and more deaths among those given hydroxychloroquine versus standard care alone. The work was posted online for researchers and has not been reviewed by other scientists.The Columbia study, in draft form, also hasn’t yet been published or reviewed by other experts. The researchers ran numbers through a mathematical model, making assumptions about how quickly the coronavirus spreads and how people behave in hypothetical circumstances.Trump’s criticism of the studies also comes as his allies have been eager to counter messaging from public health experts who say Trump is putting lives at risk by pushing states to quickly reopen in an election year. Republican political operatives have been recruiting pro-Trump doctors to go on television to advocate for reviving the U.S. economy as quickly as possible, without waiting to meet federal safety benchmarks.Gostin said Trump should leave it to his public health agencies to assess emerging data and the value of various studies.“I think there are real dangers,” he said, “for the president to play scientist and doctor on TV.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-enemy-statement-political-hit-job-how-us-president-targeted-scientists/story-MARzZbfTchAcixdv0zQXCM.html
22-05-2020||World||Pakistan plane, about to land, crashes near Karachi; 99 passengers on board||A Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) flight on its way from Lahore to Karachi, crashed in the area near Jinnah International Airport on Friday, according to Civil Aviation Authority officials. Geo News reported that the plane crashed at the Jinnah Ground area near the airport as it was approaching for landing. There were more than 90 passengers on board the Airbus aircraft. Black smoke could be seen from afar at the crash site, say eye-witnesses.There were no immediate reports on the number of casualties. The aircraft arriving from the eastern city of Lahore was carrying 99 passengers and 8 crew members, news agency AP said, quoting Abdul Sattar Kokhar, spokesman for the country’s civil aviation authority.Watch: Pakistan Airlines plane with 98 on board crashes, rescue ops underway Witnesses said the Airbus A320 appeared to attempt to land two or three times before crashing in a residential area near Jinnah International Airport.Flight PK-303 from Lahore was about to land in Karachi when it crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir, just a minute before its landing, Geo News reported.Local television reports showed smoke coming from the direction of the airport. Ambulances were on their way to the airport.News agency PTI said Sindh’s Ministry of Health and Population Welfare has declared emergency in all major hospitals of Karachi due to the plane crash.It’s the second plane crash for Pakistani carrier in less than four years. The airline’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR-42 aircraft killed 47 people. The incident comes as Pakistan was slowly resuming domestic flights in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Bloomberg reported. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/pakistan-international-airlines-flight-from-lahore-crashes-near-karachi-airport/story-VJGikmoBAeoeYDZKmDRdJI.html
22-05-2020||World||Nepal reports 30 new coronavirus cases; total infections at 487||Nepal reported 30 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 487. The coronavirus has so far claimed three lives in the country, which continues to impose a nation-wide lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. The Health and Population Ministry on Friday said another 21 COVID-19 patients had fully recovered and discharged from hospitals. The total number of coronavirus recovery cases stand at 70. Of the 30 new COVID-19 cases, nine were from Kapilvastu district -- eight men aged between 24 and 53 and an eight-year-old girl, the ministry said. Similarly, 14 men aged between 22 and 39 and an 18-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus in Sarlahi district. A 73-year-old woman from Chitawan district tested COVID-19 positive. The rest of the new cases were from Nawalparasi district -- four males aged between 33 and 74 and a 15-year-old girl. The country-wide lockdown, imposed on March 24, will remain effective till June 2. Nepal has extended the suspension on all domestic and international flights till June 14. The surge in coronavirus cases has prompted the Nepal government to seal the Kathmandu Valley, imposing complete restriction on people entering the capital city. “At present 14 cases have been reported in Kathmandu. Those entering into the valley require a certificate of negative Rapid Diagnostic Test,” the official said. Till now, nearly 40,000 coronavirus tests have been conducted in the country. The coronavirus, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city, has claimed 3,30,000 lives with over 5.1 million confirmed infections across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-reports-30-new-coronavirus-cases-total-infections-at-487/story-viAosVYuiOVhq7XCdtaAnM.html
22-05-2020||World||Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine trial progressing ‘very well’, on to second phase now||The widely-followed trials for a coronavirus vaccine at the University of Oxford were described on Friday as progressing “very well”, with experts moving to the next phase after initiating the trial in April, when over 1000 immunisations of its candidate-vaccine were completed.The next phase involves enrolling up to 10,260 adults and children to assess the immune response to the vaccine in people of different ages, to find out if there is variation in how well the immune system responds in older people or children.Andrew Pollard, head of the Oxford Vaccine Group, said: “The clinical studies are progressing very well and we are now initiating studies to evaluate how well the vaccine induces immune responses in older adults, and to test whether it can provide protection in the wider population”.“We are very grateful to the huge support of the trial volunteers in helping test whether this new vaccine could protect humans against the pandemic coronavirus.”Initial results are expected by September. The phase III part of the study involves assessing how the vaccine works in a large number of people over the age of 18. This group will assess how well the vaccine works to prevent people from becoming infected and unwell with COVID-19.Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Jenner Institute, said: “The Covid-19 vaccine trial team have been working hard on assessing the safety and immunogenicity of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, and preparing to assess vaccine efficacy”.“We have had a lot of interest already from people over the age of 55 years who were not eligible to take part in the phase I study, and we will now be able to include older age groups to continue the vaccine assessment”.Adult participants in both the Phase II and Phase III groups will be randomised to receive one or two doses of either the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine or a licensed vaccine (MenACWY) that will be used as a ‘control’ for comparison.The experts said ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 is made from a virus (ChAdOx1), which is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees, that has been genetically changed so that it is impossible for it to replicate in humans.The university has tied up with biopharma major AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine on a mass scale, if the results are successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-s-coronavirus-vaccine-trial-progressing-very-well-on-to-second-phase-now/story-CBogCrbaO4Yy7mJMeHc6ZL.html
22-05-2020||World||Visitors to UK face 14-day quarantine, £1,000 fine||Anyone arriving in the United Kingdom – including British citizens – from early June will need to quarantine themselves for 14 days or pay £1,000 fine if they fail to do so, as part of plans to prevent another wave of coronavirus that have been criticised by the airline and tourism industries.Details of the quarantine plan are to be announced at the daily Downing Street briefing later on Friday, but cabinet minister Brandon Lewis said on Friday that travellers will be asked to fill in a form with contact information, and health officials will perform spot checks to ensure compliance.Visitors from Ireland and the Channel islands will be exempted, besides road hauliers and medical officials, under the plans to be announced by home secretary Priti Patel.Lewis told breakfast programmes on television: “We’re a country that welcomes people from all over the world. But it is appropriate that we say ‘if you’re coming to the United Kingdom, we need to protect your own health and the health of the people of the United Kingdom’.”“And the best way is to make sure that people go through that quarantine period to ensure they have no symptoms and are not able to add to the spread of the virus. For UK citizens coming back, they will be able to go home and quarantine at home but for visitors they will need to make arrangements for where they can do that quarantine for 14 days”.Airlines UK, the association of UK airlines, expressed “collective frustration” in a letter to Prime Minister Boris Johnson: “An open-ended quarantine, with no set end date, will make an already critical situation for UK aviation, and all the businesses we support, even worse”.“People will simply choose not to travel to and from the UK, at the same time as economies in Europe and around the world begin opening up their borders and removing their own quarantines - making the UK aviation sector unable to compete”.“Grounding airlines indefinitely will further exacerbate an already devastating economic impact on UK aviation, prolonging the revenue crisis and delaying even further the start of a recovery for a sector that supports over 1.5 million UK jobs”, it said.As of Thursday, the cumulative UK-wide figures were 36,042 deaths and 250,098 cases. London, which has been a hotspot, registered some of the lowest number of new cases in recent days, prompting some easing of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/visitors-to-uk-face-14-day-quarantine-1-000-fine/story-unY2rzZH7HVKczPB3gy7GP.html
22-05-2020||World||China abandons growth target, lowers defence budget rise for 2020 amid pandemic||China for the first time in decades will not have a GDP growth target for 2020 given the global economic uncertainties because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a government work report released by Premier Li Keqiang said Friday.Premier Li read out the report at the launch of the shortened annual National People’s Congress (NPC) – China’s rubber stamp parliament -- meeting in Beijing on Friday, pledging government support to help the outbreak-hit economy and setting out broad economic goals for the year.In a draft budget report submitted to the NPC, the government also set a 6.6 percent growth rate for its defence budget, lower than the 7.5 percent rise in 2019, an outlay that’s closely followed globally.The proposed defense budget stands at 1.268 trillion yuan ($178 billion), according to the draft budget.China’s defense budget for 2019 was 1.19 trillion yuan, up 7.5 percent from 2018.China has maintained single-digit growth in its annual defence budget since 2016.It was expected that China will increase its defence budget at a lower rate year-by-year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which killed and sickened more than 87000 and battered the Chinese economy into contracting.The country’s economy shrank 6.8% in the first quarter of 2020 compared with a year earlier, as the novel coronavirus spread from the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, where it emerged late last year.“We have not set a specific target for economic growth this year. This is because our country will face some factors that are difficult to predict in its development, due to the great uncertainty regarding the Covid-19 pandemic and the world economic and trade environment,” Li was quoted as saying by official media while reading out the work report at the Great Hall of the People on Friday morning.According to the report, China is targeting a 2020 budget deficit of at least 3.6% of GDP, above last year’s 2.8%, and fixed the quota on local-government special bond issuance at 3.75 trillion yuan ($527 billion), up from 2.15 trillion yuan.China will also issue 1 trillion yuan in special treasury bonds for the first time this year.Local government bonds could be mainly used to fund infrastructure projects, while special treasury bonds could be used to support firms and regions hit by the coronavirus outbreak, for subsidies to spur consumption or for boosting the capital structure of small banks, analysts told news agency Reuters.The work report added that Chinese government has set a target of creating nine million new urban jobs, compared to 11 million last year, and a surveyed urban unemployment rate of around 6 percent, compared to 5.5 percent last year.“We must be clear that efforts to stabilise employment, ensure living standards, eliminate poverty, and prevent and defuse risks must be underpinned by economic growth; so ensuring stable economic performance is of crucial significance,” the work report said.“We need to pursue reform and opening up as a means to stabilise employment, ensure people’s well-being, stimulate consumption, energise the market, and achieve stable growth. We need to blaze a new path that enables us to respond effectively to shocks and sustain a positive growth cycle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-abandons-growth-target-lowers-defence-budget-rise-for-2020-amid-pandemic/story-WrMO4ZxLxrMZ2KhYZqj0jN.html
22-05-2020||World||Pakistan’s Covid-19 cases cross 50,000-mark; death toll at 1,067||Pakistan’s coronavirus cases on Friday crossed the 50,000-mark after a record 2,603 more patients were diagnosed with the Covid-19 disease, the health ministry said.The deadly contagion claimed the lives of 50 people in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,067, the Ministry of National Health Services said.Out of the total 50,694 patients, Sindh reported 19,924 cases, Punjab 18,455, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 7,155, Balochistan 3,074, Islamabad 1,326, Gilgit-Baltistan 602 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 158 cases.It also reported that so far 15,201 people have recovered from the malignant virus. In the past 24 hours, 1,064 people recovered from the novel coronavirus.The authorities also carried out a record 16,387 tests, taking the total number of tests so far in the country to 445,987.A special flight of Emirates carrying 251 stranded Pakistanis arrived at Islamabad International Airport from Dubai after Pakistan allowed the airline to operate special flights.Officials said that all the passengers were shifted to different quarantine centres in Islamabad for 24 hours for medical tests related to the Covid-19.The federal government has decided to restore international flights from Bacha Khan International Airport in Peshawar. Officials said that the decision was taken by Prime Minister Imran Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-covid-19-cases-cross-50-000-mark-death-toll-at-1-067/story-34rHVSi3Cv5P9H4jbL2AnM.html
22-05-2020||World||China explains to India, others why it needs to handcuff Hong Kong under new law||China has sent out demarches to India and other countries to explain its decision to enact a new law for Hong Kong, a controversial move that is expected to trigger fresh pro-democracy protests in the specially administered region (SAR).The law, which will ban sedition, secession and subversion of the central government in Beijing, was submitted to China’s legislature, National People’s Congress (NPC), for deliberation as it began its annual session on Friday.It is expected to become a law at the end the week-long session of the largely rubber-stamp NPC.Critics say that the new law will effectively end wide-ranging freedoms including the right to peaceful assembly and free speech that Hong Kong enjoys under the “one country, two systems” mechanism.The system gives the city a high-degree of autonomy other than in defence and foreign affairs.Aware of the of the criticism expected to follow the announcement, Beijing sent out urgent demarches to foreign embassies, including India, late on Thursday night, explaining the law and why it was needed.And, essentially, the note explained, countries should support the law to protect their “own legitimate interests” in Hong Kong.The notes were sent out to the embassies and consulates at the same time as an NPC spokesperson was making the announcement about it.The demarche pointed out that Beijing will not tolerate any external interference in Hong Kong.“Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of China. The legislation for upholding national security in the Hong Kong SAR is purely China’s internal affair. No foreign country may interfere in this matter,” it said.In brusque language, the statement said: “Your country maintains close economic and trade cooperation as well as people-to-people exchanges with Hong Kong. Hong Kong’s prosperity and long-term stability is in line with the common interests of the whole international community, including your country, as well as protection of your country’s legitimate interests in Hong Kong. We hope that your government will understand and support China’s relevant practices”.“Hong Kong has become a notable source of risk to China’s national security,” it said.The government’s note blamed “external forces” for the protests, which have wracked Hong Kong since June last year; at first, the student-led agitation were over an extradition bill before morphing into wider pro-democracy protests.“The opposition in Hong Kong have long colluded with external forces to carry out acts of secession, subversion, infiltration and destruction against the Chinese mainland. The turbulence over the amendment bill in Hong Kong last June has greatly undermined the SAR’s rule of law and stability and battered its economy and people’s livelihoods,” the note said.“These activities have not only caused enormous damage to the security of the SAR authorities and public order, mounted a serious challenge to the principle of “one country, two systems”, but also posed a grave threat to China’s national security, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. Hong Kong has become a notable source of risk to China’s national security,” the demarche added.For Beijing, the new law will be the way to finally override Article 23 of the Basic Law -- Hong Kong’s mini constitution – which calls on the local government to “enact laws on its own to prohibit any act of treason, secession, sedition, subversion against the Central People’s Government”.However, nearly 23 years after the former British colony was handed back to China in 1997, the law has never been passed.“‘Hong Kong independence’ elements, separatists and those organising and joining terrorist activities only form a tiny minority in Hong Kong. It is these people that must be published in accordance with law,” the note added.“By doing so, we can protect the vast majority of the Hong Kong people who abide by law. This meets the fundamental interests of Hong Kong society,” the note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-explains-to-india-others-why-it-needs-to-handcuff-hong-kong-under-new-law/story-OBrBtnwx67hAfUlDXdmoUJ.html
22-05-2020||World||Six prominent Indian-Americans named to Biden-Sanders unity task forces||Six prominent Indian-Americans from diverse fields have been named to the Biden-Sanders unity task forces announced by former vice president Joe Biden, who is the presumptive presidential nominee of the opposition Democratic Party.Congresswoman from Seattle Pramila Jayapal and former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy have been named co-chairs of the Health Care Task Force. The unity task force is a result of Senator Bernie Sanders’ endorsement of the Biden campaign.Climate change activist Varshini Prakash, 26, from Boston is the youngest member of these task forces alongside Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 30, and environmental justice advocate Catherine Flowers, 58.Executive director of the Sunrise Movement, a leading organisation focused on climate change among young people, Prakash will serve on the Climate Change group. Former Secretary of State John Kerry is co-chair of this task force.Legal luminary Chirag Bains has been named a co-chairs Criminal Justice Reform Task Force. Former acting assistant attorney general Vanita Gupta, according to a statement issued by the Biden campaign.Eminent Indian-American economist and former lobbyist Sonal Shah has been named to the Economy Task Force. “Honoured to be serving on the unity task forces. Look forward to winning in Nov!” she said.Biden, 77, is the presumptive presidential nominee of the Democratic Party. He is set to be formally nominated by the Democratic National Convention in Wisconsin in August. Once nominated, Biden will vie for the White House against 73-year-old Donald Trump, the incumbent President who is seeking re-election in the November 3 poll.Biden and Sanders have named a diverse group of respected leaders and experts to Biden-Sanders unity task forces to explore possible policy initiatives in six areas covering: climate change, criminal justice reform, economy, education, health care, and immigration, a media statement said.The task forces will meet in advance of the Democratic National Convention to make recommendations to the DNC Platform Committee and to Biden directly, it said.Building upon the work of the Democratic campaigns to date, the ultimate goal of the unity task forces is to develop the most successful possible agenda for Democrats in 2020, it added.In a blog post, Prakash attributed her being named to the Climate Crisis Task Force to Senator Sanders.“I am grateful for Bernie Sanders believing in me, I trust his political leadership, and believe this is an opportunity for our movement to continue to advance our fight for a Green New Deal,” she said.“Our nomination on this task force shows Joe Biden and his campaign are beginning to take seriously that power and the significance of young people within the party if we want to defeat Trump this November,” Prakash said.“We cannot afford another four years of Donald Trump pushing us backward, and I believe in our movement’s ability to begin winning a Green New Deal under a President Biden,” she added.Meanwhile, according to a new Fox News poll on the presidential race, former vice president Biden leads incumbent President Trump by eight percentage points.The Republican-leaning Fox News in its latest presidential poll survey found that in the 2020 ballot test, Biden leads Trump by 48-40 per cent.“Biden’s eight-point advantage is outside the poll’s margin of error. However, given that 11 per cent are undecided or plan to vote for someone else, neither candidate hits 50 per cent support. The race could go either way,” Fox concluded.According to the poll, among voters who are extremely motivated about voting this fall, Biden has a 12-point advantage (53-41 per cent). More Biden supporters (69 per cent) than Trump supporters (63 per cent) feel extremely motivated to vote.Trump leads by seven points among men and by 30 among rural whites. He won both groups by larger margins in 2016 (11 and 37 points respectively). Biden leads by 20 points among women and 64 points among blacks, it said, adding that the survey of 1,207 registered voters nationwide was conducted between May 17 and 20 and has a 2.5 point margin of error.According to RealClearPolitics, which maintains an average of all major national polls, Biden leads Trump by 5.5 percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/six-prominent-indian-americans-named-to-biden-sanders-unity-task-forces/story-Yc0i0irsS2plgztHlkvuDL.html
22-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Canadian university designs biodegradable face masks||With no proven drug or vaccine yet to cure the coronavirus disease Covid-19, millions around the world are taking precautions such as wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing to protect themselves from getting infected. But the face masks that are being produced have to be discarded after some time.Now, a multi-disciplinary team at Canada’s University of British Columbia (UBC) has designed a green version of the medical grade face masks that can be composted and is biodegradable.One of the byproducts of the coronavirus crisis is that the masks in use now, usually non-reusable, are discarded and add to stress on the environment. The UBC team has attempted to counter this challenge while also making the first medical grade N95 mask that is entirely made in Canada using materials available in the country.The Canadian-Mask or Can-Mask is a product of research at the UBC’s BioProducts Institute. The mask frame uses locally available wood fibre from a variety of softwoods including pine, spruce and cedar. Two prototypes have been developed: One with the commercial N95 filter in front and another with a wood-based special filter.In a release issued by the University, Johan Foster, a chemical and biological engineering associate professor in the faculty of applied science, said, “With millions of disposable masks and gloves already polluting city sidewalks and potentially entering our rivers and oceans, we urgently need a biodegradable option to avoid making a massive impact on our environment.”The biodegradable face masks developed by UBS also strengthen the local supply chain as such masks were usually being imported and have been a scarce commodity following the outbreak across the world. Such shortage is another issue that is a focus of the project. As Foster said, “With escalating tensions during a pandemic, international supply lines for medical masks can break down, creating local shortages. When we decided to design a mask back in March, we knew early on we wanted a solution that uses local materials, is easy to produce and inexpensive, with the added bonus of being compostable and biodegradable.”The researchers are hopeful they will be able to apply for Health Canada certification soon after further testing of the masks to health industry specifications like fit and permeability. And then, these eco-friendly masks will go into cost-effective production. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-canadian-university-designs-biodegradable-face-masks/story-lHrLeme39nZHmQiXOU1s1N.html
22-05-2020||World||Family of slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi forgives his killers||The family of slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi said on Friday that they have forgiven those who murdered their father, his son Salah wrote in a tweet on Saturday.“In this blessed night of the blessed month (of Ramadan) we remember God’s saying: If a person forgives and makes reconciliation, his reward is due from Allah”“Therefore we the sons of the Martyr’s Jamal Khashoggi announce pardoning those who killed our father, seeking reward God almighty” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/family-of-slain-saudi-journalist-jamal-khashoggi-forgives-his-killers/story-df7kaQflFBbVbYZ4RdmNqL.html
22-05-2020||World||Calls for protest march in Hong Kong as China pushes new security laws||Hong Kong activists on Friday made online calls for a march against China’s plans to impose national security legislation on the semi-autonomous city which many fear could erode its freedoms and international standing as a global finance hub.While it was unclear whether the unauthorised march, proposed to start at noon near the central financial district and end at China’s Liaison Office, will materialise, it was a sign that Hong Kong could soon plunge into renewed unrest.A previous attempt to adopt similar legislation in 2003 was met with a protest that drew around half a million people onto the streets and was eventually shelved.China’s action comes after the large scale and often violent pro-democracy demonstrations in 2019, the biggest crisis the former British colony has faced since it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.Pro-democracy activists and politicians have for years opposed the idea of national security laws, arguing they could erode the city’s high degree of autonomy, guaranteed under the “one country, two systems” handover agreement, which China says it is undermined by protesters.Local pro-democracy lawmakers denounced the plans on Thursday night as “the end of Hong Kong”. The introduction of Hong Kong security laws on the agenda of the Chinese parliament, which begins its annual session on Friday after a months-long delay due to the coronavirus, drew a warning from US President Donald Trump that Washington would react “very strongly”.The US State Department also warned China, saying a high-degree of autonomy and respect for human rights were key to preserving the territory’s special status in US law, which has helped it maintain its position as a world financial centre. An editorial in the state-backed China Daily newspaper late on Thursday said the proposed legislation will “better safeguard Hong Kong’s development”.“The overreaction of those rioters and their foreign backers, who see such legislation as a thorn in their side, only testifies to the pertinence of the decision and the urgent need for such legislation,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/calls-for-protest-march-in-hong-kong-as-china-pushes-new-security-laws/story-72hVsHNssrEX3gmIiYUrXN.html
22-05-2020||World||Covid-19: China’s defence spending grows at slowest pace since at least 1991||China projected defense spending growth of 6.6% this year, the slowest increase since at least 1991, in a sign of the trade-offs China’s leaders face in confronting unprecedented economic slowdown in the wake of the coronavirus.The Chinese Ministry of Finance said on Friday that defence spending would increase to 1.268 trillion yuan ($178 billion) in the coming year. The figure, which was released at the start of the annual National People’s Congress session in Beijing, compares with a 7.5% increase last year.“China seems to have come out of the pandemic rather quickly and with far smaller consequences than others, but its economy will definitely take a hit,” said Nan Tian, a researcher in the Arms at Military Expenditure Program at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. “Some form of scaling back is inevitable.”The military spending figure is closely watched by US and regional policymakers as it represents one of the few pieces of official data available to gauge the development of the People’s Liberation Army. China was the second-largest military spender in the world in 2019, accounting for 14% of global military spending compared with 38% for the US, according to SIPRI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-china-s-defence-spending-grows-at-slowest-pace-since-at-least-1991/story-RdzfeWXDOnmKdE2idieCgO.html
22-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Two studies indicate reinfection may not happen||Two recently published studies hold promise over one of the most enduring questions since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19): does a person who has recovered from the highly contagious disease develop immunity against reinfection? US researchers have indicated that the answer may be yes – a positive sign that vaccines being developed could succeed.The two studies in monkeys have offered some of the first scientific evidence that surviving Covid-19 may result in immunity from reinfection, the researchers said on Wednesday. Although scientists have assumed that antibodies produced in response to the new virus are protective, there has been scant scientifically rigorous evidence to back that up.How long the protection lasts, however, still remains unclear.In one of the new studies, researchers infected nine monkeys with Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. After they recovered, the team exposed them to the virus again and the animals did not get sick.The findings suggest that they “do develop natural immunity that protects against re-exposure”, said Dr Dan Barouch, a researcher at the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research at Harvard’s Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston, whose studies were published in the journal Science. “It’s very good news,” Barouch said.Several research teams have released papers – many of them not reviewed by other scientists – suggesting that a vaccine against the virus would be effective in animals.In the second study, Barouch and colleagues tested 25 monkeys with six prototype vaccines to see if antibodies produced in response were protective. They then exposed these monkeys and 10 control animals to Sars-CoV-2. All of the control animals showed high degrees of virus in their noses and lungs, but in the vaccinated animals, “we saw a substantial degree of protection”, Barouch said. Eight of the vaccinated animals were completely protected. These studies, which have been peer reviewed, do not prove that humans develop immunity or how long it might last, but they are reassuring. “These data will be seen as a welcome scientific advance,” Barouch said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-studies-indicate-reinfection-may-not-happen/story-1Ht03z9oAKxBzYR4W5Fn7M.html
22-05-2020||World||‘Coronavirus came from China, US is not going to take it lightly’: Trump||The deadly coronavirus came from China and the US is not going to take it lightly, President Donald Trump said on Thursday. “It came from China. We are not happy about it. We just signed a trade deal, the ink wasn’t dry and all of the sudden this floated in. We are not going to take it lightly,” Trump said participating in a Listening Session with African-American Leaders in Michigan. Trump in the last several weeks has been very critical of China’s inability to control the spread of the novel coronavirus within its territory. By Thursday more than 94,000 Americans have died due to the coronavirus and over 1.6 million have tested positive. He has so far not given any indication of the steps that he is contemplating taking against China. Meanwhile, pressure is building on his administration, mainly from the Republican lawmakers on this. On Thursday, Senators Ted Cruz and Rick Scott, along Mike Braun, Marsha Blackburn, Joni Ernst, Martha McSally and Tom Cotton, introduced the COVID-19 Vaccine Protection Act to prevent the Chinese Communist Party from stealing or sabotaging American COVID-19 vaccine research. The bill requires a thorough national security evaluation and clearance by the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation of all Chinese student visa holders taking part in activities related to COVID-19 vaccine research. “The same Chinese Communist Party that covered up the coronavirus outbreak also routinely engages in state sponsored theft of intellectual property,” Cruz said. “We cannot allow China to steal or interfere with American research and development of a vaccine,” he added. “Communist China is responsible for the coronavirus pandemic, and their lies and misinformation cost American lives,” Scott said. “We cannot let Communist China off the hook for this, and we absolutely cannot allow Communist China to steal or sabotage any American research efforts related to the Coronavirus vaccine. The COVID-19 Vaccine Protection Act protects American efforts to create a vaccine as we work to end this pandemic,” he added. The COVID-19 Vaccine Protection Act, among others requires an enhanced vetting of nationals of the Chinese nationals in the US as nonimmigrants under F, J, or M student visas to determine if any student visa holders are a national security threat. Once the review is complete, authorizes Department of Homeland Secretary, in consultation with other agencies, to continuously monitor all non-immigrant student visa holders (F, M, J) who are Chinese nationals while in the US and are engaged in, or have access to, the research of any potential COVID-19 vaccine or COVID-19 related material. Republican Whip and Ranking Member of the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis Steve Scalise alleged that China lied to the world on coronavirus. “During a critical period in December and January, China withheld evidence of the virus: evidence that confirmed human to human transmission of the virus, evidence of the extent of the spread. China refused entry of American and other medical experts from around the world for weeks,” he said. “And during this time, China hoarded medical supplies like masks, gowns, and other life-saving PPE. Chinese exports of surgical masks, gowns, and gloves were stifled by the Chinese Communist Party during this period. China knew the danger posed by the virus and while they hid the truth, they used the time to stock up on vital medical supplies,” Scalise said. “While Chinese authorities limited domestic flights from Wuhan to other Chinese cities like Beijing and Shanghai, China’s government urged international carriers to maintain their flight schedules — seeding the virus throughout the rest of the world,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-came-from-china-us-is-not-going-to-take-it-lightly-trump/story-tjnjIbGbpgV878cNeXO5IN.html
22-05-2020||World||US man stabs father to death during Zoom video call: Police||A Long Island man was stabbed to death by his adult son Thursday while on a Zoom video chat, police said, leading to 911 calls from people who watched the horror unfold on their screens.Thomas Scully-Powers, 32, fled out a window after attacking his 72-year-old father, Dwight Powers, around noon at their home near South Oaks Hospital in Amityville, Suffolk County police said.Scully-Powers was arrested about an hour later, having gotten only about 1 mile away from the home. He remained hospitalized Thursday night for treatment of minor injuries from his jump.Police said details on his arraignment and detention will be available once he is released from the hospital. Information on a lawyer who could comment on his behalf was not immediately available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-man-stabs-father-to-death-during-zoom-video-call-police/story-9ZYe54ouXDpa1AQYfPAC2M.html
22-05-2020||World||Donald Trump accuses China of ‘disinformation attack’||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday accused China of spreading “disinformation” about the Covid-19 pandemic on orders coming “from the top”, a reference perhaps to President Xi Jinping.“Its disinformation and propaganda attack on the United States and Europe is a disgrace,” Trump tweeted, reacting to a statement from a Chinese government spokesperson. “It all comes from the top,” he went on to say in an attack on the Chinese president. “They could have easily stopped the plague, but they didn’t!”Trump has repeatedly slammed China in recent weeks in an effort to possibly divert attention from the severe impact of the coronavirus on the US and its economy. There was more bad news on the jobs front. On Thursday, the US labour department reported that more than 2.4 million workers filed for unemployment benefits last week, taking the total number of those laid off in the nine weeks of the lockdown to 38.6 million.Meanwhile, new infections and deaths dropped considerably, allowing all 50 states to reopen partially. The US is now staring at the 100,000-mark in number of deaths. It reported 1,518 deaths in the last 24 hours. The situation in New York City continued to improve, but governor Andrew Cuomo has said new cases are still being reported among lower income and minority communities. Of the 8,000 antibody tests conducted in those areas, the infection rate was at 34% in the Bronx, 29% in Brooklyn and 25% in Queens; which were way higher than the citywide average of 19.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-accuses-china-of-disinformation-attack/story-8OgaNEPg3f27tJw5ttMg9O.html
22-05-2020||World||Trump orders US flags lowered to half-staff for 3 days to honour Covid-19 victims||President Donald Trump on Thursday ordered US flags to be lowered to half-staff for three days in honour of Americans who have died from coronavirus.The announcement came as the US COVID-19 death toll approaches the 100,000 mark, and follows calls by Democrats to lower the flag when it reaches that grim milestone.“I will be lowering the flags on all Federal Buildings and National Monuments to half-staff over the next three days in memory of the Americans we have lost to the CoronaVirus,” Trump tweeted.The Republican president added that flags would remain at half-staff on Monday for the country’s Memorial Day, honoring those who have died while serving in the US military.While US daily death tolls are no longer on a steady incline, the losses are still mounting, with the total count in the US above 94,500 -- by far the nation with the most deaths in the world. President Donald Trump on Thursday ordered US flags to be lowered to half-staff for three days in honor of Americans who have died from coronavirus.The announcement came as the US COVID-19 death toll approaches the 100,000 mark, and follows calls by Democrats to lower the flag when it reaches that grim milestone.“I will be lowering the flags on all Federal Buildings and National Monuments to half-staff over the next three days in memory of the Americans we have lost to the CoronaVirus,” Trump tweeted.The Republican president added that flags would remain at half-staff on Monday for the country’s Memorial Day, honoring those who have died while serving in the US military.While US daily death tolls are no longer on a steady incline, the losses are still mounting, with the total count in the US above 94,500 -- by far the nation with the most deaths in the world.The Memorial Day weekend will likely coincide with the country reaching 100,000 COVID-19 deaths.Earlier in the day, top Democrats said flying the flags at half-staff upon reaching the 100,000 mark would reflect a “national expression of grief.” “Our hearts are broken over this great loss,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer wrote in a letter to the president.The pair said it would be fitting to pay respects to victims of the crisis while honoring the nation’s military heroes.The United States has averaged nearly 1,300 coronavirus deaths per day this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-orders-us-flags-lowered-to-half-staff-for-3-days-to-honour-covid-19-victims/story-F1MePQPpU6hM9fJDRDjnqN.html
22-05-2020||World||Brazil crosses 20,000 Covid-19 deaths after record 24-hour toll||The coronavirus death toll in Brazil surpassed 20,000 on Thursday, after a record number of fatalities in a 24-hour period, the health ministry said.The country is the epicenter of the outbreak in Latin America, and its highest one-day toll of 1,188 pushed the overall death tally to 20,047.Brazil has now recorded more than 310,000 cases, with experts saying a lack of testing means the real figures are probably much higher.With its curve of infections and deaths rising sharply, the country of 210 million ranks third in the world in terms of total cases, behind the United States and Russia.The death toll -- the sixth highest worldwide -- has doubled in just 11 days, according to ministry data. Despite the worrying spread of the disease, far-right President Jair Bolsonaro on Thursday continued his calls to scrap lockdown measures to revive the country’s flagging economy.But almost all of the country’s 27 states are under some sort of lockdown order, though Brazilians are wearying of the restrictions in place since the end of March.Sao Paulo state, the economic and cultural capital of Brazil, is by far the most affected area, with about a quarter of the country’s deaths and infections.The virus’s impact has accelerated in Rio de Janeiro state in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-crosses-20-000-covid-19-deaths-after-record-24-hour-toll/story-9xQGo36mB1HYyMp9YzAktK.html
22-05-2020||World||Trump pulls US out of Open Skies treaty allowing surveillance flights||The United States said on Thursday it will withdraw from the 35-nation Open Skies treaty allowing unarmed surveillance flights over member countries, the Trump administration’s latest move to pull the country out of a major global treaty.The administration said Russia has repeatedly violated the pact’s terms. Senior officials said the pullout will formally take place in six months, but President Donald Trump held out the possibility that Russia could come into compliance.“I think we have a very good relationship with Russia. But Russia didn’t adhere to the treaty. So until they adhere, we will pull out,” Trump told reporters.His decision deepens doubts about whether Washington will seek to extend the 2010 New START accord, which imposes the last remaining limits on U.S. and Russian deployments of strategic nuclear arms to no more than 1,550 each. It expires in February.Trump has repeatedly called for China to join the United States and Russia in talks on an arms control accord to replace New START. China, estimated to have about 300 nuclear weapons, has repeatedly rejected Trump’s proposal.NATO allies and other countries like Ukraine had pressed Washington not to leave the Open Skies Treaty, whose unarmed overflights are aimed at bolstering confidence and providing members forewarning of surprise military attacks.In Moscow, RIA state news agency quoted Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko as saying that Russia has not violated the treaty and nothing prevents the continuation of talks on technical issues that Washington calls violations.The Open Skies decision followed a six-month review in which officials found multiple instances of Russian refusal to comply with the treaty. Last year, the administration pulled the United States out of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty with Russia.A senior administration said U.S. officials had begun talks in recent days with Russian officials about a new round of nuclear arms negotiations to “begin crafting the next generation of nuclear arms control measures.”Trump’s arms control negotiator mounted a full-blown defense of the administration’s arms control policies, focusing on the president’s proposal that China join the United States and Russia on a replacement for New START.“We know how to win these races and we know how to spend the adversary into oblivion. If we have to, we will, but we sure would like to avoid it,” Special Presidential Envoy for Arms Control Marshall Billingslea told the Hudson Institute think tank.The Open Skies treaty, proposed by U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower in 1955, was signed in 1992 and took effect in 2002. The idea is to let member nations make surveillance flights over each other’s countries to build trust.The officials cited a years-long effort by Russia to violate the terms, such as by restricting U.S. overflights of Russia’s neighbor Georgia and the Russian military enclave in Kaliningrad on the Baltic coast.In addition, they said Russia has been using its own overflights of American and European territory to identify critical U.S. infrastructure for potential attack in time of war.Some experts worry that a U.S. exit from the treaty, which will halt Russian overflights of the United States, could prompt Moscow’s withdrawal, which would end overflights of Russia by the remaining members, weakening European security at a time that Russian-backed separatists are holding parts of Ukraine and Georgia.Trump’s decision to leave the treaty is “premature and irresponsible,” said Daryl Kimball, head of the Washington-based Arms Control Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-pulls-us-out-of-open-skies-treaty-allowing-surveillance-flights/story-b2VXyDp9rBbFra6a4Oo0jK.html
22-05-2020||World||Trump approval remains steady during pandemic||As the coronavirus pandemic stretches on, Americans’ views of the federal and state government response to the crisis are starting to sour — yet President Donald Trump’s personal approval rating has remained steady.A new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows that 41 per cent of Americans approve of the president’s job performance, while 58 per cent disapprove. That’s consistent with opinions of Trump before the pandemic, as well as throughout his more than three years in office.The survey highlights one of the remarkable features of Trump’s tenure as president: Despite a steady drumbeat of controversies, an impeachment trial and now a historic public health crisis, few Americans have changed their views of him. He’s failed to increase his support in any measurable way, yet he also has retained the approval of his core backers, including the overwhelming majority of Republicans.“The Trump presidency is a perfect example of the Rorschach test of politics,” said Alice Stewart, a Republican strategist who worked for Sen Ted Cruz’s 2016 presidential campaign. “People that want to see that the president is doing a good job will see that regardless of where the chips fall. If they want to see that he’s doing a crappy job, they will see that regardless of what happens.” Less than six months from his Election Day face-off against Democrat Joe Biden, the consistency of Trump’s support appears to leave him with the same narrow path to victory that first propelled him to the White House in 2016, even as the pandemic and resulting economic crisis upend nearly every aspect of American life.Biden’s campaign believes Trump’s uneven handling of the crisis will ultimately cost him his job in November.“The scale of the loss is staggering and it’s infuriating,” Biden said this week. “But more than that, it’s heartbreaking to think how much fear, how much loss, how much agony could have been avoided if the president hadn’t wasted so much time and taken responsibility.” The AP-NORC survey comes as the death toll in the US from COVID-19 nears 100,000 people. Robust testing remains a challenge, and a vaccine is months or years away. Yet the scope of the economic toll — nearly 40 million Americans have filed for unemployment since March — has also increased the urgency in many states to begin reopening businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-approval-remains-steady-during-pandemic/story-MmqBsIjyqoMxo0RpkuTEhP.html
22-05-2020||World||Amid rising tension, US Senate passes bill to delist Chinese firms from exchanges||The Senate overwhelmingly approved legislation Wednesday that could lead to Chinese companies such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Baidu Inc. being barred from listing on US stock exchanges amid increasingly tense relations between the world’s two largest economies.The bill, introduced by Senator John Kennedy, a Republican from Louisiana, and Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat from Maryland, was approved by unanimous consent and would require companies to certify that they are not under the control of a foreign government.US lawmakers have raised red flags over the billions of dollars flowing into some of China’s largest corporations, much of it from pension funds and college endowments in search of fat investment returns. Alarm has grown in particular that American money is bankrolling efforts by the country’s technology giants to develop leading positions in everything from artificial intelligence and autonomous driving to internet data collection.Shares in some of the biggest US-listed Chinese firms, including Baidu and Alibaba, slid Thursday in New York while the broader market gained.If a company can’t show that it is not under such control or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, isn’t able to audit the company for three consecutive years to determine that it is not under the control of a foreign government, the company’s securities would be banned from the exchanges.“I do not want to get into a new Cold War,” Kennedy said on the Senate floor, adding that he wants “China to play by the rules.”“Publicly listed companies should all be held to the same standards, and this bill makes common sense changes to level the playing field and give investors the transparency they need to make informed decisions,” Van Hollen said in a statement. “I’m proud that we were able to pass it today with overwhelming bipartisan support, and I urge our House colleagues to act quickly.”House BillSince discussions on increased disclosure requirements began last year, many Chinese companies have either listed in Hong Kong already or plan to do so, said James Hull, a Beijing-based analyst and portfolio manager with Hullx.“All Chinese U.S.-listed entities are potentially impacted over the coming years,” he said. “Increased disclosure may hurt some smaller companies, but there’s been risk disclosures around PCAOB for a while now, so it shouldn’t be a shock to anyone.”In a sign of broad support for the measure, Representative Brad Sherman, a California Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, introduced a companion bill in that chamber. Sherman said in a statement that Nasdaq moved this week to delist China-based Luckin Coffee after executives at the company admitted fabricating $310 million in sales between April and December 2019.“I commend our Senate counterparts for moving to address this critical issue,” Sherman said. “Had this legislation already been signed into law, U.S. investors in Luckin Coffee likely would have avoided billions of dollars in losses.”House leaders are discussing the legislation -- and a separate Senate-passed bill to sanction Chinese officials over human rights abuses against Muslim minorities -- with lawmakers and members of the relevant committees, a Democratic aide said.The Senate measure -- S. 945 -- is an example of the rising bipartisan pushback against China in Congress that had been building over trade and other issues. It has been amplified especially by Republicans as President Donald Trump has sought to blame China as the main culprit in the coronavirus pandemic.GOP lawmakers have in recent weeks unleashed a torrent of legislation aimed at punishing China for not being more forthcoming with information or proactive in restricting travel as the coronavirus began to spread from the city of Wuhan, where it was first detected.Trump escalated his rhetoric against China on Wednesday night, suggesting that leader Xi Jinping is behind a “disinformation and propaganda attack on the United States and Europe.”“It all comes from the top,” Trump said in a series of tweets. He added that China was “desperate” to have former Vice President Joe Biden win the presidential race.Kennedy told Fox Business on Tuesday that the bill would apply to US exchanges such as Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange.“I would not turn my back on the Chinese Communist Party if they were two days dead,” Kennedy said. “They cheat. And I’ve got a bill to stop them from cheating.”At issue is China’s longstanding refusal to allow the PCAOB to examine audits of firms whose shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and other U.S. platforms. The inspections by the little-known agency, which Congress stood up in 2002 in response to the massive Enron Corp. accounting scandal, are meant to prevent fraud and wrongdoing that could wipe out shareholders.ClashSince then China and the US have been at odds on the issue even as companies including Alibaba and Baidu have raised billions of dollars selling shares in American markets. The long-simmering feud came to the forefront last year as Washington and Beijing clashed over broader trade and economic issues, and some in the White House have been urging Trump to take a harder line on the audit inspections.Last week, Trump said in an interview on Fox Business that he’s “looking at” Chinese companies that trade on the NYSE and Nasdaq exchanges but do not follow US accounting rules. Still, he said that cracking down could backfire and simply result in the firms moving to exchanges in London or Hong Kong.While not technically part of the government, the PCAOB is overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The ability to inspect audits of Chinese firms that list in the US is certain to come up at a roundtable that the SEC is holding July 9 on risks of investing in China and other emerging markets.Senators Kevin Cramer, Tom Cotton, Bob Menendez, Marco Rubio and Rick Scott are also sponsors of the bill. Rubio applauded the passage of the Kennedy-Van Hollen bill and said it incorporated aspects of a similar bill he introduced last year.“I was proud to work with Senator Kennedy on this important legislation that would protect American retail investors and pensioners from risky investments in fraudulent, opaque Chinese companies that are listed on U.S. exchanges and trade on over-the-counter markets,” Rubio said in a statement. “If Chinese companies want access to the U.S. capital markets, they must comply with American laws and regulations for financial transparency and accountability.”According to the SEC, 224 US-listed companies representing more than $1.8 trillion in combined market capitalization are located in countries where there are obstacles to PCAOB inspections of the kind this legislation mandates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-rising-tension-us-senate-passes-bill-to-delist-chinese-firms-from-exchanges/story-u11JHrX2XDKIZTTh9uZrEP.html
