23-05-2020||World||Xi Jinping says China won’t return to planned economy, urges cooperation||Chinese President Xi Jinping said he won’t let the world’s second-largest economy return to its days as a planned economy, pushing back against U.S. criticism that the nation has failed to deliver on promised reforms.“We’ve come to the understanding that we should not ignore the blindness of the market, nor should we return to the old path of a planned economy,” Xi told political advisers gathered in Beijing for their annual legislative sessions on Saturday, according to the official Xinhua news agency. He reiterated the government’s stance that markets should play a “decisive role” in the economy.The comments come as China faces mounting pushback from the Trump administration on a range of issues from trade to its handling of the coronavirus outbreak. The White House this week issued a broad critique of China’s economic and military policies in a report to Congress, including accusations of intellectual property theft and economic protectionism.Xi said the virus has put considerable pressure on China’s economy, and the country should seek “development in a world that is increasingly unstable and uncertain” as he listed risks ahead including a deepening global recession, a significant drop in trade investment, financial market turmoil, reduced international interactions and rising geopolitical tensions.Chinese lawmakers on Friday abandoned their usual practice of setting a numerical target for economic growth this year due to the turmoil caused by the virus, breaking with decades of Communist Party planning habits in an admission of the deep rupture that the disease has caused.They’re also using the legislative meeting to pass a bill establishing “an enforcement mechanism for ensuring national security” for Hong Kong, prompting swift pushback from pro-democracy activists in the city and condemnation from American politicians.Xi didn’t address the legislation in his speech, but stressed that China should “stand on the right side of history,” adhere to multilaterism and maintain an “open, cooperative” attitude despite rising protectionism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-says-china-won-t-return-to-planned-economy-urges-cooperation/story-65egcFbGiMdM6VYp1SVqvJ.html
23-05-2020||World||Remdesivir most beneficial for severely ill Covid-19 patients, say researchers||Remdesivir, an investigation antiviral drug that has proven to be “superior” cure to standard care, is most beneficial for hospitalized patients with severe illness requirement supplemental oxygen supply, researchers behind the trial said in a paper published Friday describing the key findings that have been known for some time.Remdesivir was found to cut median recovery duration to 11 days among patients administered the drug compared to the 15 usually taken by those who were on placebo or standard care, according to an announcement on April 27, which was followed by the US drug regulator granting it emergency use authorization.“Remdesivir was superior to placebo in shortening the time to recovery in adults hospitalized with Covid-19 and evidence of lower respiratory tract infection,” the researchers wrote in a peer-reviewed paper in the New England Journal of Medicine.The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious diseases (NIAID), which funded the randomized clinical trial, said in a separate announcement on the publication of the details, “Investigators found that remdesivir was most beneficial for hospitalized patients with severe disease who required supplemental oxygen. Findings about benefits in other patient subgroups were less conclusive in this preliminary analysis..Remdesivir is manufactured by Gilead Sciences, Inc, a US pharmaceutical major with a strong presence in India. The firm announced non-exclusive licensing agreements with four Indian companies to manufacture and sell the anti-viral drug, Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd, Cipla Ltd, Hetero Labs Ltd and Mylan NV. The trial of the investigation drug as the best therapeutic available yet for the virus that has killed nearly 339,000 people worldwide and infected more than 5.52 million — 96,082 and and 1.60 million in the United States alone — was conducted among 1,063 Covid-19 patients in 10 countries.The median recovery time for patients administered remdesivir was 11 days, compared 10 15 for those on placebo. Recovery was defined as the patient being discharged from hospital or found to be medically stable enough to be discharged.But noting “high mortality despite the use of remdesivir”. the researchers said, “it is clear that treatment with an antiviral drug alone is not likely to be sufficient. Future strategies should evaluate antiviral agents in combination with other therapeutic approaches or combinations of antiviral agents to continue to improve patient outcomes in Covid-19”.The NIAID started a separate clinical trial earlier this month to evaluate the efficacy of remdesivir in combination with the anti-inflammatory drug baricitinib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remdesivir-most-beneficial-for-severely-ill-covid-19-patients-say-researchers/story-IOVU2DFAAC8EAmd5Pp44KL.html
23-05-2020||World||‘Heard cries, there was fire everywhere’: Pakistan plane crash survivor||The PIA plane was flying very “smoothly” but while attempting to land, it “jolted” thrice and then the pilot “adroitly lifted” the aircraft off the ground, only to crash moments later, recounts Muhammad Zubair, one of the just two passengers who miraculously survived the fiery crash.Zubair, 24, was among 99 passengers on board the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) Airbus A-320 aircraft that plunged into a densely populated residential area near the airport here on Friday, killing 97 people, including nine children.Flight PK-8303 from Lahore crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir on Friday afternoon, minutes before its landing in Karachi’s Jinnah International Airport. Eleven people on the ground were injured.“The plane was coming very smoothly, 8303 of PIA. My seat was 8F. When it was reaching Jinnah International Airport, the pilot announced that ‘we are landing, fasten your seat belts’. We fastened seat belts. While landing, the plane jolted three times. Then it came on the runway and was on it for a brief time. Then I don’t know what happened, that the pilot adroitly lifted the plane off the ground,” Zubair, who is being treated for burns in a hospital in Karachi, said.“The pilot then flew the plane for 10 or 15 minutes. He again announced that the plane was landing. When this announcement was made, I looked down and it appeared to me that we were (flying) over the Malir Cantonment (area, where it was to land. Then when it was about to land, suddenly…(it crashed),” he said.“When I opened my eyes it was a dark place. I heard cries. I saw some light and tried to walk towards it after undoing my seat belt. There was fire everywhere and no one was visible,” said Zubair from his hospital bed in a video clip circulated on social media.He said when the plane had jolts everyone onboard was reciting Quranic verses. Zubair also gave a statement on Friday in which he said that the plane started wobbling as it approached Karachi airport.“The next moment there was a hard crash and I lost consciousness,” said Zubair, adding that when he woke up there was ‘smoke everywhere’.The hospital administration said that Zubair sustained minor injuries and is currently under treatment at the burns ward. The only other survivor of the crash was Bank of Punjab (BoP) Chief Executive Officer Zafar Masud.He spoke to his mother on the phone and informed her about his health.“As the plane was heading for landing, it hit something and I fell unconscious. When I regained consciousness, I heard people saying ‘yeh zinda hai (he is alive)’. After getting treatment in hospital I spoke to my mother by phone and told her that I am well,” Masud was quoted as having said by a doctor.“Mr Masud departed for Karachi to celebrate Eid with his family. We all at the BoP family are happy that he miraculously survived. He is out of danger and being treated at a Karachi hospital,” said BoP spokesman Asad Zia.“Reached hospital and met Zafar Masud. It is a miracle he survived the crash he fell out of the plane after it broke into pieces. He was rescued by residents and brought to CMH Malir. He is undergoing tests. May Allah give him health,” Senate Vice-Chairman Saleem Mandviwalla tweeted. Masud sustained fractures to his hip and collar bones, the Darul Sehat Hospital’s administration said, adding that there were no burn marks on his body, but only scratches.According to the hospital administration, Masud’s CT scan has been done and his condition is out of danger. P||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-plane-jolted-thrice-crashed-moments-later-survivor/story-oKF1YVCQShEy1UMOgrDaLL.html
23-05-2020||World||Toll in Pakistan plane crash climbs to 97, black box found: Officials||The flight data recorder from the Pakistani airliner that crashed into a residential neighbourhood of Karachi has been found, an official said on Saturday, as the death toll rose to 97.There were two survivors from onboard the aircraft, while no fatalities were reported in the densely populated area of the city where the aircraft crash-landed on Friday.Pakistan International Airlines flight PK 8303, an Airbus A320, was flying from Lahore to Karachi with 99 people on board when it went down in mid-afternoon while trying a second landing attempt.“The black box had been found late yesterday, we are handing it over to the inquiry board,” PIA spokesman Abdullah Khan said. He said that included both the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder.The airline’s chief executive, Arshad Malik, said on Friday the last message received from the pilot indicated there was a technical problem.Another senior civil aviation official told Reuters it appeared the plane had been unable to lower its landing gear for the first approach.Aviation safety experts say air crashes typically have multiple causes.Seconds before the crash, the pilot told air traffic controllers he had lost power from both engines, according to a recording posted on liveatc.net, a respected aviation monitoring website.Airbus said the jet first flew in 2004 and was fitted with engines built by CFM International, co-owned by General Electric and France’s Safran.Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, announced soon after the crash that there would be an inquiry, and a four-member team was constituted Friday night, according to a notification from the government’s aviation division, seen by Reuters.The team includes three members of the Aircraft Accident and Investigation Board and one from the Pakistan Air Force’s safety board. The team will issue a preliminary statement within a month, the notification says.A statement from the provincial health minister’s office on Saturday put the death toll at 97, with no confirmed deaths on the ground.Army and civil administration personnel were clearing through the debris in the Karachi neighbourhood on Saturday and assisting residents whose homes had been damaged. “Rescue Op in progress ... 25 affected houses cleared, their residents accommodated at various places with assistance of Civil Administration,” the Army said on Twitter.Pakistan only last week resumed domestic flights it had suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with many people travelling for the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr, expected to fall on Sunday or Monday in the country.Friday’s crash is the worst air disaster in Pakistan since 2012, when a Bhoja Air passenger aircraft, a Boeing 737, crashed in Islamabad, killing 127 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/toll-in-pakistan-plane-crash-climbs-to-97-black-box-found-officials/story-ceyjLRLUZgRVxww2idzriK.html
23-05-2020||World||From Scotch to sanitiser: Covid-19 shakes, stirs industry||Scotch whisky is one of the UK’s largest export sectors, but the coronavirus pandemic has spiked it to such an extent that 87 per cent of distilleries in Scotland have either closed entirely or are operating at reduced capacity – many producing hand sanitisers in bulk.There are currently 133 Scotch whisky distilleries operating in Scotland, shipping 1.3 billion bottles to 175 markets around the world, including India. The industry contributes over £ 5 billion to the UK economy, but the figures are set to be more sober in the current year.According to the Scotch Whisky Association (SWA), the industry has significantly scaled-back operations to protect the safety of workforce during the pandemic. Many have switched to producing hand sanitisers and ethanol to support health services.“All sites that continue to operate have strict social distancing in place to protect employees…87% of production sites are either operating at reduced capacity or have closed entirely,” the SWA says in its latest analysis of the industry.Latest estimates show that a number of companies are either manufacturing hand sanitiser on-site or providing high strength ethanol to other manufacturers, amounting to 14.1 million litres – enough to make around 56 million bottles of hand sanitisers.“The outlook for our sector, as for many others, is uncertain. The collapse of global hospitality, tourism and travel retail sectors is a very real concern and this year we are likely to experience a significant downturn in exports”, the SWA adds.The SWA has long been campaigning for improved market access to India, where Scotch whisky is estimated to account for barely 1% of its 300 million-case market. India imposes 150% tariff, besides other levies by state governments.Prime Minister Boris Johnson has often remarked that Scotch whisky would be one of the top items in talks on a free trade agreement with India after Brexit. In 2019, Scotch whisky exports to India were worth £166 million (19.7% rise on 2018 figures) based on shipping 131 million bottles (16.1% rise on 2018).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-scotch-to-sanitiser-covid-19-shakes-stirs-industry/story-Io8lcfijbPTCmkm6bvdlWK.html
23-05-2020||World||Top Boris Johnson aide flouts lockdown curbs, opposition demands resignation||The Boris Johnson government was on Saturday caught in a maelstrom over the prime minister’s chief adviser Dominic Cummings allegedly flouting lockdown rules, with the opposition and others baying for his resignation and cabinet ministers defending him.Not observing curbs imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic has led to at least two high-profile resignations in recent days: epidemiologist Neil Ferguson resigned from a key government committee and Catherine Calderwood as the chief medical officer of Scotland.Cummings, who developed coronavirus symptoms in end-March, drove 264 miles from London to his parents’ house in Durham, north-east England, when official ‘instruction’ to Britons was to stay home, not travel and not visit elderly relatives to prevent spread of the virus.The revelation prompted expressions of fury on social media from people who followed official advice and were for weeks deprived of contact with family and close relatives, even when many were dying. One set of rules for the people and another for those in power, they protested.A Labour spokesman reflected the ennui: “The public have made extraordinary sacrifices during this pandemic and the lockdown. It cannot be one rule for those who set them and another for the British people.”Facing persistent demands for Cummings’ resignation, Downing Street defended his actions, besides cabinet ministers such as chancellor Rishi Sunak, foreign secretary Dominic Raab and others. They said they would not want the opposition to politicise the issue.A Downing Street spokesman said: “Owing to his wife being infected with suspected coronavirus and the high likelihood that he would himself become unwell, it was essential for Dominic Cummings to ensure his young child could be properly cared for”.“His sister and nieces had volunteered to help so he went to a house near to but separate from his extended family in case their help was needed. His sister shopped for the family and left everything outside”.“At no stage was he or his family spoken to by the police about this matter, as is being reported. His actions were in line with coronavirus guidelines. Mr Cummings believes he behaved reasonably and legally.”The Durham police said: “Given the whole ethos of the guidance and regulations which were designed to reduce the spread, regardless of reason, by travelling to County Durham when known to be infected was most unwise”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-boris-johnson-aide-flouts-lockdown-curbs-opposition-demands-resignation/story-IcuHVyMyht97TVtdw7iRxJ.html
23-05-2020||World||US believes Kim Jong Un in Greater Pyongyang area: Report||The U.S. suspects North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is currently in the wider Pyongyang area, according to a report by South Korean daily DongA Ilbo that cites an unidentified Washington government official.The official told the newspaper that the U.S. identified what it believed was Kim’s train in Kangdong County this week, and his car and horse was also seen in the area. The train was spotted through satellite imagery near the coastal city of Wonsan late last month, it said.Kangdong County, located northeast of central Pyongyang City, is also home to a number of factories, including a precision machine plant that Kim visited in 2017.The North Korean leader most recently appeared at a May Day ceremony to mark the opening of a fertilizer plant after he wasn’t seen in public for about three weeks.His absence from state media also came with a flurry of reports last month that prompted questions about his health. South Korean intelligence officials told Yonhap News earlier this month that they saw “no sign” of Kim having undergone a heart surgery.Kim has not been seen in public since his May Day appearance, JoongAng Ilbo reported Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-believes-kim-jong-un-in-greater-pyongyang-area-donga-says/story-Cx40A2ipGOWYGVMMLvazRO.html
23-05-2020||World||Pilots said engines lost power before Airbus crashed in Karachi||A Pakistani airliner crashed into a residential neighborhood of Karachi, killing all but two people on board after pilots reported losing power from both the engines as they prepared for landing.The crash killed 97 travelers on board the state-run Pakistan International Airlines flight, according to Meeran Yousuf, spokeswoman for the provincial health ministry. Two passengers on the the Airbus SE A320 jet, including Zafar Masud, president of the Bank of Punjab, survived.“There was fire everywhere, and everyone was screaming after the crash. I opened my seatbelt, and headed toward the light,” Muhammad Zubair, another survivor, who was sitting in the eighth row, said on a local television broadcast.Eid ul-FitrThe crash happened as the nation went into holidays to celebrate Eid ul-Fitr, the annual Muslim festival. It also resulted in casualties on the ground as the plane plunged into a residential neighborhood, affecting 25 houses.These houses have been cleared and their residents have been sheltered at various places, Pakistan army’s media wing called the Inter Services Public Relations said in a Twitter update on rescue work.Flight PK 8303 from Lahore was carrying 91 passengers and eight crew, Abdul Sattar Khokhar, spokesman of the Civil Aviation Authority, said in an updated tally. Television footage showed cars and homes on fire in the neighborhood near the airport in the nation’s commercial hub. The A320 narrow-body jet first entered service in 2004, and was operated by PIA since 2014, Airbus said.The pilots in Friday’s crash reported losing power from both engines, according to a recording from LiveATC.net, which collects audio feeds from air-traffic controllers.Lost Engines“Sir, we have lost engines,” the pilot said to a controller, according to the LiveATC recording. A distressed call followed about 30 seconds later: “Mayday. Mayday. Mayday.”It’s the second plane crash for the state-owned carrier in less than four years. Pakistan International’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR 42 turboprop killed 47 people.“Although the public sector national carrier’s administration has been mismanaged for decades, this never reflected the engineering competence,” said Burzine Waghmar, a member of the Centre for the Study of Pakistan at SOAS University of London. “PIA’s maintenance and engineering is second to none.”The airline, founded in 1946, suffered as many as 51 safety-related incidents before Friday’s crash, according to data from Aviation Safety Network.The crashed A320 joined the airline six years ago and had a major check in March, according to a statement by the local Civil Aviation Authority. It carried out eight flights since March 21 after the nation restarted flights after easing its coronavirus related lockdown.The jet was previously flown by China Eastern Airlines from 2004 until 2014, the Associated Press reported, citing ownership records. It was then added to PIA’s fleet under a lease from GE Capital Aviation Services, the AP said.Quarantine RulesAirbus said it was providing technical assistance to France’s Bureau d’Enquêtes et d’Analyses and to Pakistani authorities in charge of the investigation. The company is working on getting a team to the crash site, according to a person familiar with the matter.The coronavirus pandemic could complicate things as investigators traveling to the site would have to comply with local quarantine regulations unless they receive special exemptions. Pakistan will also form a four-member body to investigate, and expects to submit an initial statement within a month, its civil aviation authority said.Engine manufacturer CFM International and the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board are monitoring the situation, representatives for both said. CFM is a joint venture of General Electric Co. and Safran SA.The A320’s pilot had reported a “technical fault” before deciding to go around instead of landing, the carrier’s chief Malik said in a video message before visiting the crash site. PIA is trying to determine what the technical fault was, Malik said.A probe into Friday’s incident would be conducted soon, the nation’s Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Twitter.Land Gear Issues?Photos purportedly taken of the plane after its initial attempt at landing appear to show damage to the underside of both engines, suggesting that its landing gear wasn’t down. The photos were posted on the Aviation Herald website.One possibility is that the plane ran out of fuel while attempting to circle back to the runway to land, said Jeff Guzzetti, the former head of accident investigations at the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration.The plane clearly had enough power to climb again, so the engines were working in spite of any damage they may have sustained, said Guzzetti. Pictures from the scene show there was a fire, but it appears to have been less severe than what would be expected in a typical crash, which would suggest they were low on fuel, he said.Guzzetti cautioned that it’s too early to say anything for certain. “You certainly don’t want to rule anything out,” he said. “We don’t know enough at this point.”Pakistan recently began resuming domestic flights last week, starting with 20% of capacity. The crash comes at a terrible time for airlines, which are staring at a $314 billion loss in ticket sales this year, as the Coronavirus outbreak idles 70% of global capacity, IATA has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pilots-said-engines-lost-power-before-airbus-crashed-in-karachi/story-sy60TnQF1pHl2cflSPIHXM.html
23-05-2020||World||Nepal’s nationwide Covid-19 tally reaches 548||Nepal has reported 41 new coronavirus cases, taking the nationwide tally to 548 with three deaths, the health ministry said on Saturday.The Ministry of Health and Population said that eight people, including seven men and one women were identified as positive in Kapilavastu district.Thirteen men were reported positive in Sarlahi district, one women in Bara district and one male in Kathmandu.The ministry said that eight men were found infected in Rupandehi district and another in Chitwan district.The affected people were in the age group of 17 to 52 years. The new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.The country has so far reported three deaths from the deadly virus. Earlier, the ministry had confirmed nine coronavirus patients on Friday night.A total of 70 patients have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-s-nationwide-covid-19-tally-reaches-548/story-FxA5lXFXSCMD5lGBu2LBUP.html
23-05-2020||World||Pregnant women with Covid-19 show placenta injury in small study||The placentas of 16 pregnant women found to have COVID-19 during routine testing at a Chicago hospital all showed evidence of injury, indicating that women infected with coronavirus may need close monitoring during pregnancy, researchers said on Friday.Fifteen of the women delivered healthy babies, while one miscarried. None of the live babies tested positive for Covid-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus.The study, published in the American Journal of Clinical Pathology, found that 12 of the women, or 80%, had a type of injury that can impair blood flow from the mother to the fetus called vascular malperfusion. Six of them, or 40%, had blood clots in the placenta. An historical comparison group showed vascular malperfusion in 55% of patients and placental blood clots in 9% of cases. The research involved women who gave birth at Northwestern Medicine Prentice Women’s Hospital between March 18 and May 5.“These findings support that there might be something clot-forming about coronavirus, and it’s happening in the placenta,” Dr. Jeffrey Goldstein, a Northwestern pathologist and study author told Reuters. He said issues with placental blood flow could lead to fetal growth restriction, low levels of amniotic fluid or even fetal demise.There have been reports of blood clots in adult COVID-19 patients that caused strokes.In this study, however, none of the 15 live babies appear to have any health problems. Goldstein said it makes sense to continue to follow babies born to coronavirus-infected mothers to see if they face any difficulties.The placenta is the first organ to form in fetal development. It acts as the fetus’ lungs, gut, kidneys and liver, taking oxygen and nutrients from the mother’s blood stream and exchanging waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pregnant-women-with-covid-19-show-placenta-injury-in-small-study/story-LGR3gKI77YMdhQdRJftc6K.html
23-05-2020||World||UN chief following Cyclone Amphan situation in India; saddened by loss of lives||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said that he is following the situation in India and Bangladesh after cyclone Amphan struck the two countries and expressed sadness over the loss of lives. Cyclone Amphan, the strongest to hit the region in nearly two decades, made landfall on Wednesday evening. It has killed over 85 people and directly affected around 1.5 crore others and destroyed more than 10 lakh houses in India. In Bangladesh, it has killed at least 22 people and left many displaced in the coastal areas. Guterres on Friday took to Twitter to express sadness over the loss of lives and destruction. “I’ve been following developments in Bangladesh and India after #CycloneAmphan made landfall Wednesday. Deeply saddened to hear lives have been lost and millions more have been affected. UN staff are on the ground assessing damage & emergency needs,” the UN chief said in a tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an advance interim assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for West Bengal and Rs 500 crore for Odisha. The UN Country Team in India has said that Cyclone Amphan, which has ravaged areas in West Bengal, is now considered even more destructive than Cyclone Aila, which slammed the region in May 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-following-cyclone-amphan-situation-in-india-saddened-by-loss-of-lives/story-xNVceH87MqZxOECc9Q8jeK.html
23-05-2020||World||Covid-19 infections surpass 300 in Pakistan prison||Despite jail authorities speaking of taking adequate measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, the total number of virus-infected inmates at Karachi Central Jail has soared past 300, sources at the prison total The Express Tribune on Saturday.On the other hand, the quarantine facility set up on jail premises has the capacity to accommodate 400 persons, sources added, and given the rapid rise in the number of infected inmates, it may soon run out of space.Giving the situation, the jail administration is now considering shifting infected prisoners to the isolation centre at the Expo Centre or to hospitals, the sources told The Express Tribune on condition of anonymity. “They are consulting with the home department on the matter,” they said.The sources revealed that over 1,000 persons were being screened for the coronavirus at the prison every day.Besides prisoners, 20 staff members and a police officer at the prison have also contracted the virus.The outbreak at the prison was reported after an inmate tested positive for Covid-19 on May 11. Following this, seven other prisoners and six of prison staff members suspected of having contracted the virus were tested on May 13. Among them, six prisoners and one staff member were found infected.By May 15, the number of infected inmates increased to 40 while another staff member tested positive for Covid-19. The very next day, the number of infected prisoners jumped to 204 and that of the staff members to 34. Later, on May 17, 32 more prisoners were diagnosed with Covid-19.Pakistan recorded over 52,000 Covid cases on Saturday, with Sindh reporting 20,883 cases, the maximum among other provinces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-infections-surpass-300-in-pakistan-prison/story-avPB5VxpyKbVOyDHyalW1L.html
23-05-2020||World||600% increase in malicious emails amid Covid-19 crisis: UN Official||The UN disarmament chief warned Friday that cyber crime is on the rise, with a 600% increase in malicious emails during the Covid-19 pandemic.Izumi Nakamitsu told an informal meeting of the UN Security Council that the coronavirus crisis is moving the world toward increased technological innovation and online collaboration. But she said “there have also been worrying reports of (cyber) attacks against health care organizations and medical research facilities worldwide.”The high representative for disarmament affairs said growing digital dependency has increased the vulnerability to cyberattacks, and it is estimated that one such attack takes place every 39 seconds.According to the International Telecommunication Union, she said, nearly 90 countries are still only at the early stages of making commitments to cybersecurity.Nakamitsu said the threat from misusing information and communications technology “is urgent.”But she said there is also good news, pointing to some global progress at the United Nations to address the threats by a group of government expert who developed 11 voluntary non-binding norms of responsible state behavior in the use of such technology.Estonia’s Prime Minister Juri Ratas, whose country holds the Security Council presidency and organized Friday’s meeting, said the need for “a secure and functioning cyberspace” is more pressing than ever. He condemned cyberattacks targeting hospitals, medical research facilities and other infrastructure, especially during the pandemic.“Those attacks are unacceptable,” Ratas said. “It will be important to hold the offenders responsible for their behavior.”Russia did not attend the informal council meeting broadcast online, which was the centerpiece of Estonia’s council presidency. The other 14 council nations did, along with about 50 other nations that spoke.Russia’s UN Mission said in a statement on its website that it did not attend because Estonia, the UK and the US violated “the established practice” that all council members attend informal meetings “regardless of whether they approve or disapprove its topic.”The three countries did not attend a Russian-sponsored informal meeting on Crimea on Thursday. All three oppose Russia’s seizure and annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.In March, the U.S., U.K., and Estonia accused Russia’s military intelligence of conducting cyberattacks against the government and media websites in Georgia, calling the attacks part of “a continuing pattern of reckless ... cyberoperations against a number of countries” that “clearly contradict Russia’s attempts to claim it is a responsible actor in cyberspace.”Estonia was the target of a massive three-week cyberattack during a dispute with Russia in 2007 over Estonia’s removal of the Bronze Soldier Soviet war memorial from the center of the capital, Tallinn. The attack disabled the websites of government ministries, political parties, newspapers, banks and companies.Since then, Estonia has built its cyber defenses and become one of the most wired societies in Europe and a pioneer in the development of “e-government.” Being highly dependent on computers, it is also highly vulnerable to cyberattack.Russia has taken on the issue of cybercrime at the United Nations, and won General Assembly approval in December for a resolution that will start the process of drafting a new international treaty to combat cybercrime over objections from the European Union, the US and others. They said it would undermine international cooperation to combat cybercrime.“We have witnessed malicious cyber activity that appears designed to undermine the United States and our international partners’ efforts to protect, assist, and inform the public during this global pandemic,” Acting US Deputy Ambassador Cherith Norman Chalet told Friday’s meeting.She warned that actions hampering hospital and health care systems that perform critical services “could have deadly results.”Russia’s UN Mission posted the speech it would have delivered at the council meeting, which says “the world literally finds itself now before a choice between global cyber peace or cyberwarfare.”Russia said the Covid-19 pandemic introduced dramatic changes to people’s lives and showed that the world’s dependence on information and telecommunication technologies “is now unprecedented.”Moscow accused an “`elite’ minority,” whose members it did not identify, of actively pursuing “the militarization of cyberspace by pushing forward the concept of `preventive military cyber strikes,’ including against critical infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/600-increase-in-malicious-emails-amid-covid-19-crisis-un-official/story-YAcXHHIuDsxQ7l5KaIerEJ.html
23-05-2020||World||IBM cuts jobs around US as new CEO looks for revival||IBM told the Wall Street Journal it is laying off an undisclosed number of workers across the US Covid-19IBM representatives didn’t return numerous calls and emails Friday to confirm the job cuts, which were also reported by Bloomberg.The already-struggling tech giant’s new CEO Arvind Krishna warned investors last month of uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, saying the company made a “tough decision” to withdraw revenue projections for the rest of 2020. The Armonk, New York company reported a 3.4% revenue decline in the January-March quarter from the same time last year, blaming it in part on how the coronavirus outbreak was affecting sales.The Journal said IBM’s job cuts could number in the thousands, citing an unnamed person familiar with the company’s plans. IBM had about 352,600 employees worldwide as of December 31, according to its annual report. Krishna said in April that more than 95% of them were working remotely.It is the latest example of the pandemic hitting the tech industry, even as demand rises for online services and computing power to help home-bound people work, learn and entertain themselves online. Hewlett Packard Enterprise announced planned cutbacks Thursday that are likely to cost jobs and reduce salaries.These would be IBM’s first big layoffs under Krishna, who on April 6 replaced outgoing CEO Ginni Rometty. Rometty remains IBM’s executive chairwoman through the end of the year.Krishna said in April at his first quarterly earnings call as CEO that the company will continue to eliminate software and services that don’t align with IBM’s top two focus areas for growth: cloud computing and artificial intelligence.Once a household name for its personal computers, IBM shed its PC business in 2005 and has since become focused on supplying software services to big businesses, governments and other organizations. It worked to strengthen its cloud computing business under Rometty but has struggled to compete with top cloud rivals Amazon, Microsoft and Google.Krishna spoke optimistically earlier in May about how the 110-year-old company could weather the pandemic.“The fact that IBM has been here before gives me perspective and confidence,” Krishna said at the Think conference for IBM clients and developers, held remotely this year. “I believe history will look back on this as the moment when the digital transformation of business and society suddenly accelerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ibm-cuts-jobs-around-us-as-new-ceo-looks-for-revival/story-yDh94P0onDls8C3zt0fujK.html
23-05-2020||World||US discussed conducting its first nuclear test in decades: Report||The Trump administration discussed last week whether to conduct its first nuclear test explosion since 1992, the Washington Post reported late on Friday, citing a senior official and two former officials familiar with the matter. The topic surfaced at a meeting of senior officials representing the top national security agencies after accusations from the administration that Russia and China are conducting low-yield nuclear tests, the Washington Post said. The meeting, however, did not conclude with any agreement to conduct a nuclear test. A decision was ultimately made to take other measures in response to threats posed by Russia and China and avoid a resumption of testing, the report added. US officials could not be reached immediately for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-discussed-conducting-its-first-nuclear-test-in-decades-report/story-GbMVJSPQmufZwNCuMo9TEJ.html
23-05-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine developed in China shows promising results in early human trials: Report||Researchers say that a vaccine developed in China, that has reached phase one clinical trial appears to be safe and may protect people from the coronavirus, according to a report in New York Times. The report, based on a Lancet study, cited an early-stage trial conducted by researchers at several laboratories involving 108 participants aged between 18 and 60. In the trial, those who received a single dose of the vaccine produced certain immune cells, called T cells, within two weeks while the antibodies needed for immunity peaked at 28 days after the inoculation. As the coronavirus pandemic shows no sign of abating with the global cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by coronavirus surpassing 5.2 million and deaths crossing 338,000, the race to find a cure for it including a drug and a vaccine has also gained momentum. Governments, drugmakers and researchers are working on around 100 vaccine programmes but experts say that a safe and effective vaccine could take 12 to 18 months to develop. The vaccine in China reported on Friday was made with a virus, called Ad5, modified to carry genetic instructions into a human cell, says the NYT report. The cell begins making a coronavirus protein; the immune system learns to recognize the protein and attack it, in theory preventing the coronavirus from ever gaining a foothold.The final results of the trial will be evaluated in six months, the study said, reports news agency PTI. “These results represent an important milestone. The trial demonstrates that a single dose of the new adenovirus type 5 vectored COVID-19 (Ad5-nCoV) vaccine produces virus-specific antibodies and T cells in 14 days,” said study co-author Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology. Based on the results, Chen said the vaccine is a potential candidate for further investigation, reports PTI. However ,the NYT report said only a subset of people in the new trial produced neutralizing antibodies to the coronavirus, the kinds of molecules needed for immunity. People between 45 and 60 years of age also produced weaker immune responses following vaccination than younger participants. Also, the results of the trial of Chinese vaccine are based on data from a short period and it is not clear how long its effect may last. The participants in the trials also experienced many side effects depending on the potency of the dose administered.Those with the highest dose showed the most side-effects with about 80 percent of the participants reporting at least one side effect, all expected with a viral vaccine, experts said. Almost half of the participants reported fever, fatigue and headaches, and about one in five had muscle pain, the NYT reported.Also, scientists, including those from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology in China said further research is needed to confirm whether the vaccine protects against SARS-COV-2 infection, PTI reported.Of the other vaccine trials around the world, US-based Moderna Inc announced earlier this week that its vaccine appeared to be safe and effective, based on results from eight people in its trial.Developers of a Covid-19 vaccine at the University of Oxford in UK described their efforts as progressing “very well”, moving to the next phase after completing 1,000 immunisations by its candidate-vaccine on healthy human adults. The human trials were first initiated in April. The next phase, the second in the typical three phases of trials that a vaccine goes through, involves enrolling up to 10,260 adults and children to assess the immune response to the vaccine in people of different ages and assess if there is a variation.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-developed-in-china-shows-promising-results-in-early-human-trials-report/story-7Qi30vaXMZ0YWRiGdRDpFJ.html
23-05-2020||World||How China pounced on Hong Kong while Covid-19 overwhelmed the world||Dennis Kwok was with his two children, hiking through the lush jungles of Hong Kong’s Victoria Peak in April, when he realized how far China was willing to go to quell dissent in the former British colony.Kwok’s phone lit up with texts and calls asking about an alarming and unprecedented statement from China’s top agency overseeing Hong Kong. It said Kwok -- an opposition lawmaker who was participating in a filibuster effort in the city’s elected legislature -- may have committed misconduct and violated his oath of office, offenses that could cost him his seat.“It ruined the day with my kids,” Kwok, 42, said. But the London-trained lawyer also realized that “something fundamental had changed” in the months while Hong Kong protesters had withdrawn from the streets to escape the coronavirus.“The Communist Party pulled back the curtain,” he said.This week, China intervened even more dramatically. President Xi Jinping’s government announced Thursday that the National People’s Congress would write sweeping legislation into Hong Kong law to criminalize the harshest criticism of China and the ruling party. Although details remain secret, a similar security bill withdrawn in 2003 carried life sentences and drew massive street protests. All could potentially become law without a local vote.The move represents the biggest challenge yet to the “one country, two systems” framework set up to guarantee Hong Kong’s liberal institutions and capitalist financial system after its return to Chinese rule in 1997. While the option of handing down such national security legislation has been in the city’s Basic Law since the handover, Xi’s predecessors avoided exersing it due to widespread opposition and concern about damaging the city’s reputation as a legal safe haven.‘Disastrous Proposal’Now, China has decided to ignore critics such as Secretary of State Michael Pompeo, who indicated Friday that the “disastrous proposal” could lead the U.S. to reconsider the city’s special trade status. The action raises the stakes for another round of violent and destructive street protests ahead of legislative elections in which “pan-democrats” like Kwok were hoping to gain their first majority.“The Chinese have taken off the gloves in Hong Kong,” said Bonnie Glaser, who directs the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington and has advised the U.S. government. “Surrounding the elections in September, there could be massive protests again.”Hong Kong’s Beijing-appointed leader, Chief Executive Carrie Lam, attempted to reassure the international community on Friday night that the city would remain a “very free society, where freedom of expression, freedom of protest, freedom of journalism, will stay.” The Hong Kong branch of China’s foreign ministry said the provisions were necessary to ensure social stability and would affect “very few” people.Hong Kong’s financial markets and independent courts have long provided global companies, entrepreneurs and the Chinese elite with a lucrative refuge from the mainland’s high taxes, capital controls and party-run justice system. Moreover, Beijing gained international prestige by tolerating a raucous democracy under its authority, an arrangement that party leaders hoped would also appeal to self-ruled Taiwan across the South China Sea.All that began to change when Hong Kong erupted in historic protests last year to block Lam’s attempt to pass legislation that would have allowed the extradition of criminal suspects to the mainland. Demonstrators paralyzed the city for months, shutting down shops and keeping tourists away as they criticized China and demanded free elections to replace Lam.Protesters chanted “Liberate Hong Kong! Revolution of our times!” in largely peaceful marches that drew more than a million people. One band of radicals broke into the Legislative Council on the handover’s anniversary, ransacking the chamber and defacing the city’s emblem.Meanwhile, U.S. officials including President Donald Trump expressed support for the activists, fanning Beijing’s suspicions of foreign efforts to exploit its domestic weakness. Many pro-establishment figures put the blame on the failure of Hong Kong’s government to reform the city’s colonial-era security laws referring to “Her Majesty” with measures to protect the Chinese state. None of Lam’s predecessors had tried since the 2003 effort failed.“Beijing has clearly run out of patience with the Hong Kong government’s unsuccessful attempts to end the protest movement by enacting its own draconian security legislation,” said Hugo Brennan, principal Asia analyst for Verisk Maplecroft in London. “The proposed national security law is likely to prove a death knell for the ‘one country, two systems’ model and the facade of Hong Kong autonomy.”The April 14 statement from the Hong Kong & Macau Affairs Office accusing Kwok of violating his oath and other “sleazy tactics” was just one of a series of steps toward a more interventionist approach by Beijing. The shift was first signaled in an October communique from a Communist Party Central Committee meeting led by Xi, and quickly followed up a legislative official’s pledge to “exercise all powers vested in the central government” over Hong Kong.Later, as Hong Kong and the rest of the world were focused on a deadly new pneumonia in central China just named Covid-19, Xi put someone in charge with a record of executing controversial policies. On Feb. 13, China named Xia Baolong to head the Hong Kong & Macau Affairs Office atop a newly revamped reporting structure that created a clear chain of command from Hong Kong to Beijing.The choice of Xia, a former close aide to Xi, set off alarm bells. In 2014 and 2015, he had overseen a crackdown on Christian churches in eastern Zhejiang province, in which crosses were cut from the roofs of houses of worship. Meanwhile, Luo Huining, a cadre known for executing Xi’s anti-corruption campaign, was appointed to head China’s top agency in Hong Kong, the Liaison Office.It was Xia who briefed Hong Kong representatives Thursday night in Beijing on the plan to pass the new security law before the end of next week.“They’ve got two guys who are totally not familiar with Hong Kong issues, and who have governed provinces in China in a heavy-handed way and think they can do the same in Hong Kong,” said Kwok, who has a law degree from King’s College, University of London. “They want to use a new strategy of terror, fear, attacks, criticism, direct intervention.”In April, as Hong Kong’s own coronavirus outbreak began to subside and the city’s old political fights resumed, the two officials turned their attention to the gridlocked Legislative Council. There pro-democracy lawmakers including Kwok had used a quirk in the rules to stop action by the body’s agenda-setting House Committee.The statement from the Hong Kong & Macau Affairs Office accusing lawmakers of crimes and demanding action was seen by some lawyers as a violation of constitutional provisions banning interference by Chinese agencies. The Liaison Office responded that the restriction didn’t apply because the Basic Law was approved by the National People’s Congress and the parliament had created the agencies to oversee Hong Kong.It was a sign of things to come. Days later, Hong Kong police arrested 15 high-profile democracy activists including 81-year-old Martin Lee -- often called the city’s “Father of Democracy” -- on charges related to participating in illegal rallies. Several of those arrested were frequent targets of Chinese state media criticism, even though they were seen as having little role in the more recent “leaderless” protests.Last Election?“All these gestures are to show: ‘We’re in control. We’re going to crack down. You guys have to respect the parameters set down by Beijing and that political struggle is futile,’” said Joseph Cheng, a retired political science professor and veteran democracy activist.Events accelerated in mid-May as pro-establishment lawmakers, aided by security guards, seized control of the House Committee from Kwok and moved to pass legislation criminalizing disrespect for the Chinese national anthem. On May 15, a police watchdog group exonerated the city’s police force from accusations of using excessive force against protesters, despite international criticism.The moves have left Hong Kong’s pro-democracy camp reeling just six months after winning 85% of seats in local council elections. Now, many government critics fear the new laws could be used to disqualify candidates for Legislative Council seats or expel winners after the vote -- actions the government has taken repeatedly in recent years.For Kwok, the statements showed he’s a top target. “We need to focus on the September election and tell people, ‘This may be the last election for Hong Kong,’” he said. “People really need to come out to vote.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-china-pounced-on-hong-kong-while-covid-19-overwhelmed-the-world/story-9tmIT99mtYSAh3A1D1HZAM.html
23-05-2020||World||‘I went towards the light’, says Pakistan plane crash survivor||One of the two survivors of Friday’s plane crash in a crowded residential district of Karachi in Pakistan said he saw fire all around him and could hear screams as the aircraft went down.The Pakistan International Airlines Airbus jet with 99 people aboard crashed on Friday afternoon after twice trying to land at the airport, a witness said.Sindh health minister Azra Pechuho said while speaking to reporters late on Friday night that 82 bodies have been recovered from the site of the crash. It is, however, unclear if the deceased were all on board the flight or include residents of the area where the crash took place.The Airbus A320 was flying from the eastern city of Lahore to Karachi in the south with 91 passengers and eight crew, civil aviation authorities said, just as Pakistan was resuming domestic flights in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The crash happened on the eve of Eid when Pakistanis travel to visit relatives. Fire, screamsTwo passengers survived, including Zafar Masood, president of the Bank of Punjab, a Sindh provincial government spokesperson said. Bank of Punjab said Masood had suffered fractures but was “conscious and responding well”. The other survivor, engineer Muhammad Zubair, told Geo News the pilot came down for one landing, briefly touched down, then took off again. After around 10 more minutes of flying, the pilot announced to passengers he was going to make a second attempt, then crashed as he approached the runway, Zubair said from his bed in Civil Hospital Karachi.“All I could see around was smoke and fire,” Zubair said.“I could hear screams from all directions. Kids and adults. All I could see was fire. I couldn’t see any people – just hear their screams,” he added.“I opened my seat belt and saw some light – I went towards the light. I had to jump down about 10 feet to get to safety.”‘Mayday’Smoke billowed from the scene where flight PK 8303 came down at about 2:45pm (0945 GMT). Twisted fuselage lay in the rubble of multi-storey buildings as ambulances rushed through chaotic crowds.“The aeroplane first hit a mobile tower and crashed over houses,” witness Shakeel Ahmed said near the site, a few kilometres short of the airport.Seconds before the crash, the pilot told air traffic controllers he had lost power from both engines, according to a recording posted on liveatc.net, a respected aviation monitoring website.“We are returning back, sir, we have lost engines,” a man was heard saying in a recording released by the website. The controller freed up both the airport’s runways but moments later the man called, “Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!”.There was no further communication from the plane, according to the tape, which could not immediately be authenticated.“The last we heard from the pilot was that he has some technical problem ... It is a very tragic incident,” Malik said in a recorded video statement.Another senior civil aviation official told Reuters it appeared the plane had been unable to lower its undercarriage for the first approach due to a technical fault, but it was too early to determine the cause.Aviation safety experts say air crashes typically have multiple causes, and that it is too early to understand them within the first hours or days.The jet first flew in 2004 and was fitted with engines built by CFM International, co-owned by General Electric and France’s Safran, Airbus said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-went-towards-the-light-says-pakistan-plane-crash-survivor/story-2BFIwtqkIeErga5rIYxajP.html
23-05-2020||World||China’s national security law good for business, say Hong Kong’s Pro Beijing politicians||Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing politicians sought to allay worries about the impact of China’s proposed national security legislation on the Asian financial hub’s business environment, saying it would boost investor sentiment.The legislation aims to tackle secession, subversion, terrorism, and foreign interference and could see mainland intelligence agencies set up bases in Hong Kong, raising fears of direct law enforcement.US government officials have said the legislation would end the Chinese-ruled city’s autonomy and would be bad for both its and China’s economies. They said it could jeopardise the territory’s special status in US law, which has helped it maintain its position as a global financial centre.Bankers and headhunters said it could lead to money and talent leaving the city. Hong Kong stocks slumped 5.6% on FridayUpon her return from Beijing late on Friday, Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said the stock market “goes up and comes down” and it was in fact the large scale pro-democracy protests in 2019 which destabilised the business environment.“Especially having gone through almost one year of disruptions, violence and uncertainties, anything particularly in safeguarding national security that will help stabilise the environment is indeed very good for local investment sentiment,” she said.Henry Tang, a member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, said the legislation was “beneficial” for the business environment as it brings stability and strengthens the rule of law.Local newspaper Mingpao quoted a Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce statement saying that while more details and explanations were needed to preserve confidence, the chamber “always wanted to see social stability and peaceful business environment, and not violence”.Former Hong Kong chief executive Leung Chun-Ying pointed to large US investments in mainland China despite national security laws there.“Can businessmen tell Hong Kong people, why are there more US companies, US businessmen and US investments in mainland China than Hong Kong?” he wrote in a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-national-security-law-good-for-business-say-hong-kong-s-pro-beijing-politicians/story-yfZV97AZDtXWq0t2S84L6M.html
23-05-2020||World||Berlin church hosts Friday prayers for Muslims to follow social distancing rules||A Berlin church is hosting Muslims who are unable to fit into their mosque for Friday prayers because of social distancing guidelines.The Dar Assalam mosque in the Neukölln district normally welcomes hundreds of Muslims to its Friday services. But it can currently only accommodate 50 people at a time under Germany’s coronavirus restrictions.During the holy fasting month of Ramadan, the nearby Martha Lutheran church stepped in to help, hosting Muslim prayers in Arabic and German.“It is a great sign and it brings joy in Ramadan and joy amid this crisis,” said Mohamed Taha Sabry, the mosque’s imam, who led his congregation in prayer watched over by a stained-glass window depicting the Virgin Mary.“This pandemic has made us a community. Crises bring people get together.”Places of worship reopened in Germany on May 4 after being shut for weeks under a coronavirus lockdown, but worshippers must maintain a minimum distance from one another of 1.5 metres.The church, a red-brick neo-renaissance building in Berlin’s Kreuzberg district could hardly offer a sharper contrast to the cultural centre in Neukoelln where the Muslim congregation is accustomed to gathering.“It was a strange feeling because of the musical instruments, the pictures,” said worshipper Samer Hamdoun. “But when you look, when you forget the small details, this is the House of God in the end...”The Islamic Council, an umbrella group of 400 mosques, said in April that many face bankruptcy because the closures stretched into the holy fasting month of Ramadan, usually a vital period for donations.The church’s pastor, Monika Matthias, said she had felt moved by the Muslim call to prayer.“I took part in the prayer,” she said. “I gave a speech in German. And during prayer, I could only say yes, yes, yes, because we have the same concerns and we want to learn from you. And it is beautiful to feel that way about each other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/berlin-church-hosts-friday-prayers-for-muslims-to-follow-social-distancing-rules/story-PcndWHNONCjeTarw1sWyMK.html
23-05-2020||World||South America a new Covid-19 epicentre, Africa reaches 1 lakh cases: WHO||South America has become a new epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic with Brazil hardest-hit, while cases are rising in some African countries that so far have a relatively low death toll, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday.“The Covid-19 pandemic today reached a milestone in Africa, with more than 100,000 confirmed cases. The virus has now spread to every country in the continent since the first case was confirmed in the region 14 weeks ago,” the WHO said in a statement, noting there were 3,100 confirmed deaths on the vast continent.Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, who is from Botswana, said: “For now Covid-19 has made a soft landfall in Africa, and the continent has been spared the high numbers of deaths which have devastated other regions of the world.” Even so, she said, “We must not be lulled into complacency as our health systems are fragile and are less able to cope with a sudden increase in cases.” About half of African countries are experiencing community transmission of the virus, the WHO said.The situation in South America appeared graver. Dr. Mike Ryan, WHO’s top emergencies expert, speaking earlier to a news conference, said: “In a sense South America has become a new epicentre for the disease.” Brazil is the “most affected,” and authorities there have approved broad use of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine for treatment of Covid-19, he said. He reiterated that clinical evidence does not support the drug’s widespread use against the disease, given its risks.Nine African countries had 50% rises in cases in the past week, while others have seen a decline or have stable rates, Ryan said. The low mortality rate may be because half the continent’s population is 18 or younger, he said, while saying he remains worried the disease will spread on a continent with “significant gaps” in intensive care services, medical oxygen and ventilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-america-a-new-covid-19-epicentre-africa-reaches-1-lakh-cases-who/story-5xVw2a5QSzpeixOKMriuvJ.html
23-05-2020||World||Joe Biden accuser’s life marred by abuse and financial hardship||One thing is clear in the complicated, sometimes contradictory and often chaotic story of Tara Reade: Her life has not been easy.Her earliest childhood memory was of being abused by her father, she told her former husband, a man she would later leave after saying he abused her, too.She was also a child of big dreams, of being an Olympic skier and studying acting at Juilliard, before developing an interest in politics. She was hired in 1992 for a low-level staff job for one of the nation’s highest-profile senators at the time, Joe Biden. Less than a year later, Reade said, she was again the victim of abuse, assaulted by Biden in the hallway of a Senate office building — an allegation he vehemently denies.That accusation, which Reade made publicly for the first time in March, has revived difficult questions about how to evaluate allegations of assault in the era of #MeToo. It also has thrust Reade’s life story into the 2020 presidential race and, with it, scrutiny of a woman with a winding trail of extreme debt, an unfounded claim of educational attainment and questionable business practices. Along the way, some people who dealt with her found her duplicitous and deceitful, while others found her a heroic survivor.On Friday, her attorney, Douglas Wigdor, announced he was dropping her as a client. And officials confirmed media reports that she faced an inquiry about whether she was truthful when she testified about her credentials as an expert witness in domestic violence cases, an issue that could serve as grounds for appeal of a number of convictions she had a role in securing.Reade’s story about the alleged assault by Biden is not a straight line, either. It has changed over the past year, from accusations of uncomfortable, harassing behavior to allegations of assault. Reade came forward publicly with her most serious accusation just as Biden was securing a path to the Democratic presidential nomination.It is often not possible to conclusively resolve an allegation like the one Reade has made, where there are no witnesses and no timely police report.So how her claim is evaluated turns largely on her credibility.By some accounts, Reade is a bright and engaging woman who has tried her best as a single mother to raise her daughter while constantly looking for a fresh start. In others, Reade uses her charm and flair for drama to manipulate those supporting her until their goodwill runs out.Reade says her critics have her wrong.“I’m not a lying, manipulative user,” she said in a Wednesday interview with The Associated Press. “I’ve really understood what it’s like to be struggling and poor. I’ve really tried to help people when I could.”This account of Reade’s life is based on interviews with more than a dozen of her friends, relatives and personal and professional associates, as well as numerous interviews with Reade. The AP also reviewed hundreds of pages of court documents, emails and Reade’s own writings.CHILDHOOD OF DREAMS, DISAPPOINTMENTReade was born Tara Moulton in the coastal town of Monterey, California, and says she spent most of her childhood living on a farm in northern Wisconsin. Her father, Robert Reade Moulton, worked as a sportswriter for the Wausau Daily Herald in the 1960s before taking a public relations job with a defense contractor in Minnesota; Reade said her mother, Jeanette Altimus, was an artist.Reade has written that she was an accomplished skier who qualified for the Junior Olympics team in downhill skiing at age 12 in Wisconsin and trained for three years before her parents’ divorce prompted a move to Athens, Georgia.A stepbrother said most people in Wausau skied, mainly at nearby Rib Mountain, but he does not remember Reade being a standout.“I’m sure Tara did, but I don’t really remember her getting some significant accolades for her performance,” said Scott Thoma, 56, of Mound, Minnesota, who was a year ahead of Reade in middle school, when his mother married her father.Reade and her brother Collin lived with her mother after her parents’ split, eventually moving to Georgia, while Moulton and his new wife moved to the Minneapolis area.Another of Reade’s aspirations was to be an actress, performing in “school theatre, community and regional theatre, sprinkled with some radio and television commercials,” according to her blog. She set out for California to pursue acting at age 17 and said she got a referral from a friend to informally train with Robert Reed, an actor best known for his role as the “Brady Bunch” father. She also said she scored an audition in New York for The Juilliard School’s exclusive acting program.Reade said she learned at the audition that no scholarships were available and returned home brokenhearted when her father said he wouldn’t pay the tuition. The school declined to confirm whether Reade was selected for an audition.She wrote in January that her father, who died in 2016, was physically and emotionally abusive throughout her childhood.“Thwarting my college dreams was the mild bit, the rejection and the physical assaults set the stage for how I would walk into the world,” she wrote.Reade often discussed the issue with her former husband, Ted Dronen, according to Dronen’s account in the couple’s divorce filings.“She referenced a long history of events dating back to her first memories in which her father would physically and emotionally, and mentally abuse her. She stated also that her mother seemed not to interfere with petitioner’s father’s abuse,” he wrote.Thoma described Reade’s parents as alcoholics but said he never saw Moulton become angry when he drank, or emotionally or physically abuse Reade or anyone else.“He got frustrated at her,” said Thoma, adding that Reade started more things than she finished. “He would have to put the kibosh on whatever she wanted. But no, I never saw Bob lay a hand on any of us kids, or Collin and Tara.”Dronen, in the court documents, described Reade as also having a sometimes tumultuous relationship with her mother, who he said kicked her out of her house during a fall 1994 argument while Reade was in the late stages of a pregnancy.Reade has said her mother, who also died in 2016, was one of the few people she confided in about Biden’s alleged assault.Early abuse can inform a victim’s relationships for the rest of his or her life, according to Barbara Ziv, a forensic psychologist and sexual assault expert.“If you grow up in an abusive household, where your needs, your basic needs aren’t met and you aren’t taught to appropriately identify boundaries or emotions, then that’s going to impact the way that you develop as an adult,” Ziv said.AN EYE TOWARD POLITICSThere’s little public accounting of the next few years of Reade’s life, after she says her Juilliard dreams were dashed.She eventually attended Pasadena City College, where she says her strong performance in a political science class helped her land an internship in Washington with then-California Rep. Leon Panetta.Reade said in the 2019 interview that she then worked as a field manager for Santa Barbara County Supervisor Gloria Ochoa in her campaign against Rep. Michael Huffington, the former husband of Arianna Huffington. A few days after Ochoa’s loss, Reade said, she got a call to interview for a job with Biden — which she described as a dream job. It was unclear how that interview came about.“I just always wanted to work for Biden. Because at the time, he was the champion of women’s legislation, women’s rights legislation,” she told the AP.Reade said she traveled to Washington and was interviewed by Biden’s executive assistant, Marianne Baker. During their conversation, she said, Biden walked in and was introduced to the young job prospect.“He kind of smiled and said, ‘Hire her,’” Reade said. “That was it.”WORKING FOR BIDENOnce she was in Washington, multiple friends described Reade as a young woman coming into her own.Stacey Lentz, a friend at the time who worked in North Dakota Sen. Kent Conrad’s office, said the two would get together for lunch on Capitol Hill, and on days off, they’d peruse antique shops or enjoy a ballgame.Another close friend of Reade’s, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect her family’s privacy, described her as a laid-back Californian in contrast to her own East Coast conservative upbringing. All three lived in Thompson Markward Hall, a women’s dormitory across the street from the Hart Senate Office Building.Over the years, Reade spoke favorably about working for Biden.Margie Estberg, of Aptos, California, said she got to know Reade after hiring her in late 2017 to pet sit. Over a pizza dinner and cocktails in 2018, Estberg said she asked Reade what Biden was like — and whether Biden was one of the “bad guys.”“I said, ‘Is he a nice guy?’ And she said, ‘Yeah, he is,’” Estberg recently recalled. “I said, ’Oh, good. Because I hate to see somebody who you think is a decent person and somebody shuts them down and says, ‘No, they aren’t.’”Reade said she didn’t share details of the alleged assault with Estberg because she wasn’t ready to discuss it.But Reade’s friend, the one who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity, said Reade told her a much different story about Biden in 1993. That’s when Reade says she was asked to deliver a gym bag to Biden in a Senate office building; when she met him, she says, he kissed her and digitally penetrated her.The friend said Reade called her a few nights after the assault allegedly occurred, and the friend described in vivid detail feeling “so physically sick” at the disclosure that she ran to the bathroom and threw up in the middle of their conversation.Reade recommended that the AP interview the friend, and reporters spoke to her multiple times, beginning in 2019. Initially, the friend confirmed Reade’s original, limited account of harassment by Biden. When Reade added assault to her allegation in March of this year, this friend also added those details to her own recollection.This friend says she counseled Reade not to file a police report, and now expresses deep regret for what she characterized as leading Reade astray in dealing with the situation.Reade left Washington shortly after the alleged assault. She says she tried to complain about harassment by Biden — but not assault — to a Senate personnel office and the senator’s top advisers, but felt retaliated against and ultimately said she was encouraged to find another job and quit.The AP spoke with numerous current and former Biden staffers in the course of reporting on Reade’s claims, and none recalled such an incident or a report. Some of Biden’s top aides said they didn’t recall Reade at all.MARRIAGE, DIVORCE, ABUSEDuring her time in Washington, Reade met Ted Dronen, whom she describes in a 2009 essay as “a smiling 6’4” blonde Nordic-looking man” who playfully shot her with a water gun at a party one spring night in 1993.Facing financial difficulties after leaving Biden’s office, Reade moved in with Dronen and ultimately asked to follow him to North Dakota, where he was working on a campaign that winter, according to his account in court records.In her divorce filing, Reade described early warning signs that Dronen was explosive and unstable and says she fled North Dakota for California after Dronen became upset that she was pregnant. She soon came back to him, however, and they married in July 1994 and had a daughter that November.In a domestic violence case filed 15 months later, Dronen admits that he attacked Reade but alleges that Reade got violent with him as well.“I admit that on February 21, 1996 my wife and I were involved in a heated argument and during that argument that I may have acted out in an inappropriate manner. During our marriage my wife and I had arguments. She has on past occasions struck me; specifically, in the face. That fact, however, does not excuse my conduct on the date in question,” he states.Dronen did not respond to several requests for comment.In court documents, he suggested that Reade conflated childhood traumas with her recollections of abuse by him.“I believe these incidences, in addition to the abuse, harassment and other truamatic (sic) events in Petitioner’s life, color Petitioner’s perception and judgment in the instant case and I believe them to be the underlying psychological reasons that Petitioner is making me out to be some sort of monster,” he said.During their divorce proceedings, Dronen also told the court that Reade said she was harassed while working in Biden’s office, but made no mention of assault, a detail that was first reported by the San Luis Obispo Tribune.“On several occasions petitioner related a problem that she was having at work regarding sexual harassment in U.S. Senator Joe Biden’s office,” he wrote. Reade “eventually struck a deal” with Biden’s chief of staff and left the office, and Dronen supported her financially as she looked for work.Biden’s former chief of staff, Ted Kaufman, has consistently said no such deal was made.TURBULENT TIMESThe past two decades of Reade’s life have been tumultuous. In her own telling, she had to flee Dronen’s abuse, took shelter in domestic violence safe houses and moved to Washington state, where she changed her name to Alexandra Tara McCabe. She also said she received a new Social Security number to protect her safety, putting her in a “really vulnerable economic situation.”She said the focus on her financial difficulties since coming forward with her allegation against Biden was “classist” and should have no bearing on the credibility of her accusation.“How high does your credit score have to be to be believed as a victim of sexual assault?” Reade asked.Reade’s resume states that she graduated from Antioch University with a bachelor’s degree in political science and later worked at the school’s Seattle campus as an “Ongoing Online Visiting Professor for degree completion.” But school officials said she did not graduate and was never a faculty member, though she was paid to do several hours of administrative work as an independent contractor, a detail first reported by CNN.Reade disputed this, but could not produce evidence that she graduated. She says the number of school credits that could be applied to her graduation was complicated by her name and social security number change, and that the school’s president at the time stepped in to personally confer a degree.The school said that no such arrangement was made.“University officials confirmed with former president Toni Murdock that no special arrangements existed,” university spokeswoman Karen Hamilton said in a statement.She was accepted to Seattle University Law School through an alternative admissions program and obtained a law degree in 2004, but struggled to keep a job. She was helped by sympathetic strangers drawn to her story of escaping abuse, but often failed to meet financial obligations and was perpetually in debt and frequently entangled in legal battles.By May 2006, she was back in California, working as a victims’ advocate for the Monterey County YWCA.There, Reade lodged a series of complaints with the chapter’s board within months of taking the job, alleging that she and others were harassed and discriminated against by managers, which formed the basis of a 2007 lawsuit.Reade and three co-workers alleged that two managers, who were both black, potentially misspent funds and favored African American employees who were members of their church. One supervisor, the lawsuit alleged, made racist comments. Meanwhile, Reade and her three co-workers, all of whom were white, said they were denied benefits and promotions.“I find your response to my recent complaint unacceptable. Therefore, I am taking the next step to get some resolution,” Reade wrote in a Nov. 9, 2006, memo to her boss.She was also upset because someone called her “whitebread,” according to the memo, which was circulated to the board.Bridgette Allen, the former YWCA chapter president, was among those sued. She said she viewed Reade’s persistent emails as an effort to build a court case.“I was the first black board president in the history here. You have to look at the dynamics: It was four white women that accused three black women,” Allen said.But to some of Reade’s co-workers, she was a hero empowered by a difficult past.“She was such a great example of what I wanted to be as a mom and a woman and an advocate,” said Diane Wegner, a former YWCA employee who was part of the lawsuit, which was settled out of court for an undisclosed sum.Reade soon found a new job as executive director at the Animal Friends Rescue Project in Pacific Grove.She also needed a new place to live and, in 2008, turned to Austin Chung, an inexperienced property manager, and inquired about a cottage he was renting out that offered a glimpse of the waves at nearby Monterey Bay.She told him she was fleeing abuse and had no credit history, explaining her change of name and Social Security number. But she did have a law degree and a job, she told him.“My heart went out to her right away,” Chung said.Chung said he had the interior painted and installed new flooring to make the home welcoming.Within five months, she was behind on rent. Pretty soon, she was out of a job, too, after her management style grated on some employees and supporters of the animal shelter, according to former board members.“There wasn’t any one big thing that happened. It was just, over time, her not really being competent,” said Carie Broecker, a longtime former board member. Broecker said she remained friends with Reade until Reade recently threatened to sue her because she publicly discussed her tenure at the agency.Reade said she was proud of her work for the animal shelter.Chung moved to evict Reade after she fell $3,600 behind on rent; Reade accused him of harassment in an email.She eventually left behind a house in need of $8,000 in repairs that included carpets so stained by animal waste that they needed to be replaced, according to Chung, who provided emails and video footage of the home’s interior.In 2011, Reade was again in a relationship that turned violent. Neighbors called Santa Cruz police to her home, and her live-in boyfriend, Edward Walker, was charged with corporal injury and battery against Reade and her daughter.“Male subject battered live-in girlfriend, causing visible injury. During the altercation, the suspect also battered the victims daughter,” police said in an April 3, 2011 report.Reade, who had spent years testifying in court as an advocate for domestic violence victims, acknowledged that Walker slapped her daughter at one point. She paid his bail and continued to live with Walker, caring for him after he suffered a stroke in 2012, court records show.Walker, who could not be reached for comment, pleaded guilty and was given probation. A judge dismissed the charges in 2016.Financial and legal turmoil followed her as she continued to move around California’s central coast, living in some of the most scenic and affluent parts of the state:— She sought a restraining order in 2012 against a neighbor whom she accused of harassment and making racist threats against Walker. A judge dismissed the petition, and Reade dropped the matter.— Months later, Reade was evicted again over $12,750 in unpaid rent. She filed for bankruptcy and listed $406,407 in debts, including nearly $300,000 in unpaid school loans, $1,715 owed to a bail bondsman and $2,100 due to a locally owned grocery store.— Reade enrolled in an advanced legal degree program through Southwestern Law School. The school sued Reade in 2016 over $22,000 in loans, which remain unpaid, according to an attorney working on the case.— She launched a charity that aimed to provide pet food to impoverished animal owners. The group’s nonprofit status was revoked in 2017 after Reade failed to submit three years of mandatory tax filings, though she continued to solicit donations. In 2016, Reade tweeted that she was raising money for a nonprofit called Boudicca Rising Legal Assistance, which included a link to a GoFundMe page she created. There is no record of a nonprofit by that name in the IRS database. Reade raised $210 but said she eventually abandoned the effort because it was too difficult to sort out the logistics.In 2014, Reade started volunteering at a Watsonville, California, nonprofit horse farm called the Pregnant Mare Rescue. She proved to be a dedicated volunteer who excelled at caring for abused horses, but “always had drama and craziness going on in her life,” according to Lynn Hummer, the organization’s founder.“She was always broke and in a crisis,” Hummer said.The two had a falling out in 2016 after Reade charged $1,400 in veterinary care for her horse to the Pregnant Mare Rescue, billing records show.In a June 8, 2016, email to Hummer, Reade acknowledged that she charged the bill to the organization but said that she was poor, that her mother’s health was failing and that she was “disgusted and appalled” that Hummer would “villainize” her poverty.Reade said that she planned on paying back the money but decided against it after Hummer “started trashing me” on social media.At the time, Reade had been asking for money to finance a cross-country move to take care of her mother. She also told acquaintances that Dronen, her ex-husband, had reappeared and was harassing her.According to a letter from a domestic violence advocacy group that Reade shared, Dronen sent her and her daughter “friend requests” via Facebook after 15 years without contact, and the two were scared for their safety. She also inquired about changing her legal name back to Tara Reade, which she goes by now.Eventually, a man in Seattle raised $3,500 for her through GoFundMe.FALLOUTReade says her decision to go public with her claims against Biden has brought her more hardship. She describes facing death threats online and feeling abused and abandoned by the Democratic Party, which she says she’s supported her whole life. Numerous prominent Democrats have said they believe Biden’s denials.Inconsistencies in her accounts have also complicated matters. Defense attorneys are now reviewing whether she may have testified falsely about her education credentials in multiple domestic violence cases, the Monterey County Weekly and The New York Times first reported.Still, Reade, a woman who’s spent her life trying to regain her footing in the face of myriad setbacks, said her decision to come forward has been empowering.“It’s made my life so difficult in so many ways, but I’m doing this for more of an existential reason, and also for my own justice,” she said. When she first spoke out about the sexual assault allegation, Reade said, “I felt this release, of this burden, this secret that I’ve kept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-accuser-s-life-marred-by-abuse-and-financial-hardship/story-5h33d1h1YT26Gfk4a49fFJ.html
23-05-2020||World||China reports no new Covid-19 cases for first time since January||China on Saturday reported zero new coronavirus infections for the first time since it started reporting data in January, a day after Communist Party leaders celebrated “major achievements” in the virus fight.The virus first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year, but cases have dwindled dramatically from the peak in mid-February as the country appears to have brought the virus largely under control.The official death toll in the country of 1.4 billion people stands at 4,634, well below the number of fatalities in much smaller countries.However, doubt has been cast on the reliability of China’s numbers and the United States has led the charge in questioning how much information Beijing has shared with the international community.The milestone comes a day after the opening of China’s rubber-stamp parliament, the National People’s Congress, where Premier Li Keqiang said the country had “made major strategic achievements in our response to COVID-19.”However he warned that the country still faced “immense” challenges.Authorities in Wuhan have come under fire for reprimanding and silencing doctors who first raised the alarm about the virus late last year, and repeated changes to counting methodology have cast further doubt over China’s official data.Beijing has strenuously denied accusations of a cover up, insisting it has always shared information with the World Health Organization (WHO) and other countries in a timely manner.Since first emerging in Wuhan the virus has spread across the world, claiming more than 335,000 lives globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-no-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-since-january/story-rCr50g2Is42lYrAloy9iLL.html
23-05-2020||World||H-1B legislation introduced in Congress to give priority to US-educated foreign youths||A bipartisan group of lawmakers introduced a legislation in both the chambers of the US Congress proposing major reforms in skilled non-immigrant visa programmes by giving priority to US-educated foreign technology professionals in issuing H-1B work visas. The H-1B and L-1 Visa Reform Act, as introduced in House of Representatives and Senate, will require US Citizenship and Immigration Services to prioritize for the first time the annual allocation of H-1B visas. The new system would ensure that the best and brightest students being educated in the United States receive preference for an H-1B visa, including advanced degree holders, those being paid a high wage, and those with valuable skills, proponents of this major legislative reforms said Friday. In the Senate, it was introduced by Senators Chuck Grassley and Dick Durbin. In the House of Representatives, it was introduced by Congressmen Bill Pascrell, Paul Gosar, Ro Khanna, Frank Pallone and Lance Gooden.  The legislation reinstates Congress’s original intent in the H-1B and L-1 visa programmes by increasing enforcement, modifying wage requirements and securing protections for both American workers and visa holders, the lawmakers said. The legislation, among other things, explicitly prohibits the replacement of American workers by H-1B or L-1 visa holders, clarifying that working conditions of similarly employed American workers may not be adversely affected by the hiring of an H-1B worker, including H-1B workers who have been placed by another employer at the American worker’s worksite. These provisions address the types of abuses that have been well-documented. Importantly, the legislation proposes increased crackdown on outsourcing companies that import large numbers of H-1B and L-1 workers for temporary training purposes only to send the workers back to their home countries to do the same job. Specifically, the bill would prohibit companies with more than 50 employees, of which at least half are H-1B or L-1 holders, from hiring additional H-1B employees. The bill gives the US Department of Labor enhanced authority to review, investigate, and audit employer compliance with programme requirements, as well as to penalise fraudulent or abusive conduct. It requires the production of extensive statistical data about the H-1B and L-1 programs, including wage data, worker education levels, place of employment, and gender. In addition, the H-1B and L-1 Visa Reform Act encompasses several reforms of the L-1 visa programme, including establishment of a wage floor for L-1 workers; authority for the US Department of Homeland Security to investigate, audit, and enforce compliance with L-1 program requirements; assurance that intra-company transfers occur between legitimate branches of a company and don’t involve “shell” facilities; and a change to the definition of “specialized knowledge” to ensure that L-1 visas are reserved only for truly key personnel. Asserting that Congress created these programmes to complement America’s high-skilled workforce, not replace it, Grassley said that unfortunately, some companies are trying to exploit the programmes by cutting American workers for cheaper labour. “We need programmes dedicated to putting American workers first. When skilled foreign workers are needed to meet the demands of our labour market, we must also ensure that visa applicants who honed their skills at American colleges and universities are a priority over the importation of more foreign workers. Our bill takes steps to ensure that the programs work for Americans and skilled foreign workers alike,” he said. Reforming the H-1B and L-1 visa programmes is a critical component of fixing the broken immigration system. For years, outsourcing companies have used loopholes in the laws to displace qualified American workers and facilitate the outsourcing of American jobs, Durbin said. This legislation would end these abuses and protect American and foreign workers from exploitation, Durbin said. Indian American Congressman Ro Khanna said that American immigrants come to this country with some of the most innovative, transformative ideas this world has ever seen. “If we’re going to continue to foster a culture of creativity, we must reform the H-1 and L-1 visa programmes to protect all workers from abuses. Immigrants coming here on H-1B visas have made important contributions to Silicon Valley’s leadership in the digital revolution. We want to make sure that talent is coming to the US, but we also want to make sure that it’s being done with proper compensation,” Khanna said. Congressman Pallone said that the US must ensure that qualified American workers have access to job opportunities in this country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/h-1b-legislation-introduced-in-congress-to-give-priority-to-us-educated-foreign-youths/story-zMMAafJAZc40a68OtUUccP.html
23-05-2020||World||Covid-19 infected children may be less contagious than adults: UK scientists||Children have milder COVID-19 symptoms than adults and the balance of evidence suggests that children may have lower susceptibility and infectivity than adults, scientists advising the British government have said.The group of scientists concluded “that there was some evidence that children had milder symptoms than adults but that evidence on susceptibility and transmission was as yet unclear and recommended consideration of additional data gathering.”“Evidence remains inconclusive on both the susceptibility and infectivity of children, but the balance of evidence suggests that both may be lower than in adults,” the scientists said in papers submitted to the British government up to end of April.“Serological studies are starting to be available on child infection history, with some suggesting low rates of infection,” the scientists said.The scientists said a robust testing and tracing system would be needed for schools to fully reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-infected-children-may-be-less-contagious-than-adults-uk-scientists/story-9zjZJlcofftEKEaWUvdEfP.html
23-05-2020||World||Covid-19: New York eases ban on gatherings, up to 10 people allowed||New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo dropped the state’s absolute ban on gatherings of any size Friday, issuing an executive order saying up to 10 people are now allowed to be together as long as they abide by other social distancing guidelines adopted during the coronavirus pandemic.The order, issued on the eve of the Memorial Day weekend, represents one of the biggest steps yet the state has taken to loosen rules adopted in March that have barred anyone but essential workers from getting together unless they live in the same household.It doesn’t necessarily pave the way for the backyard barbecues and group picnics that are a staple of the holiday. The order still requires people assembling to follow “social distancing protocols and cleaning and disinfection protocols required by the Department of Health.”That means people still need to stay at least 6 feet away from other people, or wear a mask or face covering when they cannot maintain that distance in public.New Jersey has adopted similar rules, allowing groups of up to 25 outdoors and indoor gatherings of up to 10 people.Cuomo had earlier in the week signed an order allowing gatherings of as many as 10 people only for religious services and Memorial Day commemorations.That restriction drew a lawsuit from the New York Civil Liberties Union, which said if it was safe to gather for the purpose of honoring veterans and holding religious ceremonies, the Constitution requires the same right be extended to people gathering for other reasons.The NYCLU filed the lawsuit on behalf of New York City resident Linda Bouferguen, who the group says was twice arrested outside City Hall for protesting the state’s shutdown. She wants to organize another protest Saturday.NYCLU Legal Director Christopher Dunn said in a statement that the organization was “glad to see the governor reverse course.”“The right to protest and exercise free speech is the foundation of all our other liberties, and during a crisis is exactly when we need to be most vigilant about protecting it. Health experts, elected officials, and police officers all agree that people can be outside safely while practicing social distancing, and it’s critical that lawmakers create guidelines and direct law enforcement uniformly.”Cuomo spokesman Rich Azzopardi said the new order is in line with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance, which says that gatherings of up to 10 people are safe if people socially distance.“Please be safe and wear a mask,” he added on Twitter.The coronavirus killed another 109 people in the state Thursday. The daily death toll is down dramatically from early April but has stubbornly remained at just above 100 for five consecutive days. Around 5,000 people remain hospitalized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-new-york-eases-ban-on-gatherings-up-to-10-people-allowed/story-GbGNecroADsYf8IDVlvBYO.html
23-05-2020||World||China measure a ‘death knell’ for Hong Kong autonomy, says Pompeo||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Friday condemned China’s effort to take over national security legislation in Hong Kong, calling it “a death knell for the high degree of autonomy” that Beijing had promised the territory.Pompeo called for Beiing to reconsider the move and warned of an unspecified US response if it proceeds. Meanwhile, White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett said China risked a major flight of capital from Hong Kong that would end the territory’s status as the financial hub of Asia. Shortly afterward, the Commerce Department announced new restrictions on sensitive exports to China.The contentious measure, submitted Friday on the opening day of China’s national legislative session, is strongly opposed by pro-democracy lawmakers in semi-autonomous Hong Kong.Pompeo called the proposal an effort to “unilaterally and arbitrarily impose national security legislation on Hong Kong.”“Hong Kong has flourished as a bastion of liberty. The United States strongly urges Beijing to reconsider its disastrous proposal, abide by its international obligations, and respect Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy, democratic institutions, and civil liberties, which are key to preserving its special status under US law,” Pompeo said in a statement.He said the decision to ignore the will of the people of Hong Kong would be a “death knell for the high degree of autonomy Beijing promised for Hong Kong” under a decades-old agreement known as the Sino-British Joint Declaration.The US has limited leverage with China over Hong Kong but it could end preferred economic privileges that Hong Kong currently enjoys if the Trump administration determines that the declaration, which was supposed to give the territory 50 years of special status after it reverted to Chinese rule in 1997, has been violated.The proposed bill is aimed at forbidding secessionist and subversive activity, as well as foreign interference and terrorism. It comes after months of pro-democracy demonstrations last year that at times descended into violence between police and protesters.Speaking in an interview with the Fox Business Network on Friday, Hassett suggested the damage that would come from China’s proposal would be mostly self-inflicted.“They’re going to see a lot of economic harm from what they’re doing,” he said, adding that businesses would not want to invest or keep money “in a place where they’re basically sneering at the rule of law.”“And so, I would expect that they’re going to have serious capital flight problems,” Hassett said. “And Hong Kong, if they follow through this, will no longer be the financial center of Asia, and they themselves will bear very, very heavy costs.”Later Friday the Commerce Department struck yet another blow to Chinese industry, announcing plans to bar the export of US technology without a license to 33 companies and government institutions including major research labs.It accused two dozen of the targeted entities of threatening US national security because they could help China develop weapons. They include China’s top cybersecurity company, Qihoo 360, the robotics and artificial intelligence firm Cloudminds Inc., and various research institutes involved in laser and other advanced technology.The other targets, named in a separate news release, included the Institute of Forensic Science at China’s public security ministry and companies that make facial recognition products. Commerce accused them of complicity in human rights abuses targeting Uighurs and other ethnic minorities.The restrictions compound previous sanctions the Trump administration imposed on US technology sales to Chinese companies involved in supercomputer development, facial recognition and other areas the White House deemed a threat to national security. That includes the technology giant Huawei.A week ago, Commerce issued a new rule designed to bar foreign semiconductor makers from making chips for Huawei that it has designed.China contends Washington is using national security as an excuse to try to crush its rise as a global competitor in the tech sector.Tech expert Paul Triolo of the Eurasia Group political risk research firm said it appeared from the list of new targets that the Commerce Department was applying a rather sweeping definition of military end-use.“It’s ratcheting up the pressure,” Triolo said of the newest sanctions. “I keep thinking, ’What’s the straw that breaks the camel’s back here” and provokes retaliation from Beijing against US companies that do business in China.China has threatened countermeasures against US businesses — many of which have major manufactoring operations in its territories— but so far has held off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-measure-a-death-knell-for-hong-kong-autonomy-says-pompeo/story-PMLjsuNK9esQCu61kKBpYI.html
23-05-2020||World||Drug touted by Trump to treat Covid-19 linked to increased risk of death: Study||The anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which U.S. President Donald Trump says he has been taking and has urged others to use, was tied to an increased risk of death in hospitalized COVID-19 patients, a large study published on Friday showed.In the study that looked at more than 96,000 people hospitalized with COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus, those treated with hydroxychloroquine or the related chloroquine had higher risk of death and heart rhythm problems than patients who were not given the medicines.The study, published in the Lancet medical journal, showed no benefit for coronavirus patients taking the drugs.Demand for the decades-old hydroxychloroquine has surged as Trump repeatedly promoted its use against the coronavirus, urging people to try it. “What have you got to lose?” he asked.Trump said this week he has been taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventative medicine despite a lack of scientific evidence.The Lancet study authors suggested that hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine should not be used to treat COVID-19 outside of clinical trials until studies confirm their safety and efficacy in such patients.There is a frantic search for drugs to treat COVID-19 at the same time that multiple research teams pursue a safe and effective vaccine to combat a pathogen that has killed more than 335,000 people worldwide and sickened millions more.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has allowed healthcare providers to use the drugs for COVID-19 through an emergency-use authorization, but has not approved them to treat it.Dr. Mandeep Mehra, one of the study’s authors, said the research shows that the FDA should withdraw that authorization.“That will help move this towards more, stronger evidence because it will then force the use of these drugs only in the setting of control trials,” Mehra said in an interview. “That would be an extremely wise decision.”The FDA has said that, for safety reasons, hydroxychloroquine should be used only for hospitalized COVID-19 patients or those in clinical trials. The drug has been tied to dangerous heart rhythm problems.The Lancet study looked at data from 671 hospitals where 14,888 patients were given either hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine, with or without an antibiotic, and 81,144 patients were not given such treatments.Both drugs have shown evidence of effectiveness against the coronavirus in a laboratory setting, but studies in patients had proven inconclusive. Several small studies in Europe and China spurred interest in using hydroxychloroquine against COVID-19, but were criticized for lacking scientific rigor. Several more recent studies have not shown the drug to be an effective COVID-19 treatment. Last week, two studies published in the medical journal BMJ showed that patients given hydroxychloroquine did not improve significantly over those who were not.Hydroxychloroquine is used to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis as well as malaria.Hospitalized patients tend to have a more severe version of COVID-19. Some proponents of the drugs for COVID-19 argue that they may need to be administered at an earlier stage to be effective.There are ongoing randomized, controlled clinical trials to study the drug’s effectiveness in preventing infection by the coronavirus as well as treating mild to moderate COVID-19. Some of those may yield results within weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaria-drug-hcq-touted-by-trump-as-covid-19-treatment-tied-to-increased-risk-of-death-study/story-fY5HZFVrjR7hc29KrAAdoM.html
23-05-2020||World||Brazlian Prez Bolsonaro’s fiery rhetoric on display in controversial video amid Covid-19 crisis||A video of a controversial meeting between Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro and members of his cabinet became public on Friday, fueling a political crisis that embroils the president just as the coronavirus pandemic grips the country.Footage of the April 22 meeting that lasted more than two hours risks deepening an institutional crisis between the executive branch and the judiciary while leaving some cabinet members in a tough spot. On the other hand, it showed the strength of Economy Minister Paulo Guedes in the administration and may even please Bolsonaro’s most radical followers.The video had been under seal as part of evidence presented by former Justice Minister Sergio Moro, who resigned last month accusing the president of seeking to interfere with police investigations, some of which potentially involve members of Bolsonaro’s family in Rio de Janeiro. The Supreme Court allowed an investigation into the matter, which is ongoing.“I already tried to change people in our security in Rio de Janeiro officially but I wasn’t able to,” the president said in a crucial part of the video, which is riddled with crude language. “I’m not going to wait for them to screw over my whole family just for kicks, or my friends. Why can’t I change someone from security from the end of the line that belongs to our structure. He will be changed! If he can’t be changed, change his boss! Can’t change his boss? Change the minister!”Bolsonaro’s words fueled multiple interpretations, including that he may have been requesting a change in Rio’s police chief for the protection of his family, as Moro claimed. In a different moment, the president also says that the federal police “do not give me information.”Bolsonaro, who denies any wrongdoing, said the video’s release showed “one more farce broken down” and no indication of interference with the federal police.The video also offered Brazilians an unfiltered view of their government’s inner workings while putting on display Bolsonaro’s shocking rhetoric -- including obscenities and sexual references -- and willingness to disparage his political enemies. He made incendiary remarks cursing the governors of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro states.Some cabinet members were left in hot water after the video’s release. Education Minister Abraham Weintraub made disparaging comments about the Supreme Court, saying he would throw the justices in jail. Environment Minister Ricardo Salles suggested taking advantage of the media’s focus on the pandemic rather than the Amazon to “change all the rules and simplify them.”In a statement published after the video’s release, Salles said he “always defended de-bureaucratizing and simplifying rules.” Weintraub did not respond to a request for comment.Institutional CrisisThe Brazilian real rose after the video’s release on bets that its contents are not going to “erode Bolsonaro’s 30% approval rate,” said Roberto Padovani, economist at BV.Bolsonaro’s words have “an anti-systemic populist appeal” that may even provide a boost to his popularity among his most radical base, said Deysi Cioccari, a political scientist with the Pontifical Catholic University of Sao Paulo.“But the video causes an institutional crisis,” she said. “A very strong institutional crisis is coming.”Even though Bolsonaro’s disagreement with some cabinet members has forced the exit of three ministers since the pandemic began -- Moro plus two health ministers -- the president expresses full support for his economy minister in the video, saying he’s never had any problems with Paulo Guedes. That vote of confidence could ease investor worries about the economy minister’s fate.Video UnsealedBolsonaro had initially requested that parts of the meeting that are not related to the probe remain private to protect national interests. Moro, on the other hand, wanted it to be released to the public in its entirety. Portions of the footage released on the Supreme Court’s website were redacted.In his decision to unseal the video, Justice Celso de Mello said his judgement had been informed by the Watergate case that led to the resignation of U.S. President Richard Nixon in 1974. He said it was legitimate for the Court to review acts of the president especially when they have to do with “the Head of State’s supposed criminal practice.” He determined the video should be unsealed for the sake of transparency.As part of the investigation, Mello asked the federal prosecutors to decide whether three requests from opposition lawmakers to have Bolsonaro testify and turn in his personal phone -- along with the phone of his son Carlos -- should be undertaken. There is no deadline for the prosecutor to respond. In a statement, Institutional Security Minister Augusto Heleno called any potential seizure order “unbelievable,” an insult to executive powers, and “a clear attempt to compromise the harmony among powers that could have unpredictable consequences for national stability.”Bolsonaro later told journalists “no one is going to get my phone.”High StakesThe stakes are high for far-right president, who is facing political and economic crises on top of the catastrophic public health crisis. The country’s total case count topped 330,000 Friday, surpassing Russia to become the second hardest hit country, after only the U.S.Bolsonaro’s popularity has declined during the outbreak, in part due to his refusal to adopt social distancing measures and promotion of the controversial anti-malarial drug chloroquine. Contrary to the president, 76% of Brazilians believe social distancing is the best way to prevent the spread of Covid-19, according to a recent poll by XP/Ipespe. And even though half of Brazilians think his administration is “bad” or “terrible”, polling suggests his support base is still quite robust: 25% evaluated the president’s performance positively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazlian-prez-bolsonaro-s-fiery-rhetoric-on-display-in-controversial-video-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-oE2VNqKKr4AZLvdDpbOjWJ.html
23-05-2020||World||Brazil surpasses Russia in confirmed virus cases||Brazil’s health ministry said Friday there were 3,30,890 confirmed COVID-19 cases. That is more than Russia, the country that has the second-highest number of cases in the world on the Johns Hopkins University tally. Brazil reported 1,001 deaths over the previous 24 hours, bringing its total death toll to more than 21,000. It is the hardest hit nation in Latin America. The news came as states and cities across Brazil debate whether to loosen restrictive measures introduced to limit the spread of the virus, or implement stricter lockdowns. While the mayor of Rio de Janeiro said he wants to gradually reopen non-essential shops in the next few days, newspaper Folha de S. Paulo reported Friday that Sao Paulo was reevaluating its previously announced plans to reopen commerce and instead may enter lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-surpasses-russia-in-confirmed-virus-cases/story-1FqJapIALcjeA1TPbr8lNK.html
23-05-2020||World||‘Bodies from the sky’: Horror as PIA plane crashes among homes in Pakistan||Raja Amjad was out for an ordinary afternoon drive in Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city, when he was blindsided by a crashing plane and the body that landed on his car.The body came from Pakistan International Airlines flight PK8303, which ploughed into buildings in a crowded Karachi neighbourhood, exploding upon impact and sending a plume of thick-black smoke into the air. As Amjad jumped from his vehicle, he looked overhead to see another passenger still alive and dangling from the plane’s emergency exit, calling for help. “He was alive. He was speaking. He asked me to save him. I forcefully tried to pull him out, but his legs were badly stuck in the emergency door,” Amjad told AFP, saying he called the emergency services. The aircraft’s wings sliced through roofs as the fuselage smashed into pieces, while the fire from the crash spread to nearby homes close to the bustling port city’s airport.Also read | Tracing 8 fatal plane crashes of Pakistan airlines between 1965 and 2020Rescue workers arrived immediately and along with residents began combing through the debris looking for survivors as firefighters tried to extinguish the flames fed by the Airbus A320’s jet fuel.“I heard a blast. Immediately I ran outside. There were clouds of smoke. There was fire. The fire erupted on the roof of a house,” said resident Najeeb Ur Rehman.The alleyway at the centre of the crash was littered with debris from pieces of the plane’s cabin along with personal goods from luggage, which were scattered across vehicles and motorbikes parked in front of homes. Sarfraz Ahmed, a firefighter at the crash site, said several bodies still had their seatbelts fastened while others were wearing oxygen masks, according to another rescue official at the scene. After spending hours working in the scorching heat, rescuers and security forces paused briefly for a few minutes to break their Ramadan fasts as they sipped water and nibbled on fruit at dusk while the call to prayer blared before heading back to the crash site. As night fell over the neighbourhood, cranes hoisted lights over the scene allowing rescue teams to continue combing through the wreckage. The crash comes as Pakistanis across the country are preparing to celebrate the end of Ramadan and the beginning of Eid al-Fitr -- a time when families gather and feast for days after a month of fasting.“This Eid had already become meaningless because of coronavirus, but now it has become a tragedy for all of us, not only the relatives of the victims,” said Mudassar Ahmed, whose home was just blocks from the crash site.Friday was a public holiday in Pakistan kickstarting a mass migration of people travelling back to their homes in cities and villages for Eid, with many slated to see extended family for the first time in months following the lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic.Commercial flights had resumed just a few days ago, after planes were grounded during a lockdown.Also read | In Pakistan plane crash with 99 on board, at least 2 miraculous survivors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bodies-from-the-sky-horror-as-pia-plane-crashes-among-homes-in-pakistan/story-I234dlhtxOBauWapSzb4vK.html
23-05-2020||World||82 bodies recovered, more feared dead in Pakistan plane crash with 99 on board||At least 82 people were killed when a Pakistan International Airlines plane with 99 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport here on Friday, officials said, nearly a week after the Covid-19-induced air travel restrictions were lifted by the government.Flight PK-8303 from Lahore crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir minutes before its landing in Karachi, they said.The PIA Airbus A320 carrying 91 passengers and eight crew members has crash-landed into the Jinnah Housing Society located near the airport, a spokesperson of the national carrier said.Thick black smoke rose from the accident scene in the Model Colony area.Sindh Health Minister Azra Pechuho told the media late Friday night that 82 bodies have been recovered from the site of the crash so far.It is, however, unclear if the deceased were all on board the flight or include residents of the area where the crash took place.She said there are two survivors including President of the Bank of Punjab Zafar Masood. He called up his mother to inform her of his well-being.“We don’t know exactly how many are injured as yet as we were already in an emergency situation due to COVID-19 (outbreak)...,” she said.Faisal Edhi of the Edhi Welfare Trust said that around 25 to 30 residents whose houses were damaged by the plane have also been taken to the hospital, mostly with burn wounds.The aircraft wings during the crash landing hit the houses in the residential colony before crashing down.“At least 25 houses have been damaged in this incident,” Edhi said. “The first priority is to rescue the people. The main hurdle is narrow streets and presence of ordinary people who gathered at the place after the crash but they have been dispersed,” the minister said.Television footage showed rescue crews combing through debris strewn across the streets of the district - 3 km north-east of the airport - where a number of houses have been destroyed.According to a PIA official, the captain informed the air traffic control that he was having problems with the landing gear before the aircraft disappeared from the radar.The cause of the crash is yet to be confirmed. PIA chief executive Air Vice Marshal Arshad Malik said the pilot had told traffic control that the plane was experiencing “technical difficulties”.Malik rejected reports that the plane had problems even before flying. Talking to the media, he said the aircraft was completely safe and sound.He said all checks and procedures were done and “technically as well as administratively everything was in place and perfect”.The plane with 99 people on board came for landing but just before landing the pilot said he was going for a go-around. While coming for a second landing, it developed some problems and crashed. “The real cause of the mishap will be known after inquiry, which will be free and fair and it will be provided with media,” he said.Malik said that the entire operation will take two to three days to complete. Pakistan has set up a four-member board of inquiry to know the cause of the crash.The board has been asked to complete the probe within shortest possible time, according to an official notification by the Aviation Division of the government. Pakistan’s Dunya News said it had obtained a recording of the conversation, also posted on monitoring website liveatc.net.In it, the pilot says they have “lost two engines”. Several seconds later he calls “Mayday, Mayday, Mayday” and there is no further communication.Meanwhile, President Arif Alvi expressed grief and sorrow over the loss of lives in the plane crash.Prime Minister Imran Khan, while expressing deep sorrow over the loss of precious lives as a result of the PIA passenger plane crash in Karachi, has ordered an immediate inquiry into the incident.Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa condoled the loss of lives and directed the military to provide full assistance to the civil administration in rescue and relief efforts.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the loss of lives in the plane crash and wished a speedy recovery to those injured.The flight was coming from Lahore to Karachi after the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) allowed limited resumption of domestic flights last Saturday following weeks of lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.Television channels showed several houses and cars damaged in the society where the aircraft crashed.The plane lost contact with the air traffic control at 2.37 PM (local time), PIA spokesman Abdullah Hafeez said.He said that the passengers included 31 women and nine children.This is the first major aircraft crash in Pakistan after December 7, 2016 when a PIA ATR-42 aircraft from Chitral to Islamabad crashed midway. The crash claimed the lives of all 48 passengers and the crew.Friday’s accident occurred on a day when the interior ministry announced Eid holidays from May 22 to May 27, even as the country was facing a spike in the coronavirus cases.The COVID-19 cases in the country have crossed the 50,000-mark after a record 2,603 more patients were diagnosed on Thursday. The death toll stands at 1,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-plane-from-lahore-with-91-onboard-crashes-in-residential-area-in-karachi/story-OzQ0qgmaBjJI2WtsA0ydII.html
