30-05-2020||World||Covid-19 crisis: Italy to open travel as local officials fret over Lombardy||Italy’s health minister confirmed the country can go ahead with the plan to start allowing travel across the nation next week, even as some local governors oppose letting people from the hard-hit Lombardy region move freely.Data on the spread of the virus is improving and allows for the reopening among regions, Health Minister Roberto Speranza said in a statement. The announcement came after a late night meeting with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and various coalition party representatives and ministers.The government and regional governors have been at loggerheads over the fate of citizens from Lombardy, Italy’s richest and most populous region located around Milan and the epicenter of one of Europe’s worst virus outbreaks. Some regional authorities, including the governor of the Naples region, Campania, have threatened to close their borders to people coming from Lombardy once free travel within Italy restarts.“The trend is good almost in all the regions, which shows that the effects of the lockdown were extremely positive,” Giovanni Rezza, head of prevention at the health ministry, said in video comments about virus monitoring data on Friday.Though new virus cases continue to decline, Lombardy still has the highest ratio of new cases per 100,000 people, according to data published by the health ministry on the May 18-24 period, after lockdown measures were eased further. A total of 33,340 fatalities have been reported in Italy since the start of the pandemic in February, most of them in northern Italy and 16,079 of them in Lombardy, according to the latest data released Saturday. There were 416 new virus cases, down from 516 on Friday.Meanwhile the governor of Lombardy, Attilio Fontana, said last week he’d been given a police escort after growing criticism of his handling of the virus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-crisis-italy-to-open-travel-as-local-officials-fret-over-lombardy/story-TSygMNDkpuigp76BFVq91H.html
30-05-2020||World||China says US action on Hong Kong ‘doomed to fail’||The mouthpiece newspaper of China’s ruling Communist Party said Saturday that the U.S. decision to end some trading privileges for Hong Kong “grossly interferes” in China’s internal affairs and is “doomed to fail.”The Hong Kong government called President Donald Trump’s announcement unjustified and said it is “not unduly worried by such threats,” despite concern that they could drive companies away from the Asian financial and trading center.An editorial in China’s official People’s Daily newspaper said that attempts at “forcing China to make concessions on core interests including sovereignty and security through blackmailing or coercion ... can only be wishful thinking and day-dreaming!”Trump’s move came after China’s ceremonial parliament voted Thursday to bypass Hong Kong’s legislature and develop and enact national security legislation on its own for the semi-autonomous territory. Democracy activists and many legal experts worry that the laws could curtail free speech and opposition political activities.China had issued no official response as of late Saturday, but earlier said it would retaliate if the U.S. went ahead with its threat to revoke trading advantages granted to Hong Kong after its handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997.“This hegemonic act of attempting to interfere in Hong Kong affairs and grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs will not frighten the Chinese people and is doomed to fail,” the People’s Daily said.In Hong Kong, small groups of Beijing supporters marched to the U.S. Consulate on Saturday carrying Chinese flags and signs protesting “American interference in China’s internal affair” and calling Trump “shameless and useless.”Elsewhere in the city, youthful activists including Joshua Wong held a news conference to welcome Trump’s announcement and try to downplay any economic fallout.Tensions between the U.S. and China over Hong Kong have increased over the past year, with the U.S. defending pro-democracy protesters who clashed with police last year and China vilifying them as terrorists and separatists.“It is now clear that Hong Kong is caught in the middle of major China-U.S. tensions,” said Tara Joseph, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. “That is a real shame for Hong Kong and it will be a challenge in the months ahead.”Joseph said there were many unanswered questions about how the trading relationship will unravel and predicted that “it won’t be like flipping a switch.”U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo set the stage for Trump’s announcement by notifying Congress on Wednesday that Hong Kong no longer has the high degree of autonomy that it is guaranteed under the “one country, two systems” framework.Trump said Friday that his administration would begin eliminating the “full range” of agreements that had given Hong Kong a relationship with the U.S. that mainland China lacked, including exemptions from controls on certain exports.“China has replaced its promised formula of one country, two systems, with one country, one system,” he said, echoing statements by pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong.A Hong Kong government statement accused Trump and his administration of smearing and demonizing the government’s duty to safeguard national security and called allegations that the security law would undermine individual freedoms “simply fallacious.”“President Trump’s claim that Hong Kong now operated under ‘one country, one system’ was completely false and ignored the facts on the ground,” the statement said.Separately, Hong Kong Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng told reporters that it was “completely false and wrong” to say the territory was losing its autonomy.She also criticized the U.S., saying “any other state that tries to use coercion or whatever means with a view to interfering with the sovereign right of a state to pass its own national security law is arguably infringing on the principle of non-intervention under public international law, and that is not acceptable.”Washington’s response could include U.S. travel bans or other sanctions on officials connected with the crackdown on last year’s pro-democracy protests, including members of the Hong Kong police force.“Whatever attempt at suppressing or intimidating Hong Kong officials there may be, I think it won’t succeed, because we believe what we are doing is right,” said John Lee, Hong Kong’s secretary for security.China decided to impose a national security law on the city after successive Hong Kong governments were unable or unwilling to do so themselves because of stiff public opposition. The one attempt to do so in 2003 was abandoned in the face of major protests.Beijing’s resolve to move forward appears to have been hardened by the months of anti-government protests last year and a determination to prevent them from coming back this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-us-action-on-hong-kong-doomed-to-fail/story-PB4CgxH2jdLUQauNTF0D9M.html
30-05-2020||World||Two NASA astronauts climb aboard SpaceX rocket for historic flight||Despite more storms in the forecast, two NASA astronauts climbed into their capsule Saturday for a second attempt at a history-making ride into orbit aboard a rocket ship built by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company.With the flight already delayed three days by bad weather, forecasters put the odds of acceptable conditions at 50-50 for the 3:22 p.m. liftoff of the 270-foot Falcon 9 in what would be the first launch of astronauts into orbit by a private company.It would also be NASA’s first human spaceflight launched from U.S. soil in nearly a decade.Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken pulled on their angular, white-and-black spacesuits with help from technicians wearing masks, gloves and black hoods that made them look like ninjas.Also read| Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken: All about NASA astronauts to be launched by SpaceXBefore setting out for the launch pad in a gull-wing Tesla SUV — another Musk product — Behnken pantomimed a hug of his 6-year-old son, Theo, and said: “Are you going to listen to Mommy and make her life easy?” Hurley blew kisses to his 10-year-old son and wife.SpaceX and NASA monitored the weather not just at Kennedy Space Center, where rain, thick clouds and the chance of lightning threatened another postponement, but all the way up the Eastern Seaboard and across the North Atlantic to Ireland. Waves and wind need to be within certain limits in case the astronauts have to make an emergency splashdown on the way to orbit.Their destination: the International Space Station, a 19-hour flight away.Ever since the space shuttle was retired in 2011, NASA has relied on Russian spaceships launched from Kazakhstan to take U.S. astronauts to and from the space station.“I would be lying to you if I told you I wasn’t nervous,” NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said before the launch attempt. “We want to do everything we can to minimize the risk, minimize the uncertainty, so that Bob and Doug will be safe.”Wednesday’s countdown of the rocket and its bullet-shaped Dragon capsule was halted at just under 17 minutes because of the threat of lightning.President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence planned to return for the second launch attempt.Because of the coronavirus outbreak, NASA severely limited the number of employees, visitors and journalists allowed inside Kennedy Space Center, and the crowd was relatively small, at a few thousand. At the center’s tourist complex, though, all 4,000 tickets for the launch were snapped up in a few hours.The space agency likewise urged others to watch from home, but spectators soon began lining the area’s beaches and roads. Signs along the main beach drag read, “Godspeed.”Among the spectators was Neil Wight, a machinist from Buffalo, New York, who staked out a view of the launch pad from a park in Titusville.“It’s pretty historically significant in my book, and a lot of other people’s books. With everything that’s going on in this country right now, it’s important that we do things extraordinary in life,” Wight said. “We’ve been bombarded with doom and gloom for the last six, eight weeks, whatever it is, and this is awesome. It brings a lot of people together.”NASA hired SpaceX and Boeing in 2014 to taxi astronauts to and from the space station, under contracts totaling $7 billion. Both companies launched their crew capsules last year with test dummies. SpaceX’s Dragon aced all of its objectives, while Boeing’s Starliner capsule ended up in the wrong orbit and almost was destroyed because of multiple software errors.As a result, the first Starliner flight carrying astronauts isn’t expected until next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-astronauts-climb-aboard-spacex-rocket-for-historic-flight/story-B8DNLp2RAwZj57RffiKYbM.html
30-05-2020||World||Protests rage across US over Minneapolis death, Trump warns WH demonstrators of ‘vicious dogs’||Protests raged across the United States Friday as angry and grieving demonstrators clashed with police, took over busy thoroughfares, stoned and defaced public and private buildings demanding justice for George Floyd, an African-American man killed in police custody in Minneapolis earlier in the week.The White House in Washington DC was put under lockdown briefly by the Secret Service as demonstrators closed in on its gates, before they moved on down the road to Trump International, a hotel owned by the Trump Organization, the president’s company that is now run by his two elder sons.President Donald Trump on Saturday commended the Secret Service for its handling of the protestors, who he said in tweets were “professionally managed” and “organized group”. He warned them that they would have been “greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons” if they had breached the security cordon and managed to enter the premises.Trump had earlier called the protestors “thugs” and warned them, deploying a controversial phrase used by a Miami mayor against civil rights activists in the 1960s, and later by a segregationist — — “When the looting starts, shooting starts”. The president tried to walk it back in a subsequent set of tweets.Demonstrators across the country chanted the same set of slogans as they marched peacefully or broke out into violence: “I can’t breath” — Floyd’s repeated pleas to the police officer who had him pinned to the ground with his knee to his neck for exactly 8 minutes and 45 seconds — “black lives matter” and “no justice, no peace”. Derek Chauvin, the police officer, was arrested on Friday and charged with third-degree murder. Protestors are demanding action against the remaining three police officers present at the time.In Minneapolis, where Floyd was killed Monday, protestors clashed with police and defied curfew to stay out in the streets. Businesses were shut and shots were fired at police, who have continued to struggle to control the situation, which was described as “absolute chaos” by the Minnesota governor, Tim Waltz, a Democrat.“Quite candidly, right now, we do not have the numbers,” Mr. he said at a news briefing. “We cannot arrest people when we’re trying to hold ground because of the sheer size, the dynamics and the wanton violence that’s coming out there.”In a rare move, the Pentagon is reported to be prepared to deploy several units of military police to Minneapolis if needed. Soldiers from Fort Bragg and Fort Drum, military facilities in North Carolina and New York, have been put on four-hour deployment notice, the Associated Press reported Saturday.In Atlanta, protestors targeted CNN world headquarters and threw projectiles at it and defaced the company sign in front. While a reporter was on air from inside the building a firecracker was thrown into the lobby where police officers stood in a cordon. A state of emergency has been declared in the city and National Guards have been instructed to stand by for deployment.Clashes with police and vandalization of police vehicles took place in Los Angeles and Houston. In New York, dozens of people were taken into custody and many police officers were injured in the clashes. And in Portland, Oregon, demonstrators stormed a government building and set fire to cubicles inside.Protests in some cities were about their own killed in police encounters. Demonstrators in Louisville, Kentucky, for instance, mourned the killing of Breanna Taylor, an Africa American woman, by the police in March. Similar protests have been planned for the weekend in Austin and Phoenix.The Washington Post reported that police use-of-force is the sixth leading cause of death for young men of color in the United States. And, according to a database compiled by the news publication about 1,000 people are shot and killed by police every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-rage-across-us-over-minneapolis-death-trump-warns-wh-demonstrators-of-vicious-dogs/story-5Si2znqtZavAtQ8kEOZ80H.html
30-05-2020||World||China-made Covid-19 vaccine could be out by year-end||A Covid-19 vaccine under development in China could be in the market by the end of the year, a government body affiliated to the country’s cabinet, the State Council, has announced.The vaccine is being jointly developed by the Wuhan Biological Products Research Institute and Beijing Biological Products Research Institute and have completed two phases of clinical or human trials, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) announced in a social media post on its WeChat account.Both entities are affiliated with government-owned pharmaceutical group Sinopharm.More than 2000 people have received the vaccine in the first two phases of the trial.“It is reported that the clinical trial is divided into three phases, the completion of phase I-III clinical till come into the market, it is expected to be the end of this year or early next year at the earliest,” the announcement said.The announcement added that data from the two first two phases of clinical trials show that the candidate vaccine’s safety and efficacy were better than other vaccines under development.More than 100 vaccines for the virus are being developed globally, and in China, a total of five vaccines are being developed and tested on humans.Meanwhile, Wuhan is set to complete the ambitious task of conducting nucleic acid tests (NAT) on all its residents to check for asymptomatic patients.Between May 15 and 25, Wuhan medics tested more than 6.5 million residents, a state media report said, adding at least 218 among them were found to be asymptomatic.The mass testing is part of China’s efforts to fortify against a potential “second wave” after a cluster of cases emerged in a residential community earlier this month.To carry out the tests in time, health workers collected and mixed 10 to 20 samples and carried out a single test on them; If the collected sample was positive, each individual was tested again to identify which person was positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-made-covid-19-vaccine-could-be-out-by-year-end/story-VlxrkFI2EcEVvBKqWgjgdJ.html
30-05-2020||World||Lockdown musings from other countries||When I called my friend Karl Olafsson in Iceland, he was up on the wooden roof of his house, repairing it. It was a clear sunny day, and he said he was making the most of his time under lockdown. He’s not the only thing to have gone through the roof. “Bicycle sales are up like crazy. We’re all biking to enjoy the outdoors and get some exercise. The youngsters, who normally fly away to Copenhagen or to NY for holidays are discovering their own lakes, waterfalls and volcanoes and absolutely loving it.’Karl is the co-founder of Nordic Luxury, a travel company, and over the last few years they’ve added sleigh-journeys pulled by huskies. He’s been breeding rare white Siberian huskies. ‘The bi-eyed ones are particularly rare, with a blue and brown eye each. At night, the light makes them shine red and green.’ While playing with them has been a lot of fun (you can visit them on www.huskyiceland.com), Karl and the huskies are hoping to get back to business with the arrival of visitors. ‘When folks are allowed in June 15th onwards, they must show a clean bill of health from their own authorities, else test for Covid, or self-quarantine for 2 weeks. They’ll be asked to install the Rakning C-19 contagion tracing app on their phones.With summer around the corner, Icelanders understandably want to salvage the tourism the high season draws. ‘I’m enjoying my quarantine a lot.’ says Flavia Liz di Paolo, an urban activist and trendsetter working in the luxury-tourism space from Sao Paolo, Brazil. She’s been walking up a storm, over two and a half hours at a stretch sometimes, as she paces in her apartment, talking to friends and family. She’s been taking self-care classes with a nutritionist coach who has helped her lose weight by giving up carbs and sugar, and by getting her to sit down by a pretty table-setting to enjoy her meals slowly rather than swallowing them hastily on the run. She’s been receiving reiki every morning, writing her biography (for herself) and creaming her face as she watches Brazilian soap operas at night. ‘While most people in affluent neighbourhoods are obeying lockdown rules, in lower income areas such as the favelas, commerce is open and people are out and about, trading, playing football and meeting each other without masks.’ She’s noticed that there’s much less dust, and the views are prettier with more birds in the trees outside. While she’s amazed at how quickly nature has bounced back, she feels ‘people are ignorant and selfish and likely to go back to living exactly as they did before.’Kuban Karashev tutors English and guides in Kyrgyzstan where Covid cases have been relatively few, and the strict lockdown will be relaxed soon, starting with the opening of little shops and businesses. Their kids are home as school is closed till September. ‘Even in a little house you can find lots of things to do’ he says. His wife has been planting in pots and making curtains and he’s been cleaning up, even wiping down the wallpapered walls. He’s learning to speak Chinese, and they walk outside in the evenings. ‘The air is fresher, and it’s green everywhere. Cherries, strawberries and apricots are starting to make an appearance. The village folk in the mountainous and by the lakes are affected less as theirs is a local economy. Soon they’ll be taking the livestock to higher pasture and setting up their circular tents as usual, and hopefully by the time the apples and walnuts are ready to harvest for trade in September, this will all be behind us.’ From what he reads, fights will likely start in July and tourism will resume by September. But it’ll be tough, as the Kazakhs and Russians have suffered Covid as well as a drop in oil prices. Tajikistan has only just reported Covid cases this week, while Turkmenistan, (like North Korea), has reported none, he says with an amused tone, for similar reasons. Elizabeth Feroy from the pristine Lofoten Islands in northern Norway, says ‘It’s very different here as we even put restrictions on visitors from the south of the country. Schools and businesses are closed but luckily there’s plenty of nature here and we’re allowed to use it in max groups of 5. I’ve been using my extra time to decorate my surfboard, draw, paint, fixing my worn-out wool socks and mittens. I’m also more of an introvert so for me being at home gives me peace and I can focus on all the creative things I love. On Tuesdays my friends and I dance outdoors with headphones and a shared playlist. The seasonal fisheries have been going on as normal, but this has been devastating for local economy with so many people working in tourism.’Ramin Khosfian notices that the massive main square in Esfahan, the prettiest Iranian city, is virtually empty as he cycles by on a 70 km ride. The grassy plains between the mosques and palace are usually enlivened by families enjoying a picnic on a summer’s eve and visitors admiring the architectural details. “The virus came to Qom first, likely via two Chinese businessmen after the new year, and has taken 7000 lives. His wife, Zainab, who is doing her residency in radiology says the cases have dropped compared to the first two weeks. ‘Staying home,’ Ramin noticed, ‘people are sleeping in, and having only two meals a day, a late brunch and early dinner.’Domestic airports are open and active and trains and busses are now running, but there are no travellers. ‘Human beings are thinking only of themselves, destroying nature and jungles and wildlife, and if we continue the wrong we’re doing, we’ll have another reminder soon. But sadly, it is human nature to forget quickly.’You can follow Geetika Jain on insta @geetikaforest||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdown-musings-from-other-countries/story-K6nkEDiQm6CKHNpZb852cI.html
30-05-2020||World||Why Trump’s China announcement leaves room to de-escalate tensions||President Donald Trump’s long-touted response to China for its crackdown on Hong Kong included a barrage of criticism but stopped short of fully escalating tensions between the two nations.While the U.S. president’s speech Friday was heated in rhetoric, it lacked specifics around measures that would directly impact Beijing. He announced the U.S. would begin the process of stripping some of Hong Kong’s privileged trade status without detailing how quickly any changes would take effect and how many exemptions would apply.The president also promised sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials “directly or indirectly involved” in eroding Hong Kong’s autonomy but didn’t identify individuals. The administration hasn’t yet decided under what authority it would implement that action, according to a person familiar with a matter, who declined to be named because the deliberations are private.“Our actions will be strong. Our actions will be meaningful,” Trump said in the White House Rose Garden.U.S. stocks erased losses and traded little changed as Trump stopped short of implementing more draconian measures against China, with the S&P 500 Index rising 0.5% at the close in New York.The president said that the U.S. will terminate its relationship with the World Health Organization, which Trump has accused of being too deferential to China and of failing to provide accurate information about the spread of the coronavirus. He also said he would limit visas for certain Chinese students.Both those moves are tangential to China’s escalations in Hong Kong and don’t strike at Beijing to the degree that some in markets had feared earlier in the week. For instance, there was no unraveling of the phase-one trade deal signed between the world’s two biggest economies in January.Trump repeated a list of his grievances with China and punted tougher policy measures that his administration had discussed, including financial sanctions.His remarks also didn’t include mention of legislation passed by Congress this week that could sanction Chinese government officials over the treatment of Uighurs, who have been forcibly detained in internment camps in China’s Xinjiang region.“This binds the president to nothing with regards to China,” Derek Scissors, a China analyst at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “With regards to a Hong Kong policy, it is a non-event. Nothing happened.”Hawks PushingThe Trump administration and China for weeks have been trading barbs over who’s to blame for the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the U.S. and Republican lawmakers have been pushing Trump to hold the country accountable. More hawkish advisers wanted the president to take decisive action against Chinese Communist Party officials for alleged human rights violations in the city.Trump’s announcement came after China’s legislature this week approved a plan to draft legislation that Hong Kong democracy advocates say will curtail freedom of speech and undermine the island’s independent judiciary, and after Secretary of State Michael Pompeo decertified the former British colony’s autonomy under U.S. law.That certification determination, however, doesn’t mean the U.S. has to treat Hong Kong exactly like mainland China for purposes of tariffs, sales of sensitive technologies or visas. Instead, the administration has a wide spectrum of options for actions to take -- but most of them do little harm to Beijing and instead hurt not only Hong Kong but also the U.S.Hong Kong’s Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng said it’s within the central government’s rights to pass national security laws since the city is part China, even though it operates under a separate administrative system.“In so far as the national security is concerned, as in any other country in the world, this is a matter that belongs to the central authorities, whether it is a unitary or federal state,” according to a government transcipt of her comments to the media. “Any other state that tries to use coercion or whatever means with a view to interfering with the sovereign right of a state to pass its own national security law is arguably infringing on the principle of non-intervention under public international law, and that is not acceptable.”The city’s security chief, John Lee, told the media Saturday that the government is looking into the possibilities for the proposed legislation, including whether it’s necessary to set up a special unit on national security, and how police and other enforcement bodies should work with the mainland, according to a transcipt posted on the government website.Relationship BottomTrump’s remarks omitted key details about what actions he’s taking, but his tone marked an escalation of hostile relations with China, said Jude Blanchette, China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “This further entrenches the view in Beijing that we haven’t found rock bottom yet in the relationship,” he said.The president said Beijing “unlawfully claimed territory in the Pacific Ocean” and “broke its word with the world on ensuring the autonomy of Hong Kong.”“The Chinese government has continuously violated its promises to us,” Trump said. “These plain facts cannot be overlooked or swept aside. The world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government,” he added, referring to the pandemic.Chinese officials earlier Friday called potential U.S. actions over Hong Kong “purely nonsense,” saying the matter was an internal affair and that essential freedoms in the city would remain intact.Read More: What Hong Kong Losing Its ‘Special Status’ Would Mean: QuickTakeBeijing urged the U.S. to stop its “frivolous political manipulation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily briefing, reiterating Beijing’s support for Hong Kong police in upholding the law. Chinese officials have indicated they may retaliate against U.S. firms over the president’s decisions.The U.S. plan is “gross interference” in China’s affairs and is “doomed to fail,” the People’s Daily, mouthpiece of the Communist Party, said in a commentary Saturday. Beijing would be firm in responding and would not be forced into making concessions on sovereignty or security, the newspaper said.Claudia Mo, a pro-democracy lawmaker in Hong Kong, said: “This looks like a new Cold War, and Hong Kong is being made a new Berlin -- we are caught right in the middle of it.”“China is not likely to budge,” she said in a texted message on Saturday. China “must have considered such consequences and decided it could take them. Beijing will retaliate, it’s just a matter of how and when.”Trump ramped up expectations for his announcement on China actions for several days this week. Even without many immediate actions outlined, the president used Friday’s announcement to laud his administration’s tough stance on Beijing with less than six months left before the presidential election.“This was an election speech,” Blanchette said. “This will be the tone and tempo until November.”(Adds Hong Kong official’s from 16th paragraph.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-trump-s-china-announcement-leaves-room-to-de-escalate-tensions/story-S4uD7EgfGfZEsAnoHFnfaI.html
30-05-2020||World||Russia records nearly 9,000 new coronavirus cases||Russia has recorded nearly 9,000 new cases of the coronavirus, roughly consistent with the increases reported over the past two weeks. The national coronavirus task force said Saturday that 4,555 Russians have died of Covid-19 and 396,575 infections have been confirmed overall. The relatively low mortality rate compared with other countries has prompted skepticism domestically and abroad. In a bid to dispel suspicions that authorities are trying to lower the death toll for political reasons, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova explained Friday that Russia’s count contains only those confirmed to have died of the infection, but she also gave figures for people who tested positive for the virus but died of other causes. If all categories are counted as Covid-19 deaths, the nation’s total toll for April would stand at 2,713, or nearly 60 per cent more than the previously announced number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-records-nearly-9-000-new-coronavirus-cases/story-duBTtuyLUmf6Uuzjw61hLO.html
30-05-2020||World||Trump WHO funding cut prompts criticism as virus spreads||President Donald Trump’s announcement he was cutting US funding for the World Health Organization prompted criticism Saturday, as spiking infection rates in India and elsewhere served as a reminder the global pandemic is far from contained.Trump on Friday charged that the WHO didn’t respond adequately to the pandemic, accusing the U.N. agency of being under China’s “total control.”The WHO wouldn’t comment on the announcement but South African Health Minister Zweli Mkhize called it an “unfortunate” turn of events.“Certainly, when faced with a serious pandemic, you want all nations in the world to be particularly focused ... on one common enemy,” he told reporters.The U.S. is the largest source of financial support for the WHO, and its exit is expected to significantly weaken the organization. Trump said the U.S. would be “redirecting” the money to “other worldwide and deserving urgent global public health needs,” without providing specifics.In China, where the virus outbreak began, only four new confirmed cases were reported Saturday, all brought from outside the country, and no new deaths. Just 63 people remained in treatment.After judging the situation there now safe, a chartered flight carrying 200 German managers back to their jobs landed in Tianijin, a port city just east of Beijing. A flight carrying another 200 was due in Shanghai on Thursday.“I’m really happy that business is starting again,” said Karin Wasowski, a Volkswagen employee, before boarding the flight in Frankfurt. “I’ve been working from a home office but that is, of course, something completely different to being there.”More than 5,200 German companies operate in China, employing more than 1 million people.“This is an important step to reconnect China’s and Germany’s economies,” said Jens Hildebrandt, executive director of the German Chamber of Commerce in North China, which helped organize the flights. “It is our common interest to contribute in helping the economy return to normalcy and pre-virus levels.”Close to 6 million coronavirus infections have been reported worldwide, with more than 365,000 deaths and almost 2.5 million recoveries, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. The true dimensions are widely believed to be significantly greater, with experts saying many victims died without ever being tested.As some countries have effectively lowered the rate of infections, they have been moving ahead with relaxing restrictions but are keeping a very close eye on developments.In South Korea, credited with one of the most successful programs to fight the pandemic, there were 39 new cases reported Saturday, most of them in the densely populated Seoul metropolitan area where officials have linked the infections to warehouse workers. Authorities have so far maintained the phased reopening of schools in the hope that the recent transmissions could be contained quickly.India registered another record single day jump of 7,964 cases and 265 deaths, a day before it was to end its 2-month-old lockdown.That put the country’s total cases at 173,763 with 4,971 deaths and 82,369 recoveries, according to the Health Ministry.Still, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said in an open letter that India was on the path to “victory” in its battle against the virus and would “an example in economic revival,” while asking his countrymen to show “firm resolve.”Russia recorded nearly 9,000 new cases overnight, around the daily level it has been at over the past two weeks as the virus continues to spread.The national coronavirus task force said Saturday that 4,555 Russians have died of COVID-19, and 396,575 infections have been recorded. The relatively low mortality rate compared with other countries has prompted skepticism domestically and abroad.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres announced two peacekeepers serving in Mali had died from the virus. There have been 137 confirmed cases of COVID-19 among peacekeepers, the majority in Mali, but these were the first deaths.The U.S. has been worst hit by the outbreak, with more than 1.7 million cases and almost 103,000 deaths.Cities and states are under increasing pressure to reopen, however, especially for service industries that had seen customer numbers evaporate. The latest job-loss figures from the U.S. Labor Department brought to 41 million the running total of Americans who have filed for unemployment since shutdowns took hold in mid-March.But there have been worrying signs that as restrictions are eased, people have not been adhering to social distancing guidelines meant to help prevent the spread of the virus.On Friday, health officials in Missouri said that they were seeking to “inform mass numbers of unknown people” after a person who attended crowded pool parties over Memorial Day weekend at the state’s popular Lake of the Ozarks tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-who-funding-cut-prompts-criticism-as-virus-spreads/story-aEwC32U544V2uONrkJhTQP.html
30-05-2020||World||England easing Covid-19 lockdown too soon, scientific advisers warn||England risks losing control of the coronavirus pandemic again because it is starting to lift its lockdown without a fully operational track and trace programme in place, three senior scientific advisers warned on Saturday. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said England’s lockdown measures will be eased cautiously from Monday, aided by a track and trace system that launched on Thursday.The advisers warned, however, that the system was not yet in full operation and risked being overwhelmed by the around 8,000 new infections that are still occurring every day outside of hospitals and care homes.John Edmunds, from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and a member of Britain’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), said the government was taking a risk. “Track and trace was only launched the day before yesterday, so we can’t be sure that that is working effectively yet and yet we’re going ahead and making these changes anyway,” he told Sky News. “I think that that is rather dangerous.” Edmunds’ comments were echoed by two other SAGE members: Peter Horby, also the chairman of the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG), and Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust.One of the slowest countries to lock down, Britain is now one of the worst-hit by the pandemic, with more than 48,000 deaths and more than 270,000 people testing positive.To try to contain the virus while also allowing the econony to recover, the test and trace system will ask contacts of people who test positive to self-isolate for 14 days, even if they have no symptoms. An app is not yet ready for the scheme. Horby of the University of Oxford said there was still too much uncertainty about what would happen to the virus’ reproduction rate -- commonly known as R -- if schools reopen and other activities resume.He added that the track, trace and isolate system was not expected to be fully operational - with local teams working to stamp out clusters of cases - until the end of June.“Returning to a situation where we’ve lost control again is far worse than a week or two of social measures,” he told BBC Radio.Government officials have repeatedly said they are following “the science” as they respond to the pandemic, but Edmunds said the decision to ease the lockdown from Monday was political.“My frustration has been recently at least that they’re pretending that they’re not making a decision, that in fact it’s us who are making the decision, and that’s not really the case,” he said. “They have to make the decision and clearly they have.”The prime minister’s office said it had at all times been informed by the data and evidence. “This package of measures has been carefully designed so we can ease the burdens of lockdown while expecting to keep R below one.”The devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are responsible for their own public health policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-easing-covid-19-lockdown-too-soon-scientific-advisers-warn/story-iuZlhPHJrwBnTVGJBxzg1K.html
30-05-2020||World||Trump ex-adviser Flynn asked Russia to avoid ‘tit-for-tat,’ new transcript shows||US President Donald Trump’s former adviser Michael Flynn asked Russia’s ambassador to help avoid an escalation in diplomatic sanctions during a call between Trump’s election and inauguration, a transcript released on Friday showed.Trump’s newly confirmed spy chief, John Ratcliffe, declassified the transcript of the conversation between Flynn and Russian ambassador to Washington Sergey Kislyak and released them to Congress in one of his first official actions in his new role.The move comes amid a legal fight over the fate of Flynn, who admitted lying to the FBI about the conversation. The Justice Department in a bombshell early this month moved to dismiss the charge Flynn had already pleaded guilty to, following public urging by Trump and his allies.The transcript shows a key discussion item between Flynn and Kislyak was a move by the administration of President Barack Obama to penalize Russia in response to findings by US spy agencies that Moscow interfered in the 2016 US presidential election through hacking and propaganda operations.“I know you have to have some sort of action - to, to only make it reciprocal. Make it reciprocal,” Flynn said, according to the transcript. “Don’t - don’t make it - don’t go any further than you have to,” Flynn added. “Because I don’t want us to get into something that has to escalate, on a, you know, on a tit for tat. You follow me, Ambassador?”The transcript is dated Dec. 29, 2016 - the day the Obama administration announced it was expelling 35 alleged Russian intelligence operatives from the United States.Trump has long bristled at US intelligence agencies’ assessment that Russia interfered in the 2016 election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-ex-adviser-flynn-asked-russia-to-avoid-tit-for-tat-new-transcript-shows/story-iA4mIzWrN6alFsWCJkYWSO.html
30-05-2020||World||Two Indian-origin men jailed for £2.4 million money laundering||Two Indian-origin men have been jailed for a total of 12 years and nine months following an international £2.4 million money-laundering operation and attempt to launder a further £1.6 million, Scotland Yard said on Saturday. Vijaya Kumar Krishnasamy, 32, and Chandrasekar Nallayan, 44, were sentenced by the Croydon Crown Court on Friday for money laundering and fraud offences around the world.The police said they received a report in 2018 from Barclays Bank that several IP addresses were repeatedly accessing multiple business accounts suspected of being utilised for money laundering. The IP addresses were traced to properties in the Croydon area.On May 2, 2019, a search warrant was executed at one of these addresses and Krishnasamy was arrested. A search revealed hundreds of pages of documents relating to dozens of suspicious businesses and hundreds of bank accounts.His mobile phone contained thousands of images of him accessing various suspect accounts online or withdrawing cash from ATMs. From the evidence on Krishnasamy’s mobile phone, Nallayan was identified as another suspect.The court was told that he was directing Krishnasamy where to transfer the criminal funds. Detectives discovered he owned or controlled ‘mule’ accounts that were being used to funnel the money through.‘Mule’ bank accounts are those controlled by fraudsters instead of their legitimate holders. The accounts are sourced from dishonest people who were prepared to ‘sell on’ their own bank accounts for a fee whilst knowing that they would be used for fraud.In total, 24 companies that were victim to the scam were identified from around the world.They would receive a fraudulent email claiming to be from their client, who had previously invoiced them, informing them about a change of their bank account details.The company, believing they were paying their genuine clients, transferred money to the suspect bank account. They would not know that they had been defrauded until their real client started chasing the payment.By that time, the majority of money in these suspected ‘mule’ business accounts was transferred out of the UK and could not be recovered. Krishnasamy entered a guilty plea, admitting to having access to ‘mule’ accounts via online banking, monitoring these accounts, and transferring funds as directed. He knew that the funds were the proceeds of crime.Nallayan pleaded not guilty to conspiring to conceal, disguise, convert, transfer or remove criminal property, but was convicted for all offences after a trial in the Croydon Crown Court.Detective constable Milena Bingley said: “This shameless pair have caused untold distress and worry to their victims. This case shows that those responsible for money laundering will be tracked down and face up to their crimes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-indian-origin-men-jailed-for-2-4-million-money-laundering/story-rh9s2tf3Y54LuDsthRTyNM.html
30-05-2020||World||In unusual move, US embassies in Africa speak up on Floyd||As Minneapolis burns over the police killing of George Floyd and shock and disappointment in Africa grow, some US embassies on the continent have taken the unusual step of issuing critical statements, saying no one is above the law.The statements came as the head of the African Union Commission, Moussa Faki Mahamat, condemned the “murder” of Floyd and said Friday the continental body rejects the “continuing discriminatory practices against black citizens of the USA.”Africa has not seen the kind of protests over Floyd’s killing that have erupted across the United States, but many Africans have expressed disgust and dismay, openly wondering when the US will ever get it right.“WTF? ‘When the looting starts the shooting starts’?” tweeted political cartoonist Patrick Gathara in Kenya, which has its own troubles with police brutality. He, like many, was aghast at the tweet by President Donald Trump, flagged by Twitter as violating rules against “glorifying violence,” that the president later said had been misconstrued.Mindful of America’s image on a continent where China’s influence has grown and where many have felt a distinct lack of interest from the Trump administration in Africa, some US diplomats have tried to control the damage.The ambassador to Congo, Mike Hammer, highlighted a tweet from a local media entrepreneur who addressed him saying, “Dear ambassador, your country is shameful. Proud America, which went through everything from segregation to the election of Barack Obama, still hasn’t conquered the demons of racism. How many black people must be killed by white police officers before authorities react seriously?”The ambassador’s response, in French: “I am profoundly troubled by the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The Justice Department is conducting a full criminal investigation as a top priority. Security forces around the world should be held accountable. No one is above the law.”Similar statements were tweeted by the US embassies in Kenya and Uganda, while the embassies in Tanzania and Kenya tweeted a joint statement from the Department of Justice office in Minnesota on the investigation.African officials also were publicly outspoken last month over racism in China, when Africans complained of being evicted and mistreated in the city of Guangzhou amid the Covid-19 pandemic.At the time, the US was quick to join in, with the embassy in Beijing issuing a critical security alert titled “Discrimination against African-Americans in Guangzhou” and noting actions against people thought to be African or have African contacts.Now the Africa-facing version of the state-run China Daily newspaper is tweeting footage from Minneapolis with the hashtags #GeorgeFloydWasMurdered and #BlackLivesMatter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-unusual-move-us-embassies-in-africa-speak-up-on-floyd/story-cfZ890gnCc9CL2aCaYLhwL.html
30-05-2020||World||Germany says Trump split from WHO will harm global health||Germany on Saturday blasted US President Donald Trump’s decision to sever ties with the World Health Organization, describing it as “disappointing” and a setback for global health.The WHO “needs reform” if it is to “make any difference”, Health Minister Jens Spahn said in a Tweet released in English, German and French.“And the EU must take a leading role and engage more financially,” he said, adding this would be one of Germany’s priorities when it takes over the bloc’s rotating presidency on July 1.Trump said Friday he was cutting US ties with the WHO, which he charged with failing to do enough to combat the initial spread of the novel coronavirus.The president first suspended funding to the UN agency a month ago, accusing it of mishandling the global pandemic.Then, earlier this month, he accused the Geneva-based WHO of being a “puppet” of China, and said the funding freeze would become permanent unless it made “substantive improvements”. Spahn described Trump’s latest move as “a disappointing backlash for International Health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-says-trump-split-from-who-will-harm-global-health/story-q4cjQXLAqS93yr3o9pW8DP.html
30-05-2020||World||Brazil Covid-19 death toll hits 27,878, surpassing hard-hit Spain||Brazil on Friday reached 27,878 coronavirus deaths, official figures showed, surpassing the toll of hard-hit Spain and making it the country with the fifth-highest number of fatalities.The epicenter of the South American coronavirus outbreak, Brazil saw 1,124 deaths in 24 hours, the Ministry of Health said.It also had a record number of new cases -- 26,928 in one day -- bringing the total number of infections to 465,166.The United States, Britain, Italy and France lead the world in coronavirus deaths.As of Friday Spain had recorded 27,121 deaths, with virus fatalities there rapidly slowing. Brazil could soon surpass France, which has seen 28,714 deaths.Brazil is second in the number of confirmed cases, though trailing far behind the United States which has 1.7 million infections.Brazil has seen 131.2 coronavirus deaths per one million people -- compared to more than 300 in the United States and 580 in Spain -- but the pandemic has yet to peak in the South American country.“There is no way to foresee” when the outbreak will peak, the Ministry of Health said, and experts say the number of cases in Brazil could be 15 times higher than the confirmed figure because there has been no widespread testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-covid-19-death-toll-hits-27-878-surpassing-hard-hit-spain/story-bkThSnn2GIVmu62wXgpaXI.html
30-05-2020||World||Nepal’s parties show rare unity on border dispute: Report||While Nepal’s latest border dispute with India has strained relations between South Asian neighbors with centuries-old historical, cultural and economic ties, it also has brought the tiny Himalayan nation’s bickering political parties together in a rare show of unity.The opposition Nepali Congress party has voiced support for the government in its row with India over its inauguration of a Himalayan link road built in a disputed region that lies at a strategic three-way junction with Tibet and China.In response, the government of Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli issued a new political map of the country that showed the disputed territory within its borders, a move that was overwhelmingly supported by Nepal’s opposition and civil society.”It is just not the political parties but the whole population that is backing the government on the issue,” said Puranjan Acharya, an independent analyst.The 80-kilometer (50-mile) road, inaugurated by Indian Defense Minister Rajnath Singh earlier this month, cuts through the Lipu Lekh Himalayan pass, which is considered one of the shortest and most feasible trade routes between India and China.Nepal fiercely contested the inauguration of the road and viewed the alleged incursions as a stark example of bullying by its much larger neighbor, triggering a fresh dispute over the strategically important territory.Nepal, which was never under colonial rule, has long claimed the areas of Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipu Lekh in accordance with the 1816 Sugauli treaty with the British Raj, although these areas have remained in control of Indian troops since India fought a war with China in 1962.The dispute over the territory, however, brought a new wedge in relations between the two South Asian nations, leading to an exchange of strong-worded statements and remarks from both sides.India called Nepal’s move a unilateral act that is not based on historical facts, and said it was contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through dialogue.As anger grows on both sides, analysts say the two countries have no choice but to hold talks to try to resolve their differences.“As an independent country, Nepal has few options, but the best one is to sit down” and discuss the issue with India, said Dhurba Adhikary, an independent analyst.This is not the first time there have been differences between Nepal and India.India imposed an economic blockade in 1989 and again stopped the exports of oil, medicines and food to Nepal in 2015, causing severe shortages for months in Nepal, which at the time was recovering from a devastating earthquake. India had supported an ethnic group in Nepal that was demanding more territory. Nepal called India’s involvement an interference in internal affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-s-parties-show-rare-unity-on-border-dispute-with-india/story-svXJH9YbwaW7nn6gbniqoM.html
30-05-2020||World||400 German managers, workers returning to China||Around 400 German managers, workers and family members have begun returning to China aboard charter flights as multinational companies in the world’s second-largest economy seek to get their operations running again at full speed.A pair of flights from Frankfurt to the Chinese business hubs of Tianjin and Shanghai were organized by the German Chamber of Commerce in China in cooperation with Germany’s diplomatic missions and airline Lufthansa and are the first repatriation flights from Europe to China for foreign nationals. China has largely banned all foreigners from entering China because of the coronavirus outbreak.“This is an important step to reconnect China’s and Germany’s economies,” Jens Hildebrandt, executive director of the German Chamber of Commerce in North China, was quoted as saying in a news release. “It is our common interest to contribute in helping the economy return to normalcy and pre-virus levels.” More than 5,200 German companies operate in China, employing more than 1 million people. “We know there is a huge demand in the German business community to get more foreign employees back to China,” Hildebrandt was quoted as saying.The first flight with 200 passengers was due to arrive shortly before noon on Saturday in Tianjin, a port city just east of the capital Beijing. Another flight to Shanghai. The second flight was expected to arrive in Shanghai around midday on Thursday, June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/400-german-managers-workers-returning-to-china/story-zeISXzwIRk9Yoj5jCzpLNJ.html
30-05-2020||World||Elections for 5 non-permanent members of UNSC in June; India assured of seat||The UN General Assembly has decided to hold elections for the five non-permanent members of the Security Council next month under the new voting arrangements due to the Covid-19 restrictions, with India assured a win being the sole contender for the Asia Pacific seat. The 193-member General Assembly adopted the decision on Friday titled ‘Procedure for holding elections by secret ballot without a plenary meeting during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic’. According to the decision, the elections of non-permanent members to the Security Council and the election of members to the Economic and Social Council will be held simultaneously in June 2020 without a plenary meeting. Election for the five non-permanent members of the 15-nation council for the 2021-22 term was originally scheduled on June 17. India is a candidate for a non-permanent seat and its victory is assured as it is the sole candidate vying for the lone seat from the Asia Pacific grouping. New Delhi’s candidature was unanimously endorsed in June last year by the 55 members of the Asia-Pacific grouping, including China and Pakistan. From India’s perspective, any change in the voting method will not impact its chances. The term is to start in January 2021. Traditionally, the UNSC elections are held in the General Assembly hall with each of the 193 member states casting its vote in a secret ballot. Now, large in-person meetings at the world body’s headquarters stand postponed till the end of June due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the new voting arrangement, President of the General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande will circulate a letter to all Member States at least 10 working days prior to the first round of the secret balloting, informing them of the date on which the elections will be held, the number of vacant seats, the venue where ballots may be cast and other logistical details. On the day of the elections, the voter will be required to visit the designated venue during a specific time slot to cast its ballots. Only ballots cast in the ballot boxes at the designated venues will be accepted and no ballots would be accepted after the last time slot has expired. If the total number of ballot papers cast in all the ballot boxes do not amount to at least a majority of the members of the Assembly, the President would circulate a letter to all Member States indicating a new date and time for the elections. The General Assembly President will circulate a letter to all Member States informing them of the results once the voting is complete and the ballots counted. Canada, Ireland and Norway are vying for two seats in the Western Europe and other countries category. Mexico is the only candidate for the one Latin America and Caribbean seat and Kenya and Djibouti will contest the seat available for the African group. Previously, India has been elected as a non-permanent member of the Council for the years 1950—1951, 1967—1968, 1972—1973, 1977—1978, 1984—1985, 1991—1992 and most recently in 2011—2012. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the Security Council, saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the Council which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st Century. Each year the General Assembly elects five non-permanent members (out of 10 in total) for a two-year term. The 10 non-permanent seats are distributed on a regional basis - five for African and Asian States; one for Eastern European States; two for the Latin American and Caribbean States; and two for Western European and other States. The decision to hold the UNSC elections was adopted through a silence procedure, under which if no Member State raises any objections to the draft within a specified time period, the president of the General Assembly will circulate a letter confirming adoption of the text.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elections-for-5-non-permanent-members-of-unsc-in-june-india-assured-of-seat/story-gvIAXPVxfBiCiF9ARTKjEP.html
30-05-2020||World||China’s ‘nervous’ Xi risks new Cold War, ex-Hong Kong governor says||Chinese President Xi Jinping is so nervous about the position of the Communist Party that he is risking a new Cold War and imperiling Hong Kong’s position as Asia’s preeminent financial hub, the last British governor of the territory told Reuters.Chris Patten said Xi’s ‘thuggish’ crackdown in Hong Kong could trigger an outflow of capital and people from the city which funnels the bulk of foreign direct investment into mainland China. “What does it mean? It means serious question marks not just about Hong Kong’s future as a free society but also about Hong Kong’s ability to continue as probably the premier international financial hub in Asia,” Patten said in an interview.“A lot of people will try to leave Hong Kong,” Patten said, adding that he feared capital would also flow out of the territory which Britain handed back to China in 1997.The West, he said, should stop being naive about Xi.“We have long since passed the stage where, without wanting another Cold War, we have to react to the fact Xi seems to want one himself, seems to want to be able to bully his way to whatever he thinks China wants,” Patten said.Patten, now 76, watched as the British flag was lowered over Hong Kong when the colony was handed back to China in 1997 after more than 150 years of British rule - imposed after Britain defeated China in the First Opium War. Hong Kong’s autonomy was guaranteed under the “one country, two systems” agreement enshrined in the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration signed by then Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-nervous-xi-risks-new-cold-war-ex-hong-kong-governor-says/story-sL5ZY0UI8o1PKsDWiwM2iN.html
30-05-2020||World||Suspects in UK migrant truck tragedy charged in France||Thirteen suspects arrested by French police over the deaths of 39 Vietnamese migrants in a refrigerated lorry in Britain have been charged with people trafficking, a judicial source said Saturday.Six of the group -- mainly Vietnamese and French nationals -- were held on Tuesday in the Paris region and have also been charged with manslaughter after the alleged key figure in a ring of smugglers was caught in Germany.Thirteen people were also arrested in Belgium the same day in an international police operation.The migrants -- 31 men and eight women -- were found dead in the truck in an industrial zone east of London in October 2019.The driver of the lorry has already admitted manslaughter but Tuesday’s swoop targeted the smugglers suspected of organising the migrants’ journey from Asia.The suspect arrested in Germany’s Upper Rhine region is a 29-year-old man nicknamed “The Bald Duke,” sources told AFP.“He could be the head of the network on the French side,” a source close to the investigation said.But the man’s nationality was not revealed.The 13 indicted in France also face charges of membership of a criminal organisation and all but one was put in custody.Eleven of the 13 suspects in Belgium have already been charged by a judge in Bruges with people trafficking, membership of a criminal organisation and fraud, according to Belgian prosecutorsThe investigation found that the migrants who died were loaded into the truck in northern France, and that the network continued to operate even after the tragedy, charging up to 20,000 euros to cross from France to Britain.Investigation sources told AFP the group caught in France was believed to have housed the migrants and then sent them from Paris to the north by taxi.The driver of the lorry, Maurice Robinson from Northern Ireland, last month pleaded guilty to manslaughter over the 39 deaths.Four other men are on trial in London over the tragedy, while another man, Ronan Hughes, is facing extradition from Ireland to Britain on 39 counts of manslaughter and one of conspiracy to commit unlawful immigration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspects-in-uk-migrant-truck-tragedy-charged-in-france/story-FSHEYJ84g1ZIztVEOLRVBJ.html
30-05-2020||World||Angela Merkel rejects Donald Trump’s invite to attend G7 summit in Washington||Chancellor Angela Merkel will not personally attend a meeting in the U.S. with the leaders of the world’s major economies if President Donald Trump goes ahead with it, unless the course of the coronavirus spread changes by then, her office said Saturday.After cancelling the Group of Seven summit, originally scheduled for June 10-12 at Camp David, Trump said a week ago that he was again considering hosting an in-person meeting of world leaders because it would be a “great sign to all” of things returning to normal during the pandemic.Immediately after that announcement, Merkel suggested she had not yet made up her mind on whether to attend in person or by video conference, but her office told the dpa news agency she has now made a decision.“As of today, given the overall pandemic situation, she cannot commit to participating in person,” her office said. It added that the chancellor would continue to monitor the coronavirus situation in case things change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-chancellor-angela-merkel-won-t-attend-g7-summit-in-person-if-us-goes-ahead/story-BKkGborHOuVrQXQKA4X1mL.html
30-05-2020||World||Chinese Covid-19 vaccine expected to begin mass output this year||A front-running Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed in China is expected to be available as soon as the end of this year, according to a report published in the official Wechat account of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission.The vaccine, jointly developed by the Beijing Institute of Biological Products and China National Biotec Group Co., has completed phase II testing and may be ready for the market at the end of this year or early next year, said the report.The production line for the vaccine will be fully disinfected and closed in preparation for output to start Saturday, and will have a full manufacturing capacity of 100 million-120 million vaccines each year.Drugmakers are racing to develop a cure for the contagion that has so far killed at least 365,000 people. More than 100 vaccines for the virus are being developed globally, but only a handful have made it to the crucial and final human clinical trial stage, with Chinese scientists leading the way.In total, five vaccines developed by Chinese companies are being tested on humans, the most in any country. Beijing has mobilized its health authorities, drug regulators and research institutes to work around the clock with local companies to come up with the world’s first successful one for Covid-19.President Xi Jinping has promised to share any successful vaccine globally, but Chinese companies still face challenges. Phase III testing needs to be done in a place where the coronavirus is still spreading rapidly, and China’s cases have dwindled to a handful each day. Also, an effective vaccine needs massive production capabilities in order to meet global distribution demands.The vaccine candidate from Beijing Institute of Biological Products and China National Biotec Group employs a killed version of the novel coronavirus that can still trigger an immune response. Such inactivated vaccines have been developed for many years to protect populations from diseases including polio and hepatitis.While inactivated vaccines may be slower to develop initially, their familiar path to mass production might allow them to overtake shots made by newer, cutting-edge approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-covid-19-vaccine-expected-to-begin-mass-output-this-year/story-GQnYfwHnILe17GURVKjITI.html
30-05-2020||World||US ‘very saddened’ by what happened to the relationship with China: Trump||President Donald Trump has said the US is “very saddened” by what happened to its relationship with China, hours after he announced a series of decisions against it and blamed the Chinese government’s “malfeasance” for the death and devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic worldwide. Amid escalating bilateral tensions over the coronavirus pandemic, trade issues and Beijing’s new controversial security law in Hong Kong, Trump announced a series of decisions including issuing a proclamation to deny the entry to certain Chinese nationals and tightening of regulations against Chinese investments in America.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTrump also terminated the US’ relationship with the World Health Organisation, accusing the UN’s health body of misguiding the world on the coronavirus and siding with China on this issue.“We’re talking about doing a lot of things and we’re very, very saddened by what happened to our relationship with China. They should have never allowed this to happen. They could have stopped it at the source. We asked them to come in and help them, and they didn’t want help from anybody, even the World Health Organization,” he told reporters at the White House on Friday, referring to the spread of the virus that has killed over one lakh people in America alone.Trump said that China contained the virus within its own territory but did not stop it from spreading around the world.“We are certainly not happy with what happened with respect to China. They have a virus that started and when it got out of control, perhaps, I assume that’s what happened, it got out of control, whichever way and they stopped it from going to China, but they didn’t stop it from going to the rest of the world. So nobody likes that. That was not good,” Trump said. “Countless lives have been taken and profound economic hardship has been inflicted all around the globe,” Trump said.According to the Johns Hopkins University data, the deadly disease has infected nearly 6 million people and claimed over 364,000 lives worldwide.The US is the worst-affected country in the world with over 1.7 million confirmed Covid-19 cases and more than 102,000 deaths.“They did not do a good job. So, I don’t know if it was incompetence or it was done for some other reason, but I know that I didn’t see anything in Beijing and I didn’t see anything in other Chinese cities, but I did see them in New York and London, in Paris. We saw them in Spain and we saw them in Italy. We saw that the enemy, the invisible enemy come out,” he said. Led by the US, several countries in the world have blamed China for the spread of coronavirus and its failure to provide timely information about the disease, leading to the death of over three lakh people and causing an unprecedented economic crisis.Trump has been pressing China to agree for an inquiry into the origin of the virus, including the allegation that it emerged from a bio-lab in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.“The world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government,” he said.He added that China had “instigated a global pandemic that has cost over 100,000 American lives”. The president accused China of pressurising the WHO to “mislead the world” about the virus. However, China has rejected all US allegations of a cover up regarding the Covid-19 outbreak.On asked if this was the start of the Cold War between the US and China, he said, “And all over the world, 186 countries, and probably more than that now. And they stopped it in China, but they didn’t stop it going to Europe and the United States and the rest of the world. So what’s that all about? And we have to do a very strong study and figure that out.”  “They wanted to go in, and they were delayed. But we asked to go in very specifically, and they didn’t want any help. They didn’t need any help, and then it got out of control in some form. But it didn’t seem to get out of control when it came to going to other parts of China because it didn’t go very far, but it did come to the United States. It did come to Europe. It went all over the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-very-saddened-by-what-happened-to-the-relationship-with-china-trump/story-VqXU6pv7PoBBEbiDalIg3I.html
30-05-2020||World||New York City expected to reopen on June 8: Cuomo||New York City is “on track” to enter phase one of reopening on June 8, New York Governor Cuomo said on Friday as he announced that five upstate regions will now transition to phase two which includes businesses like barber shops and hair salons.The most populous US city, which has become the epicenter of the country’s coronavirus pandemic, was on track to meet the metrics for a safe reopening, Cuomo said. “We are on track to open on June 8,” Cuomo told a daily briefing but warned that “reopening does not mean we’re going back to the way things were.”The first phase of reopening would allow non-essential construction and manufacturing to resume, and non-essential retail stores to offer curbside pick-up. Cuomo said he expected some 400,000 New Yorkers to be able to return to their workplaces starting June 8, and said the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) was working on a plan to make the city’s mass transit system safe for commuters.“I understand why people would be anxious about taking public transit,” Cuomo said. “The public transit system will be safe.”New York City is the only one of the state’s 10 regions that has not met the seven health benchmarks for reopening set by state authorities. The Finger Lakes, Mohawk Valley, Southern Tier, North Country and Central New York are the five regions cleared to enter phase two and allow services like barber shops and in-store shopping to resume, with restrictions like 50% occupancy and face coverings.Cuomo also recommended that professionals in the phase two industries get tested before operations resume.“That’s not a mandate that’s a recommendation, and we recommend to customers to ask the barber or professional in the hair salon if they had a test before you use their services,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-expected-to-reopen-on-june-8-cuomo/story-HcuuO1Bl3GeRauE42ImSgP.html
30-05-2020||World||2020 could be the hottest year since records began, experts warn||The year 2020 has been marked by astounding events globally, from nearly the entire planet gripped in the clutches of Covid-19 disease, super cyclone Amphan ravaging the Bengal coast, locust attack in parts of India and other countries to the scorching heatwave. Scientists and experts believe that when it comes to the rapid rise in temperature this summer season, this year could be the hottest. A report by HT’s Hindi language publication Hindustan states the same citing a team of experts at the International Center for Climate Change and Development.According to the report, the worst heat will affect many countries falling in the northern hemisphere which include nations like India and Bangladesh. It also predicted heatwave conditions to intensify in the coming weeks. Earlier this month, India and Bangladesh bore the brunt of super cyclone Amphan which caused havoc in states like Odisha and West Bengal in India.This is not the first time when scientists anticipated a record spike in temperature for 2020. Earlier this year, a team of meteorologists said this year could be on course to be the hottest since measurements began. As per a report by leading British daily The Guardian, experts said there is a 50% to 75% chance for 2020 to break the record in terms of heat that was set four years ago.As per the ‘2020 global annual temperature ranking outlook’ by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, there is over 74% chance for this year to be the warmest ever since the measurements began. Parts of north India and Vidarbha region, in the past week, witnessed sweltering heat and a spell of heatwave with temperatures shooting up to 46 degrees Celsius in places like Sonegaon, Maharashtra and Churu in Rajasthan. Delhi received a brief relief from excruciating heat after a spell of rainfall on Friday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had said in its weekly forecast that rain and thunderstorm will continue to lash Delhi and nearby areas in northern India thereby giving relief to people from the scorching heat. The IMD said that heatwave has abated from most parts of the country, and relief from extreme heat will be there from May 30 to June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-warn-2020-could-be-the-hottest-year-since-records-began/story-HOXcRXipXMp6VUwmHEe4RJ.html
30-05-2020||World||Trump walks back his incendiary Minneapolis ‘thugs’ post||President Donald Trump has tried to walk back his post-midnight “thugs” tweet about Minneapolis protesters that added to outrage over the police killing of a black man.Trump’s repeated condemnation of the killing and outreach to the man’s family was a marked change in tone from his earlier comments that also invoked a civil-rights-era phrase fraught with racist overtones.“When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” Trump had written in a tweet that was quickly flagged by Twitter as violating rules against “glorifying violence.” Trump later said his comments had been misconstrued. “Frankly it means when there’s looting, people get shot and they die,” he said.Trump’s explanation did little to satisfy hundreds of protesters who gathered outside the White House into early Saturday, shouting “No justice, no peace” as well as an obscene chant directed at the president.Trump’s whiplash comments came after protesters torched a Minneapolis police station on Thursday night, following three days of searing demonstrations over the death of George Floyd, who was captured on video pleading for air as a white police officer knelt on his neck for over eight minutes.And they underscored Trump’s complicated relationship with race as he tries to maintain a law-and-order mantle while looking to appeal to black voters during an election year. They also highlighted his refusal to avoid controversy or cede the spotlight even as the battered nation tries to make sense of another killing and reels over the mounting Covid-19 death toll.Trump, in his tweets, borrowed a phrase once used by former Miami Police Chief Walter Headley in a 1967 speech outlining his department’s efforts to “combat young hoodlums who have taken advantage of the civil rights campaign.” In the speech, Headley said his department had been successful “because I’ve let the word filter down that when the looting starts, the shooting starts.”“We don’t mind being accused of police brutality,” he said in the same speech, according to news reports from the time.Trump, after hours of backlash, said Friday evening that he was unaware of the origins of the phrase. “But I’ve heard it for a long time, as most people have. And frankly it means when there’s looting, people get shot and they die,” he said.Trump also revealed that he had been in touch with Floyd’s family as he continued to denounce the circumstances of the man’s killing, which he called “a terrible insult to police and to policemen.”“I just expressed my sorrow,” Trump told reporters. “He was in tremendous pain, obviously, and couldn’t breathe. And it was very obvious to anybody that watched it.”Still, Trump called on protesters to keep their demonstrations peaceful.“The family of George is entitled to justice, and the people of Minnesota are entitled to live in safety,” he said. “Law and order will prevail.”Criticism of the Trump’s tweet had been swift, with his presumptive Democratic presidential rival Joe Biden saying it was “no time for incendiary tweets, no time to incite violence.”“It’s not helpful,” said Minnesota’s Democratic Gov. Tim Walz. “Anything we do to add fuel to that fire is really, really challenging.”Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver, D-Mo., said that, as the country passed the grim milestone of more than 100,000 COVID-19 deaths, Trump had missed a chance to help the public cope with “two viruses: One is the coronavirus and the other is the virus of racial animus.”Trump has been accused of stoking racial tensions and exploiting divisions for personal gain since long before he ran for president, beginning with the full-page ads he ran in 1989 calling for the death penalty for the Central Park Five, five young men of color who were wrongly convicted of assaulting a white jogger.Trump — who rarely holds his tongue — has been silent in the face of a long list of high-profile killings by police of black men, including Eric Garner, who was placed in a chokehold and whose dying words, “I can’t breathe,” became a rallying cry for the Black Lives Matter movement. (Trump has instead invoked those words on several occasions to mock political rivals, even bringing his hands to his neck for dramatic effect.)He spent years railing against NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick and other players for kneeling during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality. And in one speech he appeared to advocate rougher treatment of people in custody, speaking dismissively of the police practice of shielding the heads of handcuffed suspects as they are being placed in patrol cars.At the same time, Trump and his campaign have tried to make inroads with black Americans, particularly after Biden suggested last week that black voters who support Trump “ain’t black.” A bedrock of the Democratic base, black Americans are unlikely to embrace Trump en masse, but his campaign believes even a marginal shift could make a difference — and send a message to white voters uneasy about the president’s charged rhetoric.Meanwhile, the unrest complicates the Trump campaign’s plans for Minnesota, one of the key swing states he hopes to win in November.Twitter’s decision to flag Trump’s tweet — the second time it has acted this week — came a day after he signed an executive order challenging the social media giant’s protections against lawsuits as he accuses it of stifling conservative voices. The warning label prevented the tweet from being shared or liked, though it could still be viewed by users. The White House, trying to skirt the blockage, reposted the message on its own official Twitter account Friday morning. Twitter quickly flagged that tweet, too, accusing the White House of promoting violence.Supporters of the president balked at the move.Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale accused the media, Biden and other Democrats of “purposefully misrepresenting what the President had said, and showing once again that they are incapable of resisting their base impulse of dividing Americans, solely for the purpose of political gain, ratings, and cable news profit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-walks-back-his-incendiary-minneapolis-thugs-post/story-1ZBiecM7lVkospSK5DdXVO.html
30-05-2020||World||Pentagon puts military police on alert to go to Minneapolis||As unrest spread across dozens of American cities on Friday, the Pentagon took the rare step of ordering the Army to put several active-duty US military police units on the ready to deploy to Minneapolis, where the police killing of George Floyd sparked the widespread protests.Soldiers from Fort Bragg in North Carolina and Fort Drum in New York have been ordered to be ready to deploy within four hours if called, according to three people with direct knowledge of the orders. Soldiers in Fort Carson, in Colorado, and Fort Riley in Kansas have been told to be ready within 24 hours. The people did not want their names used because they were not authorized to discuss the preparations.The get-ready orders were sent verbally on Friday, after President Donald Trump asked Defense Secretary Mark Esper for military options to help quell the unrest in Minneapolis after protests descended into looting and arson in some parts of the city.Trump made the request on a phone call from the Oval Office on Thursday night that included Esper, National Security Advisor Robert O’ Brien and several others. The president asked Esper for rapid deployment options if the Minneapolis protests continued to spiral out of control, according to one of the people, senior Pentagon official who was on the call.“When the White House asks for options, someone opens the drawer and pulls them out so to speak,” the official said.The person said the military units would be deployed under the Insurrection Act of 1807, which was last used in 1992 during the riots in Los Angeles that followed the Rodney King trial.“If this is where the president is headed response-wise, it would represent a significant escalation and a determination that the various state and local authorities are not up to the task of responding to the growing unrest,” Brad Moss, a Washington DC-based attorney, who specializes in national security.Members of the police units were on a 30-minute recall alert early Saturday, meaning they would have to return to their bases inside that time limit in preparation for deployment to Minneapolis inside of four hours. Units at Fort Drum are slated to head to Minneapolis first, according to the three people, including two Defence Department officials. Roughly 800 US soldiers would deploy to the city if called.Protests erupted in Minneapolis this week after video emerged showing a police officer kneeling on Floyd’s neck. Floyd later died of his injuries and the officer, Derek Chauvin, was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter on Friday.The protests turned violent and on Thursday rioters torched the Minneapolis Third Police Precinct near where Floyd was arrested. Mayor Jacob Frey ordered a citywide curfew at 8 pm beginning on Friday.The unrest has since spread across the country, with protests, some violent, erupting in cities including Washington DC, Atlanta, Phoenix, Denver and Los Angelas.Minnesota Governor Tim Walz ordered 500 of his National Guard troops into Minneapolis, St Paul, and surrounding communities.But a Pentagon spokesman said Walz did not ask for the Army to be deployed to his state.“The Department has been in touch with the Governor and there is no request for Title 10 forces to support the Minnesota National Guard or state law enforcement.” Title 10 is the US law that governs the armed forces, and would authorise active duty military to operate within the US.Alyssa Farah, the White House director of strategic communications said the deployment of active-duty military police is untrue.“False: off the record - title 10 not under discussion,” said Farah in an email response. No off-record agreement was negotiated with The Associated Press.The 16th Military Police Brigade forwarded the AP’s questions to the Defence Department.The three officials with direct knowledge of the potential deployment say the orders are on a classified system, known as the Secret Internet Protocol Router or SIPR for short.Active-duty forces are normally prohibited from acting as a domestic law enforcement agency. But the Insurrection Act offers an exception.“The Insurrection Act would allow the military to take up a policing authority it otherwise would not be allowed to do, enforcing state and federal laws,” said Stephen Vladeck, a University of Texas School of Law professor who specialises in constitutional and national security law.The statute “is deliberately vague” when it comes to the instances in which the Insurrection Act could be used, he said. The state’s governor could ask President Donald Trump to take action or Trump could act on his own authority if he’s determined that the local authorities are so overwhelmed that they can’t adequately enforce the law, Vladeck said.“It is a very, very broad grant of authority for the president,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-puts-military-police-on-alert-to-go-to-minneapolis/story-1T8JAxfoRHMwDk7Bi4VsLO.html
30-05-2020||World||Taiwan approves Gilead’s remdesivir to treat Covid-19||Taiwan’s government said on Saturday it had approved Gilead Sciences’ potential Covid-19 treatment, remdesivir, to treat the illness caused by the novel coronavirus.Governments are racing to bolster supplies of remdesivir, which US regulators this month approved for emergency use. California-based Gilead has said it will donate 1.5 million doses of remdesivir, enough to treat at least 140,000 patients, to combat the global pandemic.Taiwan’s Central Epidemic Command Centre said the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration took into account “the fact that the efficacy and safety of remdesivir has been supported by preliminary evidence” and its use is being approved by other countries.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn that basis, the centre said the conditions had been met for approval of the drug for use in patients with “severe” Covid-19 infection.Taiwan has been successful at preventing the coronavirus from spreading, thanks to early detection and prevention work and a first rate public health system.It has recorded 442 cases and only 7 deaths. The vast majority of people have recovered, with just 14 active cases.There is currently no approved medication or vaccine for Covid-19, but EU countries are already administering remdesivir to patients under compassionate use rules.Japan and the United Kingdom have both cleared the drug for use and moved to begin supplying it to patients.The United States, the world’s biggest pharmaceutical market, this month granted emergency use authorisation for remdesivir in Covid-19, but has yet to approve the broader use of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-approves-gilead-s-remdesivir-to-treat-covid-19/story-DfWMGZcEPAKxEzjpgKCUSO.html
30-05-2020||World||UN adopts new voting procedure during Covid-19 pandemic||The UN General Assembly adopted a new voting procedure Friday for the upcoming election of new members of the Security Council aimed at preventing a large gathering and ensuring social distancing during the Covid-19 pandemic.Instead of meeting in the horseshoe-shaped assembly chamber at UN headquarters overlooking New York’s East River, ambassadors from the 193 UN member nations will cast secret ballots at a designated venue during spaced-out time slots.And they will be voting not only for five non-permanent members of the Security Council to serve two-year terms but for 18 new members of the 54-nation Economic and Social Council to serve three-year terms.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the new procedure, the president of the General Assembly will send a letter to all member states at least 10 working days before the first round of secret balloting for the two elections to inform them of the date, venue where ballots should be cast, and other relevant information.The Security Council election had been scheduled for June 17, but it’s unclear whether that will remain the date.The Security Council has five permanent members — the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France — and 10 members elected by the General Assembly for two-year terms. Five countries are elected every year.The council is the UN’s most powerful body and winning a seat is a pinnacle of achievement for many countries because it gives them a strong voice on issues of international peace and security ranging from conflicts in Syria, Yemen and Ukraine to the nuclear threat posed by North Korea and Iran, and attacks by extremist groups such as the Islamic State and al-Qaida.This year seven countries are vying for five seats, and there are two hotly contested races.In the group of Western nation, Canada, Ireland and Norway are battling for two seats, and in Africa, Kenya and Djibouti are competing for one seat. India is running unopposed for the Asia-Pacific seat and Mexico is running unopposed for the seat for Latin America and the Caribbean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-adopts-new-voting-procedure-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-b5pAxHih1TOijjxQLarHDN.html
30-05-2020||World||China says US move to end some trading privileges of Hong Kong ‘doomed to fail’||The mouthpiece of China’s ruling Communist Party said US moves to end some trading privileges for Hong Kong “grossly interfere” in China’s internal affairs and are “doomed to fail.”Saturday’s editorial in the newspaper People’s Daily was responding to an announcement from President Donald Trump, after China’s ceremonial parliament bypassed Hong Kong’s local legislature to advance legislation that could severely curtail free speech and opposition political activities in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.It was the “firm determination of all Chinese people” to oppose interference in Hong Kong affairs by any external forces, the paper said.“This hegemonic act of attempting to interfere in Hong Kong affairs and grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs will not frighten the Chinese people and is doomed to fail,” it said. Attempts at “forcing China to make concessions on core interests including sovereignty and security through blackmailing or coercion ... can only be wishful thinking and day-dreaming!”China has threatened to retaliate over the US move to cancel trading advantages granted to Hong Kong after its handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997.Tensions over Hong Kong have increased over the past year as China has cracked down on protesters and strengthened its control over the Asian financial hub.Critics say the vote Thursday at the National People’s Congress to impose security legislation on Hong Kong effectively negates Beijing’s pledge to maintain the territory’s separate civil, legal and economic institutions under the “one country, two systems” framework.Trump said the administration would begin eliminating the “full range” of agreements that had given Hong Kong a relationship with the U.S. that mainland China lacked, including exemptions from controls on certain exports. “China has replaced its promised formula of one country, two systems, with one country, one system,” he said.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo notified Congress on Wednesday that Hong Kong is no longer deserving of the preferential trade and commercial status it has enjoyed from the US.It’s not yet clear what impact the decision will have on US companies that operate in Hong Kong, or on the city’s position as Asia’s major financial hub. Beijing has yet to give details on what specific measures it will take in response, although the People’s Daily editorial said China was prepared to make a “resolute counterattack and what awaits you can only be a shameful failure.”In Hong Kong on Saturday, Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng said it was “completely false and wrong” to say the territory was losing its autonomy.China’s central authorities have the absolute right to take action on national security regarding Hong Kong, Cheng told reporters.She also criticized the U.S., saying “any other state that tries to use coercion or whatever means with a view to interfering with the sovereign right of a state to pass its own national security law is arguably infringing on the principle of non-intervention under public international law, and that is not acceptable.”China passed the Hong Kong national security law after stiff public opposition scuppered a previous attempt by the territory’s legislature to pass such legislation in 2003.Beijing’s resolve appeared to have been hardened by months of anti-government protests in Hong Kong that frequently led to violent confrontations between police and the largely youthful demonstrators. China repeatedly accused foreign governments and international organizations of fueling the demonstrations, while showing no direct evidence.Speculation over Washington’s response has included the possibility that those connected with the crackdown, including members of the Hong Kong police force, could face US travel bans or other sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-us-move-to-end-some-trading-privileges-of-hong-kong-doomed-to-fail/story-XluDT1ENJoH6tlXxrPawkK.html
30-05-2020||World||Donald Trump blames China for US Covid-19 deaths in new escalation of rhetoric||President Donald Trump on Friday escalated attacks on China holding it responsible for Covid-19 deaths in the United States and worldwide as he also announced he was “terminating” US membership of the World Health Organization (WHO) for its failure to carry out reforms, chiefly cutting dependence on China.The president also announced the United States will now not allow certain students and researchers from China linked to its military technology programmes from enrolling in US universities saying they were involved in theft of patented technology. He also ended special status for Hong Kong.“The world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government,” Trump said in a short speech at a White House event that was supposed to have been a news briefing. But he did not take questions and left abruptly after reading out a short statement.“China’s cover-up of the Wuhan virus allowed the disease to spread all over the world instigating a global pandemic that has cost more than 100,000 American lives and over a million lives worldwide,” the president said, using nomenclature for the epidemic adopted by his administration to reinforce its efforts to blame it on China. Covid-19 epidemic started in Wuhan, capital of China’s Hubei province, last December.President Trump has been attacking China in what has been widely seen by his critics as a move to deflect blame for the US epidemic, with nearly 103,000 fatalities now and 1.7 million infections, away from his administration’s confused and conflicted response influenced by his reluctance to acknowledge the gravity of the crisis so as to minimize its impact on his re-election prospects.The World Health Organization is his other target. “Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and will be redirecting those funds to other organizations worldwide and deserving urgent public health needs,” Trump said at the news briefing.Trump had sent WHO a list of reforms — chiefly, ending its dependence on China — that the United States wanted it to carry out with the threat of permanently freezing its annual contribution of $450 million and terminating its membership.“The only way forward for the organization is if it can actually demonstrate independence from China,” he had written in a four-page letter to WHO director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus last week. He had given the world body 30 days to respond.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The United States has exited a number of world bodies and multilateral pacts on President Trump’s watch, starting with the Trans-Pacific Partnership in January 2017, the month he took office. This was followed by departures from the Paris Accord on climate change (2017), UNESCO (2017), Iran deal (2018) and UNHCR (2018). The president has also grumbled about US contributions to NATO and the United Nations.And now WHO. The United States was the leading force behind the founding of the world body in 1948 and was its largest funder. Its exit in the middle of a pandemic has been questioned by even his own party allies. “I disagree with the president’s decision,” said US Senate health committee chairman Lamar Alexander, a Republican, in a statement.“Withdrawing US membership could, among other things, interfere with clinical trials that are essential to the development of vaccines, which citizens of the United States as well as others in the world need. And withdrawing could make it harder to work with other countries to stop viruses before they get to the United States,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-blames-china-for-us-covid-19-deaths-in-new-escalation-of-rhetoric/story-LJPhfxOs4AeyYxJfvjGqJO.html
30-05-2020||World||Covid-19 could cause $8.5 trillion loss in global output, famine of ‘historical proportion’: UN chief||UN chief Antonio Guterres has warned that the Covid-19 pandemic will cause unimaginable devastation, usher in hunger and famine of historic proportions and lead to a loss of USD 8.5 trillion in global output -- the sharpest contraction since the Great Depression -- if nations did not respond with unity and solidarity.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We must avoid it. The pandemic has demonstrated our fragility. Despite all the technological and scientific advances of recent decades, we are in an unprecedented human crisis, because of a microscopic virus,” the UN Secretary General said on Thursday to the high-level event on Financing For Development.He underlined the need for the world to respond to the unprecedented crisis with unity and solidarity. “Unless we act now, the Covid-19 pandemic will cause unimaginable devastation and suffering around the world. Hunger and famine of historic proportions. Sixty million more people pushed into extreme poverty. Up to half the global workforce – 1.6 billion people – without livelihoods,” Guterres said He said the pandemic could usher in a loss of USD 8.5 trillion in global output – the sharpest contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Globally, coronavirus has infected 5,813,997 people and killed 360,397, according to Johns Hopkins University.Later addressing a virtual press conference along with Prime Minister of Jamaica Andrew Holness and Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau, Guterres said the world is afflicted by enormous fragilities: weak health systems; runaway climate change; unsustainable levels of inequality. “We see other signs of this fragility everywhere, from the increasing risk of nuclear proliferation to the lawlessness of cyberspace. Ignoring these warning signs is senseless arrogance. Existential threats demand humility, unity and solidarity,” he said adding that the world cannot contemplate a return to the same failed priorities and systems.“We must invest in a sustainable and inclusive recovery.” When asked at the press conference why did the US and China not speak at the high-level event in which over 50 Heads of State and Government and international organisations spoke, Guterres said “both US and China participated in our work. Of course, this was decided because of the very high participation that it could be only at the level of heads of state and government and both countries, for reasons of agenda, could not do that at that level, but they would be ready to participate at other levels.The US and China are currently engaged in a war of words over a range of issues, including on trade, the origins of the coronavirus epidemic and Hong Kong.“But they will be engaged in the Working Group. So, there is a commitment both from the United States and China to be involved in this process, which we very much welcome.” Guterres told the high-level meeting that the UN is asking for immediate, collective action in six critically important areas to deal with the crisis.Beginning with the global liquidity crisis, he said that this was where the health and economic crises meet; “a dangerous nexus that could prolong and deepen both,” calling for extending Special Drawing Rights to supplement public spending reserves.Noting that the economic fallout from the pandemic threatens a wave of defaults in developing countries, stymieing the effort to reach the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, the UN chief’s second call was for “durable solutions on debt, to create space for investments in recovery and the Sustainable Development Goals.” Next, he urged private creditors holding a growing share of developing countries’ sovereign debt to find incentives to encourage more creditors to provide debt relief.Guterres then drew attention to external funding, saying that aligning incentives in global financial systems with the SDGs would boost confidence “to relaunch investment in sustainable development.” Turning to illicit financial flow, such as tax evasion and money-laundering, which deprive developing countries of hundreds of billions of dollars annually, he said that “we must plug the leaks” by revising national systems and international frameworks.The UN chief also highlighted the overarching need to “recover better” from the ravages of the coronavirus pandemic.Trudeau called the pandemic “a stark reminder” of how interconnected our world has become, spelling out that “to keep our citizens safe and healthy, we must defeat Covid-19 wherever it is found.” This requires a global, coordinated plan that will also facilitate global and domestic economies to bounce back.Jobs and businesses in every country depend on “the health and stability of economies elsewhere” – all of which is hinged on the success of the global economy in weathering this storm, said the co-convener of the high-level summit.“Covid-19 is an unprecedented challenge for our modern world, but it’s also a unique opportunity to build a better future, to create a safe and prosperous world,” he added.Holness called the pandemic “a wake-up call” for the international community to reinvigorate a comprehensive system of global economic governance “that can cope with global disruptions while promoting inclusive development.” He said a big challenge for the international financial system was to channel public and private credit flows, into productive, inclusive developmental capital flows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-could-cause-8-5-trillion-dollar-loss-in-global-output-says-un-chief-antonio-guterres/story-B4VtOti9tb3SJqgjhE0EBK.html
30-05-2020||World||West Bengal doctor says state shifting to Sweden model to contain coronavirus||With West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announcing the easing of lockdown restrictions in the state, a renowned doctor said that following ramping up of COVID-19 tests, the government seems to be gradually shifting towards the Sweden or Taiwan model to contain the pandemic.Dr Diptendra Sarkar of the state-run SSKM Hospital said that with the countrywide lockdown having been in force for nearly 70 days and the government, both at the Centre and the state, having shored up resources during the period to deal with the disease, it was time for a gradual easing of restrictions.“I feel that they are shifting the model, they were till now going by the hammer and the tongs model which is a lockdown,” he said.Referring to the 72-day lockdown in Wuhan, he said that a lockdown of 60 to 70 days brings down the number of cases of infection.“The Sweden model or that in Taiwan or South Korea, where instead of lockdown they stressed on testing and segregating high-risk population, they have got equal success,” Sarkar said.He opined that the government had enforced a strict lockdown in the beginning owing to lack of testing facilities, but now with a countrywide testing capacity of around one lakh per day, the government is shifting towards the Sweden or South Korea or Taiwan model from the lockdown model.He said that according to a study by the Imperial College of London, if 60 per cent of the population wear ordinary masks, then it can prevent 90 per cent spread of infections.“As an epidemic progresses, a virus in order to survive reduces fatality among its host and gradually loses its vigour,” Sarkar said.While agreeing that the lockdown has to be lifted at some point of time, the Association of Health Service Doctors secretary Dr Manas Gumta expressed his reservations on the manner in which it was being eased in the state.He said that it is not about one-upmanship with the central government over bringing of thousands of people by trains from other states, including the most affected Maharashtra and Gujarat, but there has to be a scientific basis on the way the lockdown is lifted.“Lockdown is simply for buying time by which the health infrastructure can be readied to deal with the pandemic effectively as also for non-COVID patients,” he said, adding that it has to be lifted but in a phased manner.“The way the lockdown is being practically lifted without any preparation, it may lead to a catastrophe,” he said.Gumta said the government needs revenue and people also require livelihood and as such lockdown has to be lifted gradually.“But what is the purpose of opening up religious places, at this juncture, where people may congregate in large numbers,” he questioned. He said that with work from home becoming common in various sectors, there was no need to open up all sectors with full workforce.Gumta also opined that the government should introduce shift systems in offices so as to ease the crowding of many people at a time, in workplaces as well as in public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/west-bengal-doctor-says-state-shifting-to-sweden-model-to-contain-coronavirus/story-vGLR5gXhL8e9Np4bI2PpJP.html
30-05-2020||World||Transgender man in Florida fatally shot by officer after pointing gun||A transgender black man was fatally shot by an officer in Florida after fatally stabbing another man and pointing a gun at the officer, authorities said.Tony McDade, 38, was shot and killed by a Tallahassee police officer Wednesday after McDade fatally stabbed her next-door neighbor 21-year-old Malik Jackson, news outlets reported. McDade went by male pronouns on Facebook and local LGBTQ organizations identified McDade as a transgender man.Tallahassee Police Chief Lawrence Revell said officers found Jackson suffering from fatal stab wounds in front of his mother’s home.The suspect fled but was found 15 minutes later at a different apartment complex, Revell said.McDade had a gun and pointed it at an officer, who then shot him, Revell said. Police haven’t released the officer’s identity but witnesses said the officer was white, news outlets reported.During a news conference, Revell said there was no indication that the shooting was racially motivated nor was there an indication that the shooting was unjustified.McDade posted a video on Facebook before the stabbing, stating he was going to get revenge on several men who attacked him the previous day. McDade also said he would have a standoff with police, adding “I’m living suicidal right now.”Another social media video shows a group of men attack a person believed to be McDade.Police said they were working to authenticate the videos.McDade was arrested on May 4 and accused of aggravated assault and pointing a gun at someone. Police said McDade was carrying a BB gun and that he always carried a BB gun with him.The shooting came days after the killing of George Floyd, a Minneapolis man who died while being detained by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/transgender-man-in-florida-fatally-shot-by-officer-after-pointing-gun/story-R1s4qTej1faU63p9EVzVdP.html
30-05-2020||World||Woman fatally shot at after charging officer with knife: Police||A woman armed with a butcher knife was fatally shot Friday after charging police officers outside a Florida government building, authorities said.Temple Terrace Police Chief Kenneth Albano said during a news conference that the shooting occurred at the City Hall building, the Tampa Bay Times reported. Heba Momtaz Alazhari, 21, arrived at City Hall and asked for an officer’s help, officials said. When a uniformed officer went outside, the chief said she charged at him with a knife for unknown reasons. Multiple officers fired at the woman, though Albano wouldn’t say how many. The officer who was attacked sustained injuries that weren’t life-threatening. The chief did not say how many officers were involved, how many fired their weapons or how many times the woman was shot. The officer who was attacked did fire his weapon, Albano said. State law enforcement agents will investigate the shooting. Officials didn’t release the race of the woman or the officers involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/woman-fatally-shot-at-after-charging-officer-with-knife-police/story-XB8xupvredYdyLr3Xen2YM.html
30-05-2020||World||End of ties: After WHO announcement, a look at international agreements that US has quit under Trump’s presidency||Just days after writing a four-page long letter to the World Health Organization Chief (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus earlier this month, US President Donald Trump on Friday announced severing ties with the global health body and said the country’s annual contribution of $450 million towards the WHO will be diverted to other global bodies.“Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and will be redirecting those funds to other worldwide and deserving urgent public health needs,” Trump said during a news briefing announcing that the US will also end special status for Hong Kong and treat it on par with Mainland China. The move comes amid growing tensions between the US and China over the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Donald Trump announced US is cutting ties with WHO. Here’s whyThis is nothing new for the US President who is known to have exited many international pacts and world bodies ever since he took charge in 2017, one of the most significant ones being the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) or the Iran nuclear deal. Here’s a quick look at some of the multilateral pacts and global bodies exited by the US under Trump administration.Trans-Pacific Partnership Right after assuming office as the US President, Trump exited 12-nation TPP and fulfilled one of his electoral promises which he said was aimed at protecting US jobs. The original 12-member agreement was known as the TPP and was a signature trade policy of the Obama administration. Obama was unable to secure Congressional support for the deal. Following the US withdrawal, the remaining 11 countries renegotiated parts of the TPP, removing some of Washington’s demands. In March, they signed the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), also known as TPP-11.Drafted in the year 2015, the trade deal covered nearly 40 per cent of the world’s economy and was negotiated by countries like the US, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Mexico, among others with an aim to boost growth, improve economic ties and reduce tariffs.pic.twitter.com/mljmx2o0G7Paris Accord on climate change This was another departure from an Obama-era deal. Trump withdrew from the accord in the year 2017 citing threat to the country’s economy and sovereignty. The Obama administration had signed the United States onto the 2015 pact, promising a 26-28% cut in US greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 from 2005 levels. Trump said the agreement was not in tune with American workers. Iran nuclear dealIn May 2018, Trump announced US exit from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or the Iran nuclear deal. The 2015 international agreement was designed to deny Tehran the ability to build nuclear weapons.Another Obama-era agreement, Trump had previously dismissed the deal as “insane” and “ridiculous”. Former US President Barack Obama, in a statement on US exit from JCPOA, said, “Walking away from the JCPOA turns our back on America’s closest allies, and an agreement that our country’s leading diplomats, scientists, and intelligence professionals negotiated”. United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO)United States’ withdrawal from the UNESCO was led by Trump in the year 2017 citing “anti-Israel bias”. The US was upset with the UNESCO for granting full membership to Palestine while Israel maintained it should have been granted only after working out a peace deal in the Middle East. United Nations Human Rights CouncilThe United States exited the UNHRC in the year 2018 citing bias against Israel and a lack of reform. “Look at the council membership, and you see an appalling disrespect for the most basic rights,” then US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said on US exit.  The US president has also grumbled about US contributions to NATO and the United Nations. He had previously threatened to quit the Universal Postal Union to force them to rationalise rates. The US did not make an exit as they arrived at a compromise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-of-ties-after-who-announcement-a-look-at-international-agreements-that-us-has-quit-under-trump-s-presidency/story-nq7pc7FFSGPbqYkMkiR47K.html
30-05-2020||World||Donald Trump announced US is cutting ties with WHO. Here’s why||The United States will end its relationship with the World Health Organization (WHO) over the world body’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, US President Donald Trump said on Friday.Trump’s decision to sever ties with the Geneva-based body also comes amid growing tensions between the US and China over the coronavirus pandemic.The virus first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year and has killed more than 3.64 people worldwide and affected over 5.9 million.Watch: Donald Trump terminates relationship with WHO, announces actions against China “Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and will be redirecting those funds to other worldwide and deserving urgent public health needs,” Trump said at a news briefing.Also read| ‘World needs answers’: Donald Trump renews attack on China over Covid-19 pandemicTrump had sent a list of reforms that the United States wanted the world body to carry out.“The only way forward for the organization is if it can actually demonstrate independence from China,” he had written in a four-page letter to WHO director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus last week. He had given the WHO, which the US joined in 1948, 30 days to respond.Here’s what he wrote in that letter:On April 14, 2020, I suspended United States contributions to the World Health Organization pending an investigation by my Administration of the organization’s failed response to the COVID-19 outbreak. This review has confirmed many of the serious concerns I raised last month and identified others that the World Health Organization should have addressed, especially the World Health Organization’s alarming lack of independence from the People’s Republic of China. Based on this review, we now know the following:• The World Health Organization consistently ignored credible reports of the virus spreading in Wuhan in early December 2019 or even earlier, including reports from the Lancet medical journal. The World Health Organization failed to independently investigate credible reports that conflicted directly with the Chinese government’s official accounts, even those that came from sources within Wuhan itself.• By no later than December 30, 2019, the World Health Organization office in Beijing knew that there was a “major public health” concern in Wuhan. Between December 26 and December 30, China’s media highlighted evidence of a new virus emerging from Wuhan, based on patient data sent to multiple Chinese genomics companies. Additionally, during this period, Dr. Zhang Jixian, a doctor from Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, told China’s health authorities that a new coronavirus was causing a novel disease that was, at the time, afflicting approximately 180 patients.• By the next day, Taiwanese authorities had communicated information to the World Health Organization indicating human-to-human transmission of a new virus. Yet the World Health Organization chose not to share any of this critical information with the rest of the world, probably for political reasons.• The International Health Regulations require countries to report the risk of a health emergency within 24 hours. But China did not inform the World Health Organization of Wuhan’s several cases of pneumonia, of unknown origin, until December 31, 2019, even though it likely had knowledge of these cases days or weeks earlier.• According to Dr. Zhang Yongzhen of the Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center, he told Chinese authorities on January 5, 2020, that he had sequenced the genome of the virus. There was no publication of this information until six days later, on January 11, 2020, when Dr. Zhang self-posted it online. The next day, Chinese authorities closed his lab for “rectification.” As even the World Health Organization acknowledged, Dr. Zhang’s posting was a great act of “transparency.” But the World Health Organization has been conspicuously silent both with respect to the closure of Dr. Zhang’s lab and his assertion that he had notified Chinese authorities of his breakthrough six days earlier.• The World Health Organization has repeatedly made claims about the coronavirus that were either grossly inaccurate or misleading.- On January 14, 2020, the World Health Organization gratuitously reaffirmed China’s now-debunked claim that the coronavirus could not be transmitted between humans, stating: “Preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCov) identified in Wuhan, China.” This assertion was in direct conflict with censored reports from Wuhan.- On January 21, 2020, President Xi Jinping of China reportedly pressured you not to declare the coronavirus outbreak an emergency. You gave in to this pressure the next day and told the world that the coronavirus did not pose a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. Just over one week later, on January 30, 2020, overwhelming evidence to the contrary forced you to reverse course.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage - On January 28, 2020, after meeting with President Xi in Beijing, you praised the Chinese government for its “transparency” with respect to the coronavirus, announcing that China had set a “new standard for outbreak control” and “bought the world time.” You did not mention that China had, by then, silenced or punished several doctors for speaking out about the virus and restricted Chinese institutions from publishing information about it.• Even after you belatedly declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on January 30, 2020, you failed to press China for the timely admittance of a World Health Organization team of international medical experts. As a result, this critical team did not arrive in China until two weeks later, on February 16, 2020. And even then, the team was not allowed to visit Wuhan until the final days of their visit. Remarkably, the World Health Organization was silent when China denied the two American members of the team access to Wuhan entirely.• You also strongly praised China’s strict domestic travel restrictions, but were inexplicably against my closing of the United States border, or the ban, with respect to people coming from China. I put the ban in place regardless of your wishes. Your political gamesmanship on this issue was deadly, as other governments, relying on your comments, delayed imposing life-saving restrictions on travel to and from China. Incredibly, on February 3, 2020, you reinforced your position, opining that because China was doing such a great job protecting the world from the virus, travel restrictions were “causing more harm than good.” Yet by then the world knew that, before locking down Wuhan, Chinese authorities had allowed more than five million people to leave the city and that many of these people were bound for international destinations all over the world.• As of February 3, 2020, China was strongly pressuring countries to lift or forestall travel restrictions. This pressure campaign was bolstered by your incorrect statements on that day telling the world that the spread of the virus outside of China was “minimal and slow” and that “the chances of getting this going to anywhere outside China [were] very low.”• On March 3, 2020, the World Health Organization cited official Chinese data to downplay the very serious risk of asymptomatic spread, telling the world that “COVID-19 does not transmit as efficiently as influenza” and that unlike influenza this disease was not primarily driven by “people who are infected but not yet sick.” China’s evidence, the World Health Organization told the world, “showed that only one percent of reported cases do not have symptoms, and most of those cases develop symptoms within two days.” Many experts, however, citing data from Japan, South Korea, and elsewhere, vigorously questioned these assertions. It is now clear that China’s assertions, repeated to the world by the World Health Organization, were wildly inaccurate.• By the time you finally declared the virus a pandemic on March 11, 2020, it had killed more than 4,000 people and infected more than 100,000 people in at least 114 countries around the world.• On April 11, 2020, several African Ambassadors wrote to the Chinese Foreign Ministry about the discriminatory treatment of Africans related to the pandemic in Guangzhou and other cities in China. You were aware that Chinese authorities were carrying out a campaign of forced quarantines, evictions, and refusal of services against the nationals of these countries. You have not commented on China’s racially discriminatory actions. You have, however, baselessly labeled as racist Taiwan’s well-founded complaints about your mishandling of this pandemic.• Throughout this crisis, the World Health Organization has been curiously insistent on praising China for its alleged “transparency.” You have consistently joined in these tributes, notwithstanding that China has been anything but transparent. In early January, for example, China ordered samples of the virus to be destroyed, depriving the world of critical information. Even now, China continues to undermine the International Health Regulations by refusing to share accurate and timely data, viral samples and isolates, and by withholding vital information about the virus and its origins. And, to this day, China continues to deny international access to their scientists and relevant facilities, all while casting blame widely and recklessly and censoring its own experts.• The World Health Organization has failed to publicly call on China to allow for an independent investigation into the origins of the virus, despite the recent endorsement for doing so by its own Emergency Committee. The World Health Organization’s failure to do so has prompted World Health Organization member states to adopt the “COVID-19 Response” Resolution at this year’s World Health Assembly, which echoes the call by the United States and so many others for an impartial, independent, and comprehensive review of how the World Health Organization handled the crisis. The resolution also calls for an investigation into the origins of the virus, which is necessary for the world to understand how best to counter the disease.Perhaps worse than all these failings is that we know that the World Health Organization could have done so much better. Just a few years ago, under the direction of a different Director-General, the World Health Organization showed the world how much it has to offer. In 2003, in response to the outbreak of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in China, Director-General Harlem Brundtland boldly declared the World Health Organization’s first emergency travel advisory in 55 years, recommending against travel to and from the disease epicenter in southern China. She also did not hesitate to criticize China for endangering global health by attempting to cover up the outbreak through its usual playbook of arresting whistleblowers and censoring media. Many lives could have been saved had you followed Dr. Brundtland’s example. It is clear the repeated missteps by you and your organization in responding to the pandemic have been extremely costly for the world. The only way forward for the World Health Organization is if it can actually demonstrate independence from China. My Administration has already started discussions with you on how to reform the organization. But action is needed quickly. We do not have time to waste. That is why it is my duty, as President of the United States, to inform you that, if the World Health Organization does not commit to major substantive improvements within the next 30 days, I will make my temporary freeze of United States funding to the World Health Organization permanent and reconsider our membership in the organization. I cannot allow American taxpayer dollars to continue to finance an organization that, in its present state, is so clearly not serving America’s interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-announced-us-is-cutting-ties-with-who-here-s-why/story-IviMIL3J5peLO5YJFKu61M.html
30-05-2020||World||Top Indian-Americans who served in Obama admin endorse Joe Biden for president in 2020 US polls||Over half a dozen Indian-American former senior Obama administration officials on Friday announced their endorsement of Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. Top among those include former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma; former Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Nisha Desai Biswal; former US Chief Technology Officer Aneesh Chopra and former Deputy White House Cabinet Secretary Gaurav Bansal. Kiran Ahuja, former Executive Director, White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders; Seema Nanda, former Chief of Staff, Department of Labour and Sonal Shah, former Director, White House Office of Social Innovation and Civic Participation along with several Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) former Obama-Biden administration officials also endorsed the former US vice president. “All of us served with Vice President Joe Biden in the Obama-Biden administration. We watched him help 20 million Americans gain health insurance through the Affordable Care Act. We watched him lift our country out of the depths of the Great Recession. And we watched him build stronger ties with our allies and stand up to our adversaries abroad,” the former officials said in a joint statement. “Most importantly, all of us saw Joe Biden’s empathy, his decency, and his commitment to expanding opportunity for all Americans. He has a deep appreciation for the contributions of AAPI and a keen understanding of the challenges still facing the community,” they said. “Now more than ever, we need a President who values our nation’s diversity and will fight to create a more fair and just country. That person is Joe Biden. We are proud to endorse him for President and support him in this fight to restore the soul of our nation,” they said in the statement. Biden, 77, is the presumptive presidential nominee of the Democratic Party. He is likely to be formally nominated by the Democratic National Convention in Wisconsin in August. He has already been endorsed by several leaders, including his one-time rivals for the Democratic nomination Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, former president Obama and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-indian-americans-who-served-in-obama-admin-endorse-biden-for-president-in-2020-us-polls/story-CKd2mrdRZh7tEB2G2gqwkK.html
30-05-2020||World||‘World needs answers’: Donald Trump renews attack on China over Covid-19 pandemic||US President Donald Trump on Friday said that America is terminating its relationship with the World Health Organization as he blamed it and China for the deaths and destruction caused by the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe.Stating that the funding of the WHO would now be diverted to other global public health organisations, Trump announced a series of decisions against China including issuing proclamation to deny entry to certain Chinese nationals and tightening of regulations against Chinese investments in America.Trump also announced that the US will end special treatment of Hong Kong in response to Chinese imposition of new controls.He said that the US will revise its travel advisory to warn of surveillance in Hong Kong.“The world needs answers from China,” Trump said in his aggressive speech on a bright sunny day from the Rose Garden of the White House.The president, however, did not take any questions.For decades it has ripped off the US like no one has ever done before, he said, reiterating his charges against China.China not only stole intellectual property, took away billions of dollars from the US and offshored the jobs, but also violated its commitment under the World Trade Organization, he said, adding that it was able to get away with the theft, like no one before because of past politicians and past presidents.China, he alleged, has unlawfully claimed territories in the Indo-Pacific ocean, threatening freedom of navigation and international trade and broke its word to the world on ensuring the autonomy of Hong Kong.“The United States wants an open and constructive relationship with China, but achieving this relationship requires us to vigorously defend our national interest,” he said. Trump alleged that the Chinese government has continually violated its promises to the US and many other nations. “These plain facts cannot be overlooked or swept aside,” he said. Observing that the world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government, Trump reiterated that China’s cover-up of the Wuhan virus allowed the disease to spread all over the world, instigating a global pandemic that has cost more than 100,000 American lives and over one million lives worldwide. “Chinese officials ignored their reporting obligations to the World Health Organization and pressured the World Health Organization to mislead the world when the virus was first discovered by Chinese authorities. Countless lives have been taken, and profound economic hardship has been inflicted all around the globe,” he said. China, he said, has total control over the WHO despite only paying $40 million per year compared to what the US has been paying which is approximately $450 million a year. “We have detailed the reforms that it must make and engage with them directly, but they have refused to act. “Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and redirecting those funds to other worldwide and deserving urgent global public health needs,” Trump said. The world needs answers from China on the virus, he said. “We must have transparency. Why is it that China shut off infected people from Wuhan to all other parts of China? It went nowhere else; it didn’t go to Beijing, it went nowhere else, but they allowed them to freely travel throughout the world, including Europe and the United States. The death and destruction caused by this is incalculable,” he said. “We must have answers not only for us but for the rest of the world. This pandemic has underscored the crucial importance of building up America’s economic independence, reshoring our critical supply chains, and protecting America’s scientific and technological advances. For years, the government of China has conducted illicit espionage to steal our industrial secrets of which there are many,” Trump said. Trump said that later in the day, he will issue a proclamation to better secure America’s vital university research and “to suspend the entry of certain foreign nationals from China who have been identified as potential security risks”. Asserting that he is also taking action to protect the integrity of America’s financial system, Trump said he is instructing his presidential working group on financial markets to study the differing practices of Chinese companies listed on the US financial markets with a goal of protecting American investors. “Investment firms should not be subjecting their clients to the hidden and undue risks associated with financing Chinese companies that do not play by the same rules. Americans are entitled to fairness and transparency,” he said. Referring to the unilateral Chinese action control over Hong Kong security, Trump said that this was a plain violation of Beijing’s treaty obligations with the UK in the declaration of 1984 and explicit provisions of Hong Kong’s basic law which has 27 years to go. “China’s latest incursion, along with other recent developments that degraded the territory’s freedoms, makes clear that Hong Kong is no longer sufficiently autonomous to warrant the special treatment that we have afforded the territory since the handover,” he said. “China has replaced its promised formula of one country, two systems with one country, one system; therefore, I am directing my administration to begin the process of eliminating policy exemptions that give Hong Kong different and special treatment,” Trump added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-needs-answers-donald-trump-renews-attack-on-china-over-covid-19-pandemic/story-iSZ41Sd5baZmlcNmVGsphO.html
30-05-2020||World||Biden speaks of racial ‘open wound,’ contrasting with Trump||Joe Biden lamented the “open wound” of the nation’s systemic racism on Friday as he responded to the police killing of a black man in Minnesota. He drew an implicit contrast with President Donald Trump, who has suggested authorities could respond with violence to the protests that followed George Floyd’s death.“The original sin of this country still stains our nation today,” Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said in remarks broadcast from his home in Wilmington, Delaware. “It’s time for us to take a hard look at uncomfortable truths.”Biden announced his bid for the presidency last year arguing he’s uniquely positioned to unite a deeply divided country. He pointed to Trump’s response to a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, as unworthy of America’s people and values.As the country endures another spasm of racial unrest, the central premise of Biden’s campaign is being tested. Biden is responding by positioning himself as an empathetic counter to Trump, who often struggles to convey emotion or connect on a personal level during moments of crisis.Biden said he spoke with Floyd’s family and demanded justice for his death while calling for “real police reform that holds all cops up to the high standards that so many of them actually meet.” The president later said that he, too, had spoken with Floyd’s family and called them “terrific people.”Trump initially condemned police actions in Floyd’s death but later agitated the unrest by tweeting that protesters could be met with violent police resistance. He threatened to take action to bring Minneapolis “under control,” called violent protesters outraged by the killing “thugs” and revived a civil-rights-era phrase fraught with racist overtones.“When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” Trump wrote in a tweet that was flagged by Twitter as violating rules against “glorifying violence.” The White House said the president “did not glorify violence. He clearly condemned it.”By Friday afternoon, Trump sought to acknowledge the shocking circumstances of Floyd’s death while commending law enforcement.“He was in tremendous pain, obviously, and couldn’t breathe,” the president said of Floyd. “It was a very, very sad thing for me to see it. We also know that most policemen, you see the great job they do.”Biden, without mentioning Trump by name, made clear he would approach the presidency differently.“This is no time for incendiary tweets. This is no time to encourage violence,” Biden said. “This is a national crisis, and we need real leadership right now. Leadership that will bring everyone to the table so we can take measures to root out systemic racism.”Later appearing on PBS, Biden pointed more openly at Trump: “I think this president has stoked racism.”Rep. Val Demings, a Florida Democrat considered a potential Biden running mate, criticized Trump’s response.“America is on fire,” she said in an interview Friday. “And this president is standing there with gasoline. He is dangerous. He’s destructive, he’s dangerous and he can’t even rise to this occasion.”Amid the outrage, Biden tried to make the rest of the country feel what it was like to be African American in modern US society.“Every day, African Americans go about their lives with constant anxiety and trauma, wondering who will be next,” he said, adding, “the anger and the frustration and the exhaustion — it’s undeniable.”Biden must go beyond establishing himself as a calming alternative to the president and demonstrate that he will take action that spurs the unity he’s promised. It’s a feat he may have to accomplish in a hurry if he wants to inspire African Americans to turn out for him in November.The task is especially critical after Biden suggested last week that African American voters who were still undecided between him and Trump “ain’t black,” a comment that some black leaders said were interpreted as taking their votes for granted. Biden quickly said he regretted the comment.NAACP President Derrick Johnson said he believes the nation is in chaos because of a lack of leadership in the White House. But he said change will only come by putting people in positions of power who will be willing to boldly address the needs of affected communities.“I think the real question is, what are people going to do about it and how are those who are in positions of authority, and those who are seeking positions of authority, how are they going to lay out a plan moving forward?” Johnson said. “It’s about what is the collective will of this society to address the systemic deficits that we all know so well but lack the political will to address.”Moments of acute racial tension have afforded platforms for leadership from presidential candidates in the past. Robert F. Kennedy was seeking the White House in April 1968 and arriving in Indianapolis when he learned that Martin Luther King Jr. had been shot and killed. Kennedy stood on a flatbed truck and spoke about the country having to move past the terrible moments of racial strife — comments later credited with preventing unrest.Kennedy was assassinated two months later.Black Lives Matter co-founder Alicia Garza said Biden needs to use this moment to connect further with black people and create a more robust black agenda that specifically tackles the need for policing reform and more.“Black people cannot wait for an agenda that speaks to how it is that our lives will change under a new administration,” Garza said. “We currently have a president who is inciting violence against black communities and yet, on the other hand, we have somebody who wants to lead this country that needs to go further in their plans, proposals and their vision for how to make sure that we deal with the state of emergency that black communities are facing.”“It is not enough to engage in politics as usual,” Garza added, “and expect results, as usual.”___Stafford reported from Detroit. Associated Press writer Alan Fram in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-speaks-of-racial-open-wound-contrasting-with-trump/story-J6accRwFAde3XorGLG12rO.html
30-05-2020||World||Brazil reaches 27,878 coronavirus deaths, surpasses Spain||Coronavirus deaths in Brazil reached 27,878, the Health Ministry said on Friday, surpassing Spain to become the fifth ranking nation in the number of dead.In the last 24 hours, Brazil, which now has the second-largest outbreak in the world, registered 1,124 deaths from the virus and 26,928 additional cases of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-reaches-27-878-coronavirus-deaths-surpasses-spain/story-fFayJsysfTfgizjvzHyxEP.html
30-05-2020||World||Surgery after Covid-19 raises death risk: Global study||Patients undergoing surgery after contracting coronavirus are at greatly increased risk of postoperative death, according to a new global study that examined data of 1,128 patients in 235 hospitals in Asia, Africa and North America.The study by experts at the University of Birmingham-led National Institute for Health Research published in The Lancet found that among infected patients who underwent surgery, mortality rates approach those of the sickest patients admitted to intensive care.Click here for full Covid-19 updatesOverall 30-day mortality in the study was 23.8%. Mortality was disproportionately high across all subgroups, including elective surgery (18.9%), emergency surgery (25.6%), minor surgery such as appendicectomy or hernia repair (16.3%), and major surgery such as hip surgery or colon cancer surgery (26.9%), the study says.It found higher mortality rates in men (28.4%) than in women (18.2%), and in patients aged 70 years or over (33.7%) against those aged under 70 years (13.9%). In addition to age and sex, risk factors for postoperative death included having severe pre-existing medical problems, undergoing cancer surgery, undergoing major procedures, and undergoing emergency surgery.Co-author Aneel Bhangu of the University of Birmingham said: “We would normally expect mortality for patients having minor or elective surgery to be under 1%, but our study suggests that in SARS-CoV-2 patients these mortality rates are much higher in both minor surgery (16.3%) and elective surgery (18.9%)”.“In fact, these mortality rates are greater than those reported for even the highest-risk patients before the pandemic…We recommend that thresholds for surgery during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic should be raised compared to normal practice”.Co-author Dmitri Nepogodiev added: “Worldwide an estimated 28.4 million elective operations were cancelled due to disruption caused by Covid-19…There’s now an urgent need for investment by governments and health providers in to measures to ensure that as surgery restarts patient safety is prioritised”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surgery-after-covid-19-raises-death-risk-global-study/story-fJ2FYWIyTonmsiFlZzuKaL.html
30-05-2020||World||Trump moves to revoke Hong Kong’s trade status, stoking China Rift||President Donald Trump intensified his confrontation with China, vowing to punish the country for the coronavirus pandemic and steps to curb Hong Kong’s autonomy by ending the territory’s special trade status with the US and denying visas to Chinese officials.Citing a litany of grievances against the country, some dating to before he was elected president, Trump said the US would begin a process to revoke Hong Kong’s preferential trade status under US law. American financial regulators would examine Chinese firms listed on US stock markets with an eye toward limiting American investment in the companies, he said, and Chinese nationals considered to be security threats would be denied entry to the country.The US will terminate its support for the World Health Organization, Trump said, claiming the agency had been manipulated by Beijing during the pandemic and was under the “total control” of China.“Our actions will be strong, our actions will be meaningful,” the president said in a statement from the White House Rose Garden. He took no questions.But few of Trump’s actions will take place immediately, and US financial markets were untroubled by his announcement.US stocks erased losses and traded little changed as Trump stopped short of implementing more draconian measures against China, with the S&P 500 Index rose 0.3% as of 3:10 p.m. New York time.Trump’s announcement came after China’s legislature moved this week to impose a new national security law on Hong Kong that critics say will restrict freedoms in the city. The US president has also sought to blame China for the coronavirus pandemic that’s killed more than 100,000 Americans as domestic criticism of his handling of the outbreak has mounted.“China’s pattern of misconduct is well known,” Trump said, complaining about the history of the US trading relationship with the country.He said Beijing “unlawfully claimed territory in the Pacific Ocean” and “broke its word with the world on ensuring the autonomy of Hong Kong.”“The Chinese government has continuously violated its promises to us,” he said. “These plain facts cannot be overlooked or swept aside. The world is now suffering as a result of the malfeasance of the Chinese government,” he added, a reference to the pandemic.The retaliatory measures did not include withdrawal from the “phase one” trade deal Trump signed in January.China’s legislature has approved a plan to draft legislation that Hong Kong democracy advocates say will curtail freedom of speech and undermine the city’s independent judiciary.That prompted Secretary of State Michael Pompeo to announce earlier this week that the administration no longer considers the city sufficiently autonomous under a 1992 law that allows for easier travel and trade between the US and Hong Kong. The law also allows companies based in the Chinese territory access to American technologies deemed sensitive to national security that face export restrictions in mainland China.Chinese officials earlier Friday called potential US actions over Hong Kong “purely nonsense,” saying the matter was an internal affair and that essential freedoms in the city would remain intact.Beijing urged the US to stop its “frivolous political manipulation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily briefing, reiterating Beijing’s support for Hong Kong police in upholding the law. Chinese officials have indicated they may retaliate against US firms over the president’s decisions.Trump’s announcement follows weeks of growing anger toward Beijing within the White House. The president and his advisers have repeatedly blamed the Chinese government for the coronavirus outbreak that began in the country’s Hubei province but that has caused a far greater death toll in the US than China has publicly reported.“Frankly the US government is -- I’ll use the word ‘furious,’ at what China has done in recent days, weeks, and months,” White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told Fox News earlier on Friday. “They have not behaved well and they have lost the trust, I think, of the whole Western world.”The US outbreak and the associated economic collapse from social distancing practices adopted to curb the virus’s spread have damaged Trump’s prospects for re-election, public polling shows.Trump has also expressed frustration that Chinese purchases of US agricultural goods are lagging behind levels agreed to in the “phase one” trade agreement he signed with a delegation from Beijing in January.But Derek Scissors, a China analyst at conservative research group American Enterprise Institute, suggested Trump’s Friday announcement wasn’t as dramatic as the president intimated.”This binds the president to nothing with regards to China,” Scissors said. “With regards to a Hong Kong policy, it is a non-event. Nothing happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-moves-to-revoke-hong-kong-s-trade-status-stoking-china-rift/story-ps7EgFFzbNmVQ9VZk99yNM.html
30-05-2020||World||Italy wants independent probe into origin of pandemic, backs India’s call for reform of WHO: Italian minister||Italy wants an independent inquiry into the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic in China and backs India’s calls for reform of multilateral bodies such as WHO that didn’t perform as expected during the current crisis, the country’s minister for European affairs Vincenzo Amendola has said.With Italy and India set to take on the presidency of the G20 in 2021 and 2022, Amendola said the two countries would also play a key role in helping shape the post-Covid-19 world order, including global supply and value chains and ways to recover from the economic crisis created by the pandemic.In an interview with Hindustan Times over Skype, Amendola said Italy backs Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call, made during the G20 virtual summit on March 26, for reforms of international bodies such as the World Health Organization to meet the needs of a changing world.“The WHO for this crisis didn’t perform according to some criteria and…it’s necessary…to open an independent inquiry on what happened in China that was the starting place of this Covid-19 crisis,” he said.“Your prime minister was right because the multilateral aspect of the global order is not updated [with] the risks and opportunity of the current period. The WHO, I don’t think, it performed in a correct way during this crisis, there were many delays and many problems,” he added.Describing Europe and India as “sisters”, Amendola spoke of the need for closer cooperation between Italy and India both to shape the agenda of the G20 and to help fashion a new world order.“If I look where we are going to invest, I see that you [India] are the actor relevant for our common future,” he said, referring to the possibility of working together on green technologies such as renewable energy and digital transition, for which India is well placed because of its technological capability and human capital.With Italy set to become the G20 president in 2021 and India taking on the same role in 2022, Amendola said: “We are going to be the two countries that will bring the G20 out of the recession. We have a coordinated responsibility to present to the main actors on the global level how we can recover from this pandemic and this global economic crisis.”The Covid-19 had emerged as a “big test for multilateral cooperation”, he said.“A few months ago, there were many people who wanted to participate in the funeral of multilateralism but nowadays it is clear that multilateralism is necessary in order to strengthen the resilience of the global economy.”Amendola was also critical of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, saying Italy and India will have to work on “different aspects of free and fair trade” and “global legal standards” as the post-Covid-19 set-up moves towards new supply and value chains.“There is not just one way like the Belt and Road Initiative, there are many ways that we have to restore the global chain. There should be not just one way of distributing, producing and giving the ownership of this trade track. There should be…different options and the European Union is…devoted to diversification of rules of trade and creation of value chains,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-wants-independent-probe-into-origin-of-pandemic-backs-india-s-call-for-reform-of-who-italian-minister/story-VdRZCzTS9DWhv8tuofQoJJ.html
30-05-2020||World||Trump announces end of ties with WHO over virus pandemic, to end special treatment for Hong Kong||United States President Donald Trump on Friday announced he was “terminating” the country’s ties with the World Health Organization (WHO) for its failure to carry out reforms and said the annual contribution of $450 million will be diverted to other bodies around the world.The President also said that United States will end special status for Hong Kong and treat it on par with Mainland China and prevent certain students from China from enrolling in US universities and colleges. This statement of the Trump comes after China imposed a controversial national security law on Hong Kong that many critics have said will pose restrictions on Hong Kong’s freedom.“Because they have failed to make the requested and greatly needed reforms, we will be today terminating our relationship with the World Health Organization and will be redirecting those funds to other worldwide and deserving urgent public health needs,” Trump said at news briefing.Trump had sent a list of reforms that United States wanted the world body to carry out with the three of permanently freezing its contribution and terminating its membership, chiefly, end its dependence on China.“The only way forward for the organization is if it can actually demonstrate independence from China .” he had written in a four-page letter to WHO director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus last week. He had given the world body 30 days to respond.The United States has exited a number of world bodies and multilateral pacts on President Trump’s watch, starting with the Trans-Pacific Partnership in January 2017, the month when he took office. This was followed by departures from the Paris Accord on climate change (2017), UNESCO (2017), Iran deal (2018) and UNHCR (2018). And the president has grumbled about US contributions to NATO and the United Nations and now with the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-donald-trump-announces-he-is-terminating-us-ties-with-the-who/story-h6cq3A6RSUCJxII5d1CfGJ.html
30-05-2020||World||WHO, 37 nations launch alliance to share tools to tackle Covid-19 pandemic||Thirty-seven countries and the World Health Organization (WHO) appealed on Friday for common ownership of vaccines, medicines and diagnostic tools to tackle the global coronavirus pandemic, taking aim at patent laws they fear could become a barrier to sharing crucial supplies.While the push by mostly developing nations, called the Covid-19 Technology Access Pool, won praise from groups including Doctors Without Borders, a drug industry alliance questioned if the effort to pool intellectual property would really broaden access to medicines.Developing and some small nations fear rich countries pumping resources into finding vaccines - more than 100 are in development - will muscle their way to the front of the queue, once a candidate succeeds. “Vaccines, tests, diagnostics, treatments and other key tools in the coronavirus response must be made universally available as global public goods,” said Costa Rica President Carlos Alvarado. The effort, originally proposed in March, aims to provide a one-stop shop for scientific knowledge, data and intellectual property amid a pandemic that has infected more than 5.8 million people and killed more than 360,000.The WHO issued a “Solidarity Call to Action”, asking other stakeholders to join the voluntary push.“WHO recognises the important role that patents play in fuelling innovation but this is a time when people must take priority,” WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told an online news briefing.The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations raised concerns about undermining intellectual property protections, which the group said already enable collaboration and will also be needed after the pandemic is over.“The ‘Solidarity Call to Action’ promotes a one-size-fits all model that disregards the specific circumstances of each situation, each product and each country,” the federation said.Anna Marriott, health policy manager for anti-poverty group Oxfam, said the divide over how to handle patents illustrated how some regions could wind up losers.“The pharmaceutical industry’s attempt to rubbish the World Health Organisation’s initiative suggests they care more for profits than people’s health,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-37-nations-launch-alliance-to-share-tools-to-tackle-covid-19-pandemic/story-jJtVwdYqeam8BWmxUhyblK.html
