31-05-2020||World||Covid-19 cases in France show further decline||France’s coronavirus cases are continuing to decline, health officials said on Sunday, with 14,322 patients currently in hospital, down from 14,380 a day earlier.The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care fell to 1,319 from 1,361, the health directorate said in a statement. The hospital death toll from the virus rose by 31 to 18,475 - the 11th consecutive daily increase below 100.Numbers for nursing home deaths will next be updated on Tuesday, the directorate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-in-france-show-further-decline/story-70z7VYmZSdRA2UBt6glCvO.html
31-05-2020||World||Moscow bemused at US space ‘hysteria’ as Elon Musk taunts Russia||Moscow space officials on Sunday said they were puzzled by “hysteria” around the successful SpaceX flight as Elon Musk taunted Russia and US President Donald Trump vowed to beat it to Mars.On Saturday, SpaceX made history by becoming the world’s first commercial company to send humans into orbit, leading Russia to lose its long-held monopoly on space travel.Musk lobbed a jab at Dmitry Rogozin, the Russian space chief who once said Washington may one day be forced to “deliver its astronauts to the ISS by using a trampoline”.“The trampoline is working,” quipped Musk at a post-flight news conference alongside NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine. Both men laughed. “It’s an inside joke,” Musk added.Rogozin remained conspicuously silent for most of Sunday but offered his congratulations to Bridenstine after the Crew Dragon capsule with two NASA astronauts docked with the ISS.“It’s safe to congratulate you at this point with a successful launch and docking. Bravo!” he tweeted.“Please convey my sincere greetings to @elonmusk (I loved his joke) and @SpaceX team. Looking forward to further cooperation!”In 2014, Rogozin, then deputy prime minister, mocked the lack of a US manned flight programme after Washington announced new sanctions against Moscow which included some space industries. While Russia saluted the United States, it also stressed Sunday it was puzzled by the frenzy unleashed by what many hailed as the dawn of a new era.“We don’t really understand the hysteria sparked by the successful launch of a Crew Dragon spacecraft,” Roscosmos spokesman Vladimir Ustimenko said.“What should have happened a long time ago happened,” he added, tweeting excerpts of Trump’s congratulatory speech.- New rocket tests - Speaking at the iconic Kennedy Space Center in Florida after the flawless SpaceX launch, Trump vowed that US astronauts would return to the Moon in 2024 “to establish a permanent presence and a launching pad to Mars”.“And the first woman on the Moon will be an American woman and the first nation to land on Mars will be the United States of America,” he said.“We are not going to be number two anywhere.”The Russian space agency shot back, saying it was not planning to sit idle, either.“Already this year we will conduct tests of two new rockets and resume our lunar programme next year,” Ustimenko tweeted.He did not elaborate but Rogozin has earlier said the country planned to conduct a new test launch of the Angara heavy carrier rocket this autumn.Rogozin has also said Russia is pressing ahead with the development of its new intercontinental ballistic missile, the Sarmat, also known as Satan 2 by NATO’s classification.In 2018, President Vladimir Putin boasted that the Sarmat was one of the new Russian weapons that could render NATO defences obsolete.Russia had for many years enjoyed a monopoly as the only country able to ferry astronauts, and Saturday’s launch meant the loss of a sizeable income. A seat in the Soyuz costs NASA around $80 million.Roscosmos insisted that the US still needed Moscow.“It’s very important to have at least two possibilities to make it to the station. Because you never know...,” Ustimenko said.Some officials in Moscow sought to downplay the US feat.“This is a flight to the International Space Station, not to Mars,” said Alexey Pushkov, a member of the upper house of parliament.The Russian space programme sent the first man into space in 1961 and launched the first satellite four years earlier.But since the collapse of the USSR in 1991, it has been plagued by corruption scandals and a series of other setbacks, losing expensive spacecraft and satellites in recent years.The US launch and Musk’s joke set Russian social media alight, with wits ridiculing Rogozin and the Russian space chief’s name trending on Twitter.“How do you like this, Dmitry Rogozin?” one critic prodded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moscow-bemused-at-us-space-hysteria-as-elon-musk-taunts-russia/story-HQexKLIkE1lH3ywssa9xtK.html
31-05-2020||World||Unrest in US continues as protests over George Floyd’s death spread across country||The United States went through another night of chaos Saturday as protestors demanding justice for the death of George Floyd, an African American man, in police custody marched in city streets, vandalized property and clashed with police who hit back, seemingly unprovoked at times, most notably in New York City, and with excessive force.More than two dozen cities are under curfew, National Guard troops — US military reservists — have been summoned in 12 states and in Washington DC, where protestors clashed with Secret Service personnel outside the White House for the second day, undeterred perhaps by President Donald Trump’s threat of “vicious dogs and ominous weapons”.Trump has been under mounting pressure, even from his right-wing and conservative supporters, to speak to the nation in a unifying address that presidents had used before to calm the nation during similar unrests. He has so far responded with conflicting messages. While he has expressed outrage over Floyd’s death, he has condemned protestors as “thugs” and threatened violence in language used by racists before.Asked if the president has plans to address the nation on the issue, National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien told CNN Sunday the president had already addressed the issue. He has condoled Floyd’s death. “The President also said that we’re with the protesters who are demanding answers, just like we are, the peaceful protesters. But we’ve got to stop the mob violence.”Minneapolis, the Minnesota state city where Floyd died pinned down to the ground with a white police officer’s knee on his neck last Monday, is under curfew and the National Guard. Los Angeles in California and Atlanta, Georgia have also called in the National Guard. And several units of US military police are standing by to be deployed if needed.In New York city, police responded with increasing ferocity in day of escalating clashes with protestors. In videos that have gone viral, a mounted police officer police officer was seen knocking down a protestor, a police cruiser drove into a car and police officers used their bicycles to push back protestors. “Running SUVs in crowds of people should never, ever be normalized. No matter who does it, no matter why,” Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the firebrand Democratic congressman from New York in a tweet. She went on to criticize the city’s Democratic mayor Bill de Blasio’s earlier comments on the issue as “unacceptable”. “This moment demands leadership & accountability from each of us. Defending and making excuses for NYPD (New York Police Department) running SUVs into crowds was wrong,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unrest-in-us-continues-as-protests-over-george-floyd-spread-across-country/story-7MdwYOJ8WpNcBd96a5qOwL.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX Dragon capsule delivers two NASA astronauts to International Space Station||Just under 19 hours after launching from Florida, NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley arrived at the International Space Station aboard SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule on Sunday, marking the first U.S. space capsule to do so with a crew since 2011.After a tense automatic docking sequence successfully linked Crew Dragon to the station’s docking adapter, the station’s current crew greeted Behnken and Hurley at an on-schedule hatch opening at 1:02 p.m. EDT. The critical milestone kicks off the crew’s potentially months-long stay in the orbital laboratory.“It’s been a real honor to be just a small part of this nine-year endeavor since the last time a United States spaceship has docked with the International Space Station,” Hurley said upon a successful “soft-docking.” They made it. After launching from @NASAKennedy on the @SpaceX Dragon Endeavour spacecraft yesterday, @AstroBehnken and @Astro_Doug have officially joined the @Space_Station crew today at 1:02pm ET — making history in the process. pic.twitter.com/A7oExw0SlDThe launch on Saturday by SpaceX, the private rocket company of billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk, represented another milestone for the reusable rockets it pioneered to make spaceflight less costly and more frequent.It also marked the first time that commercially developed space vehicles - owned and operated by a private entity rather than NASA - have carried Americans into orbit.A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center at 3:22 p.m. EDT (1922 GMT) on Saturday for the journey to the International Space Station. Just before liftoff, Hurley said, “SpaceX, we’re go for launch. Let’s light this candle,” paraphrasing the famous comment uttered on the launch pad in 1961 by Alan Shepard, the first American flown into space. (Reporting by Joey Roulette; Writing by Daniel Wallis; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Chizu Nomiyama)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hatch-opens-between-spacex-dragon-capsule-and-international-space-station/story-h7hjeNcOjCSJOpWUfj7FBP.html
31-05-2020||World||Mosques reopen in Saudi Arabia and Jerusalem amid coronavirus woes||Tens of thousands of mosques across Saudi Arabia reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, with worshipers ordered to follow strict guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus as Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed to the public.The Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, Islam’s holiest site outside of Saudi Arabia, also reopened for prayers for the first time since it was closed in mid-March.With little regard for social distancing, throngs waited outside the holy site’s gates before it opened early Sunday, with many wearing surgical masks. As they were allowed to enter, the faithful stopped to have their temperature measured.The mosque was one of Jerusalem’s many holy sites, including the Church of the Holy Sepulcher and the Western Wall, whose access was restricted at the height of Israel’s coronavirus outbreak. Throughout that period, worshipers continued to pray in the alleyways outside the mosque.Jews also resumed their pilgrimages Sunday to the hilltop compound they revere as the Temple Mount, site of the two Jewish biblical temples.In Saudi Arabia, the government prepared for the reopening of around 90,000 mosques after sanitizing prayer rugs, washrooms and shelves holding copies of the Quran, the Muslim holy book.The Ministry of Islamic Affairs said millions of text messages were sent to people in multiple languages to inform them about the new rules for public prayer, which include keeping a two-meter (six-foot) distance between people during prayer, wearing face masks at all times and abstaining from greeting one another with handshakes or hugs.Children under 15 years-old were not being allowed inside mosques. The elderly and those with chronic conditions were being told to pray at home. People are also being advised to perform the mandatory ablution at home since washrooms at mosques will be closed, to use hand sanitizers and to bring their own prayer rugs and copies of the Quran.The restrictions call for mosques to open just 15 minutes before each of the five daily prayers and to close 10 minutes after they conclude. Friday sermons and prayers are to last no longer than 15 minutes.On Sunday, Saudi Arabia also lifted a ban on domestic air travel and permitted some public sector workers to resume office work again, though full attendance will not be allowed until mid-June.The new measures come as Saudi Arabia and other countries around the world begin to loosen restrictions and stay-at-home orders following weeks of curfews and lockdowns.However, the Grand Mosque in Mecca, which houses the cube-shaped Kaaba that Muslims around the world pray toward, will remain closed to the public. The city has been under a strict lockdown for several weeks. The mosque in Medina where the Prophet Muhammad is buried will be partially opened to the public to pray outside.The continued closure of Mecca points to the increasing likelihood that the kingdom may suspend this year’s annual Muslim hajj pilgrimage, which falls in late July. Already, a senior Saudi official has told prospective pilgrims not to plan for the hajj this year amid the global pandemic.Despite taking early and unprecedented measures to curb the spread of the virus, Saudi Arabia has recorded more than 83,000 people contracting the virus, including 480 deaths.Israel has weathered the coronavirus better than other harder-hit countries. It has recorded fewer than 300 deaths and has managed to mostly keep its daily infection count to the low dozens since the beginning of May. But it also imposed severe restrictions that battered its economy and sent its unemployment rate skyrocketing. Many of those restrictions, including on places of worship, began to be eased earlier this month.In Pakistan meanwhile, the country’s daily death toll from COVID-19 kept climbing, hitting a new high of 88 overnight.Amid reports of an acute bed shortage and near daily warnings from health professionals to tighten lock down measures, the government has kept mosques open, urging safe distancing but not enforcing it.In the latest easing of restrictions, the government has withdrawn the limits on congregations in mosques and churches.Pakistan’s coronavirus death toll of 1,483 is third only to Iran and Turkey in the Middle East. The country has counted 69,496 positive cases of COVID-19.In Lebanon, the Ministry of Energy announced the extension of a deadline for submitting bids for the country’s second offshore oil and gas licensing round until an unspecified date before the end of 2021 because of coronavirus. The date has been already postponed twice so far from Jan. 31 until the end of April and later until June 1.Lebanon has registered 27 deaths from the coronavirus and reported 29 new cases Sunday, raising the registered cases to 1,220.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mosques-reopen-in-saudi-arabia-and-jerusalem-amid-coronavirus-woes/story-0XBFDzKqEVQwJynj6RUh0M.html
31-05-2020||World||‘We’re sick of it’: Anger over police killings shatters US||Americans awoke Sunday to charred and glass-strewn streets in dozens of cities after another night of unrest fueled by rage over the mistreatment of African Americans at the hands of police, who responded to the violence with tear gas and rubber bullets.Tens of thousands marched peacefully to protest the death of George Floyd, a black man who died Monday after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee on his neck until he stopped breathing. But many demonstrations sank into chaos as night fell: Cars and businesses were torched. The words “I can’t breathe” were spray-painted all over buildings. The damaged buildings include many near the White House.The scale of the protests, extending to nearly every part of the country and unfolding on a single night, seemed to rival the historic demonstrations of the civil rights and Vietnam eras. And by Sunday morning, the outrage had spread to Europe, where thousands gathered in London’s Trafalgar Square. Despite government rules barring crowds because of the COVID-19 pandemic, demonstrators clapped and waved placards as they offered support to U.S. demonstrators.“We’re sick of it. The cops are out of control,” protester Olga Hall said in Washington, D.C. “They’re wild. There’s just been too many dead boys.”People set fire to squad cars, threw bottles at officers and busted windows of storefronts. They carried away TVs and other items even as some protesters urged them to stop. In Indianapolis, multiple shootings were reported, including one that left a person dead amid the protests, adding to deaths in Detroit and Minneapolis in recent days.In Minneapolis, the city where the protests began, police, state troopers and National Guard members moved in soon after an 8 p.m. curfew took effect to break up the demonstrations.President Donald Trump appeared to cheer on the tougher tactics Saturday night, commending the National Guard deployment in Minneapolis, declaring “No games!” and saying police in New York City “must be allowed to do their job!”Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden condemned the violence as he continued to express common cause with those demonstrating after Floyd’s death.“The act of protesting should never be allowed to overshadow the reason we protest,” Biden said in a late-night statement.On Sunday, maintenance crews near the White House worked to replace windows that had been completely shattered with large pieces of wood. Buildings for blocks were marked with graffiti, including curses about Trump and anti-police sentiments. Shattered glass still covered the sidewalks. The damaged buildings included the Department of Veterans Affairs, directly across the street from the White House.Cleanup soon began in cities across the country. In Madison, Wisconsin, hundreds of volunteers gathered to pick up after the violence that included setting a police squad car on fire, stealing from businesses and breaking windows at dozens of stores and an art museum.Few corners of America were untouched, from protesters setting fires inside Reno’s city hall, to police launching tear gas at rock-throwing demonstrators in Fargo, North Dakota. In Salt Lake City, demonstrators flipped a police car and lit it on fire. Police said six people were arrested and an officer was injured after being struck in the head with a baseball bat.Overnight curfews were imposed in more than a dozen major cities nationwide, including Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, San Francisco and Seattle.At least 13 police officers were injured in Philadelphia , and at least four police vehicles were set on fire. In New York City, dangerous confrontations flared repeatedly as officers made arrests and cleared streets. A video showed two NYPD cruisers lurching into a crowd of demonstrators who were pushing a barricade against one of them and pelting it with objects. Several people were knocked to the ground. It was unclear if anyone was hurt.“The mistakes that are happening are not mistakes. They’re repeated violent terrorist offenses, and people need to stop killing black people,” Brooklyn protester Meryl Makielski said.Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp authorized the deployment of up to 3,000 National Guard troops to Athens, Savannah and any other cities where more demonstrations were planned Sunday. Kemp had already approved up to 1,500 Guardsmen to help enforce a 9 p.m. Saturday curfew in Atlanta.“The protesters need to know we’re going to support their efforts in a peaceful, nonviolent protest,” the Republican told television station WSB late Saturday. “The agitators need to know that we’ll be there ... to take them to jail if they’re destroying lives and property.”In Virginia’s capital city, graffiti invoking Floyd or directing slurs at the police dotted downtown, including many of Richmond’s some prominent Confederate monuments. At the headquarters of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, which news outlets reported was vandalized and set ablaze, a few men with long guns were among a small crowd gathered outside. One man said they were there to protect the building.In Ferguson, Missouri, where Michael Brown Jr. was shot and killed by a white police officer in 2014, sparking a wave of protests throughout the country, six officers were hurt after being hit with rocks and fireworks.Police have arrested nearly 1,700 people in 22 cities since Thursday, according to a tally by The Associated Press. Nearly a third of those arrests came in Los Angeles, where the governor declared a state of emergency and ordered the National Guard to back up the city’s 10,000 police officers as dozens of fires burned across the city.This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion.But not all protests were marred by violence. In Juneau, Alaska, local police joined protesters at a rally in front of a giant whale sculpture on the city’s waterfront.“We don’t tolerate excessive use of force,” Juneau Police Chief Ed Mercer told a gathering where most people wore masks and some sang Alaska Native songs.The show of force in Minneapolis came after three days in which police largely avoided engaging protesters, and after the state poured more than 4,000 National Guard troops into Minneapolis. Authorities said that number would soon rise to nearly 11,000.“The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” said Gov. Tim Walz, who also said local forces had been overmatched the previous day. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.”Some residents were glad to see the upheaval dissipating.“l live here. I haven’t been able to sleep,” said Iman Muhammad, whose neighborhood saw multiple fires set Friday night. Muhammad said she sympathized with peaceful protests over Floyd’s death but disagreed with the violence: “Wrong doesn’t answer wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-re-sick-of-it-anger-over-police-killings-shatters-us/story-odPhP5jWDSn2QETXBljKjI.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX’s astronaut-riding Dragon arrives at space station||SpaceX delivered two astronauts to the International Space Station for NASA on Sunday, following up a historic liftoff with an equally smooth docking in yet another first for Elon Musk’s company.With test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken poised to take over manual control if necessary, the SpaceX Dragon capsule pulled up to the station and docked automatically, no assistance needed. The linkup occurred 262 miles (422 kilometers) above the China-Mongolia border.Once the capsule was latched securely to the space station, the congratulations flowed from NASA, SpaceX and the astronauts.“Congratulations on a phenomenal accomplishment and welcome to the International Space Station,” SpaceX Mission Control said from Hawthorne, California.It was the first time a privately built and owned spacecraft carried astronauts to the orbiting lab in its nearly 20 years. NASA considers this the opening volley in a business revolution encircling Earth and eventually stretching to the moon and Mars.“Bravo on a magnificent moment in spaceflight history,” NASA’s Mission Control radioed to everyone from Houston.NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy greeted the incoming crew by ringing the ship’s bell aboard the space station.The docking occurred a little early, barely 19 hours after a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off Saturday afternoon from Kennedy Space Center, the nation’s first astronaut launch to orbit from home soil in nearly a decade.Despite the coronavirus pandemic, thousands jammed surrounding beaches, bridges and towns to watch as SpaceX became the world’s first private company to send astronauts into orbit, and ended a nine-year launch drought for NASA.A few hours before docking, the Dragon riders reported that the capsule was performing beautifully. Just in case, they slipped back into their pressurized launch suits and helmets for the rendezvous.Gleaming white in the sunlight, the Dragon was easily visible from a few miles out, its nose cone open and exposing its docking hook as well as a blinking light. The capsule loomed ever larger on live NASA TV as it closed the gap.Hurley and Behnken took over the controls — using high-tech touchscreens — and did a little piloting less than a couple hundred yards (meters) out as part of the test flight, before putting it back into automatic for the final approach. Hurley said the capsule handled “really well, very crisp.”The astronauts thanked everyone once the capsule was latched securely to the space station.“It’s been a real honor to be just a small part of this nine-year endeavor since the last time a United States spaceship has docked with the International Space Station,” Hurley said. He was the pilot of that last spaceship, shuttle Atlantis in July 2011.SpaceX and NASA officials had held off on any celebrations until after Sunday morning’s docking — and possibly not until the two astronauts are back on Earth sometime this summer.NASA has yet to decide how long Hurley and Behnken will spend at the space station, somewhere between one and four months. While they’re there, the Dragon test pilots will join NASA’s Cassidy and two Russian station residents in performing experiments and possibly spacewalks to install fresh station batteries.In a show-and-tell earlier Sunday, the astronauts gave a quick tour of the Dragon’s sparkling clean insides, quite spacious for a capsule. They said the liftoff was pretty bumpy and dynamic, nothing the simulators could have mimicked.The blue sequined dinosaur accompanying them — their young sons’ toy, named Tremor — was also in good shape, Behnken assured viewers. Tremor was going to join Earthy, a plush globe delivered to the space station on last year’s test flight of a crew-less crew Dragon. Behnken said both toys would return to Earth with them at mission’s end.An old-style capsule splashdown is planned.After liftoff, Musk told reporters that the capsule’s return will be more dangerous in some ways than its launch. Even so, getting the two astronauts safely to orbit and then the space station had everyone breathing huge sighs of relief.As always, Musk was looking ahead.“This is hopefully the first step on a journey toward a civilization on Mars,” he said Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-s-astronaut-riding-dragon-arrives-at-space-station/story-iWDiGXmvS62q4MWRHco1XL.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX capsule carrying NASA astronauts docks with International Space Station||A SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule carrying two NASA astronauts docked Sunday with the International Space Station. “Soft capture,” the moment when the spacecraft makes first contact and latching with the target vehicle, occurred at 10:16 am Eastern Time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-crew-dragon-capsule-carrying-2-nasa-astronauts-docks-with-international-space-station/story-roHkmhOlw2D99pzME1S5zK.html
31-05-2020||World||Lipulekh border row: Nepal govt moves to back new map legally, tables constitutional amendment||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a constitutional amendment in Parliament to give legal backing to a new map that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory, marking another twist in a border row with India.Law, justice and parliamentary affairs minister Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe’s proposal for approval to table the constitution (second amendment) bill in the House of Representatives or lower house of Parliament was unanimously endorsed.The government acted after the main opposition Nepali Congress, which had earlier sought more time to discuss the amendment within the party, directed its lawmakers to vote in favour of the proposal to make the new map a part of the Constitution. The central committee of the Nepali Congress made the decision at a meeting late on Saturday night.There was no word on the development from Indian officials.India had on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end the border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are needed for handling such issues among neighbours.The Nepal government earlier planned to move the amendment in Parliament on May 27 but had to hold off on it because of lack of support from the Nepali Congress, which is required for the two-thirds majority needed to pass the change to the statute.The delay allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border earlier this month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last week India is monitoring recent developments in Nepal related to the border issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added.Nepal released its new political map, depicting Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its borders, on May 20.“An amendment bill is necessary to change the country’s map in the country’s Coat of Arms which is defined in Schedule 3 of the Constitution,” Tumbahangphe was quoted as telling the House by The Kathmandu Post.Nepal’s Parliament functions on Sundays, with a weekly break on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lipulekh-border-row-nepal-govt-moves-to-back-new-map-legally-tables-constitutional-amendment/story-sNGhnJZQ24svrVJNazWf1N.html
31-05-2020||World||‘If you protested last night, get Covid test this week’: US Mayors fear virus outbreak||The mayor of Atlanta, one of dozens of U.S. cities hit by massive protests in recent days, has a message for demonstrators: “If you were out protesting last night, you probably need to go get a COVID test this week.”As more beaches, churches, schools and businesses reopened worldwide, civil unrest in the United States over repeated racial injustice is raising fears of new coronavirus outbreaks in a country that has seen more infections and deaths than anywhere else in the world.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms warned that “there is still a pandemic in America that’s killing black and brown people at higher numbers.”Violent protests over the death of George Floyd have shaken the country from New York City to Minneapolis, from Atlanta to Los Angeles. Some protests have turned into riots and clashes with police, leaving stores burned and torched cars in the streets. City officials have ordered overnight curfews to quell the violence.Floyd, a black man, died on May 25 in Minneapolis after a white police officer pressed a knee into his neck. It was the latest in a series of deaths of black men and women at the hands of police in America.Health experts fear that silent carriers of the virus who have no symptoms could unwittingly infect others at protests where people are packed cheek to jowl, many without masks.“Whether they’re fired up or not, that doesn’t prevent them from getting the virus,” said Bradley Pollock, chairman of the Department of Public Health Sciences at the University of California, Davis.The U.S. has seen over 1.7 million infections and nearly 104,000 deaths in the pandemic, which has disproportionately affected racial minorities in a nation that does not have universal health care.The Minnesota health commissioner warned that the protests are almost certain to fuel new infections.“We have two crises that are sandwiched on top of one other,” Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said.Even for the many protesters wearing masks, those don’t guarantee protection. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says cloth masks keep infected people from spreading the virus but are not designed to protect wearers from getting it.On Sunday, many Americans were returning to in-person church services for the first time in many weeks as some emergency measures are lifted and mosques reopened across the Middle East, but in countries from India to Colombia the number of new infection was still on the rise.In Europe, unions in Paris flouted a ban on large gatherings Saturday to protest the dire conditions facing workers in the country illegally. Police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and said they had banned the march due to health risks.Hong Kong police have used tear gas, pepper spray and rubber bullets to break up protests in recent weeks. A ban on gatherings of more than eight people has been extended to June 4, the day of an annual candlelight vigil to mark the Chinese military’s 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.More than 6 million infections have been reported worldwide, with nearly 370,000 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The true death toll is believed to be significantly higher, with experts saying many victims died of the virus without ever being tested.The situation worsened Sunday in India, where new daily cases topped 8,000 for the first time and 193 more deaths were reported. India still is easing restrictions on shops and public transport in more states beginning Monday, although subways and schools will remain closed.In Saudi Arabia, tens of thousands of mosques reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, but Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed. In Jerusalem, throngs of worshippers waited outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque before it reopened. Many wore surgical masks and waited for temperature checks as they entered.In Bogota, the capital of Colombia, authorities were locking down an area of nearly 1.5 million people as cases continued to rise.Bogota Mayor Claudia Lopez said no one in the working-class Kennedy area — inaugurated by late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961 — will be allowed out, except to seek food or medical care or in case of an emergency. Factories that had been allowed to operate must close. The area has reported more nearly 2,500 infections and hospitals are reaching their limits.Elite sporting events will be allowed to resume in England starting Monday, but without spectators, paving the way for the planned June 17 return of the Premier League, the world’s richest soccer competition.But England’s deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam warned that the situation remained precarious. Britain has seen nearly 38,500 deaths in the pandemic, the second-highest number of confirmed virus deaths after the United States.“I believe this is also a very dangerous moment,” he said. “We have to get this right.”Pope Francis, meanwhile, cautioned against pessimism as people emerge from coronavirus lockdowns.During Mass in St. Peter’s Basilica to mark Pentecost Sunday, Francis noted a tendency to say that “nothing will return as before.” That kind of thinking, Francis said, guarantees that “the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.”___Seewer reported from Toledo, Ohio. AP reporters from around the world contributed to this report.___Follow AP pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-you-protested-last-night-get-covid-test-this-week-us-mayors-fear-virus-outbreak/story-UpKBD7iTAd3lNwVlMQpBlM.html
31-05-2020||World||Pope Francis says pull together, avoid pessimism in this coronavirus era||Pope Francis is cautioning against pessimism as many people emerge from coronavirus lockdowns to lament that nothing will ever be the same.During Mass in St. Peter’s Basilica to mark Pentecost Sunday, Francis noted a tendency to say “nothing will return as before.” That kind of thinking, Francis said, guarantees that “the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.”He took to task his own church for its fragmentation, saying it must pull together.“The world sees conservatives and progressives” but instead all are “children of God,” he said, telling the faithful to focus on what unites them.“In this pandemic, how wrong narcissism is,” Francis said, lamenting “the tendency to think only of our needs, to be indifferent to those of others, and to not admit our own frailties and mistakes.”“At this moment, in the great effort of beginning anew, how damaging is pessimism, the tendency to see everything in the worst light and to keep saying that nothing will return as before!” the pope said. “When someone thinks this way, the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.’‘A few dozen faithful, wearing masks and sitting one to a pew, attended the ceremony as part of safety measures to avoid spreading COVID-19.While the Vatican has re-opened the basilica to tourists, the rank-and-file faithful still aren’t allowed yet to attend Masses celebrated by the pope for fear of crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-says-pull-together-avoid-pessimism-in-this-coronavirus-era/story-zgXB71bwZqSmXxRZOeQAyH.html
31-05-2020||World||Nepal extends coronavirus lockdown till June 14||The Nepal government has extended the nationwide lockdown until June 14 amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and decided to deploy the Army in the worst-hit areas.The country on Saturday registered its highest single-day surge in coronavirus cases with 189 new infections, taking the Covid-19 tally in the country to over 1,400.The Cabinet meeting held on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown. Meanwhile, the government has also decided to suspend all domestic and international flights until June 30.The prior-imposed nationwide lockdown, decreed to curtail the potential spread of Covid-19, was to end on June 2.The government also been decided to mobilise the Army to the worst-hit areas to effectively implement the lockdown.The government also decided to bring home the Nepalese people stranded abroad on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-june-14/story-tOXYRIIjs5nxYgyioSwmOL.html
31-05-2020||World||Nepal govt tables in parliament amendment bill on map that includes Indian territory||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a Constitution amendment bill in parliament aimed at altering the country’s map amid a border dispute with India.Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Shivamaya Tumbahangphe, on behalf of the government of Nepal, tabled the bill, a day after the main Opposition Nepali Congress also backed the legislation. It will be the second amendment to the Constitution. Nepal recently released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India reacted angrily to the move saying such “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims will not be acceptable and asked the neighbouring country to refrain from such “unjustified cartographic assertion”.The bill seeks to amend the political map of Nepal included in Schedule 3 of the Constitution. The new map will be used in all official documents including the coat of arms after the amendment bill is endorsed through parliament.  Parliament will now deliberate on the proposal before endorsing the bill. After its endorsement by both the Houses of parliament, the President will order issuance of the bill. The central committee of the main Opposition party Nepali Congress on Saturday decided to back the bill.Last week, the proposed bill was removed from the business schedule of parliament at the last minute at the request of Minister K P Sharma Oli. The discussion on the Constitution amendment bill was delayed as the Nepali Congress asked for more time to discuss the matter in its high-level body. Similarly, the Samajbadi Janata Party Nepal and the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal demanded that their long-standing calls for Constitution amendment also be incorporated. It requires a two-thirds majority to endorse the Constitution amendment bill.During an all-party meeting on Tuesday, Prime Minister Oli urged the top leaders of all political parties represented in parliament to unanimously endorse it.Ties between India and Nepal came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali earlier this month summoned Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and handed over a diplomatic note to protest against India inaugurating the key road.However, Gyawali last week said that he was confident that the Kalapani issue between the two neighbours will be resolved through talks.India on Thursday indicated its readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve the festering border row based on mutual sensitivity and respect.India is monitoring the current situation in Nepal, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said referring to Kathmandu deferring a plan to bring in a constitutional amendment to validate a new map that depicted Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territory “India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” Srivastava said.The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory -- India as part of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-govt-tables-in-parliament-amendment-bill-on-map-that-includes-indian-territory/story-miwInL23P7y8wYxwF1WiDL.html
31-05-2020||World||Violence grips Karachi hospital over handing body of a patient who dies of Covid-19||In a yet another incident where Pakistanis broke the mandatory rule imposed to keep coronavirus infection at bay, mob violence gripped the Dr Ruth Pfau Civil Hospital in Karachi on Friday over the delay in handing body of a patient who died of coronavirus.Karachi police officials told Dawn on Saturday that a patient was brought to the hospital at 2:15 a.m. on Friday night but he died while being treated. The doctors suspected the patient to have the coronavirus and conducted a test, which came positive.However, the relatives of the deceased patient refuted the test results and alleged that the doctors had declared him to be positive even though he was “normal”.Officials said that some 70 people stormed the hospital ward at around 10:30 p.m. (local time). They resorted to violence and forcibly took away the body. Videos taken of the hospital’s entrance showed a large number of people removing equipment such as stretchers from the hospital premises and breaking the sanitiser gate installed there.Responding to allegations of delay, the medical superintendent at the hospital Dr Khadim Hussain Qureshi further informed the media that doctors at the hospital were only following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government for handling bodies of people who die from the virus.“We are government servants. We only follow what the government tells us,” he said.He added that the patient had come to the hospital complaining of a heart problem. The doctors suspected that he had the coronavirus and conducted a test.“It takes time for the result to be received,” he said further.Qureshi also noted that none of the doctors was injured in the violence but, he said, a female doctor was slapped by one of the deceased’s relatives.A senior police official said that the hospital administration had not approached police for lodging a first information report (FIR). However, he said, the police have decided to register the case against the persons involved over charges of rioting and creating hindrances in official work.Pakistan has been the most chilled country in the world despite being severely hit by the virus. One of Imran Khan’s minister calls coronavirus god’s punishment, the Punjab chief minister promises ulemas mosques won’t be closed, and worshippers continue to defy lockdown rules amid a rising number of COVID cases.It is true that Khan’s government has no plan and no direction to deal with the coronavirus. The fact becomes more evident after witnessing how the Pakistan prime minister begs for money to stabilise the country’s economy in the garb of coronavirus at a time when world leaders are looking at ways to treat, cure or take precaution against the highly dangerous contagion.The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Pakistan rose to 69,496 on Sunday after new infections were confirmed in the last 24 hours in the country. As per the province-wise break-up cited by Geo News, 27,360 new cases were registered in Sindh, 25,056 cases in Punjab, 9,540 cases in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 4,193 cases in Balochistan, 2,418 cases in Islamabad, 678 cases in Gilgit-Baltistan and 251 cases in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.As many as 1,483 people so far have lost their lives after contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/violence-grips-karachi-hospital-over-handing-body-of-a-patient-who-dies-of-covid-19/story-oziD883U5iydfiVc2v26HO.html
31-05-2020||World||1.1 trillion euros rescue package, tax cuts and cash payouts: How Germany set an example for the world in dealing with Covid-19||The coronavirus pandemic has taken the world by storm, breaking the existing structures and severely impacting the economy.Countries like the United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain and others have been raveged by the global pandemic which started from China and quickly spread across the world.Europe has been badly hit. But there is one country in the continent which acted early, and fast, and has emerged as an example for the world. That country is Germany.As the number of cases started rising and governments across the world imposed stringent restrictions, Germany unveiled a rescue package worth 1.1 trillion euros.The massive package includes state-backed loan guarantees, cash injections and schemes to put millions of workers on reduced hours to avoid layoffs.And it has been designed to help almost every sector of the society.The German government will pay for additional unemployment benefits and new tax cuts to help businesses affected by the coronavirus.Workers forced to stay at home by the pandemic and government measures to contain it will receive between 70 and 77 per cent of net salary from the fourth month of unemployment, a ten per cent increase on previous provisions.From the seventh month, they will receive between 80 and 87 per cent.The country’s economy ministry has proposed as much as 50,000 euros in monthly aid to help the stricken firms. And there are also plans for tax cut for the salaried class and heavy rebates for businesses.Having weathered the coronavirus outbreak better than many of its neighbours so far, Germany has gradually started loosening restrictions in recent weeks.Shops, factories and restaurants are cautiously reopening but the economic damage is far from over as social distancing rules prevent a return to business as usual.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 286 to 181,482, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed.The reported death toll rose by 11 to 8,500, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-1-trillion-euros-rescue-package-tax-cuts-and-payouts-how-germany-set-an-example-for-the-world-in-dealing-with-covid-19/story-d0QLqajorXRExiHEhmcP2N.html
31-05-2020||World||UK taking ‘right steps’ to ease virus lockdown, says foreign minister||British foreign minister Dominic Raab said on Sunday the “careful” easing of the coronavirus lockdown was now the “right step” to take, shrugging off criticism for moving too quickly to allow people more social contact.“We are confident that this is the right step to be taking at this moment in time,” Raab told Sky News. “We are taking those steps very carefully, based on the science but also based on our ability now to monitor the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-taking-right-steps-to-ease-virus-lockdown-says-foreign-minister/story-797UjIhYLf66hwZdHVuVBL.html
31-05-2020||World||Massive protests raise fears of new virus outbreaks||The mayor of Atlanta, one of dozens of U.S. cities hit by massive protests in recent days, has a message for demonstrators: “If you were out protesting last night, you probably need to go get a COVID test this week.”As emergency orders are lifted and beaches and businesses reopen, add protests to the list of concerns about a possible second wave of coronavirus outbreaks. It’s also an issue from Paris to Hong Kong, where anti-government protesters accuse police of using social distancing rules to break up their rallies.Health experts fear that silent carriers of the virus who have no symptoms could unwittingly infect others at gatherings with people packed cheek to jowl and cheering and jeering, many without masks.“Whether they’re fired up or not that doesn’t prevent them from getting the virus,” said Bradley Pollock, chairman of the Department of Public Health Sciences at the University of California, Davis.One Atlanta protester said she has no choice following the death last Monday of George Floyd, a black man, after a white police officer in Minneapolis pressed a knee into his neck.“It’s not OK that in the middle of a pandemic we have to be out here risking our lives,” Spence Ingram, a black woman, said after marching with other protesters to the state Capitol in Atlanta on Friday. “But I have to protest for my life and fight for my life all the time.”Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, in her warning Saturday evening, said “there is still a pandemic in America that’s killing black and brown people at higher numbers.”After another night of unrest in Minneapolis, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said that many protesters wearing masks were simply trying to hide their identities and “cause confusion and take advantage of this situation.”The state’s health commissioner has warned that the protests are almost certain to fuel new cases of the virus. Minnesota reported 35 deaths on Thursday, a single-day high in the outbreak, and 29 more on Friday.“We have two crises that are sandwiched on top of one other,” Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said.The protests come at a time when many U.S. cities are beginning to relax stay-at-home orders. When Los Angeles officials announced the reopening of stores last week, they said political protests could resume but with a cap of 100 people.That didn’t stop several hundred people from showing up for a protest that shut down a freeway. Most wore masks, but many did not observe a buffer zone.Even for the many protesters who have been wearing masks, those don’t guarantee protection from the coronavirus. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends cloth masks because they can make it more difficult for infected people to spread the virus — but they are not designed to protect the person wearing the mask from getting it.In Europe, unions in Paris flouted a ban on large gatherings Saturday at a march to protest conditions for workers in the country illegally. Police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and said they had banned the march due to the “health risks that such an event is likely to generate.”Hong Kong police have used tear gas, pepper spray and rubber bullets to break up protests in recent weeks. A ban on gatherings of more than eight people has been extended to June 4, the day of an annual candlelight vigil to mark the Chinese military’s 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.More than 6 million coronavirus infections have been reported worldwide, with over 369,000 deaths and more than 2.5 million recoveries, according to the Johns Hopkins tally. The true death toll is widely believed to be significantly higher, with experts saying many victims died of the virus without ever being tested for it.The situation worsened in India, where new daily cases topped 8,000 for the first time and 193 people died in the last 24 hours. The last week has been the deadliest for the country since the outbreak began.In Saudi Arabia, tens of thousands of mosques reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, but Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed.Elsewhere, throngs of worshippers waited outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem before it reopened for the first time since mid-March. Many wore surgical masks and, as they entered, the faithful stopped for temperature checks.In South America, the city of Bogota, Colombia, will lock down an area of nearly 1.5 million people where cases are continuing to raise.Mayor Claudia Lopez said Saturday that no one in the working-class Kennedy area — inaugurated by late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961 — will be allowed out, except to seek food or medical care or in case of an emergency. Factories that had been allowed to operate will be ordered closed.The area has reported more nearly 2,500 cases and hospitals are reaching maximum capacity.Elite sporting events will be allowed to resume in England starting Monday, but without spectators, paving the way for the planned June 17 return of the Premier League, the world’s richest soccer competition.England’s deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam warned that the situation overall remained precarious. “I believe this is also a very dangerous moment,” he said. “We have to get this right.”___Seewer reported from Toledo, Ohio. AP reporters from around the world contributed to this report.___Follow AP pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-protests-raise-fears-of-new-virus-outbreaks/story-g1D0vn4BtsSXBr8u1IAUxH.html
31-05-2020||World||Australian PM makes ‘ScoMosas’, wants to share them with PM Modi||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has made an Indian snack - the popular samosa - and wants to share it with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He shared the images of the snack, and mango chutney along with it, on his Twitter feed on Sunday and named it ScoMosas.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi. Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him. pic.twitter.com/Sj7y4Migu9The tweet has so far garnered 32,000 likes. In a reply to Morrison’s tweet, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said: “Proposing your name for Michelin Star.”The two Prime Ministers are scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on June 4 that is expected to see an intensification of ties in the economic and strategic spheres.This will be Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the covid-19 pandemic.Australian prime minister Scott Morrison who was to come to India in January for the summit had to put off his visit due to the devastating wildfires ravaging large parts of his country. The visit was being planned for May but now the summit is to happen on 4 June, Indian foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.The two countries are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains during the summit.The summit between PM Modi and PM Morrison will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides had been exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-pm-makes-scomosas-wants-to-share-them-with-pm-modi/story-DHUvpPKwyc2WE1H6d9ZHSO.html
31-05-2020||World||Testing on kids is a nervous next step on way to Covid-19 vaccine||There are many questions surrounding children’s role in the coronavirus pandemic but one thing is clear: they’ll need a vaccine, just like adults.That means injecting dozens of kids with an experimental product -- a prospect that makes many parents nervous. The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc plan to start testing their jab in 5- to 12-year-olds as schools and nurseries reopen in the UKChildren appear to be less affected by Covid-19, though their role in transmission of the virus remains unclear. A vaccine would protect them and ensure they don’t infect others who are more at risk, like teachers or grandparents. But the pandemic has struck at a time of growing defiance against mass immunizations.“These are of course very personal decisions, but everybody needs to ask themselves: Would I want the vaccine for my child later on, when other people have contributed to making it safe?” said Beate Kampmann, professor of pediatric infection and immunity and director of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine’s vaccine center. “We have to be grateful to people who have taken that little bit of a punt.”Kids were excluded from Oxford’s early research efforts. Their experimental jab, a front-runner in the global race to develop a vaccine, was tried on adults first, showing only transient side effects such as a temperature and a sore arm. When it moves into the more advanced stages of research in June, it will be administered to as many as 10,260 people, some of them children.Schools ReopenA spokesman for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine team said more information on the child portion of the trial will be available when the group starts recruiting patients in the coming weeks. He declined to comment further.As schools and nurseries move to restart in several countries, the UK government’s committee of scientific advisers says there is “substantial uncertainty” about the impact on the pandemic. There is some evidence that children don’t contract the virus as easily as adults and suffer milder symptoms. Only a handful of deaths in children under 15 have been linked to the disease in Britain, compared with more than 38,000 fatalities for grownups.Recruitment for child vaccination trials in the UK is usually done through doctors’ offices and health-care workers. Trials tend to work their way down the age range, so it would be unusual for a child to test a vaccine before an adult. The jabs are often given at home and parents are asked to take regular temperature readings and a diary of their child’s reaction, with follow-up visits for blood tests.One perk of taking part can be that the clinical trial team will give the child their other routine immunizations on home visits for the length of the study. There’s no financial incentive to join, and parents can withdraw their child at any point.Even so, child vaccines are controversial, with a vocal community of opponents globally raising concern about purported links to conditions such as autism. Though reports of a connection have been discredited, they’ve had an impact on uptake by parents. There have also been legitimate problems, such as a small 2010 uptick in narcolepsy cases that was found to be related to a swine flu vaccine.Vaccine TrialFor most parents, inoculations aren’t a concern. When Karla Coletta became a new mother in 2006, she was invited to enroll her baby daughter, Carys, in a vaccine trial for meningitis B.“When you become a mum you suddenly become aware of your own mortality and meningitis was on everyone’s lips,” Coletta, whose daughter is now 13, said in a telephone interview. “I just thought, why would I not be interested in that, why would I not want her to be vaccinated against that. I knew they had to start somewhere.”Coletta said that if her children were in the right age bracket she would ask them if they wanted to participate in the Covid-19 vaccine trials.Personal gain and the greater good are the two most common reasons parents participate, according to Shamez Ladhani, a pediatric infectious disease consultant at St. George’s Hospital in London, and consultant epidemiologist for Public Health England. And while there are risks, adverse reactions are rare -- so much so that they often don’t get noticed until the vaccine goes on sale and is given to many more patients, Ladhani said.“Some side effects you actually don’t find out until you have given 100,000 doses -- that’s always a worry,” said Ladhani, who is frequently involved in vaccine trials. “But there isn’t a clinical trial that’s big enough that can pick that up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/testing-on-kids-is-a-nervous-next-step-on-way-to-covid-19-vaccine/story-oL2LobuICVKJXxBEZcAJwL.html
31-05-2020||World||Australia would welcome official invitation to G7, says government spokesman||Australia would welcome an official invitation to the Group of Seven (G7) nations and there has been contact on the matter between the prime minister and the United States, a government spokesman said on Sunday.“The G7 has been a topic of recent high-level exchanges,” the spokesman said in an emailed comment. “Australia would welcome an official invitation. Strengthening international cooperation among like-minded countries is valued at a time of unprecedented global challenges.”US President Donald Trump said he would postpone a G7 summit he had hoped to hold next month until September or later and expand the list of invitees to include Australia, Russia, South Korea and India.US-Australia ties have been strong, even though recent White House comments on the origins of the coronavirus outbreak have frustrated Australia’s push for an independent inquiry, sources have told Reuters. The two security partners also diverged radically in their management of the pandemic.Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been so far one of very few world leaders to pay a state visit to Washington during Trump’s tenure, and both leaders have openly signalled their camaraderie.Morrison, unlike some European leaders, has avoided criticising Trump publicly and has teamed up with the United States in its tougher stance against China, Australia’s main trading partner.Relations between Canberra and Beijing have been strained amid Australian accusations of Chinese meddling in domestic affairs and concern about what Australia sees as China’s growing influence in the Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-would-welcome-official-invitation-to-g7-says-government-spokesman/story-sRSsgyC1kdehF1OWMdXqII.html
31-05-2020||World||Russia plans coronavirus vaccine clinical trials in two weeks: Report||Russian scientists plan to start clinical trials within two weeks on a vaccine to combat the novel coronavirus, the health minister was quoted as saying on Saturday as authorities approved the country’s first anti-COVID-19 drug.Russia has the world’s third-highest toll of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil, and Kremlin officials have said the nation’s researchers are working on almost 50 different vaccine projects.“The tests are under way and we plan to start clinical trials in the next two weeks,” Health Minister Mikhail Murashko was quoted as saying by the TASS news agency. He said volunteers had been selected to take part in the trials.Drugmakers worldwide are rushing to develop treatments and vaccines for the virus that has caused 364,000 deaths globally. The Russian Direct Investment Fund said the Health Ministry had approved Avifavir for the treatment of COVID-19.It was developed on the basis of a drug known generically as favipiravir.RDIF said Avifavir had proved highly effective in treating patients with coronavirus in the first phase of its clinical trials. The final stage of clinical trials is under way, with the participation of 330 patients.There are currently about 10 coronavirus vaccines being tested in humans and experts have predicted that a safe and effective vaccine could take 12 to 18 months from the start of development.One of the Russian vaccine projects is being undertaken by the state-run Vektor Institute in Siberia, whose director general, Rinat Maksyutov, said on Saturday he hoped to complete clinical trials in mid-September.Maksyutov said vaccine trials on animals had been successful.Russia on Saturday reported 181 deaths from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours - down from the record 232 deaths the previous day - bringing the nationwide death toll to 4,555.Officials said 8,952 new infections had been confirmed, bringing the national tally to 396,575 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-plans-coronavirus-vaccine-clinical-trials-in-two-weeks-report/story-0DpahtprqQXI5KYaAwKuiM.html
31-05-2020||World||‘A beautiful ship’: SpaceX launch brings respite to Trump amid difficult week||President Donald Trump celebrated on Saturday the first launch of American astronauts from U.S. soil in nearly a decade, marveling at the power of the rocket ship and the danger faced by its passengers as they soared into the stratosphere and provided a moment of triumph as the country raged and mourned.The successful launch provided the president a moment to relish during what has been a difficult week with protests breaking out in several American cities over the death of a black man, George Floyd, while he was in police custody, and the country’s death toll from the coronavirus surpassing 100,000.“That was a beautiful sight to see and I hope you all enjoyed it,” Trump said shortly after the rocket ship designed and built by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company lifted off for a trip to the International Space Station.Trump addressed the unrest during a speech celebrating the launch, saying Floyd’s death was a “grave tragedy” that has filled the country with anger and grief. But he said his administration would stop mob violence, “and we’ll stop it cold.”“I stand before you as a friend and ally to every American seeking justice and peace, and I stand before you in firm opposition to anyone exploiting this tragedy to loot, rob, attack and menace,” he said. “Healing, not hatred, justice, not chaos, are the missions at hand.”For Trump, the second time was the charm. He also flew to the Kennedy Space Center on Wednesday before the launch was postponed at the last minute because of bad weather.“When you hear that sound and you hear all of that roar, you can imagine how dangerous it is,” Trump said. “When you feel the shake — and we’re very far away — but when you feel the shake over here, it’s pretty amazing. Beautiful sight. A beautiful ship, too.”Asked why he felt it was important to be in Florida for the launch, given all that is going on in the country, Trump said the launch was a “great inspiration” for the country.“We suffered something that was terrible, it should have never happened. And that’s one of the reasons I wanted to be here today. I thought it was so important to be here today,” Trump said. “And I think any one of you would say, that was an inspiration to see what we just saw.”Trump visited the launch control center to congratulate those involved and spoke with Musk, who wore a shirt emblazoned with the launch’s logo. Under Trump, NASA has provided companies with research and development funds to help build their own spacecraft. Ultimately, NASA hopes to rely in part on its commercial partners as it works to send astronauts back to the moon in the next few years, and on to Mars in the 2030s.Vice President Mike Pence likened the circumstances surrounding Saturday’s mission to what the nation experienced when astronauts on Apollo rockets launched during the tumult and clamor of the 1960s. He said the missions were a symbol of national strength and unity.“And today, as states across the nation take their first steps to reopen and recover from an unprecedented pandemic, and as our nation reels from the tragic death of George Floyd and violent protests of the past few days, I believe with all my heart that millions of Americans today will find the same inspiration and unity of purpose that we found in those days in the 1960s,” Pence said.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-beautiful-ship-spacex-launch-brings-respite-to-trump-amid-difficult-week/story-mw78ghnh8VuOQaRTM9ClGI.html
31-05-2020||World||Romania’s PM paid $600 in fines for not adhering to social distancing rules||Romania’s prime minister has paid fines totaling about $600 for smoking indoors and holding a meeting in a government building where several Cabinet ministers and other participants did not follow social distancing rules.In a photograph published in Romanian media, Prime Minister Ludovic Orban and others can be seen smoking with food and bottles of alcohol on a table.No one in the photo wore a mask or maintained the required spacing.Orban told the Mediafax news agency that the picture was taken on May 25, his birthday.The foreign minister and economy minister of Romania were among those attending.Romania has registered 19,133 confirmed coronavirus cases and 1,259 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romania-s-pm-paid-600-in-fines-for-not-adhering-to-social-distancing-rules/story-uSAxlnOAA3b86gWRnOhK6O.html
31-05-2020||World||Hot Docs! North America’s largest documentary film festival goes online amid Covid-19 crisis||Cinemas remain closed across the world, the Festival de Cannes has been cancelled and the red carpet rolled up, and now North America’s largest documentary film festival is adjusting to the new normal created by the Covid-19 pandemic by taking the entire event online.The 10-day Hot Docs Festival was originally scheduled to commence on April 30, but the coronavirus crisis brought the curtain down upon staging multiple screenings before live audiences, like those in previous years. “Over a month ago when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit, we took the unprecedented step of postponing the public festival anticipating that we would soon be able to reschedule it,” said Hot Docs’ executive director Brett Hendrie, in a statement issued by the festival. Also read: Year 2020 - When a punch in the mouth left all plans upended...“But now, given the ongoing uncertainly around when live festivals and other large gatherings may safely be held, we are fortunate to have this option to bring these outstanding films to our audiences,” he added, referring to the streaming of what has been renamed as the Hot Docs Festival Online. Not that it will be missing original content or the premieres that have marked the festival over the years. The festival began on May 28 and will continue through June 6 during which it will feature over 135 official selections including 91 features and mid-length titles.Documentaries, of course, reflect takes on the current reality of the world but the 2020 version of Hot Docs, will obviously, be unable to feature films about the coronavirus, simply because there aren’t any as yet. However, it does riff upon a number of other topics that are in the news. As racism once again makes headlines, Indian-American director Shalini Kantayya’s ‘Coded Bias’ takes a look at discrimination embedded in advanced facial recognition technology, while ‘Hong Kong Moments’ focuses on the pro-democracy protests there last year just as they recur again.“Documentaries are vitally important to helping us understand the world we live in, particularly at this challenging moment in time,” said Shane Smith, Hot Docs’ director of programming.Indian films always have a presence at the festival and figure in its inaugural online avatar, with the highlight being ‘Shut Up Sona’, director by Deepti Gupta, that features singer Sona Mohapatra and her feminism in the context of a patriarchal Bollywood music industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hot-docs-north-america-s-largest-documentary-film-festival-goes-online-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-LaaxWWDJWPWHecDistU4mJ.html
31-05-2020||World||As Covid-19 rages in Brazil, 5-month-old emerges as miracle survivor||A five-month-old baby in Brazil has miraculously survived Covid-19, to become one of the youngest to be cured of the coronavirus disease.Baby Dom will be home in time to celebrate his sixth birthday. His parents told CNN that he contracted the disease a few months after he was born.The baby spent 54 days in hospital, out of this, he was in induced coma for more than a month, reported CNN.The baby’s parents took him to a hospital after he found it difficult to breathe, reported CNN, adding that initially he was treated for a bacterial infection. A second hospital later tested the baby for coronavirus and he was found positive, it added.Brazil, meanwhile, reported a record 33,274 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, its health ministry said, and the death toll surpassed that of France and now ranks only below the United States, Britain and Italy.The South American country has now reported 4,98,440 confirmed cases of coronavirus since the outbreak began, a level of contagion second only to the United States.The death toll in Brazil from Covid-19 increased to 28,834, with 956 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.However, many states in Brazil are preparing to ease quarantine restrictions despite warnings from public health experts who say the worst is still to come.The total number of global Covid-19 cases has topped the six million mark, while the deaths have surged to more than 3,69,000, according to the Johns Hopkins University.Currently, the US has 1,770,165 confirmed cases and 1,03,776 deaths, both tallies account for the highest in the world, according to the University’s Centre for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-19-rages-in-brazil-5-month-old-emerges-as-miracle-survivor/story-M12v5lPEp6d8gMGyhDsPGL.html
31-05-2020||World||Mylan’s Pakistan partner to sell Covid-19 drug within 2 months||Pakistan’s AGP Ltd., a partner of Mylan NV, plans to sell the Covid-19 treatment remdesivir, which has been shown to improve recovery of coronavirus patients, within one to two months in the Asian nation.AGP plans to seek permission from the country’s drug authority to import the medicine, Chief Executive Officer Nusrat Munshi said in an interview. It has a similar arrangement for the Hepatitis C treatment Sovaldi, which it will import from Mylan. AGP is Mylan’s exclusive distributor in Pakistan.The development comes a few weeks after remdesivir’s original creator Foster City, California-based Gilead Sciences Inc. signed agreements with four generic drug manufacturers in India, including Mylan’s unit in the country, and one in Pakistan to speed development and help meet anticipated demand. A unit of Pakistan’s Ferozsons Laboratories Ltd. is currently the only licensee in the country.The global push to develop coronavirus treatments and vaccines is accelerating as governments look for ways to ease lockdowns safely and restart economies. Moderna Inc.’s vaccine passed a crucial early safety test last week, and countries from the UK to China are pushing ahead to develop their own vaccines. Gilead’s drug was originally developed in 2010 to treat Ebola.Pakistan eased its lockdown by opening shopping malls and retail shops this month and saw a massive rush of people ahead of Eid festivities. A few markets were temporarily shut for not following social distancing rules in Karachi.“The concept of a lockdown is that it gives the country’s health-care system time to prepare,” said Munshi, adding that health-care facilities including beds haven’t been ramped up and mass testing hasn’t been conducted.AGP has also sold about 100,000 anti-body test kits since last month to hospitals and private companies looking to test their staff as more people return to work. The company has another 100,000 kits and is considering importing more as it is seeing high demand, according to Munshi.Pakistan has about 66,000 infections and 1,400 deaths. The nation has tested fewer people than Ghana and has still seen the probability of a test turning out positive almost double to over 20% in the past week, the highest since the outbreak began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mylan-s-pakistan-partner-to-sell-covid-19-drug-within-2-months/story-eCiojHlnynfBsv0kNwKF2O.html
31-05-2020||World||Tear gas and burning cars in US cities as unrest continues||Tense protests over the death of George Floyd and other police killings of black men grew Saturday from New York to Tulsa to Los Angeles, with police cars set ablaze and reports of injuries mounting on all sides as the country lurched toward another night of unrest after months of coronavirus lockdowns.The protests, which began in Minneapolis following Monday’s death of George Floyd after a police officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes, have left parts of the city a grid of broken windows, burned-out buildings and ransacked stores. They have since become a national phenomenon as protesters decry years of deaths at police hands.The large crowds involved, with many people not wearing masks or social distancing, raised concerns among health experts about the potential for helping spread the coronavirus pandemic at a time when overall deaths are on the decline nationwide and much of the country is in the process of reopening society and the economy.After a tumultuous Friday night, racially diverse crowds took to the streets again for mostly peaceful demonstrations in dozens of cities from coast to coast. The previous day’s protests also started calmly, but many descended into violence later in the day.• In the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the site of a 1921 massacre of black people that left as many as 300 dead and the city’s thriving black district in ruins, protesters blocked intersections and chanted the name of Terence Crutcher, a black man killed by a police officer in 2016.• In Tallahassee, Florida, a pickup truck drove through a crowd of protesters, sending some running and screaming as the vehicle stopped and started and at one point had a person on its hood, police said, but no serious injuries were reported. Witnesses said a group followed the vehicle and forced it to stop. Police handcuffed the driver but did not release his name or say whether he would face any charges.• In Columbia, South Carolina, a television reporter for WIS-TV was injured by rocks thrown outside the main police station. Several hundred people participated in the demonstration, tearing down the American and state flags in front of the building. They also swarmed a police car, breaking its windows, The State reported.• In Los Angeles protesters chanted “Black Lives Matter,” some within inches of the face shields of officers. Police used batons to move the crowd back and fired rubber bullets at demonstrators. One man used a skateboard to try to break the windshield of a police SUV. A spray-painted police car burned in the street.• In New York City, video posted to social media showed officers using batons and shoving protesters down as they took people into custody and cleared streets. One video showed on officer slam a woman to the ground as he walked past her in the street.“Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, among those at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square, where most were wearing masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.”Back in Minneapolis, the city where the protests began, 29-year-old Sam Allkija said the damage seen in recent days reflects longstanding frustration and rage in the black community.“I don’t condone them,” he said. “But you have to look deeper into why these riots are happening.”Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz fully mobilized the state’s National Guard and promised a massive show of force.“The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” Walz said. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.”At least a dozen major cities nationwide imposed overnight curfews ranging from 6 p.m. in parts of South Carolina to 10 p.m. around Ohio. People were also told to be off the streets of Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles and Minneapolis - where thousands ignored the same order the previous night.The unrest comes at a time when most Americans have spent months inside over concerns surrounding the coronavirus, which the president has called an “invisible enemy.” The events of the last 72 hours, seen live on national television, have shown the opposite: a sudden pivot to crowds, screaming protesters and burning buildings, a stark contrast to the empty streets of recent months.Hundreds of people were arrested Friday, and police used batons, rubber bullets and pepper spray to push back crowds in some cities. Many departments reported injured officers, while social media was awash in images of police using forceful tactics, throwing protesters to the ground, using bicycles as shields and trampling one protester while on horseback.This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion.Many protesters spoke of frustration that Floyd’s death was one more in a litany. It came in the wake of the killing in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, a black man who was shot dead after being pursued by two white men while running in their neighborhood, and in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic that has thrown millions out of work, killed more than 100,000 people in the U.S. and disproportionately affected black people.The officer who held his knee to Floyd’s neck as he begged for air was arrested Friday and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter — but that appeared to provide little balm. Many protesters are demanding the arrests of the three other officers involved.President Donald Trump stoked the anger, firing off a series of tweets criticizing Minnesota’s response, ridiculing people who protested outside the White House and warning that if protesters had breached its fence they would “have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”Leaders in many affected cities have voiced outrage over Floyd’s killing and expressed sympathy for protesters’ concerns. But as unrest intensified, they spoke of a desperate need to protect their cities and said they would call in reinforcements, despite concerns that could lead to more heavy-handed tactics.Minnesota has steadily increased to 1,700 the number of National Guardsmen it says it needs to contain the unrest, and the governor is considering a potential offer of military police put on alert by the Pentagon.Governors in Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio and Texas also activated the National Guard after protests there turned violent overnight, while nighttime curfews were put in place in Portland, Oregon, Cincinnati and elsewhere.Police in St. Louis were investigating the death of a protester who climbed between two trailers of a Fed Ex truck and was killed when it drove away. And a person was killed in the area of protests in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone fired shots into an SUV, officers said. Police had initially said someone fired into the crowd from an SUV.In Atlanta, where crews worked Saturday to clean up glass and debris from rioting the night before, a large electronic billboard flashed the message: “If you love Atlanta PLEASE GO HOME,” echoing pleas from the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tear-gas-and-burning-cars-in-us-cities-as-unrest-continues/story-QFDUowXiG8eXiP8QFOggzN.html
31-05-2020||World||‘Should have been done 2 days ago,’ Trump tweets after Minnesota fully mobilises National Guard over George Floyd protests||US President Donald Trump on Saturday said the National Guard has been called in Minneapolis “to do the job that the Democrat Mayor couldn’t do” after riots following the death of an African American man in police custody.The full Minnesota National Guard was activated for the first time since World War Two after four nights of civil unrest following George Floyd’s death. Floyd died on Monday after Derek Chauvin, a white officer, pinned the man’s neck down to the ground with his knee for several minutes.At least six states have called on the National Guard to get the situation under control amid the raging demonstrations in Minneapolis and other places.“The National Guard has been released in Minneapolis to do the job that the Democrat Mayor couldn’t do. Should have been used 2 days ago & there would not have been damage & Police Headquarters would not have been taken over & ruined. Great job by the National Guard. No games!” Trump tweeted.Trump had warned earlier on Saturday that if the unrest continues in US cities, then the federal government would step in and the military would be used.He had said, while speaking at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, that the death of Floyd was a “grave tragedy” but warned against surrendering to hostility.Before that, he had threatened protesters with violence in the morning in a series of tweets commenting on overnight protests near the White House. Trump first said he had watched the events and celebrated how the Secret Service responded, then wrote that “nobody came close to breaching the fence,” but “if they had they would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”On Thursday night, Trump had vowed that the military would be used to help authorities in Minnesota “assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts.”His tweets were later hidden by Twitter.The death of George Floyd on Monday in Minneapolis has sparked demonstrations, some of them violent, in many cities across the United States, including one in Washington on Friday.The White House was temporarily locked down as hundreds of people gathered on Friday afternoon across the street in Lafayette Square Park.The Pentagon, in an extraordinary move, said it put military units on a four-hour alert to be ready if requested by Minnesota governor Tim Walz to help keep the peace.Four police officers involved in the arrest have been fired. Derek Chauvin, a former Minneapolis police officer involved in the death Floyd, has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.A bystander video recording showed Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck for at least eight minutes, while Floyd was saying that he could not breathe.Floyd, a Houston native who had worked security for nightclubs, was arrested on suspicion of trying to pass counterfeit money at a store to buy cigarettes on Monday evening. Police said he was unarmed. An employee who called for help had told a police dispatcher that the suspect appeared to be intoxicated.In a striking coincidence, Floyd and Chauvin had both worked security at the same Latin nightclub in Minneapolis, though it was unlikely they ever interacted, former owner Maya Santamaria, who sold the El Nuevo Rodeo club in January, told Reuters.Santamaria said Floyd worked inside the club on certain nights, supporting other staff with security. She said Chauvin, who worked outside the club as an off-duty cop for 16 years, had a reputation for roughing up customers, but she considered him responsible and a friend.Three other officers fired from the police department with Chauvin on Tuesday are also under criminal investigation in the case, prosecutors said.The video of Floyd’s arrest - captured by an onlooker’s cellphone as he repeatedly groaned, “please, I can’t breathe” before becoming motionless - triggered an outpouring of rage that civil rights activists said has long simmered in Minneapolis and cities across the country over persistent racial bias in the US criminal justice system.The US department of justice has made the investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) into George Floyd’s death a top priority.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-responds-to-minnesota-fully-mobilising-national-guard-over-george-floyd-protests/story-W0nl12R461CxuNc1ptVhqI.html
31-05-2020||World||China’s security law sends Hong Kong residents dashing for exit||Phyllis Lam has lived in Hong Kong for 42 years. It’s where she was born, went to school, met her husband and planned to raise her two children. But like a growing number of Hongkongers disillusioned by China’s tightening grip on the city, Lam now feels she has little choice but to leave. “I have no confidence in Hong Kong’s future,” she said in an interview. “I have two young kids, so I have to plan for them.”For many in Hong Kong who’ve long feared an erosion of their freedoms under Chinese rule, last week marked a tipping point. Spurred to action by Beijing’s decision to impose controversial national security legislation on the former British colony, residents have been flooding migration consultants with questions on how to move their families overseas.“We get an inquiry every 2 to 3 minutes,” said Gary Leung, chief executive officer of Global Home, a property and migration consultancy. The firm’s client requests has swelled to about 20 times normal levels, with Taiwan and Europe among the most asked-about destinations, Leung said.With many countries still enforcing travel restrictions to fight the coronavirus, it’s too early to gauge how many Hongkongers will ultimately move out. But consultants say the odds of an eventual exodus are growing as lawmakers from the U.K., the U.S. and Taiwan signal they may ease entry requirements for some Hong Kong citizens.A wave of emigration could erode Hong Kong’s attractiveness to multinational companies, hundreds of which rely on local talent to drive their growth across the Greater China region and the rest of Asia. The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong has warned that retaining top-tier employees in the city may become more difficult.Signs that more Hongkongers are planning to leave have been increasing since last year, when a now-scrapped extradition bill sparked mass protests and violent clashes with police in the heart of the city’s central business district.While Hong Kong doesn’t publish high-frequency immigration statistics, applications for good citizenship cards -- which certify a person doesn’t have a criminal record -- serve as a proxy because they’re often needed to apply for foreign visas. The monthly number of applications averaged 2,935 from June 2019 to April 2020, a 50% jump versus 2018.It’s not the first time the city has faced the prospect of a brain drain. An estimated 300,000 people left between 1990 and 1994, fearing Hong Kong’s handover to China from Britain would destroy the city’s civil liberties and capitalist system. Yet predictions of Hong Kong’s demise ultimately proved unfounded, with its status as Asia’s premier financial hub only becoming more entrenched over the following two decades.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said on Friday that the security law will only target “an extremely small minority of illegal and criminal acts” and that the “life and property, basic rights and freedoms of the overwhelming majority of citizens will be protected.” China’s central government has made similar remarks in the past week.Jolie Lo, an administrative executive, is among Hongkongers who plan to stay. She wants to be close to her aging parents and is wary of the challenges she might face overseas.“I may encounter other problems such as racial discrimination,” said Lo, who has studied in New York and worked in Beijing. “I won’t say I regret my decision to come back to Hong Kong. Since we are here now, we should just try our best to preserve our homes.”Read more: What Are the New Laws China Is Pushing for Hong Kong?Others see emigration as their best option. David Hui, managing director at Centaline Immigration Consultants (HK) Ltd., said his firm is now receiving as many as 100 inquiries a day from Hongkongers interested in moving to countries including Australia, the U.K. and Canada. Taiwan, Malaysia and Portugal are also becoming increasingly popular. “The national security law is definitely a push factor,” Hui said.Critics of China’s Communist Party worry that it will use the law to crack down on dissent and undermine the “one country, two systems” principle that has kept Hong Kong’s judiciary separate from the mainland’s since the 1997 handover. In a survey of 9,477 pro-democracy supporters last week by the Hong Kong Public Opinion Program, 96% said they opposed the law. Among those who said they weren’t pro-democracy, 29% opposed it and 62% supported it.“Now I fear censorship could be even more serious in Hong Kong,” said Ming, 30, who works in the art world and declined to give her surname, citing the sensitivity of the subject. “I don’t see a future here anymore, so it’s time to look for options.”Phyllis Lam and her husband, who are both holders of British National (Overseas) passports, haven’t decided yet where they’ll move. Canada is high on the list, but their top choice is the U.K. The country’s Home Office has said it may open a path to citizenship for almost 3 million Hong Kong residents who have BN(O) status.“In any case, we will send the kids away,” Lam said. “We don’t think the current environment in Hong Kong is good for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-security-law-sends-hong-kong-residents-dashing-for-exit/story-k7ZwqgmJVgnawcfj0fBkFO.html
31-05-2020||World||Protests heat up across US over Flyod’s death, governors call in National Guard||Protests over the death of George Floyd and repeated police killings of black men grew Saturday from New York to Tulsa to Los Angeles, where police fired rubber bullets to scatter crowds and at least one police car burned, as governors in several states called in National Guard troops in the face of the rising unrest. The demonstrations, which began in Minneapolis following Monday’s death of George Floyd after a police officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes, have left parts of that city a grid of broken windows, burned-out buildings and ransacked stores. They have since become a national phenomenon as protesters decry years of deaths at police hands. The large crowds involved, with many people not wearing masks or practicing social distancing, raised concerns among health experts about the potential for helping spread the coronavirus pandemic at a time when overall deaths are on the decline nationwide and much of the country is in the process of reopening society and the economy. After a tumultuous Friday night, racially diverse crowds took to the streets again for mostly peaceful demonstrations in dozens of cities from coast to coast. The previous day’s protests also started calmly, but many descended into violence later in the day. In the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the site of a 1921 massacre of black people that left as many as 300 dead and the city’s thriving black district in ruins, protesters blocked intersections and chanted the name of Terence Crutcher, a black man killed by a police officer in 2016. In Tallahassee, Florida, a pickup truck drove through a crowd of protesters, sending some running and screaming as the vehicle stopped and started and at one point had a person on its hood, police said, but no serious injuries were reported. Witnesses said a group followed the vehicle and forced it to stop. Police handcuffed the driver but did not release his name or say whether he would face any charges. In Columbia, South Carolina, a television reporter for WIS-TV was injured by rocks thrown outside the main police station. Several hundred people participated in the demonstration, tearing down the American and state flags in front of the building. They also swarmed a police car, breaking its windows, The State reported. In Los Angeles protesters chanted “Black Lives Matter,” some within inches of the face shields of officers. Police used batons to move the crowd back and fired rubber bullets at demonstrators. One man used a skateboard to try to break the windshield of a police SUV. A spray-painted police car burned in the street. In New York City, video posted to social media showed officers using batons and shoving protesters down as they took people into custody and cleared streets. One video showed on officer slam a woman to the ground as he walked past her in the street. “Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, among those at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square, where most were wearing masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.” Back in the city where the protests began, 29-year-old Sam Allkija said Saturday in Minneapolis that the damage seen in recent days is a manifestation of longstanding frustration and rage in the black community. “I don’t condone them,” he said. “But you have to look deeper into why these riots are happening.” Others echoed him: “Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, who was at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square where most demonstrators were wearing masks amid the pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.” Minnesota Governor Tim Walz fully mobilized the state’s National Guard and promised a massive show of force. “The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” Walz said. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.” The unrest comes at a time when most Americans have spent months inside over concerns surrounding the coronavirus, which the president has called an “invisible enemy.” The events of the last 72 hours, seen live on national television, have shown the opposite: a sudden pivot to crowds, screaming protesters and burning buildings, a stark contrast to the empty streets of recent months. Hundreds of people were arrested Friday, and police used batons, rubber bullets and pepper spray to push back crowds in some cities. Many departments reported injured officers, while social media was awash in images of police using forceful tactics, throwing protesters to the ground, using bicycles as shields and trampling one protester while on horseback. This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion. Many protesters spoke of frustration that Floyd’s death was one more in a litany. It came in the wake of the killing in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, a black man who was shot dead after being pursued by two white men while running in their neighborhood, and in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic that has thrown millions out of work, killed more than 100,000 people in the U.S. and disproportionately affected black people. The officer who held his knee to Floyd’s neck as he begged for air was arrested Friday and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter — but that appeared to provide little balm. Many protesters are demanding the arrests of the three other officers involved. President Donald Trump stoked the anger, firing off a series of tweets criticizing Minnesota’s response, ridiculing people who protested outside the White House and warning that if protesters had breached its fence they would “have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.” Leaders in many affected cities have voiced outrage over Floyd’s killing and expressed sympathy for protesters’ concerns. But as unrest intensified, they spoke of a desperate need to protect their cities and said they would call in reinforcements, despite concerns that could lead to more heavy-handed tactics. Minnesota has steadily increased to 1,700 the number of National Guardsmen it says it needs to contain the unrest, and the governor is considering a potential offer of military police put on alert by the Pentagon. Governors in Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio and Texas also activated the National Guard after protests there turned violent overnight, while nighttime curfews were put in place in Portland, Oregon, Cincinnati and elsewhere. Police in St. Louis were investigating the death of a protester who climbed between two trailers of a Fed Ex truck and was killed when it drove away. And a person was killed in the area of protests in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone fired shots into an SUV, officers said. Police had initially said someone fired into the crowd from an SUV. In Atlanta, where crews worked Saturday to clean up glass and debris from rioting the night before, a large electronic billboard flashed the message:”If you love Atlanta PLEASE GO HOME,” echoing pleas from the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-heat-up-across-us-over-flyod-s-death-governors-call-in-national-guard/story-B8VadftHArEYfZqN8N91RO.html
31-05-2020||World||Global Covid-19 cases hit 6 million as UN sounds alarm on economy||As the number of coronavirus infections worldwide crossed yet another dark milestone - going past the 6-million-mark as per international monitor Worldometer - the UN chief sent out a chilling warning for a world ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns.Globally, the coronavirus has killed nearly 370,000 people.Antonio Guterres has warned that the pandemic will cause “unimaginable devastation, usher in hunger and famine of historic proportions and lead to a loss of $8.5 trillion in global output” - the sharpest contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s - “if nations did not respond with unity and solidarity”.The UN secretary general said, “Sixty million more people have been pushed into extreme poverty. Up to half the global workforce is without livelihoods.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-hit-6-million-as-un-sounds-alarm-on-economy/story-Bpiky74SvB15OfhUIO5VeO.html
31-05-2020||World||Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque reopens after more than two months||Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque reopened to worshippers on Sunday after a two-and-a-half month coronavirus closure, but Muslim authorities imposed some precautions as health officials warn of an uptick in local infections.The resumption of prayers at Islam’s third-holiest site caps a sombre period for Jerusalem’s Muslims, who this year marked the holy fasting month of Ramadan and the Eid al-Fitr holiday without their usual daily visits to Al-Aqsa and the adjoining Dome of the Rock.The Council of Islamic Waqf cited the slowed local spread of Covid-19 in lifting entry restrictions and reopening the compound’s iconic shrines, which shut on March 15.Hundreds of Muslims chanted “God is the greatest” as they packed into the compound in Jerusalem’s walled Old City early on Sunday for dawn prayers, a Reuters witness said. Some got on their knees and kissed the ground as they entered.But Muslim authorities imposed some measures to reduce the risk of contagion, as new cases in Israel spiked in recent days.Worshippers must wear face masks and bring personal prayer rugs should they wish to pray inside the shrines or on the compound’s outdoor grounds, the council said in a statement.The council did not say if there would be a limit on the number of people allowed in the 35-acre compound, known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount.Around 700 worshippers were present on the compound for dawn prayers, the vast majority of whom wore face masks and brought prayer rugs.Muslims believe the site to be where the Prophet Mohammad ascended to heaven. Jews revere it as the site of the Jewish temples of antiquity.There have been 17,000 coronavirus cases and 284 deaths in Israel, and 386 cases and three deaths in the occupied West Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jerusalem-s-al-aqsa-mosque-reopens-after-more-than-two-months/story-hUlgrWXtca7HrutQv50BTM.html
31-05-2020||World||US action on Hong Kong is ‘doomed to fail’, says China||The mouthpiece newspaper of China’s ruling Communist Party said on Saturday that the US decision to end some trading privileges for Hong Kong “grossly interferes” in China’s internal affairs and is “doomed to fail”.The Hong Kong government called US President Donald Trump’s announcement unjustified and said it is “not unduly worried by such threats”, despite concern that they could drive companies away from the Asian financial and trading centre.The Trump administration has also banned some Chinese students and researchers from entering the US after accusing them of stealing intellectual property, the White House said on Friday in a statement cited by the Chinese state media. The entry ban goes into effect at midnight on June 1.An editorial in China’s official People’s Daily newspaper said that attempts at “forcing China to make concessions on core interests including sovereignty and security through blackmailing or coercion... can only be wishful thinking and day-dreaming!”Trump’s move came after China’s ceremonial parliament voted on Thursday to bypass Hong Kong’s legislature and develop and enact national security legislation on its own for the semi-autonomous territory. China had issued no response as of late on Saturday, but had earlier said it would retaliate if the US went ahead with its threat to revoke trading advantages granted to Hong Kong after its handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997. “This hegemonic act of attempting to interfere in Hong Kong affairs and grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs will not frighten the Chinese people and is doomed to fail,” the People’s Daily said.In Hong Kong, small groups of Beijing supporters marched to the US consulate on Saturday carrying China flags and signs protesting “American interference in China’s internal affair” and calling Trump “shameless and useless”. Elsewhere in the city, activists including Joshua Wong held a press meet to welcome Trump’s announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-action-on-hong-kong-is-doomed-to-fail-says-china/story-dv0jopQL5yjxa6vJYLNEEJ.html
31-05-2020||World||As Minneapolis burns, mayor takes heat for the response||First-term Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey appeared to be doing everything right.He worked with the city’s booming business community and the City Council. He reached out to minority neighborhoods and advocated for affordable housing. He implemented stricter disciplinary measures against police who violated the city’s body camera policy.When George Floyd, a handcuffed black man, died Monday after a white police officer pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes and ignored his “I can’t breathe” pleas, Frey quickly expressed outrage and called for charges against the officer. Four officers were fired the next day, and on Friday, Officer Derek Chauvin was charged in Floyd’s death.But Frey’s leadership is being questioned after police failed to quell several nights of rioting, fires and ransacking of local businesses that followed Floyd’s death. Frey, who pleaded for calm, also approved the decision to abandon the city’s 3rd Precinct station on Thursday night, surrendering it to protesters who set fire to the building.The night the station burned, Frey appeared at an early-morning news conference after hours of criticism on social media for a police response that didn’t confront the violence despite the activation of the National Guard. As he began talking, one reporter snapped, “What’s the plan here?” Frey struggled to answer, and the next morning, Gov. Tim Walz — like Frey, a Democrat — criticized the “abject failure” of the city’s response and said the state had taken control. President Donald Trump took to Twitter to call Frey a “very weak Radical Left Mayor” and threatened to get involved.By early Saturday morning, it was Walz who found himself struggling with the enormity of the challenge, conceding that he didn’t have enough people to cope with the protests and moving to mobilize another 1,000 Guard members. Walz also took pains to praise Frey, who appeared alongside him after another night of unrest.Some wonder whether Frey’s approach to the crisis might damage his chances for reelection next year. The 38-year-old former lawyer, community organizer and one-term City Council member took office in 2018 after defeating Betsy Hodges, whose time as mayor was marred by two high-profile police shootings.The 2015 shooting of 24-year-old black resident Jamar Clark after a scuffle with two white police officers set off weeks of protests; neither officer was charged. The 2017 shooting of unarmed Australia native Justine Ruszczyk Damond, who had called 911 to report a possible sexual assault behind her house, provoked an international outcry. The black officer in that case was convicted of third-degree murder and is serving a 12 1/2-year term.Frey campaigned partly on a promise to add police officers. But a City Council committee this spring voted against applying for a federal grant to hire 10 new officers for traffic enforcement, with one member saying he worried it would exacerbate racial disparities in vehicle stops.Community activist Mel Reeves, who said he has led rallies to protest Floyd’s killing, refused to discuss the mayor’s response except to say that Frey had been “put in a difficult position.” He said the black community doesn’t trust police and prosecutors to do the right thing.“The mayor is new, and he said all the right things,” Reeves said. “This is not about the mayor; it’s about the police department.”The day after the 3rd Precinct fire, University of Minnesota political science professor Larry Jacobs said Frey was “out of his depth” and “clearly unable to understand what he has to do to restore order while also creating the kind of healing that has to happen in Minneapolis.”He said abandoning the police station “sent a powerful message” that the city was not in control.“There needs to be another message: ‘Here is the line and order will be maintained,’” said Jacobs. “You’ve got businesses that are just shocked without words to see property going up in flames, often with no police intervention at all. You have the black community (that has) heard his words but does not believe them.“He worked really hard at those relationships and they appear to be in tatters. And I think a lot of residents are unnerved by the violence and the chaos.”Jonathan Weinhagen, president and CEO of the Minneapolis Regional Chamber, said the mayor still has his support, and that many businesses damaged by the violent protests, including those owned by minorities and immigrants, want to rebuild.“There is a lot of fear right now. If your store has been hit, you feel violated,” said Weinhagen, adding that some businesses already were suffering because of the coronavirus restrictions. “They were just beginning to see some light and this hit.”But he believes the mayor is “leading with his values” and getting a lot of things right, including requesting the Guard assistance and implementing a curfew Friday and Saturday nights.Jacobs, the political scientist, said Frey has been energetic, upbeat and dynamic, effectively leading the fast-growing city. But his inexperience with crisis management has shown.“Until about a week ago, he looked to be on glide path to reelection, and within a week, his mayorship looks like it’s crumbled,” Jacobs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-minneapolis-burns-mayor-takes-heat-for-the-response/story-MXXVwLcYTWxHz4iFyedx5O.html
31-05-2020||World||Elon Musk’s SpaceX ship blasts off with 2 US astronauts. Here’s what makes it special||Falcon 9, a rocket ship built by billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk’s SpaceX, blasted off with two Americans on Saturday, ushering in a new era in commercial space travel.The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (Nasa’s) Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken rode skyward aboard a white-and-black, bullet-shaped Dragon capsule on top of the Falcon 9 rocket, lifting off at 3:22pm from the same launch pad used to send Apollo crews to the moon a half-century ago.They slipped safely into orbit minutes later.“Let’s light this candle,” Hurley said just before ignition, using the historic words used by Alan Shepard on America’s first human spaceflight, in 1961. Also Watch | SpaceX Rocket Lifts Off, Trump says Dragon Capsule reached low Earth orbitHere’s what makes the SpaceX liftoff special:* SpaceX became the first private company to launch people into orbit, a feat achieved previously by only three governments: the US, Russia and China.* The last time Nasa launched astronauts into space aboard a brand new vehicle was 40 years ago at the start of the space shuttle program.* The milestone flight marked the first time that American astronauts have flown from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011. * The launch comes 18 years after Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp with the ultimate goal of populating other planets. * Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken are scheduled to arrive Sunday at the International Space Station for a stay of up to four months. They will come home with a Right Stuff-style splashdown at sea, something the world hasn’t witnessed since the 1970s.* The flight also ended a nine-year launch drought for Nasa. Ever since it retired the space shuttle in 2011, Nasa has relied on Russian spaceships launched from Kazakhstan to take US astronauts to and from the space station.* The launch comes 18 years after Elon Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp with the ultimate goal of populating other planets. * The astronauts’ voyage, known as Demo-2, is the final major test of SpaceX’s human spaceflight system before Nasa certifies it to fly working missions to the space station.* For Elon Musk, the launch represents another milestone for the reusable rockets his company pioneered to make spaceflight less costly and more frequent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-s-spacex-ship-blasts-off-with-2-us-astronauts-here-s-what-makes-it-special/story-sPZMiStKoG0aPmZucVf6mN.html
31-05-2020||World||Trump calls for delay in Group of 7 meeting, seeks expansion||President Donald Trump said Saturday that he will postpone until the fall a meeting of Group of 7 nations he had planned to hold next month at the White House despite the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. And he said the group’s membership should include Russia, Australia, South Korea and India.Trump told reporters on Air Force One as he returned to Washington from Florida that he feels the current makeup of the group is “very outdated” and doesn’t properly represent “what’s going on in the world.”He said he had not yet set a new date for the meeting, but thought the gathering could take place in September, around the time of the annual meeting of the United Nations in New York, or perhaps after the US election in November.The surprise announcement came after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office said Saturday that she would not attend the meeting unless the course of the coronavirus spread had changed by then.The leaders of the world’s major economies were slated to meet in June in the US at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, but the coronavirus outbreak hobbled those plans. Trump announced in March he was canceling the summit because of the pandemic and that the leaders would confer by video conference instead. But Trump then switched course, saying a week ago that he was again planning to host an in-person meeting.“Now that our Country is ‘Transitioning back to Greatness’, I am considering rescheduling the G-7, on the same or similar date, in Washington, D.C., at the legendary Camp David,” Trump tweeted. “The other members are also beginning their COMEBACK. It would be a great sign to all - normalization!”The G7 members are Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The group’s presidency rotates annually among member countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-calls-for-delay-in-group-of-7-meeting-seeks-expansion/story-umy5BQ6iWlOgiX00Vjxz9N.html
31-05-2020||World||Afghan reporter killed as govt says ready for Taliban dialogue||A roadside bomb killed a television journalist in Kabul on Saturday, soon after a top Afghan official appointed to lead peace talks with the Taliban said his team was ready for the long-delayed dialogue.The blast, which targeted a minibus carrying 15 employees of private television channel Khurshid TV, was claimed by the Islamic State group, according to SITE Intelligence which monitors jihadist activity.The attack, which the government called “heinous”, claimed the lives of a reporter and a driver, and punctuated an overall reduction in violence that has followed on from a three-day ceasefire the Taliban instigated May 24.Also read: In the Afghan theatre, India and its balancing act | OpinionJust hours before the blast, Afghanistan’s former chief executive Abdullah Abdullah, who has been appointed to head talks with the Taliban, said his team was positioned to start dialogue.Abdullah credited the general lull in violence for setting the tone for discussions.“The ceasefire, a reduction in violence and the exchange of prisoners have all paved the way for a good beginning,” Abdullah said at his first press conference since taking on the role.“The negotiating team is ready to begin the talks at any moment,” he said.However, he insisted on a fresh ceasefire during the talks.The attack in central Kabul targeted Khurshid TV’s white minibus, the interior ministry said, and caused extensive damage to its front end. It was the second such attack targeting Khurshid employees in less than a year.In August 2019, two passersby were killed when a “sticky bomb” -- a type of homemade explosive attached to vehicles with magnets -- struck a similar Khurshid TV van in an unclaimed attack.Afghanistan is one of the world’s deadliest places for journalists.IS have targeted the media before. The deadliest attack came in 2018, when the group killed nine journalists from various news organisations -- including AFP’s chief Afghanistan photographer Shah Marai -- in another Kabul blast. All on the same page’ Afghanistan’s truce ended Tuesday night but violence since then has stayed relatively low, though government security forces have suffered some attacks that authorities blamed on the Taliban.The ceasefire and general drop in violence has injected hope into Afghanistan’s peace process, which had earlier this month looked to be on the verge of collapse because of soaring Taliban violence after they signed a deal with the US in February.Peace talks were initially scheduled to begin on March 10.Momentum has also built thanks to the government’s release of hundreds of Taliban prisoners in recent weeks, as part of a swap that has also seen the militants free government security force captives.Late Saturday, Afghanistan’s National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal said the government had freed another 710 Talban prisoners since Friday in an ongoing process that would fulfil its promise to release 2,000 insurgents in response to the Taliban ceasefire.US President Donald Trump’s administration has made it a priority to end America’s longest war and withdraw all troops by next May. US officials have pushed the Taliban and government leaders to hold peace talks.Abdullah was appointed to lead the process after he ended his bitter political feud with President Ashraf Ghani earlier this month.He had announced himself as a rival president after rejecting the result of the September election, which incumbent Ghani eventually won amid fraud claims.With the end of the dispute, the Afghan government appeared unified in terms of the peace process, a member of Abdullah’s negotiating team said.“Now we all are united, all on the same page on the question of peace,” Matin Bek, a senior government official, told AFP.Saturday’s attack illustrated the long road ahead to a secure Afghanistan even if the peace process is successful, with other militant groups such as IS continuing to operate in the country. A key tenet of the US-Taliban accord is that the insurgents will not allow groups like Al-Qaeda and IS to use Afghan soil to plan attacks against the US and its allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-reporter-killed-as-govt-says-ready-for-taliban-dialogue/story-i8a0G1FBfusv0FHJdhAncO.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off on historic private crewed flight||A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying two veteran NASA astronauts lifted off on Saturday on an historic first private crewed flight into space.The two-stage Falcon 9 rocket with astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley aboard blasted off smoothly in a cloud of orange flames and smoke from Launch Pad 39A at Florida’s Kennedy Space Center for the 19-hour voyage to the International Space Station.Liftoff! pic.twitter.com/DRBfdUM7JAThe first booster stage of the rocket separated cleanly and landed upright on a barge off the Atlantic coast.The second stage also separated smoothly, sending the astronauts in the Crew Dragon capsule on their way to the space station orbiting some 250 miles (450 kilometers) above the Earth.Also read| Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken: All about NASA astronauts to be launched by SpaceXThe first crewed flight from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011 had originally been scheduled for Wednesday but was delayed because of weather conditions, which also remained uncertain on Saturday right up until lift-off at 3:22 pm (1922 GMT).Crew Dragon has separated from Falcon 9’s second stage and is on its way to the International Space Station with @Astro_Behnken and @AstroDoug! Autonomous docking at the @Space_Station will occur at ~10:30 a.m. EDT tomorrow, May 31 pic.twitter.com/bSZ6yZP2bDPresident Donald Trump flew to Florida aboard Air Force One to watch the launch and described it as “really something special.”“Real talent, real genius, nobody does it like us,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-attempt-succeeds-spacex-s-dragon-capsule-launches-into-orbit/story-JFKgBXIl2w7UojiLH4K7uI.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX launch director gives green light to fuel rocket||SpaceX’s launch director gave the green light on Saturday to fuel the rocket for an historic flight to the International Space Station by two veteran NASA astronauts.“We’re go for propellant load,” launch director Mike Taylor said.The fuelling of the Falcon 9 rocket with rocket grade kerosene and liquid oxygen began 45 minutes before the scheduled 3:22 pm (1922 GMT) blastoff of the Falcon 9 rocket and its Crew Dragon capsule with astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Turley on board.Wednesday’s launch was postponed because of poor weather just 17 minutes before lift-off and weather conditions have been uncertain on Saturday as well.SpaceX is seeking to become the first private company to send astronauts into orbit in what would be the first crewed space flight from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launch-director-gives-green-light-to-fuel-rocket/story-pVEprtmpGf4t3xKpCost9I.html
