07-08-2020||Editorials||Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombing: 75 years on, the world is more unsafe||Seventy-five years after the nuclear bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the world looks set to enter a new and more dangerous atomic age. The nuclear non-proliferation regime that exists today is a product of the Cold War — and those circumstances exist only in skeletal form today. India, a secondary victim of the earlier non-proliferation regime, should ensure that this time it has a seat at the high table when the rules of any new nuclear order are being shaped.There are a number of reasons why the present non-proliferation order is struggling. The most important is that the original order was constructed around Washington and Moscow. These two capitals still control some 90% of the world’s nuclear armaments. But Russia’s nuclear future is limited by its small economic base. China’s arsenal, unfettered by any nuclear arms control agreement, grew 21% between 2012 and 2019 and its nuclear weapons budget is now the second-largest in the world. More worryingly, most estimates say Pakistan has the world’s fastest-growing nuclear warhead count. India’s is also growing, though New Delhi’s investments have been more directed at survivability and deployment than sheer numbers. Throw in North Korea’s continuing nuclear progress, Israel’s covert atomic arsenal, Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Japan’s potential and it becomes evident the future of nuclear weapons lies in Asia. But Asia has no arms control treaties, poorly articulated doctrines, no nuclear hotlines or monitoring agreements — and two of the nuclear arsenals are managed by rogue states.The Donald Trump administration, in its own disjointed way, recognises that the United States (US) is held back in the Indo-Pacific by commitments it made to the Soviet Union. It sensibly scrapped the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty. It has a case for arguing that a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty agreement should cover not only the US and Russia but also China, but lacks the diplomatic coherence to ever accomplish this. Any new US government will continue the re-evaluation of the present nuclear proliferation regime. India should be prepared to play a constructive role in the new evolutionary process. Resuscitating the fissile materials cutoff treaty should be on the table for everyone. The comprehensive test ban treaty should not be seen as taboo, if the US and China ratify the treaty. Nuclear weapons have been associated with the Cold War. But their spread and development today is firmly embedded in the evolving Indo-Pacific strategic space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/75-years-after-the-hiroshima-and-nagasaki-bombing-the-world-is-more-unsafe/story-6rMOkYEyhNpiejnAXY7q5O.html
07-08-2020||Editorials||A political hand in Kashmir||In a surprise move — exactly a year after Parliament effected constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and just a little over nine months after he was appointed Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of India’s mostsensitive Union Territory — GC Murmu has resigned as L-G. The Centre has appointed Manoj Sinha as the new constitutional head of the UT.Mr Sinha is a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politician, a former minister, a leader rooted in the politics of Uttar Pradesh, and is understood to enjoy Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s confidence. The fact that a political figure has been sent to J&K is a positive sign, for the impasse in Kashmir is fundamentally political. Politicians often have deftness, agility, interpersonal skills, the ability to reconcile contradictions, and look for out-of-the-box solutions that bureaucrats lack, mired as they are in a lifetime’s training of following processes and rules.But being a politician alone is not enough. Mr Sinha will have to understand the nuances of Kashmiri politics and society, the security scenario, and establish a cordial relationship with all stakeholders immediately. He must also reach out to mainstream political leaders, some of whom remain in detention, and bring them back into the political process; create a more democratic environment for civil society to function; and then, create conditions for elections. Mr Sinha will be judged on whether he can hold free and fair elections in J&K, ensure a return to normalcy with democratic rights, and maintain peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-political-hand-in-kashmir/story-al3TRK2IAFuHXpA02KHNbP.html
07-08-2020||Editorials||The Mandal moment||Thirty years ago, on August 7, Indian politics and society changed. In a historic move, the VP Singh government decided to implement the recommendations of the Mandal Commission, and open up reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in government jobs. This came in the wake of the gradual political rise of the backward communities, which was due to a set of complex factors. The first was the demographic weight of the backward communities. The second was the fact that OBCs were not a natural constituency of the Congress and preferred peasant-based formations, socialist parties and regional parties — all of which were on the ascendant then. And the third was the impact of the Green Revolution which led to their economic empowerment and desire for upward professional mobility. The immediate political trigger for Mr Singh’s decision was an effort to counter the Mandir politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which sought to prioritise religion over caste, but its impact went way beyond that.The Mandal moment saw ferocious backlash by sections of upper castes. This opposition was articulated on two axes — the fact that reservations compromised merit, and if at all reservations should open up beyond what was offered to Scheduled Castes and Tribes, it should be on economic lines. These arguments hid beneath it a real fear of losing power and opportunities. And it launched an era of open hostility between upper castes and backward communities, particularly in the Hindi heartland. OBCs became a force to contend with, and it is no surprise that no government in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar can now be formed without their active support.But it also opened up a Pandora’s Box. For one, the resentment of those communities which did not have a share in the reservation pie increased. And political parties, in order to appease them, continued to expand reservation — to the extent that now economically weaker sections of dominant communities avail quotas, and in many states, there is over 70% reservation in key spheres. This has undermined the entire purpose of reservation, envisaged as a tool to address historic injustice, and made it an exercise in power distribution and employment generation. Second, within OBCs, some communities benefited more than others, which led to a political divide and demands for sub-categorisation, a process currently underway. Mandal empowered communities. But the entire architecture of reservations needs a review, with the aim of creating a just, inclusive and equal society, without pandering to populist movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-mandal-moment/story-O52OimsoY0VVzYtJxLtz9K.html
