10-08-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: A warning bell for Bihar||Bihar is India’s third-largest state in terms of population. It also has the largest share of rural population in any state in the country. It has a large migrant workforce that after a long struggle made its way back home during the lockdown. Its socioeconomic indicators remain weak. And its health infrastructure is limited, with only 0.11 beds and 0.39 doctors available per 1,000 people.When the pandemic spreads to Bihar, it is time to worry. Over the past month, anecdotal evidence and a series of reports have suggested that those with symptoms are unable to get tested; those who have tested positive have struggled to find hospital beds; those who have developed severe symptoms are unable to access medical care, get ventilator support on time, and receive plasma donations; citizens have been lax in following social distancing protocols; health care personnel themselves are wary of providing care for the fear of being infected themselves; and that the contact tracing process is severely limited. A report in this newspaper on Monday showed that data corroborates these reports. While it has improved somewhat in recent days, Bihar has the lowest testing rate anywhere in the country — 7,917 tests per million people, when the national average is 18,086. Like other states, it is banking disproportionately on rapid antigen tests, rather than RT-PCR tests, which is a far more accurate barometer of judging infections. It has the third-worst doubling rate at 14.7 days, when the national average is 23.6 days.While the government has made recent bureaucratic changes and accorded higher priority to Covid-19 management, the reports and data ring a warning bell. Bihar must follow the only successful model available to tackle the pandemic. Increase testing; rigorously trace the infected and their contacts; isolate those infected and treat them; ramp up health infrastructure; and enforce social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-a-warning-bell-for-bihar/story-7FB7aqnKtgHWSbUEHr6ZOJ.html
10-08-2020||Editorials||Boosting agricultural infra||On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), a medium- to long-term infrastructure loan financing facility for enhancing post-harvest infrastructure in India. The scheme is aimed at providing ₹1 lakh crore worth of loans for such projects until 2029. The creation of a comprehensive post-harvest infrastructure in India can be a game-changer in agriculture. Last year, Rameswar Teli, minister of state for food processing industries, told the Lok Sabha that 16% of fruits and vegetables and up to 10% of cereals, oil seeds and pulses are wasted in the country due to inadequate post-harvest infrastructure.Most of the storage infrastructure in the country is not owned by farmers. This also means that they are forced to sell their entire output at one go immediately after the harvest is over, and when prices are low. Because AIF is trying to rope in farmers’ producers organisations (FPOs) to build such infrastructure, it will hopefully also address this asymmetry and allow farmers to dispose their produce in a phased manner to avail better returns. This will go a long way in increasing the bargaining power of Indian farmers.Laudable as the scheme is, its benefits will only accrue in the medium- to long-term. The government must not lose sight of the immediate economic challenge of boosting growth and incomes. Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the economy was caught in one of its worst deceleration phases. The pandemic’s disruption has made matters worse. If the situation does not revive, it is unlikely that FPOs and other intended beneficiaries of AIF loans will be enthusiastic about committing to such investments. There is a growing consensus that the economy needs a big fiscal push to boost economic sentiment — RBI’s Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS) released last week shows that consumer confidence has plummeted to an all-time low — and growth. The optics of Sunday’s announcement — AIF was approved by the Cabinet a month ago, and the actual loan disbursal on Sunday was just ₹1,000 crore — is yet another signal that the actual fiscal boost to the economy does not match the scale of this government’s big-ticket announcements. This needs to change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/boosting-agricultural-infra/story-G03HL6mt117KSvkOf1sJwO.html
10-08-2020||Editorials||The Rajapaksas cement power in Sri Lanka | HT Editorial||After winning the presidential elections last November, and now winning a two-thirds majority in parliamentary elections, the Rajapaksa brothers in Sri Lanka have cemented their control over the island’s polity. Gotabaya Rajapaksa has firmly consolidated his power as president; the parliamentary win now brings back the former president Mahinda Rajapaksa as prime minister.Both the presidential and now the parliamentary win are not surprising. Citizens were tired of the infighting and inefficiencies of the older dispensation. There remains a deep Sinhalese majoritarian impulse, which the Rajapaksas leverage by virtue of being the leaders who defeated the Tamil Tigers and promising what, in effect, is an exclusivist Sinhalese State. And their party, the Sri Lanka People’s Party, remains the best organised formation even as the other parties are struggling with leadership, ideological, and organisational issues.But while the win itself is not surprising, the consequences are worrisome — for both Sri Lanka and India. Armed with its legislative might, there is a possibility that the Rajapaksas will once again seek to centralise authority, trample institutional checks, and chip away at democratic liberties. Given their discriminatory ethnic outlook, the prospects for reconciliation, justice, and powers to the minorities remain grim. And while they may be somewhat more careful and make the right noises in front of an Indian audience on China, expect the engagement and partnership with Beijing to only grow. India should engage with the regime more vigorously, and diplomatically underline its concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rajapaksas-cement-power-in-sri-lanka/story-i5FOTzXXnMuXaIoipAku7H.html
