16-08-2020||Editorials||The government must translate intent into action||On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a raft of measures to ensure that India can maintain the delicate balance between its development priorities and the need to keep its environment healthy. The priorities of the government, PM Modi said, included saving Gangetic dolphins and Asiatic lions along the lines of Project Tiger, making Ladakh carbon-neutral, reducing pollution in 100 cities, and prioritising renewable energy.PM Modi’s endorsement of the need for a healthy environment is significant because only a strong political push can nudge both the bureaucracy and citizens towards opting for a green path, make it a mainstream issue, raise awareness levels, and increase funding for it. An excellent example of what political support can do to a neglected issue is the Swachh Bharat Mission — the PM’s interest raised the programme’s profile; sanitation became a key national issue; and additional resources were allocated. But there are other issues which merit attention. The Modi government is embroiled in controversy over a critical piece of green policy (the Environmental Impact Assessment). It has been criticised for opening up pristine forest blocks for coal mining, since this could adversely affect forests, critical biodiversity and forest-dependent communities, and undermine efforts to mitigate the climate crisis. The government is also seen as not doing enough to strengthen institutions that safeguard the environment. And even though renewable energy has been the top agenda, coal continues to be the mainstay of India’s power mix (50%). The Covid-19 experience is a reminder that the country should aim for not just socio-economic recovery, but a green socio-economic recovery. The PM’s intent is correct. Translate it into action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-government-must-translate-intent-into-action/story-47VlBNxfOjeR3PUZayXg7O.html
16-08-2020||Editorials||India and its worldview||Harmony, security and self-reliance are a seamless whole. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi drew these together during his Independence Day speech, a reminder that defence and foreign policy have unusual salience these days. The event, already muted by the pandemic, took place when much of the Northern Command has been mobilised, China has refused to restore the border status quo in Ladakh and the international system is in increasing disarray. It is no accident that PM spoke so much about the sacrifices of Indian soldiers, the defence measures the country is taking, and how much bigger the country’s international footprint has become. While never specifically mentioned, the centrality of the Chinese threat suffused much of the speech. Terrorism, and, therefore Pakistan, received an obligatory mention. The undermining of India’s territorial integrity, the soldiers killed in Ladakh, and the historical aside of India’s opposition to imperialism and “expansionism” were all messages addressed to Beijing. There has been a feeling that the Middle Kingdom does not understand the significance of what has happened on the Ladakh border and how much it threatens to distort bilateral relations. After this speech, China’s leadership has no reason to claim that it had no sense of the deepening hostility they have engendered in India.PM Modi made it a point to stress as to how much India’s standing has grown overseas. India was re-elected to the United Nations Security Council with a landslide vote. While the neighbourhood remains a concern, New Delhi has become a beneficiary of the changing geopolitics of West Asia with, for example, the recent bonding of two its regional friends, Israel and the United Arab Emirates. There was also a reminder of Southeast Asia’s importance. The idea of an “extended neighbourhood” that is connected by trust, land and sea sounds too broad to be meaningful. Yet, this is where India is going as it ratchets up new relationships across the world. PM Modi recognises that the question is how India reconciles all this with its current self-reliance framework. While it has laid out a reasonable indigenisation policy on defence, the task ahead will be an updated trade policy. India’s friends need to be reassured as to where New Delhi thinks economics fits into its extended neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-and-its-worldview/story-aEt7nAiM2cY1yYOlfrpUCN.html
