18-08-2020||Editorials||A tribute to Pandit Jasraj | HT Editorial||With his masterly virtuosity and incomparable voice, Pandit Jasraj, who passed away on August 17 at 90, was one of the greatest proponents of Hindustani classical music. But his reputation was built on a range of other equally important qualities, which will define his legacy. Pandit Jasraj was an innovator who believed in crossing boundaries that other gharanas of Hindustani classical musicians held dear. He brought elements of thumri to khayal; though both are types of musical compositions, stalwarts consider the former soft and non-serious, and the latter, a sacrosanct form in the tradition. He also brought elements of other gharanas into his music. He pioneered a form of jugalbandi between a male and female singer called Jasrangi, based on a shifting of notes or swaras to allow for their pitches to match, and for different melodic ragas to be sung together in harmonious tandem. He brought bhajans (devotional music) to the stage defying genre-based hierarchies. And, at a time when tensions between India and Pakistan were high, in the 1960s, he composed Mero Allah Meherbaan (My Allah is kind) in raag Bhairav, a melodic raga presumed to have been created by the Hindu god, Shiva.His music was for everyone — he gave classes, on Zoom, till the very end; he often chaffed against the elitism that adhered to classical music; and he did not stand for false distinctions. There are many apocryphal tales that surround Pandit Jasraj — he also has a planet named after him — which will add to the legend of the man. But one will stand out. A few decades ago, performing in a temple in Benares, a deer came close to him and stood as though mesmerised, while the musician sang with his eyes closed. When he opened them and saw his unusual audience, Pandit Jasraj folded his hands and reportedly murmured, “Jai ho!” Perhaps it is this oneness — between humans, and between humanity and nature itself — that he embodied in his life and work, which will remain his true legacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-tribute-to-pandit-jasraj-ht-editorial/story-xcGw8HsuMZhQHvAY7Y6h9J.html
18-08-2020||Editorials||Expand the welfare ambit | HT Editorial||The Centre has been unable to meet its target of providing free food to an estimated 80 million undocumented migrant workers because states have been slow in distributing the aid, food secretary S Pandey has informed a parliamentary panel, according to a report in this newspaper on Tuesday. In May, the Centre announced that it will provide 800,000 tonnes of ration to 80 million migrants and each will receive up to five kg food grains a month free. But, to date, a little over 600,000 tonnes food grains had been lifted by states; and only 200,000 tonnes had been distributed to 20.3 million beneficiaries. Civil society groups too, based on ground-level research, have suggested that a large pool of migrant workers are struggling for both food and livelihood.The challenges are complex. There are pre-existing weaknesses in the delivery system of states, an outcome of a more generic problem of limited State capacity. Many migrant workers don’t have ration cards to access the public distribution system (PDS) — the plan envisages access to ration even without cards, but this has not translated on the ground. Many also don’t have job cards for the Mahatma Gandhi Nation Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). In addition, many migrants choose not to opt for the rural job scheme because of subsistence wages. Economists also point out that despite the enhanced budget of the scheme, which is now a little over Rs 1 lakh crore, it is only one-third of what the Centre needs to spend to provide employment to the 140 million job card holders for 100 days of work at Rs 200 per day, which translates to Rs 2.8 lakh crore.With the economy contracting and jobs scarce, the Centre must ensure that the social safety net is strengthened by infusing more funds in the job scheme (possibly expanding the scope of work) and universalising the PDS. In addition, there is a need to add a nutritional item (for example, eggs) in the PDS basket (a suggestion that the Niti Aayog is working on for its 15-year vision document); and open community kitchens in accessible locations for those who don’t have ration cards. Expanding welfare is key to fighting the livelihoods and food crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/expand-the-welfare-ambit-ht-editorial/story-ti2WsNNhiNHcfJW9FUuUSJ.html
18-08-2020||Editorials||Joe Biden reassures India | HT Editorial||Offering clues about his broader worldview, the Democratic presidential candidate, Joe Biden, has spoken glowingly about India. But Mr Biden also made one or two critical comments about the Narendra Modi government’s policies, for instance on Kashmir. All of this had led to much debate in India — most of which reads too much into far too little.A United States (US) presidential candidate will make comments to please different voter and funding groups. These comments will sound contradictory because, at this point, they are far from having a well-thought-out foreign policy programme. A non-incumbent candidate will be particularly prone to have little or no view on what are marginal issues that do not affect US voters. This US election is unusually dominated by domestic issues, with a sprinkling of concern about China. All else is immaterial.What matters is how much the core foreign policy views of the candidates differ from the mainstream. And this is where Mr Biden’s comments are reassuring. He sees China as the primary strategic challenge of the US, making India geopolitically vital. He puts climate and terrorism as overriding global concerns, which resonates with New Delhi. On immigration and trade, he promises to be more generous than President Donald Trump. His foreign policy aides have indicated differences with India will be left to the diplomats to resolve. In other words, the drivers of the US-India relationship are shared by both candidates and India has little to worry about if a new administration comes to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/joe-biden-reassures-india/story-z5SSesT3omTus19R2PksTI.html
