20-08-2020||Editorials||What Delhi sero survey means | HT Editorial||Delhi’s second serological survey, which was conducted between August 1 and 7 and sampled 15,000 people, found that 29.1% of the city’s residents have developed antibodies against Covid-19. Extrapolating the findings to Delhi’s population would mean that around 5.8 million people in the city have been infected with Sars-CoV-2 at some point. This is a 6.2 percentage point increase from the first sero survey conducted around a month ago, which showed 22.86% people had developed antibodies. This proportion of infected has been extremely varied in the different sero surveys conducted across the country so far. Much of this variation may be because of sample sizes and sampling region within these cities. In Pune (sample size: 1,664), officials found that 51% of people had the antibodies earlier this week. In Mumbai (sample size: 6,936), this number was 40% at the end of July. In Ahmedabad (sample size: 30,054), 17.61% people exhibited seroprevalence at the end of July. Here is the good news. One, the findings show deaths have been lower than feared. As on August 7 (the last day of the sampling), Delhi had 4,082 deaths due to Covid-19. If this is pitted against the estimated 5.8 million infected, the infection fatality rate is 0.07%. Two, herd immunity is around the corner. Scientists say herd immunity occurs when a large proportion of the population contracts an infectious disease and build natural immunity to it. Once a certain percentage becomes immune, the disease starts running out of people to infect, and so the chain of transmission slows down, or halts entirely. With the vaccine still far off, herd immunity offers hope even though scientists remain divided on where this herd immunity threshold exactly lies.Now, the not-so-good news — testing has been woefully inadequate. By the government’s own numbers, there were 142,723 confirmed cases on the day the sero survey ended. But if 5.8 million people had been infected by August 7, then the testing strategy managed to only identify less than 2.5% of those infected. This means that it missed over 5.6 million infections, most of whom were probably asymptomatic. So, while the results show that Delhi is inching closer to herd immunity (and getting there faster than thought), it should also serve as a wake-up call to not let down one’s guard, particularly on the testing front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-delhi-sero-survey-means/story-6yjWZOqf97RUH3g0kAB6sO.html
20-08-2020||Editorials||Unless India invests in green infra, the future of cities is dark and grey | HT Editorial||The National Capital Region, including Delhi and neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh, was flooded on Wednesday after a spell of unrelenting and intense rainfall. The millennium city of Gururgram (Haryana) and the National Capital of Delhi were the worst-affected. Entire stretches of roads and underpasses were flooded; homes were inundated; and commuters were caught in traffic snarls that took hours to untangle. The appalling state of affairs showed, yet again, the result of poorly thought-out urban planning and design, weak urban storm water infrastructures, and lack of monsoon preparedness (desilting and unclogging of drains).As episodes of short duration-but intense rainfall increase due to the climate crisis, urban flooding incidents will rise. A 2018 study by the Indian Institute of Technology (Gandhinagar) show that cities face an additional challenge: The urban heat island effect (when a city experiences much warmer temperatures than rural areas due to built up areas), which is modifying the rainfall pattern in these areas. To tackle these challenges, city governments have to rethink the development paradigm. Instead of investing only in inflexible grey infrastructure (drains, pumps, and outfalls), they must invest heavily in flexible green infrastructure (lakes, floodplains or parks, forests), which absorb stormwater, reduce runoff volume and speed, thus, reducing flood risk. Preliminary findings of an ongoing research by WRI-India indicate that 35% (428 sq.km) of new development within 20 km of the city centre (2000-15) in the nation’s 10 top cities — Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune, Surat — has been on low-lying and high recharge potential zones. Unsurprisingly, these cities have seen multiple flood events in the last five years.India’s cities are its political, economic, and cultural nerve centres. They cannot afford to break down every monsoon; each flood episode leads to losses of lives and livelihood and erodes huge investments. To improve resilience, planners must prioritise water-sensitive urban design and planning, prepare drainage master plans, identify high-risk areas, and invest in green infrastructure. Otherwise, the future of India’s cities, as NCR showed on Wednesday, is dark and bleak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/unless-india-invests-in-green-infra-the-future-of-cities-is-dark-and-grey/story-94ZbpO2B5OOj729awNmwHO.html
20-08-2020||Editorials||Bihar will set a new election paradigm | HT Editorial||The Election Commission (EC) is set to come up with guidelines to hold elections for the Bihar assembly soon. This will be the first major election since the pandemic hit India — there have been polls to Rajya Sabha and legislative council seats, but this involved a limited number of voters. The EC is, according to a report in this newspaper on Wednesday, planning to allow physical rallies, but with limited public presence; permit online filing of nomination forms; allow limited door-to-door campaigning; and reduce the number of people in each polling booth and counting hall. All these measures are legitimate in the context of the pandemic. The EC has done well to have extensive deliberations with all stakeholders, and its guidelines will, in all likelihood, also apply to elections next year in states such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Assam. The real challenge is reconciling two diametrically opposite objectives. The first is ensuring a free-and-fair political contest, where political leaders can relay their messages and voters cannot only access these messages but also convey their concerns and grievances. This, by its very definition, is a mass-based activity. The second is the need to prevent any mass-based activity to keep the spread of the infection under control, and maintain social distancing and follow safety protocols. The fact that Bihar is under-equipped in terms of health infrastructure and has seen disturbing Covid-19 trends makes this even more urgent. The EC has to find a middle way, reconciling principles of safety as well as equal access and democratic rights. But the responsibility lies equally with both political leaders and citizens to participate in polls with great responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bihar-will-set-a-new-election-paradigm/story-P7OB3x0twKEEuLWYcnTqhL.html
