24-08-2020||Editorials||Announce another fiscal stimulus||On August 22, this newspaper published an exclusive report based on a presentation made by the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The presentation said that as on August 1, three-fourths of India’s MSMEs were working at less than half their potential capacity. It also said that more than 90% had opened up, showing that the unlock process, at least in principle, has been almost completed. These statistics underline the central economic challenge facing the economy. Just allowing enterprises to open is not going to restore the status quo ante, which existed before the pandemic forced a nationwide lockdown. To be sure, the economy was not in great shape even before the pandemic. GDP growth rate fell from 8.3% in 2016-17 to 7%, 6.1% and 4.2% in 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. Most estimates expect India’s GDP to contract by 5% or more this year. MSMEs account for 30% of GDP. They employ almost one-fourth of India’s workers. That an overwhelming share of MSMEs is not using even their existing capacity means that they are facing a crisis of demand. If this situation is allowed to persist, it will generate a vicious cycle. Firms will lay off workers. Laid-off workers will lose their salaries, which will further squeeze demand. Orders for new investments and raw materials will be postponed, or worse, cancelled. This will lead to yet another round of job losses and demand depression. These developments will have an adverse impact on the financial sector as well. As revenues start falling short of past expectations, loan defaults will increase, which will add to the existing mountain of bad debt. All these developments have implications for India’s economic recovery, both in the short-and-medium term. Breaking this vicious cycle requires urgent policy intervention. The government was wise to focus on liquidity challenges in its initial response to Covid-19. But it needs to shift gears. Demand, not liquidity, is the main challenge facing the economy today. At a time when consumer and business sentiment is down, the only way to boost demand is a fiscal stimulus. While there is some merit in the argument that it should be timed appropriately, at least the road map should be laid out as soon as possible. Any further delay on this front will only make matters worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/announce-another-fiscal-stimulus/story-rojRt2LO5F5J8er2uO4RXL.html
24-08-2020||Editorials||The 2013 floods lie forgotten in Uttarakhand’s new construction plans||On Sunday, the Rishikesh-Badrinath Highway in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district was blocked due to a landslide, which killed two people. In addition to the closure of this critical link, 100 more roads are also blocked due to rains. While landslides are not uncommon in this area, the latest episodes are another reminder that this geologically young region is unstable and infrastructure development has to take into account the natural fragility of the area. Otherwise, the consequences can be disastrous. For example, the 2013 Uttarakhand floods were a natural phenomenon, but the human tragedy that followed was because governments overlooked geological features and drainage patterns, and allowed illegal construction on river banks and over natural water channels.Unfortunately, the 2013 experience has been erased from State memory. In July, the Centre approved the zonal master plan (ZMP) for the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone that stretches from Gaumukh to Uttarkashi (4179.59 sq km). While the Centre claims that ZMP will boost the ecology, environmentalists claim the opposite. The rush to clear ZMP is because the Centre wants to expedite the 900-kilometre Chardham Highways project, which will connect the four pilgrimage sites of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.The project is on course despite protests against it and scientific evidence that shows the region is unstable. The Geological Survey of India’s report on the 2103 tragedy says that constructions have disturbed the natural slope of the mountains, leading to landslides. While it is true that better connectivity improves lives and livelihoods and ensures political dividends, the fragility of the area is also a reality. The government must calculate the region’s carrying capacity, and then draw up its development and tourism plans. In an era of the climate crisis, this road map is a prerequisite, not a choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-2013-floods-lie-forgotten-in-uttarakhand-s-new-construction-plans/story-xlsHPfogboXTE2mfCRIIRO.html
24-08-2020||Editorials||The quest for cleaner cities||Last week, the Union government announced the results of the Swachh Survekshan 2020, an annual survey that ranks and recognises the performance of cities on sanitation and solid waste management. This year’s survey assessed 4,242 cities in 28 days, and Madhya Pradesh’s Indore topped the list of cities with more than 100,000 people. The best-performing state with more than 100 cities is Maharashtra, and with less than 100 cities is Madhya Pradesh. The cleanest capital city is New Delhi. Over the years, these rankings have mainstreamed discussions on public hygiene and pushed cities to become cleaner. For instance, before it was praised for its cleanliness drive in 2017, Indore battled a mounting garbage problem. Since then, the Indore Municipal Corporation has done away with garbage dumps, implemented 100% household-waste segregation and converted waste to usable products and partnered with non-governmental organisations to change citizen behaviour. There have also been changes in the ranking methodology to make it more competitive and robust, although some states have criticised its metrics and methodology as well. While the Centre must look into these grievances, laggard cities must also emulate the cities that are performing well. The scope and size of work will indeed be different for each city, but the basic requirements to achieve these goals are the same: Administrative and political will along with public participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-cleaner-cities/story-B2BykFulfLgPkgUjpaOT0H.html
