28-08-2020||Editorials||The crisis in fiscal federalism | HT Editorial||In July 2017, 28 state governments agreed to give up their sovereign right to levy taxes to make way for the Goods and Services Tax (GST). They agreed to do so because the central government put in an insurance clause, guaranteeing a 14% annual increase in their revenues up to 2022. Meeting this commitment has become increasingly challenging. In a GST Council meeting held on Thursday, the Centre has asked the states to borrow money to meet an (expected) shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the promised compensation this year. Of this, it has estimated Rs 97,000 crore as arising from GST implementation — a narrow technical definition that gives it a possible way out of paying the remaining Rs 1.38 lakh crore , which it attributes to Covid-19. The Centre will approach the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to facilitate this process and the repayments will done by extending the duration of cess on luxury and sin goods. But finance ministers of many Opposition-ruled states have objected, arguing that it is the Centre which should have borrowed the money rather than states. These objections are valid when read with the spirit of the GST law. The final decision will be taken next week, when the Council meets again. The states are already in a tight spot. Pending arrears for GST compensation payment to states from April-July 2020 stand at Rs 1.5 lakh crore. While the Centre has claimed that the revenue situation will improve over rest of the year and the total shortfall this year will be contained to Rs 2.35 lakh crore, there is no guarantee on this count. Many private projections estimate that the economy will remain in contraction zone until December. GST is not the only revenue head under strain. The states will also have to contend with a big shortfall in their own revenues and lower transfers from the Centre for direct taxes and other indirect taxes. A growing share of non-divisible pool of central taxes, such as the windfall tax gains from fall in crude oil prices, will mean that the states bear a greater burden of the revenue shortfall due to the pandemic. The states are doing most of the heavy lifting in fighting the health and economic consequences of the pandemic. The uncertainty on GST compensation payments, along with a huge shortfall in states’ share in other central taxes, means that India’s fiscal federalism is facing its biggest crisis in a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-crisis-in-fiscal-federalism/story-V5oXEQCbS8X8p3pWvoHfqO.html
28-08-2020||Editorials||JEE-NEET: To hold or not to hold||The scheduling of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has become a subject of controversy. The NEET, an entrance exam for medical colleges, is planned on September 13, and JEE Main, which for engineering colleges, is scheduled from September 1 to 6. The dates have been finalised after two rounds of postponement due to the pandemic. Both exams are competitive and students often enroll in coaching institutes years ahead to prepare. The Centre and pro-exam students argue that postponing the exams again would lead to the loss of an academic year, and additional burden for students. Those against the exams being held now say that many students are handling multiple crises — natural calamities, lack of safe transport, absence of accommodation near test centres, and the fear of transmitting the coronavirus to their families. Normalising school-leaving examination marks to arrive at a list may not be fair — many students focus more on these competitive exams than on the ones conducted by their boards. Three issues are worth pondering over here. One, a public exam is not only supposed to test a student’s knowledge, but also provide a level-playing field to all students (holding JEE-NEET now may not offer that, but the alternative could do that even less). Two, the battle against Covid-19 is far from over, but strictly maintaining safety protocols can reduce the risk — provided the states and National Testing Agency (NTA) think through everything else, from the infrastructure to the transport students need. The NTA, which conducts the exams, has said that it has put strict protocols to ensure safety. Three, declaring a so-called zero academic year won’t affect just this year’s freshman batch but have a cascading effect for the next few years. There is room for innovative solutions. For instance, NTA can go ahead with the tests but, along with the education ministry, it could also work on a second test for this academic year and create additional capacity in colleges for second-semester admissions. The ministry could also consider increasing next year’s capacity in colleges by, say 20%, and reserve it for this year’s school-leaving batch. On their part, even states opposed to this year’s exams should do all they can to help them be conducted. Instead, two extreme positions have been taken — and the young may end up paying the price for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/jee-neet-to-hold-or-not-to-hold/story-rQePUeoFuqQJggAVrD2NHL.html
