31-08-2020||Editorials||Covid-19 is spreading both in terms of numbers and geography. Follow protocols||Covid-19 is now spreading in India at a rate quicker than any other country so far, ever since the pandemic began. India is reporting more cases every day than the United States (US) and Brazil were reporting even when the outbreak there was at its peak. India is also one of only the three nations to have had, consistently, over 1,000 deaths daily in recent days. But while cases in the other two nations appear to have plateaued, India hasn’t yet reached its peak. There are, however, areas where India has fared much better than others. For every million residents, India has reported 2,600 cases, against around 18,000 each in the US and Brazil. The same holds true for deaths — India has 48 deaths per million against around 500 in the other two. India’s case fatality rate is 1.8%, which is not only much better than the global average of 3.4%, but also better than the US (3.1%) and Brazil (3.2%). One of the reasons for the high number of reported cases in India now is the enhanced level of testing. For the second time, the country’s daily tests crossed the million-mark on Saturday. This is a huge jump from June, when 200,000 samples were being tested a day. But while the absolute numbers are positive, the relative proportion to population still leaves room to improve. The US has conducted 250,000 tests per million, while Brazil has tested 67,000 per million; for India, this number is a little over 31,000. But the biggest challenge is harder to denote in numbers. While the first five months of the outbreak in India saw cases largely from urban areas, the bulk of the latest wave of infections has been from the hinterland, where the health care infrastructure is much weaker. And while the lower population density may help rural areas, experts fear that there is a greater chance of cases and deaths going unreported since there are fewer labs, hospitals and trained medical professionals. The ultimate goal for a country (till a vaccine is developed and mass produced) is to prevent deaths. And though India has fared better than most nations in that aspect, it should not let its guard down. It must test, isolate and treat with even greater intensity, and spread the network of labs, hospitals and expertise to the country’s rural pockets, where they will be needed the most in coming weeks.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-the-infection-is-spreading-both-in-terms-of-numbers-and-geography-follow-protocols/story-TmCp2074NsQyCoi8kIFcYJ.html
31-08-2020||Editorials||The disturbing story from India’s prisons||The latest (2019) data on prisons released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that Dalits, tribals, and Muslims continue to be jailed in numbers disproportionate to their share in the total population of India, according to a report in The Indian Express. The NCRB data shows that while people from Scheduled Castes (SCs) accounted for 21.7% of convicts and 21% of undertrials; those from Scheduled Tribes (STs) accounted for 13.6% of convicts and 10.5% of undertrials; and Muslims, 16.6% of convicts and 18.7% of undertrials.While it is not the case that the demographic mix in prison must be a reflection of the demographic mix in society, the NCRB data underlines a deeper sociological truth about India — of the historic marginalisation of these communities. Their socioeconomic indicators are weak; they are unable to access opportunities for livelihoods; their encounters with the legal machinery are common and often brutal; and if they are implicated in cases, even ordinary crimes, they often have to battle discriminatory attitudes and are unable to access effective legal support. It is not surprising that African-Americans constitute a disproportionate number of prisoners in the United States (US). It is not because Blacks in the US, or the Dalits, Muslims or tribals in India, violate the law more often than others — it is because structural conditions in both society and the State force a certain life on them. While there is a larger battle that must be fought to change this discriminatory structure, an immediate priority must be providing urgent legal help. A State-run free legal aid system was introduced in 1995 with the establishment of the Legal Services Authorities Act. But, legal experts suggest that the system has been ineffective because of daunting procedures, low remuneration from the State, and corruption discourage lawyers from taking up these cases. Ensuring access to justice must be the first step to correcting the imbalance in India’s prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-disturbing-story-from-india-s-prisons/story-VFNlDJf9zwFT0EZfQx9mWN.html
