01-06-2021||---||Vaccination starts at Ludhiana's SPS Apollo Hospital||Ludhiana, May 31 Covid vaccination facility was launched at SPS Hospital here today. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill, started the facility and welcomed the initiative of SPS Apollo Hospital for joining the fight against the deadly disease by procuring 25,000 doses of Covidshield from the Serum Institute of India. Sharma said the vaccination desk would operate from 9 am to 7.30 pm here. The Deputy Commissioner said the drive-through vaccination would also be started here on Sunday and people would be able to get vaccinated while sitting in/on their respective vehicles. Meanwhile, Ashwani and Associates, Chartered Accountancy firm from Ludhiana, held a camp in their office for the vaccination of its team members and their family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-starts-at-ludhianas-sps-apollo-hospital-261444
01-06-2021||---||Smart City: Panel gives nod to projects in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 31 A meeting of the city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited was held to give approval to the reports regarding various upcoming projects under the Smart City Mission projects. The meeting was headed by MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. A discussion was held on the upcoming projects like installation of gym equipment at parks in eight wards of Zone A and B, development of ESI Road under Smart City Mission, installation of facade lighting at statues of martyrs and freedom fighters, installation of static compactors, upgrade of sports infrastructure, installation of legacy waste screening machines and reclamation of land by scientifically processing of the legacy waste, upgrade of road items to reduce accident severity project, retrofitting of Leisure Valley, enhancement of streetlights projects and others. The technical bid evaluation reports, request for proposals, detailed project reports or pre-bid queries of different projects were approved during the meeting. Now, the files regarding these projects will be sent to the high-level committee for final approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smart-city-panel-gives-nod-to-projects-in-ludhiana-261445
01-06-2021||Ludhiana||Woman among four arrested for smuggling liquor||The city police have arrested four persons, including a woman, for smuggling liquor during the past 24 hours. The police said a woman, Manjit Kaur, a resident of Razapur village, was nabbed from her residence while selling illicit liquor. The police raided the residence of the woman on a tip-off and seized 14 bottles of illicit liquor. She was booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. In separate raids conducted by the police under a drive to check liquor smuggling, Prince Kumar, a resident of Dr Ambedkar Nagar, was arrested from near the cremation ground in Dugri while going on a Honda Activa scooter. Sixty bottles of First Choice whisky were recovered from him. He was booked under the Excise Act. The scooter being used for the illicit trade was also impounded by the police. In another incident, Avtar Singh, a resident of Seelon Kalan village, was nabbed from Khanpur Canal Bridge while he was out to deliver smuggled liquor in his Tata Tiago car (bearing registration no. PB10HA 3016). Search of the vehicle led to the seizure of 48 bottles of Jugni Punjab countrymade liquor and 12 bottles of Raspbhari countrymade liquor. The police have also impounded the car. The suspect has been booked under the Excise Act. In another raid, the police arrested Kulwant Singh, a resident of Puneet Nagar, from Sanjay Gandhi Colony on Tajpur Road with 21 bottles of Punjab Saunfi liquor and booked him under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. However, an unidentified person abandoned his TVS Jupiter scooter and fled the spot near the Civil Hospital when he was signalled to stop by the police. The police recovered 60 bottles of Dollar Punjab liquor from the two-wheeler. The scooter was impounded and the suspect was booked under the Excise Act. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-among-four-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-261446
01-06-2021||---||Dead lizard: Health Dept seals food joint in Ludhiana's BRS Nagar||Ludhiana, May 31 The Health Department today sealed a fast food joint located at J block in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar here. On Friday, a city resident had submitted a complaint to the Health Department after he found a dead lizard in an egg roll ordered from the joint. District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Garg said he along with a team of food safety officers went to the fast food joint but it was found closed. “We have sealed the shop and have pasted a notice outside it asking the shop owner to contact the Health Department,” he said. Dilpreet Singh, resident of Rajguru Nagar, had ordered manchurian and egg roll from the fast food joint and when they had already eaten half of the food they found a dead lizard inside the egg roll. The family then went to a hospital for necessary medication and spent the whole night in difficulty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dead-lizard-health-dept-seals-food-joint-in-ludhianas-brs-nagar-261447
01-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Another aide of gangster Jaipal Bhullar arrested||Ludhiana, May 31 The Punjab Police have arrested another close aide of drug smuggler and gangster Jaipal Bhullar, wanted for the killing of CIA ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, who were gunned down at Jagraon Grain Market on May 15. The arrested accused has been identified as Lucky Rajput, alias Lucky, a resident of New Pratap Nagar, here, who had helped the killers of the two ASIs in fleeing the state. The police have also recovered a .32 bore countrymade pistol, along with three cartridges, two Bajaj Pulsar motorcycles and a Fiat Punto car from his possession. The development came two days after the Punjab Police arrested two of the main accused, identified as Darshan Singh and Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi, in the Jagraon shootout from Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. A spokesperson for the Punjab Police Department said in an intelligence-led operation, Ludhiana CP Rakesh Agrawal deputed  a police team which arrested Lucky from Khanpur Canal Bridge. Lucky, who has a criminal past and was convicted in a murder case in 2008, is also wanted by the Dehlon police in a carjacking case of November 2020. Lucky has disclosed that he, along with Jaipal Bhullar, Darshan Singh, and Baljinder Singh took away a Hyundai i10 car at gunpoint from Malerkotla Road (under the Dehlon Police Station in Ludhiana) in November 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-aide-of-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-arrested-261449
01-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Punjab’s lowest rural positivity rate in Ludhiana  district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 31Having made a remarkable turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state during the past over two weeks, Ludhiana has topped the state with the lowest Covid positivity rate in the rural areas last week.The district reported a 2.7 per cent positivity rate in its villages between May 17 and 25, which was 59.52 per cent less than the state average of 6.67 per cent rural positivity rate, the data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department has revealed.The analysis of rural-urban divide, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana reported 7.2 per cent positivity rate in its urban areas, which was also sixth lowest in the state, and was 19.28 per cent less than Punjab’s average urban positivity rate of 8.92 per cent.The districts, which reported better urban positivity rate than Ludhiana, were Tarn Taran with the state’s lowest 2.5 per cent, followed by Nawanshahr 2.8 per cent, Kapurthala and Ropar 4.4 per cent each, Hoshiarpur 5.8 per cent and Gurdaspur and Fatehgarh Sahib 6 per cent each.Those with the higher positivity rate in the cities included Mohali with the state’s highest 16.4 per cent, followed by Ferozepur 15 per cent, Bathinda 13.2 per cent, Moga 11.6 per cent, Pathankot and Fazilka 10.4 per cent each, Jalandhar 10.3 per cent, Faridkot 9.6 per cent, Amritsar 9.5 per cent, Sangrur and Muktsar 8.3 per cent each, Patiala 7.9 per cent, Mansa 7.5 per cent and Barnala 7.3 per cent.The districts with poor rural positivity rate were Fazilka with the state’s maximum 15.5 per cent, followed by Ferozepur 15 per cent, Ropar 14.3 per cent, Muktsar 12.1 per cent, Bathinda 11.1 per cent, Pathankot 10.6 per cent, Patiala 9.8 per cent, Mohali, Ferozepur and Mansa 8.9 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 7.7 per cent, Barnala 6.9 per cent, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur 6.6 per cent, Nawanshahr 6.4 per cent, Jalandhar 5.6 per cent, Faridkot 5.5 per cent, Tarn Taran 4.7 per cent, Moga 4.5 per cent, Sangrur and Kapurthala 3.9 per cent each, Amritsar 2.9 per cent, and Ludhiana with the lowest of 2.7 per cent.As far as overall positivity rate was concerned, Ludhiana reported a daily average of 4.3 per cent between May 20 and 26, which was fifth lowest in the state and was 34.85 per cent less than the state’s average of 6.6 per cent during this period.The districts with lower positivity rate than Ludhiana included Sangrur with the state’s lowest 3.7 per cent, followed by Kapurthala 3.8 per cent, Tarn Taran 4 per cent and Nawanshahr 4.1 per cent.Among the worst-hit districts, Mohali and Fazilka continued to lead the state with the highest of 11.2 per cent average daily positivity rate each last week, followed by Bathinda 10.6 per cent, Pathankot 9.3 per cent, Ferozepur 9.1 per cent, Ropar 8.4 per cent, Patiala 7.8 per cent, Muktsar 7.6 per cent, Barnala 7.1 per cent, Amritsar and Jalandhar 6.7 per cent each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjabs-lowest-rural-positivity-rate-in-ludhiana-district-261450
01-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Karamsar Covid care centre boon for admn: Payal MLA||Payal, May 31 The 50-bed Covid care centre at Sant Isher Singh Memorial Hospital, Karamsar (Rara Sahib), has proven to be a boon for the Ludhiana district administration in combating the second wave of the pandemic, Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha has said. Officials, supervised by Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, have been monitoring services provided by the management of the historic gurdwara and volunteers, led by Payal MLA, look after the miscellaneous needs of patients. Lakha said centre had also served the purpose of spreading awareness about the consequences of ignoring the guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/karamsar-covid-care-centre-boon-for-admn-payal-mla-261451
01-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Amargarh villagers seek subdivision status||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 31 A few days ahead of the formal inauguration of the proposed Malerkotla district, residents of villages falling under assembly segment Amargarh of Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha constituency have demanded the status of subdivision to Assembly headquarters. They have urged the authorities to ensure that all block-level and subdivision-level offices for them should be situated at localities falling under the jurisdiction of the Assembly constituency. Villagers of area under the Amargarh Assembly segment rued that they had to shuttle between offices situated at Amargarh, Ahmedgarh and Malerkotla to get their work done and this was causing huge inconvenience. Acknowledging the demand raised by the residents, Amargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman said he had already taken up the issue with the authorities concerned and Chief Minister Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh. Residents also argued that advantages of the social welfare schemes implented in the villages and access to development projects was also not easily feasible as the elected representatives, including MPs, MLA, sarpanches and presidents of the local bodies, had to coordinate with officers at more than one subdivision-level offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amargarh-villagers-seek-subdivision-status-261452
01-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Impounded vehicles in Basti Jodhewal police station gutted in fire||Ludhiana, May 31 An accidental fire, started by a tractor-trailer laden with hay (parali), caused immense damage to impounded vehicles lying in the Basti Jodhewal police station complex this morning. Although the fire was put out by alert police personnel and firefighters of the Municipal Fire Brigade, but more than two dozen vehicles impounded by the police, including cars and two wheelers, which were parked in an open area around the police station, were gutted. The ACP (North), Gurbinder Singh, said the loaded tractor-trailer passing alongside the police station lost its balance after being hit by a bus and rammed into an electric pole. “The resultant sparking by power cables set haystacks on fire and the burning stacks fell down on the impounded vehicles parked at a vacant site around the police station,” the ACP added. He said both the police personnel and firefighters tackled the fire valiantly by getting the power supply switched off immediately and then putting out the fire. The police were assessing the exact quantum of loss caused by the accidental fire and a case would be registered accordingly, said the police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/impounded-vehicles-in-basti-jodhewal-police-station-gutted-in-fire-261453
01-06-2021||---||Lok Insaaf Party seeks fee relief for college, varsity pupils||Ludhiana, May 31 A group of Lok Insaaf Party workers have submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, demanding from the government to provide a relief in tuition fee to colleges and university students amid the Covid-19 crisis. The workers said since colleges and universities were closed on account of the pandemice, students should not be forced to pay tuition fee as the financial condition of many students had been disturbed. Rajesh Khokhar, president, Lok Insaf Party SC wing, Ludhiana, said: “We want that college and university students be given a fee relief as the High Court has ordered the same for school students.” “Colleges and universities should not be allowed to remove students on the basis of non-payment of fee during the pandemic. They should also be ordered that they can’t stop any student from attending online classes,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lok-insaaf-party-seeks-fee-relief-for-college-varsity-pupils-261454
01-06-2021||Manav Mander
||Include us in list of frontline workers: Chemists to govt||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 31 Chemists in the city have asked the government to include them in the list of frontline workers, alleging that it had failed to notice the contribution ofchemist shops in the fight against Covid. The Punjab Chemists Association said chemist shops had been working round the clock during the pandemic but the government had failed to declare them frontline workers. The members said they had to wait in long queues to get vaccinated. Perturbed over the matter, the association said if they were not included in the list of frontline workers, they would, too, follow lockdown timings and shut their shops accordingly. Punjab Chemists Association general secretary GS Chawla said since the outbreak of the pandemic, they had been regularly providing services to customers. “We do not want people to face a difficult time amidst the pandemic, especially when they are in need of medicines. We have kept our shops open and have been coming in contact with positive and negative patients. We are also at high risk. The government has failed to recognise our services,” said Chawla. “Workers above the age of 45 have been vaccinated but those in the 18-44 age category have not been able to book slots. There is a shortage of vaccines in the district and a lot of times, our employees return without getting the jab,” said another chemist from Pindi Street.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/include-us-in-list-of-frontline-workers-chemists-to-govt-261455
01-06-2021||---||Ludhiana DC office employees up in arms over demands||Ludhiana, May 31 Employees of the Ludhiana DC office today staged a protest against the government for not fulfilling their demands. The work at the DC office remained affected as the employees observed a mass leave. The employees have been demanding from the government to ensure promotion of the employees and recruit new staff to fill vacant posts. Gurnam Singh Virk, president of the state unit of the Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union, said they had been observing mass leave since May 24. He said: “There is a shortage of staff at the DC offices. We demand from the government to recruit new staff to fill the vacant posts. The promotion of the current employees must be done at the earliest.” Protests were held at the tehsil and district levels and the work remained affected on Monday too. The protesting employees said their demand should be fulfilled at the earliest otherwise they would be forced to intensify the agitation. The employees would conduct a bike rally to mark the protest on Tuesday. Meanwhile, visitors were forced to return homes without getting their works done at the DC office. Rooms were lying vacant as staff were on a mass leave today, said an employee. A visitor said: “I was unaware of any protest. No prior information regarding the ongoing protest was shared by the authorities. Visitors are being forced to suffer due to the protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-office-employees-up-in-arms-over-demands-261456
01-06-2021||---||Shops, offices to open till 5 pm in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 31 District Magistrate Varinder Sharma has ordered to give more relaxations in the curfew. As per the fresh order, all the shops, offices, etc, can open from 5 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday. No dine-in allowed in restaurants, cafe, fast food outlets, dhaba, bakeries, halwais, etc. Sharma said the home delivery of eatables is allowed all seven days of the week till 9 pm (including weekend curfew). During weekend curfew, shops of eatables cannot open for dine-in/take away, but delivery allowed till 9 pm. E-commerce, courier companies and Postal Department can do home delivery till 9 pm all seven days of week. All persons/employees doing home delivery should have a valid e-pass. The weekend curfew will continue as per the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shops-offices-to-open-till-5-pm-in-ludhiana-261457
01-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Two die in mishaps in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 31 Two persons were killed in separate accidents on city roads on Saturday. Chhote Lal (42), a resident of Mamithora village in Saran district of Bihar, and at present residing in the city, was critically injured after being hit by a speeding vehicle coming from the Kohara side while crossing the main Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road near Deeshe da Dhaba. The victim was rushed to Fortis Hospital where he was declared brought dead by doctors. On the complaint of Balisht Kumar, nephew of the deceased, and a resident of Sector 29, Saira Chowk, Panipat, a case has been registered. Another person, identified as Parwinder Singh (36), a resident of Kotala, lost his life after his Honda motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10FX 8252) rammed into a stationary car parked on the road near Prince Dhaba at Katani Kalan on Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road on Saturday night. A grievously injured Parwinder was taken to the Civil Hospital, Samrala, for treatment where he succumbed to his injuries. On the report lodged by the father of the victim, Gurmel Singh of Kotala village, the police have booked the unidentified driver of the vehicle under Sections 283, 304-A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-die-in-mishaps-in-ludhiana-261458
01-06-2021||---||8 dead, 223 cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 31 As many as 223 persons tested positive for Covid while eight persons lost their lives in the district today. Total confirmed positive cases in the district now are 84,115, while 1,999 have lost their lives so far. There are 4,276 active cases and the case fatality rate now is 2.38 per cent. Five men and three women lost their lives. Four deceased belong to rural areas and four to urban areas. Those who tested positive include two healthcare workers and one pre-operative case. As many as 51 patients are still being traced. As many as 3,515 persons were under home isolation, 108 admitted to government hospitals, 438 to private hospitals and 49 patients on ventilator support. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said till date a total of 13,70,569 samples had been taken, out of which reports of 13,70,185 samples were received. As many as 12,75,097 samples were found negative, while reports of 384 samples were pending. He said, “Whenever the district administration and Health Department finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 case, his sample is immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 12,783 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-dead-223-cases-in-ludhiana-261461
01-06-2021||---||Smokers at increased risk of contracting Covid: Doctors||Ludhiana, May 31 Every year, May 31 is observed as World No Tobacco Day to create awareness about the health issues linked with the use of tobacco in the day-to-day life. The aim of the day is to motivate people to quit tobacco for a healthier world. Doctors from the Department of Pulmonary Medicine (Chest), Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), has given advice on quitting the consumption of tobacco. According to Dr Akashdeep Singh, head of pulmonary medicine at DMCH, said World No Tobacco Day serves as a reminder of the efforts being made by doctors and environmentalists to raise awareness about the dangers of smoking, and encourage and support smokers to quit or switch. “Smokers have up to a 50 per cent higher risk of contracting severe Covid-19 and dying from it. Quitting is the best thing smokers can do to lower the risk of contracting the virus. Quitting smoking can also prevent cancer, heart diseases and respiratory illnesses,” he said. Dr Anil Kashyap, professor of pulmonary medicine, said with Covid-19 being closely associated to chronic lung and respiratory illness, research suggested that people who smoked were at an increased risk of catching the virus. “Smoking any kind of tobacco reduces the functioning capacity of lungs and make them vulnerable to various respiratory diseases. Due to compromised lung capacity, chances of respiratory illnesses becoming more serious also increase,” Dr Kashyap said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smokers-at-increased-risk-of-contracting-covid-doctors-261463
01-06-2021||---||Traders welcome relaxations in lockdown hours||Ludhiana, May 31 Traders in the city today expressed relief and thanked the administration for providing more relief in business hours. The Punjab Traders Board (Excise and Taxation) senior vice-chairman, Bhupinder Basant, thanked the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma for acceding to the demands of traders and extending relaxations hours for the traders’ community. Basant said all shops had now been permitted to open from 5 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday and home delivery of eatables had been allowed on all days of week till 9 pm. “The hotel and restaurant industry of Punjab was in deep crisis but the relaxation in home delivery of food on weekends will provide the much-needed relief to businesses. Most of the raw material used in this industry is of perishable nature and if not used for two days, has to be thrown out,” Basant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-welcome-relaxations-in-lockdown-hours-261467
01-06-2021||Ludhiana||World No Tobacco Day observed||Green Land Sr Sec Public SchoolTo aware students about the harmful effects of tobacco, Green Land Senior Secondary Public School observed anti-tobacco week. A week-long poetry-recitation competition on “Protect youth from tobacco” was organised for the students of Class IX and X. Through their poems, students highlighted the harmful effects of consuming tobacco and stressed upon the need to live in a tobacco-free world. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-no-tobacco-day-observed-261651
01-06-2021||Ludhiana||Students take oath to shun tobacco use||Programme on gender sensitisationCT University conducted a faculty development programme on ‘Gender sensitisation’. Himani Joshi Arora, Assistant Professor, School of Management Studies, was the keynote speaker for the programme. She focused on spreading awareness regarding gender disparity that prevails in society and people who perpetuate biased conceptions. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-take-oath-to-shun-tobacco-use-261652
01-06-2021||Ludhiana||2 arrested with stolen bike||Man nabbedwith heroinLudhiana: The police have nabbed Abjal, a resident of Hargobind Nagar from Harkrishan Nagar, Ghora Colony, with 20 gm of heroin. The police said he was waiting for his customers on the roadside. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him. Meanwhile, a police party on patrol duty on Sua Road, Giaspura, caught hold of a drug addict, Mangal Singh of Bahadurke Road, while taking heroin on a vacant plot. The police seized 0.3 gm of heroin, a lighter, silver foil and a currency note from him. A case has been registered. oc2 arrested for opening shopsLudhiana: Devinder Singh, who runs a grocery shop at his residence in Jujhar Nagar, Shimlapuri, was arrested and charged under Section 188, IPC, for opening his shop during the weekend lockdown. Another person identified as Rambir Singh, a resident of Katani Khurd and the owner of Prince Dhaba at Katani Kalan, was arrested for keeping the outlet open during the lockdown where a rush of customers was witnessed.ocfour nabbed on gambling chargeLudhiana: The police have arrested Vinod Kumar, Yamuna Das, Mithilesh Kumar and Rakesh, all residents of Upkar Nagar, for gambling on a vacant plot in Mini Bihar Mohalla, along the Gunda Nullah. The police recovered Rs 3,840 from the spot. All four were booked under the Gambling Act. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-arrested-with-stolen-bike-261653
