02-06-2021||Ludhiana||Visitors suffer as Ludhiana DC office employees continue strike||Visitors to the DC office were forced to face inconvenience again as employees did not work on Tuesday too. The employees were not present in the office due to which the visitors returned without getting their works done. A number of people from various parts of the district are visiting the DC office regarding their works but they get disappointment these days as employees are not available in the offices. The visitors said they were not informed that when the work would be resumed. The employees had earlier announced to go on an indefinite strike as their demands were not fulfilled. They are demanding their promotion and recruitment of new staff. Members of The Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union said they continued their protest against the government today also as their demands were yet to be fulfilled. General secretary of the union Joginder Kumar Zira said, “We are on a mass leave to mark our protest. We want the government to meet our demands at the earliest. A meeting with the authorities concerned is likely to be held on June 3 regarding our demands.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/visitors-suffer-as-ludhiana-dc-office-employees-continue-strike-261955
02-06-2021||---||3 robbers loot Rs 13,000 from Hathur couple||Ludhiana, June 1 Three miscreants looted cash and other valuables from a mortorcyclist at Akhara village near Jagraon. Complainant Gurmel Singh, a resident of Hathur, told the police that last evening he, along with his wife, was heading towards Jagraon and when they reached Akhara village, three bike-borne persons came and pounced on him. “I tried to flee but they pushed my bike due to which we fell on the road. Afterwards, the miscreants  snatched Rs 13,000, my wallet containing ID proofs and other valuables from me. I raised an alarm but they manage to flee the spot,” the complainant alleged. Investigating officer ASI Surjit Singh of the Sadar Jagraon police station said a case of snatching was registered against the three unknown persons and CCTV cameras of the area were being checked to get clue about the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-robbers-loot-rs-13-000-from-hathur-couple-261956
02-06-2021||Harshraj Singh
||NHAI floats tenders for construction of flyover at Ludhiana's Bharat Nagar Chowk||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 1 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will construct a flyover at Bharat Nagar Chowk on the National Highway 5 (old NH-95). A request for proposal (RFP) for the construction of the flyover has already been floated to invite bids from interested firms. The flyover project is a part of the under construction elevated road. The project work includes the construction of the flyover at Bharat Nagar Chowk with 4-lane flyover towards Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Inter-State Bus Terminal and 2-lane ramp towards the railway station. The work also includes resurfacing/construction of the existing service road of the NH-5 on EPC mode. The estimated cost of the flyover project is Rs 59.41 crore while the work has to be completed within 18 months. Besides, the maintenance period will be of 10 years. Notably, the NHAI’s elevated road project from Samrala Chowk to Octroi Post at Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana, via Bharat Nagar Chowk on the NH-5 is underway since 2017. But, the work on the project was going on at a slow pace and it has already missed the previous deadline. Service lanes on Ferozepur Road have not been constructed at different points due to which commuters are forced to face a lot of inconvenience. Traffic jams due to the ongoing elevated road project on the NH-5 are common. Rahul Verma of Sambhav Foundation, an NGO, said: “The NHAI should make sure construction of the service lanes on a priority basis to avoid traffic snarls. The management of traffic is much important as Bharat Nagar Chowk is one of the busiest intersections in the city. The work of the elevated road on Ferozepur Road should be speeded up and completed at the earliest.” Sources said earlier also, a plan was made to construct an underpass for the vehicular movement at Bharat Nagar Chowk but the plan was later changed as a sewer line was passing beneath the road. Now, an official of the NHAI confirmed that the tenders have been floated for the construction of the flyover while online bids were supposed to be opened on June 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nhai-floats-tenders-for-construction-of-flyover-at-ludhianas-bharat-nagar-chowk-261957
02-06-2021||---||9% villagers test +ve in Ludhiana district, double than Punjab average||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 1A special surveillance survey conducted by the state government under Mission Fateh 2.0 ‘Coronoa Mukt Pind Abhiyaan’ has found 9 per cent villagers positive for Covid in Ludhiana district, which was more than double the state average of 4 per cent.However, only 0.3 per cent of the screened rural population was found symptomatic in the district during the survey.Taking cognisance of the increasing incidence of deadly virus spread in the rural areas, the state government had recently launched a special campaign to free the villages of Covid. Under the campaign, teams of health and other departments conducted the house-to-house surveillance in every village of the state. Besides providing basic medicines, RAT (rapid antigen test) of the symptomatic persons was conducted on the spot under the ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan’.The results of a surveillance survey, which are available with The Tribune, revealed that as many as 1,48,78,720 villagers were screened in the survey of 37,46,774 households in the rural areas of the state so far.While 74,875 villagers were identified with mild symptoms, 1,03,288 RAT tests were conducted on the ruralites, of which 3,903 were tested positive, accounting for 4 per cent of the tested population. As 8,200 moderate symptomatic villagers were found negative in RAT, they were sent for RT-PCR testing.The government teams also provided 4,610 Fateh medicine kits to the Covid patients in home isolation at villages.With 9 per cent positive rural population, Ludhiana district was put in the orange category, which included eight other districts with a positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. These included Mansa with 9 per cent positivity rate, Pathankot 7 per cent, Ferozepur and Barnala 6 per cent each, Mohali, Patiala and Jalandhar 5 per cent each, and Fatehgarh Sahib 10 per cent.The districts under red category with more than 10 per cent positivity rate in villages were Bathinda with the state’s highest 18 per cent ratio, followed by Muktsar 16 per cent, Moga, Faridkot and Ferozepur 12 per cent each.The green category districts with less than 5 per cent rural positivity rate included Nawanshahr and Tarn Taran with the state’s lowest 1 per cent ratio, followed by Amritsar, Ropar and Hoshiarpur 2 per cent each, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Sangrur 3 per cent each.The symptomatic cases were found more in Fazilka with the state’s highest 7.7 per cent villagers with Covid symptoms, followed by Muktsar 4.5 per cent, Mohali 2 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 0.9 per cent, Bathinda 0.8 per cent, Mansa and Nawanshahr 0.7 per cent each, Amritsar and Patiala 0.6 per cent each, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Sangrur 0.5 per cent each, Pathankot, Kapurthala, and Barnala 0.4 per cent each.Those with less than Ludhiana’s symptomatic villagers included Ropar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Moga 0.2 per cent each, while Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur were on a par with Ludhiana at 0.3 per cent ratio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-villagers-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-double-than-punjab-average-261959
02-06-2021||---||222 test positive, 3 dead in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 1 As many as 222 persons tested positive for Covid, while three persons lost their lives in the district today. The case fatality rate has gone down to 3.7 per cent. There were 3,916 active cases in the district. Two women and a man, belonging to Sanhewal, Partap Nagar and Khanna, lost their lives. Those who tested positive include two expectant mothers, cop and a healthcare worker. The tracing of 44 patients is still going on. As many as 3,169 persons were under home isolation, 111 were admitted to government hospitals and 417 in private hospitals. As many as 45 persons were on ventilator support. A total of 14,427 samples were collected in the district today. The result of 367 is awaited. Dr Kiran Gill, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said it is the duty of the people to follow the safety measures — to wear mask, wash hands frequently and maintain social distancing. But, as the time is passing people are becoming more careless and more lenient about it but it should not be so. One more patient dies of black fungus One more patient (from other district but admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana) suffering from black fungus died here on Tuesday. With this, the total number of patients who lost their lives due to black fungus has gone to nine. There are total 78 patients admitted to various hospitals in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/222-test-positive-3-dead-in-ludhiana-261960
02-06-2021||Nitin Jain||‘Over 21% black fungus patients non-Covid’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 1Ever since the state government notified mucormycosis – commonly known as black fungus – following the spurt in the rare fungal infection among post-Covid patients, over 21 per cent of the total cases reported so far have been non-Covid patients.Enough drugs for treatmentChief Secretary Vini Mahajan has said the state government is procuring the required drugs for the treatment of mucormycosis patients, besides ramping up the arrangements for the best management of such cases. “The drugs available with the state, which are sufficient for the weeklong treatment of all active cases, have been distributed to all districts and three GMCs,” she said.Also contrary to the common belief that the use of steroids and medical oxygen during the Covid treatment was the main cause behind the patients contracting black fungus, over 29 per cent cases of mucormycosis were of non-steroid use, while over 36 per cent such patients were never administered oxygen.However, 82 per cent mucormycosis cases were found to be diabetic, 30 per cent immune-compromised, and 25 per cent comorbid.The analysis of notified disease cases by the Health and Family Welfare Department revealed that of the total of 188 mucormycosis patients reported in the state during May 19-26, at least 40 (21.28 per cent) were non-Covid cases, 55 (29.25 per cent) of non-steroid use, and 67 (35.64 per cent) patients had never received life-saving gas prior to the onset of black fungus.e maximum of 154 cases, which accounts for 81.91 per cent, were found to be suffering from diabetes, 56 (29.79 per cent) with immuno-compromised status, and 47 (25 per cent) patients were with comorbidities.Of the total 188 cases of black fungus in the last week, 156 were under treatment and nine have been cured while 23 patients have so far died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-21-black-fungus-patients-non-covid-261961
02-06-2021||---||39-year-old man found dead in Gill canal||Ludhiana, June 1 A 39-year-old man was found dead in Gill canal on Tuesday morning. He was under depression and reportedly committed suicide by jumping into the canal. The deceased has been identified as Gurbachan Singh, a resident of Begowal, near Doraha. He was survived by wife, two children, and mother. He was a daily wage labourer. In-charge of the Morado police post ASI Subash Chand said this morning, some passers-by noticed a body floating in the canal and informed the police. The ASI said he, along with a police team, reached the spot and called divers to take out the body from the canal. Later, the body was taken out and the deceased was identified. His kin were called who also identified the body. The deceased’s family members said on the intervening night of May 29 and 30,  the victim had left home without informing anybody. A missing report was also lodged at the Doraha police station. The family told the police that the deceased was under depression for the past few weeks due to which he seemed to have committed suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/39-year-old-man-found-dead-in-gill-canal-261962
02-06-2021||---||Rinkal case: Accused confesses to murder, sends video to victim’s kin on WhatsApp||Ludhiana, June 1Almost three years after the murder of Rinkal Khera of Amarpura, one of the main accused in the case Kuldeep, alias Sunny Nai, today posted a video message on WhatsApp to the deceased’s brother Mani Kehra and confessed to having killed Rinkal.Kuldeep has been wanted by the police since July 19, 2018. His bold attempt to post a video message also challenged the functioning of the Ludhiana police, which could not arrest him in three years.Two more accused, namely Satnam Singh Sukhi and Mohit Kaul, are also at large in the case. The police had arrested Congress leader-cum-councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu’s son Jatinderpal Sunny, Manmeet Singh Lambar, Manmeet Singh Mani, Gurmeet Singh Budhi Raj, Vishal and Sukhdeep Singh Deepu in the case and all of them are out on bail now.In the video message, Sunny, who is a resident of Ludhiana, confessed that he had killed Rinkal at the behest of Congress leader and his son Jatinderpal. He said he had not taken any money from them to kill Rinkal, rather he and other accused were just friends of Congress leader’s son and they killed Sunny “for the sake of friendship”.Sunny said he would now kill Congress leader Neetu and his two sons, as both had been threatening to kill him now. “I killed Rinkal at the behest of Cong leader and his son, but now both are threatening me with getting me arrested in the case,” he added.He said the Ludhiana police had taken action only on one son of the Congress leader, but another son of the leader was also involved in the case.The police had initially booked Neetu in the case on the charges of criminal conspiracy but he was acquitted of the charges by the police as his role was not established.Neetu could not be contacted on phone despite repeated attempts.Rinkal’s brother Mani Khera said he had received the video from the accused and he would approach the High Court and Human Rights Commission. He said the accused was seen in Ludhiana many a times, but the police didn’t arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rinkal-case-accused-confesses-to-murder-sends-video-to-victims-kin-on-whatsapp-261963
02-06-2021||Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers protest against govt’s ‘wrong’ policies||Hundreds of anganwadi workers here today gathered to protest against the “wrong policies” of the government. The protest was against the government’s decision to ask workers to maintain kitchen gardens so that fruits and vegetables grown in the gardens could be made available to needy women and children. Subhash Rani, state president, Anganwadi Union, the workers had returned the seeds provided by the government as this work had to be done by the MNREGA labour with the help of village panchayats. “On June 10, we will submit memorandums to all MLAs in this regard. It is not our duty to sow seeds, especially when there was not enough space available at many centres. Besides, we should be treated as frontline workers. We have been performing our duty, spreading awareness about the pandemic and collecting data of Covid patients,” she added. The workers said beside their demand of being considered frontline workers, they also wanted the government to pay for the treatment of workers if they test positive for the virus. While many protesters were seen wearing masks, others were seen disobeying the guidelines of social distancing and wearing face mask.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anganwadi-workers-protest-against-govts-wrong-policies-261964
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Doctors observe ‘black day’ against Ramdev’s remarks||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot / Payal, June 1 Responding to the call given by organisations of physicians practising allopathy, doctors from various hospitals of the region observed ‘black day’ today to protest against Baba Ramdev’s remarks on allopathy. Seeking a public apology or registration of a criminal case against the yoga guru, doctors have also appealed to leaders of political parties not to support his claims. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Federation of Resident Doctors Association had given a call for a nationwide protest against the “derogatory and distasteful remarks on credibility of allopathy” made by Baba Ramdev recently. Office-bearers and activists of various units of the IMA, led by subdivision president Nirmal Singh and secretary Dr Sunit Hind, observed a day-long protest by wearing black armbands. The protesters said patient care was not hampered in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Most unfortunate part of the issue is that political parties have supported Baba Ramdev in his sinister designs to exploit the ancient therapy of ayurveda and yoga for his personal, economic and political gains,” said Dr Nirmal Singh, maintaining that the association had demanding registration of criminal cases against the yoga guru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doctors-observe-black-day-against-ramdevs-remarks-261965
02-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Pupils, parents hail move to nix CBSE Class XII exams||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 1 The anxiety among parents, students and teachers came to an end today after the government decided to cancel the CBSE Class XII board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country. The joy among students knew no bounds after hearing the news of cancellation of the exams.  A homemaker, Reena, said his son was exhilarated after hearing the news. “Kids feel relieved now as their frustration and confusion has come to an end. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. The students were in stress but parents were equally disturbed about what will happen. Though exams should have been held but owing to the health of the students, this is a wise decision”, said the parent. At the same time, many parents and teachers feel that exams should have been conducted to access the performance of the students. “For me, my daughter is just metric pass. They should have got the opportunity to experience Class XII board exams. They have the whole future in front of them and they need to struggle hard. But since it was already too late, at least the decision has been taken. We will have to make them understand that life is tough and competitive and they have to struggle hard to achieve the goals. The pandemic has changed the whole life,” said Shubh Mathur, another parent of a XII student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pupils-parents-hail-move-to-nix-cbse-class-xii-exams-261966
02-06-2021||---||Kin seek aid for critically ill infant’s treatment at CMCH||Ludhiana, June 1 A one-month-old baby of a city resident has been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with the diagnosis of meconium aspiration pneumonia, respiratory failure and shock. The boy is in a critical condition and the family is seeking financial help for the same. The baby has tested negative for Covid-19 but requires round-the-clock ventilator support. He is currently admitted to the non-Covid paediatric ICU ward and has to be kept on ventilator for 24 days due to pneumonia and sepsis. The mother of the baby, Pooja, has tested positive for Covid and cannot feed her baby. The boy’s parents are not able to pay the bill amounting Rs 3,05,576. The baby’s treatment is still on but the parents can no longer support the treatment financially and are seeking help. For those who want to help, cash donations can be made at the cash counter of the hospital and in the account under the name ‘Baby of Pooja, C8003014; IP No 3001274.’ Donations by multicity cheque and bank draft are to be addressed to ‘The CMC Ludhiana Society’. Donors donating through this means are requested to write ‘B/O Pooja C8003014’ at the back of the cheque. For any queries regarding donation, contact Amit of Medical Social Welfare Department at 8557824792 or the team doctor at 9814964605.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kin-seek-aid-for-critically-ill-infants-treatment-at-cmch-261967
02-06-2021||Ludhiana||Nutritionist advises turmeric milk to boost immunity||From grandmothers to doctors, all suggest to include milk in our daily diet. Rich in calcium, protein, potassium, iodine, vitamin b2 and b12 and many other nutrients, it is often considered a complete food in itself. On World Milk Day, doctors urge public to include milk as a whole and in other forms in daily diet.The theme of the day this year is “Sustainability in dairy sector: Environment, nutrition and socio-economics”.City-based clinical nutritionist Dr Deepti said to keep themselves healthy and boost immunity to fight the pandemic, people have started drinking turmeric milk and golden milk or turmeric latte.“Indian grandmothers have been preaching about the importance of ‘haldi doodh’ since generations. It is important to include milk in one’s diet and adding turmeric in it helps to boost immunity system. It is also advised to add almonds to makes it a good antioxidant, with bananas to help in muscle development. Milk products such as curd, paneer etc should also be a part of one’s diet,” she said.College of Dairy Science and Technology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), also observed World Milk Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nutritionist-advises-turmeric-milk-to-boost-immunity-261968
02-06-2021||---||AAP demands relief for taxi, auto drivers||Ludhiana, June 1 Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today demanded from the state government to provide relief to  taxi and auto drivers. Workers of the party, led by Ludhiana president Suresh Goyal and state spokesman Ahbaab Singh Grewal, said the Covid-19 pandemic had badly affected the taxi and auto drivers raged and demanded financial aid for them to ease their suffering. Leaders said at least Rs 5,000 should be deposited as direct transfer to taxi and auto drivers. “Along with that, their passing fees should be waived and the interest taken from drivers for renewal fees should also be excused,” they added. Grewal said if the Delhi government could announce a relief package for taxi and auto drivers, why could the Punjab government not do the same. AAP leader Dupinder Singh Dhir said AAP volunteers will support the cab and auto drivers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-demands-relief-for-taxi-auto-drivers-261970
02-06-2021||---||Tax experts welcome GST council recommendations||Ludhiana, June 1 Small taxpayers have been provided with a huge relief by the government after the 43rd meeting of the GST Council took some key decisions recently. The tax professionals in the city said most of the small taxpayers will be benefited from these recommendations of the council. Manotosh Gupta, a chartered accountant, said to provide relief to small taxpayers, amnesty scheme has been recommended for reducing late fee to benefit around 89 per cent of the taxpayers, they can file pending returns, avail benefits of scheme, with reduced late fees. NK Thaman, an advocate, said the taxpayers were required to pay late fee of Rs 20 per day, where the GST liability was nil and late fee of Rs 50 per day where the GST was involved in case of late filling of GSTR-3B return without any capping. Sometimes, many taxpayers are not able to file returns timely leading to heavy late fees. Now, relief has been provided on late fee by putting maximum cap on the same. This is a welcome step particularly for small taxpayers who have to depend upon availability of their part timers. Thaman said the government has waived or reduced interest on late deposit of the GST and waived late fee on late filling of the GSTR-3B return for the month of March, April and May, 2021. It is also a welcome step considering that many taxpayers are not able to comply with requirements in time due to Covid. The annual return filing will continue to be optional for 2020-21, for small taxpayers with turnover less than Rs 2 crore Reconciliation statements for 2020-21 to be furnished by taxpayers with turnover of Rs. 5 Crore or more. However, instead of getting certified by CA, self-certification by CA would a sufficient compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tax-experts-welcome-gst-council-recommendations-261971
02-06-2021||Ludhiana||Don’t delay treatment during pandemic, blood cancer patients told||A clinical hematologist has advised blood cancer patients not to delay treatment during the pandemic in any situation as the disease is life-threatening. Dr Ankur Mittal, consultant, clinical hematologist, Mohandai Oswal Hospital, has advised patients to visit hospitals regularly for their ongoing treatments as well as for diagnosis of any new complications, if any. Mittal today addressed a virtual press conference on “Covid-19 and blood cancer” and stated that as per the GLOBOCAN 2020 report, every year, over one lakh people in India were diagnosed with blood cancer, be it lymphoma, leukaemia or multiple myeloma. “Treating such patients is of utmost priority as delay in treatment would result in complications,” he said. Talking about the impact of Covid-19, Dr Ankur said: “Many symptoms of Covid-19 can overlap with the symptoms which a patient may already be experiencing from their cancer diagnosis or treatments of fever, shortness of breath, body or muscle aches, headache and generalised weakness. Thus, it becomes more important to consult their treating doctor for any similar symptoms.” He said, “Weight loss, unexplained fever, night sweats and itching could be early signs of lymphoma. While abnormal hemogram report that fall in haemoglobin, low platelet counts, raised or low white blood cells are usually seen in acute leukaemia while low backache with anaemia are early signs of multiple myeloma.” He added that over 30 per cent of his hematological disorders patients were currently on treatment through tele-medicine  during the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-delay-treatment-during-pandemic-blood-cancer-patients-told-261972
02-06-2021||---||High Court stays dispossession of Ludhiana villagers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the dispossession of villagers apprehending displacement following a move to acquire land for construction, maintenance, management and operation of the National Highway-5 on the Kharar-Ludhiana section.The direction by the vacation Bench of Justice Jaishree Thakur came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Manjit Singh and other landowners in Katani Kalan village in Ludhiana district through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Bagri contended the competent authority under the National Highway Act only passed an award pertaining to the land. But the authority had not passed any award pertaining to the structure. As such, the authority failed to comply with the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Bagri added the respondents were threatening to dispossess the petitioners.Issuing a notice of motion to the state and other respondents, Justice Thakur asserted: “In the meantime, dispossession of the petitioners herein is stayed.” The case will now come up for further hearing on November 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-court-stays-dispossession-of-ludhiana-villagers-262120
