04-06-2021||Manav Mander||2 yrs on, paediatric ICU at Ludhiana Civil Hospital gathers dust||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 3Yesterday, a 50-bed paediatric Covid care ward was inaugurated at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) by the Chief Minister to tackle the possible third wave of Covid-19, however, the existing infrastructure at government hospital lies in neglect.Two years on, the paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) at Civil Hospital which is equipped with ventilators and oxygen facility is still non-operational.In 2019, the Mother and Child Hospital of Civil Hospital got nine ventilators and 19 beds equipped with oxygen supply in the newborn intensive care unit but due to the lack of trained staff they are only gathering dust. Presently, critical cases are referred either to the CMCH, Rajindra Hospital, Patiala or the PGIMER, Chandigarh.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Kiran Gill, said she is aware of the fact that ventilators in the intensive care unit are lying unused. For emergency cases, oxygen facility is used for patients in this ward.“The main reason behind the non-use of the facilities is shortage of staff. We have only two paediatricians. In addition to this, we also need trained staff which include intensivist in-charge, nurses, respiratory therapist, nutritionist, technicians, computer programmer, pharmacist etc., who should be there round the clock in the ward. The main hitch in starting the ward is the shortage of staff,” said Dr Gill.She further said with government making preparations for the third wave, the department will be writing to the government to give them additional staff so that paediatric critical care unit at Civil Hospital can be started.A doctor from Civil Hospital, on the condition of anonymity, said it has been two years that ventilators at the paediatric ICU are gathering dust.“There is an acute shortage of nursing staff apart from other staff. One staff nurse is required for one patient on ventilator but here one nurse is taking care of more than 5-8 patients,” said he.Senior Medical Officers and Civil Surgeons in the past have been writing to the government to appoint trained staff so that paediatric intensive care unit can be made operational but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-yrs-on-paediatric-icu-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-gathers-dust-263181
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||Pedal your way to fitness amid Covid, suggest docs||To mark the World Bicycle Day, doctors at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Hero DMC Heart Institute laid stress on the various health and environmental benefits of cycling amid the Covid crisis.Dr Bishav Mohan, Medical Superintendent, Hero DMC Heart Institute, said cycling can help to protect you from serious diseases such as stroke, heart attack, some cancers, depression, diabetes, obesity and arthritis.“Riding a bike is healthy, fun and a low-impact form of exercise for all ages. Cycling is easy to fit into your daily routine by riding to the shops, park, school or work,” said Dr Mohan.Dr Ashish Ahuja, professor of Surgery and Bariatric Surgeon at DMCH, said cycling is very beneficial for improving overall health and building good immunity, which is very much essential to fight attack of Covid-19 infection.Dr Ashish Ahuja, a bicycle enthusiast, has also participated in several cycling tournaments. His morning routine daily begins with 20 kms of cycling. But as the conditions are not appropriate these days for cycling outdoor in group, so he prefers to peddle cycle alone and that too during relaxation hours.In their messages, Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Ashish Ahuja says that ever since the pandemic has struck the nation, there are many people, especially youngsters who have taken cycling as their hobby and passion to keep themselves fit and healthy.“The habit of regular cycling contributes to many health benefits, including increasing of blood circulation level, optimal pumping of heart, burning out calories and making the legs and thighs stronger. It is also also very beneficial for people suffering from diabetes and other co-morbidities. So, keep yourself peddling to remain fit and healthy,” advises Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Ashish Ahuja. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pedal-your-way-to-fitness-amid-covid-suggest-docs-263182
04-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Organisations oppose govt ‘decision’ on providing jobs to wards of MLAs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 3After the state government has reportedly considering to give government jobs to sons of Congress MLAs on compassionate grounds, some organisations have opposed the move and demanded from CM Capt Amarinder Singh to provide jobs to unemployed and needy youth instead of offering jobs to the kin of any MLA or MP.An organisation, Inquilab Zindabad Lehar, has raised questions over the government’s move to give jobs to the sons of MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa as tehsildar and Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), respectively, on compassionate grounds. Notably, the father of Pandey and the father of Bajwa were killed in separate terrorists’ attacks. Sources said the government was also considering to provide jobs to sons of two other MLAs.Staging a protest in Ludhiana on Thursday, members of the Inquilab Zindabad Lehar claimed that the decision of the state government to provide government jobs to the sons of these MLAs was wrong. Sukhwinder Singh Halwara, along with his aides of the organisation, sent a memorandum to the Chief Minister, via the Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, demanding that jobs should be provided to the unemployed youth instead of providing jobs to the kin of MLAs or MPs.He said: “Many youngsters lost their jobs amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of the young boys and girls are forced to hold protests as they are not being provided jobs. Before the Assembly elections, the Congress had promised to provide jobs to the unemployed under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’ campaign. Now, the government should provide jobs to the unemployed and needy youth of the state on a priority basis instead of giving jobs to the sons of MLAs or MPs, who are already well settled.”Keemti Rawal of the Mahatar Sathi Jagriti Manch said, “I am a voter of the Ludhiana North constituency. The government is going to provide a job to the sons of a few MLAs by flouting the norms. I have sent a memorandum to the Punjab Governor to direct the government to provide jobs to the unemployed youth of the state. There is no need to provide a job to any MLA’s son on compassionate grounds. Many people were killed by terrorists in Punjab but the government had not provided jobs to the next kin of the victims to date. Many youngsters are unemployed in the state. Then, why are jobs being offered to the sons of MLAs? No job should be offered to son of any MLA or MP. I will move the court against the government’s decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/organisations-oppose-govt-decision-on-providing-jobs-to-wards-of-mlas-263183
04-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Schools hold online activities to keep pupils engaged during summer break||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 3 To keep students busy during the summer break, the government as well as private schools and private tutors have started activity classes for students to explore their hidden talents and learn new things. These activities will be taught to them through online classes .  Various activities, including collage-making, yoga classes, fancy dress competitions, poem recitation, dance competitions, best out of waste, clay-modelling, paper craft, note-book decoration, non-fire cooking, salad decorations etc., will be taught to the students.  There is no compulsion on kids and they are learning on their own will. Sukhjinder Kaur, a teacher at Government Middle school, said these activities play an important role in boosting confidence among the students and they show lot of enthusiasm in learning new things.  Jyoti, an art teacher at Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, said students’ show a lot of enthusiasm and these classes are helpful for them to know where exactly they stand and what do they aspire for.  Besides, many bakers are taking online bakery classes for students this time as it is not possible to go physically to attend the classes so virtual classes are the best option. Geetika, who is in Class XII, has started attending bakery classes (online) and she has learnt to bake dry cakes and muffins. “These vacations, we really can’t go out and enjoy so I decided to attend baking course of 6-7 days, which is not only easy but interesting too,” said Geetika.  Apart from these regular classes, self-grooming classes, communication skills, table setting classes, resin art classes and many more such activities are being taught to the students through virtual sessions, which not only keep them busy but teach them to experiment with different things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-hold-online-activities-to-keep-pupils-engaged-during-summer-break-263184
04-06-2021||Webinar on beekeeping held||Webinar on beekeeping held||Ludhiana: The Directorate of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a monthly webinar for members of the Progressive Beekeepers Association (PBKA) in which 58 beekeepers took part. In his welcome remarks, Dr TS Riar, Additional Director Communication and Programme Associate Director, said beekeeping was a profitable subsidiary occupation, from which farmers could reap good economic benefits along with agriculture. He called upon the beekeepers to encourage fellow farmers also to adopt this occupation for profitability. An entomology expert, Dr Jaspal Singh, dwelt upon the crawling of honey bees and European foulbrood disease, their causes, symptoms and management. Rajnish Tuli, from Punjab Agro, Chandigarh, informed about the schemes of Punjab Agro, which could be availed by the beekeepers for their benefit.80 attend PAU Kisan Club’s online sessionA total of 80 farmers attended the monthly webinar of the PAU Kisan Club today. The webinar was held under the guidance of Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education, PAU. Dr TS Riar, Additional Director Communication and Programme Associate Director, welcomed the farmers and highlighted the activities of the club. Dr Yuvraj Pandha, an entomology expert, and Dr Salesh Jindal, an expert of vegetable science, explained the integrated pest management and cultivation of summer vegetables, respectively. Agronomic practices starting from sowing till harvesting of summer vegetables were the thrust area. Farmers were also educated about caring of milch animals in summer season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-beekeeping-held-263185
04-06-2021||---||2-day free mega vaccination camp for industrial workers||Ludhiana, June 3 A two-day free Covid-19 vaccination mega camp was organised by the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Ganga Acrowools Limited today. The camp was inaugurated by  Suvidh Shah, Joint Director General of Foreign Trade, Ludhiana. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, CICU and Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, said there is a dire need of Covid-19 vaccine to break the chain of the virus. More than 500 workers/industrialists and their families are covered in the free mega camp. Suvidh Shah, Joint Director General of Foreign Trade, Ludhiana, appreciated the working of the CICU during the Covid-19 crisis. Rahul Ahuja, vice president, CICU, highlighted that the vaccination is very important to control the Covid-19 in industry. Amit Thapar, vice-president, Ganga Acrowools Limited, mentioned that it is our duty to protect our factory workers by providing them with free covid-19 vaccination. He added that the camp would be going for more days as required to cover all workers and industrialists and all facilities for vaccinate drive will be provided as per the demand. The camp was attended by JS Bhogal, publicity secretary, Gautam Malhotra and many others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-day-free-mega-vaccination-camp-for-industrial-workers-263186
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||IDA president bags Famdent Award||Indian Dental Association (IDA) president Dr PS Grover was presented the ‘8th Famdent Award’ during a virtual ceremony held in Mumbai. As many as 500 eminent dentists of the country participated in the virtual ceremony. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ida-president-bags-famdent-award-263187
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||NABARD sanctions project to vet varsity||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned a project entitled “Establishment of Pashu Palak Tele-Advisory Kendra” to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana.  The centre was inaugurated by Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, along with Dr Rajiv Siwach, chief general manager, NABARD, Chandigarh. Dr Siwach highlighted the need of such projects in meeting with the uncertainties of livestock farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nabard-sanctions-project-to-vet-varsity-263188
04-06-2021||---||6 more succumb, 228 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 3As many as 228 persons tested positive, while six persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. Now total confirmed positive cases from Ludhiana are 84,850, while 2,103 persons have lost their lives to the disease so far. There were 3,325 actives cases in the district.Those who tested positive include three expectant mothers and three healthcare workers, while 53 patients are still being traced.Four women and two men lost their lives to the virus today. Four of them belonged to rural areas and two were from urban areas.A total of 14,13,624 samples have been collected so far and 14,545 were collected today and report of 375 is awaited.As many as 98 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 372 to private hospitals. As many as 40 patients — 22 from Ludhiana and 18 from other districts — were on ventilator support.The number of Covid cases has decreased in Ludhiana, but the Health Department teams are still working with the same effort to bring the cases to nil. In order to do that the teams are doing extensive sampling, vaccination and making awareness.Teams are visiting different villages of the district and everyday they apprise people of basic preventive measures to keep themselves and others safe from Covid-19. Various vaccination and sampling camps are being organised on daily basis in the city.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said, “People are scared of Covid, but they should also know that it is very easy to stay away from the virus. All they need to do is follow the Health Department’s guidelines”.Mega vaccination driveA free mega vaccination drive for the above 45 years’ category will be held at 176 places in the district on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-more-succumb-228-ve-in-ludhiana-263172
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||NGT tells Ludhiana MC chief, Urban Devp Secy to take remedial steps||In a petition filed by the Council of Engineers against commercialisation and concretisation of Mini Rose Garden being done under the Smart City Mission project by Ludhiana Smart City Limited, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Bench given directions that the Secretary, Urban Development, Punjab, and Ludhiana MC Commissioner may look into the matter and take remedial measures as are found necessary, following due process of law.In the order, the Bench said: “There is no doubt that parks being lungs of the city need to be maintained following best practices, in accordance with the observations of the Supreme Court and this Tribunal. There is, however, no presumption that the law on the point will not be followed. It is not a case that the Tribunal needs to determine any question. Only issue is of compliance of well-established norms by the state authorities.”Earlier, the Council of Engineers had moved the NGT against the Ludhiana Smart City Limited’s project.They alleged that the project work includes the construction of an indoor badminton court building, cafeteria, water fountains, concrete paths and parking with solid interlocking tiles at the park.Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers said: “Ludhiana Smart City Limited is developing Mini Rose Garden (the land area around just 3.50 acres) under the Smart city Mission with a budget of Rs 3.48 crore. For a building such as indoor badminton court, any other public land or building could have been selected but by constructing the building in Mini Rose Garden, Ludhiana Smart City Limited is decreasing the green area of the park.”The council members said they had requested the NGT for restitution of green area of Mini Rose Garden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngt-tells-ludhiana-mc-chief-urban-devp-secy-to-take-remedial-steps-263173
04-06-2021||---||Weightlifter alleges rape by Ludhiana traffic policeman||Ludhiana, June 3A national-level weightlifting player of Kasabad village, near Ludhiana, was allegedly raped by a sub-inspector of the city traffic police on the pretext of providing a government job to her in sports quota in the Punjab Government. The woman today submitted a complaint to Police Commissioner (PC) Rakesh Agrawal and the PC marked an inquiry to ADCP 1 Pragya Jain in this matter.The woman in her complaint claimed that she was a national-level weightlifting player and she had also won a silver medal.The woman said since having a sports background, she had a desire to get a job under the sports quota.“In September last year, my father’s friend introduced me to a SI in the traffic police who assured me a government job. Since then, he called me to some restaurant-cum-hotel near Basti Jodhewal and a hotel on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar bypass on many occasions to complete documents to apply for the government job and raped me several times,” she said.The woman said he had also made her objectionable videos and photographs which he was using to blackmail her.She alleged whenever she asked him about the government job, the SI used to make hollow promises.“Now, he had been threatening me with dire consequences if I approach the police against him. Now, I have been assured by the top cop that justice will be delivered after conducting a probe in the case. I hope the accused will face action, “ the woman alleged.Notably, the woman was carrying a photograph of the suspect along when she went to lodge the complaint.Meanwhile, the SI did not respond to phone calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/weightlifter-alleges-rape-by-ludhiana-traffic-policeman-263174
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two youths abduct, rape minor girl in car||Two youths kidnapped a 17-year-old girl, took her to an isolated place in Khanna and raped her in the car. The Khanna City-II police have registered a case against the two youths, Shiv Thakur of Nanak Nagar, Khanna, and Gurpreet Singh Lucky of Navi Abadi in Khanna. The complainant, victim’s mother, told the police that yesterday her daughter and her friend, had gone to buy books from a book market and when they were returning home, the suspects, who were friends of her daughter, met her in the market. “They asked my daughter and her friend to sit in their car. Later, my daughter’s friend forced the youths to stop the car and alighted from the vehicle. Afterwards, they took my daughter near the Radha Vatika’s gate where the duo sexually abused her in the car,” she alleged. After committing the crime, the suspects left her on the road and fled. She said when her daughter reached home, she was tensed. It was only when she was repeatedly asked the reason for the same, she told family members about the incident. Inspector Raj Parvinder said a case of rape had been registered against the duo and raids were being conducted to nab them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-youths-abduct-rape-minor-girl-in-car-263175
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||Wheat supply of 5 ration depots suspended||The Food Supply Department on Thursday suspended wheat supply of five ration depots after various anomalies were found during a surprise checking. A checking drive is being conducted to ensure transparency in distribution of wheat among needy people under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (PMGKAY).District Food and Supply Controller Sukhwinder Singh Gill said several teams of the department were formed to inspect the distribution drive to ensure proper transparency in the process in various localities. He said during the checking by the teams, irregularities were detected in weight and other items, following which supply of the five depots was immediately suspended.He said the government had decided to give 5 kg of wheat per beneficiary per month for two months to a smart card holder family in one go.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wheat-supply-of-5-ration-depots-suspended-263176
04-06-2021||Ludhiana||Rs 39-lakh grant for graveyard maintenance||Fulfilling the long-pending demand of Muslims for upgrading Sherpur’s burial place, the Punjab Government on Thursday has sanctioned a grant of Rs 38.93 lakh, which would be used to build boundary wall, rooms and maintenance of the graveyard. Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohammad Gulab said the Muslim community in Sherpur, Dhandari, Focal Point and surrounding areas had been seeking improvement in the infrastructure of the burial place for several years, following which he took up the matter with Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for financial assistance to carry out the works there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-39-lakh-grant-for-graveyard-maintenance-263177
04-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||RPF women staff help pregnant passenger deliver baby on platform||Ludhiana, June 3 For pregnant Havanti Devi, travelling from Kathua to Chhapra (Bihar) on board 05098 Jammu Tawi-Bhagalpur Festival Special train, women force members of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) turned out to be angels. The woman passenger in coach S-2 of the train, being in advanced stage of pregnancy, developed labour pain as the train chugged in at the Ludhiana railway station in wee hours on Wednesday. The RPF women team, comprising Sub-Inspector Rita Devi along with Constables Dholi Yadav and Priya, deployed as the special team ‘sakhi’ under the ‘suraksha kavach’ campaign, helped the woman alight from the train and sensing emergency, provided a screen of bed sheets around her for delivering the child as the arrival of ambulance was delayed. “We had heard the woman crying in pain during routine checking of coaches and helped her get down on the platform number one. As the labour pangs advanced and child birth seemed imminent, we provided a cover of bed sheets and helped Harvanti Devi deliver a girl child on the railway platform itself,” said a beaming SI Rita Devi. She said the woman also got unconscious for some time during childbirth but all went well by the end. As ambulance took some time in arriving, Constables Dholi and Priya took the mother and child in an auto-rickshaw to Civil Hospital where both of them were found in good condition by the doctors. Divisional Railway Manager of the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railway Rajesh Aggarwal has commended the women force team of the RPF saying they had shown exemplary presence of mind, sense of commitment to duty and consideration towards fellow human beings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rpf-women-staff-help-pregnant-passenger-deliver-baby-on-platform-263178
04-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana daily Covid deaths plummet to single digit, lowest in 48 days||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 3Continuing to show the signs of gradual retreat and plateauing of the impact of the devastating second Covid wave, Ludhiana district’s daily deaths due to the deadly virus have plummeted to single digit, recording the lowest death toll in the last 48 days.Also, the district’s daily case fatality ratio (CFR) has fallen drastically to below 2 per cent and the cumulative CFR has dropped to less than 2.5 per cent.Significantly, the death percentage of Ludhiana, which has made a remarkable turnaround from the worst-hit to the safest district in Punjab, has touched a record low of 2.48 per cent.The daily CFR touched a low of 1.35 per cent on June 1, which was lowest after 1.27 per cent recorded here on May 9. Since then, the 24-hour case fatality ratio has been on a constant rise and had touched the peak of 4.57 per cent on May 26. In the first peak, the district had reported a record high daily CFR of 10.26 per cent on August 2.Similarly, the cumulative CFR has also witnessed a steep decline to reach a low of 2.37 per cent for three consecutive days since June 1. It has dipped from the high of 3.9 per cent on January 1 and the record high of 4.29 per cent during the first peak on September 11.The data compiled by the district administration, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the daily casualties touched the lowest mark of 3 on June 1, which was on a par with as many deaths reported here on April 13. Since then, the daily death count has been on an exponential rise with the 24-hour death toll touching its peak of 30 on two consecutive days — May 10 and 11. This excluded the virus deaths of patients from outside Ludhiana reported in the district.The district has been reporting the single-digit daily death count since May 31 when eight locals lost their lives to Covid. Since then, the death toll continued to remain low for the four consecutive days with the district reporting three Covid deaths on June 1; 5 on June 2; and 6 on June 3.The Covid death percentage in the district also touched a record low of 2.48 per cent on June 2 and 3, which was the lowest so far. It had touched its peak of 5.29 per cent during the first peak on August 17 last year, while this year it has been constantly declining from 3.95 per cent recorded on January 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-daily-covid-deaths-plummet-to-single-digit-lowest-in-48-days-263179
04-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||As Ludhiana MC, GLADA pass buck on street gates, lawyer moves court||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 3A city-based advocate has moved the court as the MC and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) were passing the buck over the issue of closed iron gates in the streets of Urban Estate, Phase I and II, Dugri, here.Advocate Girish Sood, a resident of Urban Vihar, located adjacent to Urban Estate, Phase I, said a number of iron gates on the entrance of public streets had been installed in the areas of Urban Estate allegedly without obtaining any permission from the MC and police. “Due to the installation of the gates, the public face inconvenience as most of the gates remain closed all time,” said Sood.Sood said he had sent a legal notice to the departments concerned to remove the illegal gates erected in the streets of Urban Estate within two months of receiving the notice but nothing was done.The advocate said he had raised the matter with the MC but the Assistant Town Planner (ATP) at Zone D had replied that the building control in Phase I and II of Urban Estate is under GLADA. In the reply, the ATP claimed that the MC B&R branch maintains the roads in these areas but the MC does not look after the building control work there. GLADA is supposed to act on the gates in these areas, the MC’s ATP had further stated in the reply letter sent to the advocate.On the other hand, GLADA had also written to the Municipal Town Planner of MC that GLADA had already handed over the maintenance works related to roads, road berms and parks of Urban Estate, Phase I and II, to the MC. Thus, the MC was supposed to take action on the legal notice regarding the illegal gates in the streets of Urban Estate, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority official had stated in the letter written to the MTP.“As both departments were passing the buck on the issue of illegal gates, I moved the Civil Court. The next hearing in the case will be held in August 2021,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/as-ludhiana-mc-glada-pass-buck-on-street-gates-lawyer-moves-court-263180
