05-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Recovery rate touches record high of 97.53% in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 4In another sign of gradual retreat and plateauing of the impact of devastating second Covid wave, the recovery rate of deadly virus patients touched a record high of 97.53 per cent in Ludhiana district on Friday.Making a turnaround from the worst-hit to the safest district in the state, Ludhiana has been witnessing a major decline in the daily virus cases and deaths as well.The data compiled by the district administration, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the recovery rate touched a record high of 97.53 per cent, while the daily positivity rate touched a record low of 1.42 per cent on Friday.The recovery rate was an indicator of patients recovering from the virus every day in the ratio of those testing positive on the same day.The ratio was on the rise constantly since May 14 when 97.25 per cent Covid patients had recovered. The upward trend continued with 97.26 per cent recovery rate on May 15; 97.27 per cent on May 17; 97.3 per cent on May 18; 97.33 per cent on May 19; 97.35 per cent on May 20; 97.37 per cent on May 21; 97.39 per cent on May 22; 97.41 per cent on May 23; 97.44 per cent on May 24; 97.45 per cent on May 25; 97.46 per cent on May 26 and 27; 97.47 per cent on May 28 and 29; 97.48 per cent on May 30; 97.5 per cent on May 31; 97.51 per cent on June 1; 97.52 per cent on June 2; and touching the all-time high of 97.53 June 3 and 4.The recovery rate ranged between 96.05 per cent and 96.08 per cent from January 1 to 31, while it went up to 96.13 per cent till February 28, 96.37 per cent till March 31, and reached 97.06 per cent on April 30.The recovery of Covid patients picked more pace in May when it reached 97.09 per cent on May 4, and kept rising to 97.11 per cent on May 6; 97.14 per cent on May 7; 97.16 per cent on May 8; 97.18 per cent on May 9, before reaching 97.24 per cent with highest daily jump of 0.06 per cent on May 10 and 11, slightly dipping to 97.21 per cent on May 12, again going up to 97.23 per cent on May 13.With 453 more patients recovering from the dreaded virus on Friday, the cumulative recovery figure reached 79,965, while the cumulative positive cases touched 85,050 in the district.OfficialspeakWe are ensuring best treatment and home isolation facilities to the Covid patients. While critical cases are provided with proper hospitalisation and management, those under home isolation are given Fateh medicine and food kits, besides regular examination and monitoring at their doorstep. — Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/recovery-rate-touches-record-high-of-97-53-in-ludhiana-263681
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||8 die of Covid, 200 test +ve in Ludhiana||As many as 200 persons tested positive for Covid, while eight persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. The total confirmed cases have now reached 85,050 while 2,021 persons have lost their lives so far. There were 3,064 active cases in the district.Those who tested positive included two expectant mothers and an undertrial, while 44 patients are still being traced.3 more succumb to black fungusThree patients suffering from black fungus lost their lives on Friday. Two patients belonged to Ludhiana, while one was from other district. Now, the death count due to black fungus has gone to 12. In addition to this, three more patients of black fungus were found. Two belong to other districts and one to Ludhiana. Now, there are 92 patients undergoing treatment for black fungus.Seven men and one woman died of Covid in the district. Six deceased belonged to rural areas and two were from urban areas. Those who lost their lives were residents of Salem Tabri, Gokul Road, Gosal village, Kartar Nagar, Littar village, Paddi village, Dadahur village and Charr village.A total of 14,070 samples were collected and report of 410 is awaited.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday asked all industries and corporate houses to vaccinate their workforce at the earliest to protect them from Covid-19.Launching an inoculation camp for the below 45 years’ category on the premisesof Hero E-Cycles, Dhnansu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said it is our collective responsibility to save the employees/workers from the onslaught of Covid-19 by administrating vaccine to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-die-of-covid-200-test-ve-in-ludhiana-263685
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Husband beats woman to death at Mangli Tanda village in Meharban||A 60-year-old woman was allegedly beaten to death by her husband at Mangli Tanda village in Meharban.The suspect has been identified as Buland. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Kaur.Were staying separately due to differencesGurdeep Singh, the deceased’s son, told the police that his father, who was a farmer, was staying alone in a room near our house due to some differences with his mother while she was staying with them.Gurdeep Singh, the deceased’s son, told the police that his father, who was a farmer, was staying alone in a room near our house due to some differences with his mother while she was staying with them.“On June 3, my wife called me and said my father was badly beating my mother with a heavy stick. I rushed to the house and found my mother lying in a pool of blood. She was lying unconscious and a blood stained stick was also lying on the spot,” said the deceased’s son.He said his mother was rushed to the CMCH where doctors declared her brought dead. She could not survive due to severe head injuries.Revealing about the cause behind the incident, the deceased’s son said his father had told his mother not to meet any of her siblings and she was also warned that if she would not pay heed to his advice, he would kill her.Yesterday, when she was alone at home, his father brought a heavy stick and brutally killed her.Meharban SHO Simranjit Kaur said the suspect had fled after killing his wife and efforts were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/husband-beats-woman-to-death-at-mangli-tanda-village-in-meharban-263687
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||15-yr-old girl attacked by stray dogs in Ludhiana||Stray dogs attacked a 15-year-old girl at Krishna Nagar near Ghumar Mandi here. The girl was badly bitten on one of her arms and other body parts while she also received injuries on the head and forehead after she fell down as about five stray dogs attacked her.Father of the girl, Vinod Kumar, said: “My daughter Neha, along with her mother, was going to her relative’s house on Thursday morning when around five stray dogs attacked her. She received dog-bite injuries on various parts of her body. When the dogs attacked, my daughter fell down due to which she also received injuries on her head and forehead.”Kumar, who is a factory worker, said: “Two passers-by came to the rescue of my daughter, otherwise the dogs could harm her more. She was bleeding profusely due to bites and the head injury. After getting information, I reached the spot and took my daughter to a nearby hospital wherein I spent about Rs 3,500 for her treatment. She was administered an anti-rabies vaccine while four more vaccines will be given to her in days to come.”He alleged: “A resident of the area generally feeds these dogs due to which a large number of stray dogs gather outside his home where my daughter was attacked. I have informed the ward councillor and also given a complaint to the police in this regard. The government is requested to take steps to protect people from stray dog attacks.”Even after passing more than 24 hours, none of the MC officials contacted the victim or her family.Councillor Gurpreet Gogi said: “I was outside the city but the matter has come to my notice. I will meet the injured girl after returning from Chandigarh tomorrow and take up the matter with the MC authorities.”Meanwhile, a city resident said: “It is the responsibilit of the Municipal Corporation to take required steps for the prevention of dog-bite cases. The Municipal Corporation should pay for the treatment of injured persons who were attacked by stray dogs and compensation should be given to victims.”Municipal Corporation’s senior veterinary officer Harbans Dhalla said, “We will send a team to the area for sterilisation of stray dogs soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-yr-old-girl-attacked-by-stray-dogs-in-ludhiana-263688
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Rain plays havoc with traffic in Ludhiana as roads cave in||After rain lashed the city on Friday morning, it was a harrowing time for the commuters as an Old GT Road stretch near Clock Tower caved in at different points and more than half a dozen vehicles — cars, an auto-rickhaw, jeep and two-wheelers — got stuck there.The storm water drainage project is underway in an unplanned manner near Clock Tower and no barricading was done on the stretch to alert the commuters. The caved-in portion was not visible due to waterlogging on the stretch.Slippery conditions invite mishapsCommuters suffered due to slippery conditions near Canal Bridge on Pakhowal Road and an Ishmeet Singh Road stretch after the rain. The work for the construction of a ROB and two RUBs on Pakhowal Road under the Smart City Mission is under progress.Before starting the project, the MC had not made any traffic diversion plan. The civic body did not even wake up when some persons raised voice over traffic-related problems more than a week ago. Thus, due to MC officials’ negligence, the commuters and shopkeepers faced a lot of trouble today after the rainfall. Long traffic jams were also witnessed there.A shopkeeper said, “The road portion was dug up outside shops for installation of pipes. It was later filled with soil to cover the trench wherein the pipes were laid but after the rain today, the road portion sank causing a huge problem for the commuters and shopkeepers. Muddy conditions increased the woes. Even customers were unable to reach the shops. The work should be conducted in a right manner.”A shopkeeper near Clock Tower, Simranjeet Singh Sherry said, “Some persons also fell down after road portions caved in at different points. Some of them were injured too. The mobile phone of a shopkeeper was damaged when he fell into the caved-in portion outside his shop. Actually, the project was not being carried out in a planned manner. No barricading was done to alert the commuters where the trench was made for the installation of pipes. No efforts were made to manage the traffic. Even no cop was deployed to manage the traffic today when huge traffic jams were witnessed.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had earlier stated that required steps would be taken to resolve the traffic-related problems but nothing was done.A Pakhowal Road stretch from near Canal Bridge up to Hero Bakery Chowk was closed in December due to ongoing ROB and RUBs project. Thus, the traffic was diverted through Ishmeet Singh Road, Krishna Mandir Road and Shastri Nagar Railway crossing.The slippery stretch of Ishmeet Singh Road (from Pakhowal Road towards the Krishna Mandir side) was giving an open invitation to mishaps today. Arvind Sharma, a commuter said, “My scooter slipped on the slippery stretch on Ishmeet Singh Road just along the park. The contractor and officials concerned ignored the safety of the commuters and no arrangement was made for smooth traffic movement before starting the ROB and RUB projects. As monsoon season is near, the MC must take steps to avoid mishaps.”Water accumulated on a portion of Malhar Road wherein the Smart Street Project, which already missed a deadline, is underway. Meanwhile, commuters also faced inconvenience on Ferozepur Road, where the NHAI’s Elevated Road project is underway that too has missed the deadline.Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Commissioner, MC, said strict instructions would be given to the officials concerned to do the needful so that the commuters didn’t face any inconvenience.Waterlogging in various areasRain exposed the Municipal Corporation’s claims of making required arrangements to avoid waterlogging. As the rain lashed the city, waterlogging was witnessed at different locations, including Chaura Bazar, near Clock Tower, old city areas, an underpass near Chand Cinema, Model Town Extension and BRS Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-plays-havoc-with-traffic-in-ludhiana-as-roads-cave-in-263695
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two arrested with heroin, drug money||The Special Task Force (STF) wing of the Punjab Police nabbed two persons and recovered heroin from their possession in separate incidents.In the first case, the STF nabbed Sikandar (45) of Kila Mohalla and recovered 292 gm of heroin from his possession. STF in-charge Harbans Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused was into the notorious trade of drug smuggling. Accordingly, a raid was conducted and he was nabbed from outside his house. The accused also had a notorious past as he was already facing six cases of smugging.In another incident, the STF nabbed Vijay Kumar (35) of Ramesh Nagar, Tibba road, and recovered 223 gm of heroin, Rs 38,000 drug money and a motorcycle. He was nabbed when he was on the way to deliver a consignment of heroin to his clients. Vijay was also a drug addict and he started drug smuggling during the lockdown period and was earning a lot of money from it.Harbans said the police remand of both smugglers would be sought from court for the detailed interrogation of the accused so that the entire supply line could be busted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-with-heroin-drug-money-263697
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for raping woman||The Khanna City police have registered a rape case against a man. The man faced charges as he had sexually abused a woman on the promise of marrying her while his parents faced charges for hatching a criminal conspiracy.They have been identified as Rishab Puri, a resident of Navi Abadi Khanna, his father Rakesh Puri and his mother.The complainant, a resident of the Samrala road area, Khanna, said she had developed a friendship with Rishab about 18 months ago. Later, he developed a physical relationship with her on the pretext of marriage. Whenever she ask him for marriage, he used to make excuses.“Recently, he told his parents about our relationship and they also expressed interest in the same.Even after passing of a few months, Rishab and his parents did not take any initiative regarding the marriage due to which I lodged a complaint with the police. Later, they reached a compromise at the police station and assured that the marriage will be solemnised in minimum possible time but to no avail,” the victim alleged.Without solemnising marriage, he had also kept her at his home for two months and continued physical relationship with her. Later, he again refused to marry her and his parents also failed to fulfil their promise, the woman alleged.Investigating officer Inspector Parveen Sharma said a case of rape under Section 376 of the IPC was registered against Rishabh and his parents were also booked for criminal conspiracy.The police said raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-raping-woman-263698
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Illegal colonies continue to proliferate unabated in Ludhiana||Provisions made under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA) have apparently been tossed out of the window and rules governing the development of residential, commercial and industrial colonies are being violated with impunity as more and more illegal colonies keep coming up all around the city.Proliferation of illegal colonies is a clear pointer to the fact that Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has not been taking any action against developers and their unlicensed colonies.At least half a dozen colonies and warehouse buildings were under various stages of construction on farm lands on the stretch of Gill village to Alamgir gurdwara, both within city limits. Outside the lands, land owners had raised structures and carried out internal development works in the colonies without obtaining any license or permission for land use.Similar developments were taking place on Alamgir-Sarinh road, Jarkhar road and Sarinh-Ghawaddi road, where developers have advertised their colonies. Industrial buildings are also being raised on agricultural land on the main road from Sarinh to Dehlon.In yet another case of development of illegal colonies, a city resident and social activist, Rachpal Singh, has lodged a complaint with the Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development, Punjab, with copies to GLADA’s chief administrator regarding development of an industrial hub colony on Jaspal Bangar road without any approval by competent authority or obtaining change of land use (CLU).He said in the complaint that slack enforcement by field staff of GLADA had given rise to such a situation and that unscrupulous developers were taking up development works in unlicensed and illegal colonies, which was leading to unplanned and haphazard growth all around the city.The complainant demanded that enforcement mechanism of GLADA be ramped up and the field staff be made accountable for proliferation of illegal colonies all across the city.GLADA officials, however, claimed that action as per law was being taken against development of illegal colonies. “At several places, structures have been demolished in illegal colonies and in some cases, FIRs have also been lodged against erring developers,” said the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-colonies-continue-to-proliferate-unabated-in-ludhiana-263699
05-06-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Ludhiana: Building bylaws, NHAI norms being violated with impunity||In a gross violation of building bylaws and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) guidelines, an under-construction building is being raised without an approved building plan from the Municipal Corporation (MC) and an NOC from the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA). The building reportedly belongs to a senior government official.Balwinder Singh Sekhon, a former DSP, had filed a complaint with Union Minister Nitin Gadkari alleging that the NHAI officials had granted possession of government land to the owner of the under-construction hotel building along Sidhwan Canal which was proposed to be used as parking space by the builder.“Norms have been bent to divert the RCC (box) drain and drain has been covered at zero level height to provide access to the private property from carriageway. The statutory requirement of construction of a separating wall has been done away with. The building is being raised in violation of building bylaws without approval from the MC and an NOC from the GLADA,” said the complainant.While officials concerned of the MC claimed that the violations were compounded and change of land use (CLU) charges were also recovered from the builder, sources in the NHAI corroborated the allegations levelled in the complaint.After the inspection of the site by senior NHAI officials an official memo was written to the construction agency of Ladhowal Bypass Highway-Eastern Infra (on April 9, 2021), in which it was pointed that at several locations of project site footpath-cum-drain had been flushed with road levels.“Direct access to the private properties has been made available which are having no authorised permission. It is a clear violation of concession agreement and the ministry guidelines,” the memo said.The concessionaire was also directed to rectify the footpath-cum-drain as per approved drawing and submit compliance report at the earliest. However, as things stood now, these directions were ignored by the construction agency after resistance reportedly put up by the politically-connected builder.The complainant has sought a probe into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-building-bylaws-nhai-norms-being-violated-with-impunity-263700
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||PAU union chief’s signature forged, complaint filed||The executive council of the PAU Employees’ Union today filed a complaint with the Ludhiana Police Commissioner against an unknown person for impersonating as Baldev Singh Walia, president of the union, and sending a signed letter to the Finance Department of the state.Walia said an unknown person had forged his signature on a letter to the Principal Secretary, Punjab, in which he/she had written that the clerks and stenotypists appointed after January 1, 2015, were being paid a salary of Rs 12,277 per month as per the Labour/DC rates. “The salary mentioned in the letter is wrong. Clerks and stenotypists are paid less than the mentioned amount,” he added.“The fact is that the PAU Employees’ Union has been continuously demanding that clerks and stenotypists appointed at the PAU should be paid Rs 12,277 monthly as per the directions of the state Labour Department,” he said.Walia added that the union had lodged a complaint with the Commissioner of Police against the impostor for forging his signature on the letter and demanded that an immediate action be taken in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-union-chiefs-signature-forged-complaint-filed-263702
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Guru Angad vet varsity establishes research centres, multi-specialty hospital||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), along with the support of the state government, has extended specialised veterinary services through the establishment of Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital, and regional research and training centres (MSVH&RRTC) at various locations in the State.University Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh today attended the bhoomi pujan ceremony to begin construction of the first phase of the hospital and the research and training centres at Sappanwali village.This is a first-of-its-kind initiative has been taken by the university at the villages in Sappanwali, Abohar and Fazilka. The initiative will offer a dedicated space for specific specialised services, diagnostic facility, surgical suites and a spectrum of technologies to assist clinicians in the diagnosis and treatment of complex disease conditions.The ceremony was also attended by university DSW-cum-Estate Dr Satyavan Rampal, university officials, Panchayat members and officers from the district Animal Husbandry Department.The university Vice-Chancellor highlighted the significance of the centre for addressing most of livestock problems from Fazilka district and adjoining borders that require specialised services. The centre also envisages the promotion of area-specific need-based research on production of livestock for strategic promotion and socio-economic benefits to farmers, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guru-angad-vet-varsity-establishes-research-centres-multi-specialty-hospital-263703
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||STF chief inspects Ludhiana's Buddha  Nullah rejuvenation project||The chairman of the STF for Buddha Nullah, Satguru Udhay Singh, inspected the ongoing work under the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project and installation of sewer lines at STP Jamalpur.He also gave directions to the authorities to take necessary steps to curb dumping of dairy waste into the nullah.A committee headed by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had earlier recommended shifting of the dairies along the nullah to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village located outside Municipal Corporation’s limit but the villagers had refused to give the village land for setting up dairies there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stf-chief-inspects-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-rejuvenation-project-263705
05-06-2021||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh||Plantation drive held||Students and faculty of SRM Convent School, Pohir, today planted saplings on school campus to observe World Environment Day.The members of the faculty, led by chairman Jawahar Mittal, vowed to plant more trees, avoid use of plastic bags and follow the mantra of ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/plantation-drive-held-263707
05-06-2021||Lovleen BainsSahnewal||Action sought against pvt colleges for violating norms||Members of The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU) and the Association of Unaided College Teachers (AUCT) have alleged that despite the clear-cut instructions from the government, some of the private colleges are forcing teachers to come to colleges.The unions have demanded an inquiry by the local administration as well as the Department of Higher Education into the issue.They claimed that the Secretary, Higher Education, vide letter no. HED-EDU10MISC/51/2021-4edu/1335-1337 dated 19.05.2021, had directed all colleges of the state to let their teaching staff conduct class online from home and to allow only 50 per cent of their office staff to come to colleges on rotation basis.Vinay Sophat, president, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union, who has written to the higher authorities in this regard, rued, “Despite clear orders, some colleges affiliated to Panjab University have been putting the lives of teaching and non-teaching staff in danger by violating the orders. The management of these colleges has made it mandatory for all teaching and non-teaching staff to remain present in the college. It can be verified by a surprise visit to the college to check the violations of the above said orders. The staff attendance can be verified from the college records and can be checked in the CCTV cameras installed in the college. Necessary action should be taken against such erring institutions under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.”Similarly, the AUCT too complained that a large number of the colleges are forcing the teachers to travel to the campus. Harjeet Singh, general secretary, AUCT, referred to a college in Hoshiarpur that has issued an order that 15 out of a total 34 regular teachers should be present in the college every day. He said in a letter dated 20.5.2021, even Panjab University, Chandigarh, has asked the colleges to follow the directions of the Secretary, Higher Education .Prof Praneet Kaur, president, AUCT, said, “Strict actions should be taken against such colleges who endanger the lives of teachers,” she said.“There is no difference in teaching on campus or off campus as classes have to be taken online. The instructions for teachers to work from home are clear cut and need no further clarification. However, some colleges are ignoring the directions intentionally. Staff is called to the college citing different reasons,” said a teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/action-sought-against-pvt-colleges-for-violating-norms-263708
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on environmental conservation||A weekly webinar on “Environmental conservation” was jointly organised by the Department of Extension Education and Communication Centre of the university under the aegis of the directorate of Extension Education. Faculty members and students participated in the webinar.The keynote speaker for the day was Padam Shri awardee Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal. He discussed the value of natural resources and stressed upon increasing dependency on bottled water and cylindered oxygen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-environmental-conservation-263710
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||World bicycle Day observed||Arya CollegeStudents of Arya College celebrated World Bicycle Day with great vigour and enthusiasm. To mark the day, students sent videos of themselves and their friends riding their bicycles. Many students also carried posters to spread the message of cycling regularly for the sake of the environment and living a healthy life.Webinar on digital marketingThe research and development cell Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised a webinar on “Digital marketing strategies for start-ups in India”. Dr Satinder Kumar, Assistant Professor, Marketing School of Management Studies, Punjabi University, Patiala, was the keynote speaker for the day. The college authorities said the objective of the webinar was to carefully select effective digital marketing strategies for start-ups that can help enhance productivity and boost business growth.Extension lecture on biz contractsSri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management organised an extension lecture for the students of BCom and BBA Semester-II on “Business contracts and Intellectual Property Rights”. Advocate Sirish Tamvada was the resource person for the session.Expert Talk on customer relationshipThe Postgraduate Department of Commerce of Khalsa College for Women organised an expert talk on “Customer retention and relationship strategies”. Principal Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of Dr Priyaka Khanna, head of the department, for conducting the event. Meanwhile, the counselling cell and the student council of the college organised a one-month community health drive to help spread awareness about psychological and physical consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. TNSVaccination camp organisedKamla Lohtia SD College, in collaboration with Urban Primary Health Centre, organised a free Covid-19 vaccination camp for people in the age group of above 45. The camp was inaugurated by Sunil Aggarwal, acting president of the college managing committee. TNSAnjali shines with 93.5% in BSc resultsStudents of Arya College, Civil Lines, have brought laurels to the college by performing excellently in BSc examinations, results of which were declared by Panjab University, Chandigarh. Anjali Bisht bagged the first rank in the college with 93.5 per cent. Shubam Sharma and Suraj Kumar shared the second position with 92.8 per cent, followed by Neeraj with 92.4 per cent. In medical stream, Shweta and Rajwinder Singh shared the first position with 87.7 per cent, followed by Ravi Singh with 87.2 per cent and Ezekiel J Peter with 86.8 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-bicycle-day-observed-263714
05-06-2021||Ludhiana||Miscreants fire in the air, booked||29-year-old Man commits suicideLudhiana: A 29-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by cutting his wrist at his house in Fatehganj Mohalla on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Harvinder Singh. He got married about one-and-a-half year ago. He used to do repair works of ACs. Police Division-III SHO Madhu Bala said the deceased was alone at home during the incident. Depression was said to be the cause behind the extreme step. The SHO said no suicide note was recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/miscreants-fire-in-the-air-booked-263715
