06-06-2021||Ludhiana||20 booked in firing incident||In a firing incident that reported in Moti Nagar here on the night of June 4, the police probe found that kingpin of two gangs had challenged each other. A few of the gangsters were identified. The kingpin of the two groups, Shubham Mota and Puneet Bains, are lodged in a jail and they had directed their gang members to fix a time to check the power of their gangs. No one suffered any bullet injury as the they fired in the air only. They were captured in the CCTV camera footage after which the police identified them. A case has been registered against the gang members, Karam Walia, Raja Bajan, Vistuket, Mani, Harsh Wardan and 15 unknown persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-booked-in-firing-incident-263982
06-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Trader faces trouble due to Smart Street project||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 5The Smart Street project on Malhar Road has already missed its deadline while traders have been raising questions over the project design again. Now, a store owner is facing inconveniences due to the ongoing project as he claimed that they are unable to park vehicles in the designated parking area of the store after a wide footpath has been constructed between the store and the road.Ram Gupta, the owner of a showroom on Malhar Road, said: “As per rules, space was left for parking of vehicles in front of our store building. Now, a footpath of about 6 inches (height) has been constructed outside the store while a structure for the installation of a transformer has been constructed on another side of the building. Now, we are unable to park vehicles in the parking space. No space has been left for the passage of vehicles to the designated parking area.”He said: “I don’t understand how the project was designed. Many other shopkeepers are also not satisfied with the ongoing project. I demand from Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the MC officials concerned to take necessary steps to resolve the problem at the earliest.”Members of the Malhar Road Shopkeepers Association had earlier also raised questions over the project design. They had demanded from the authorities to rectify the project design. A shopkeeper said: “Malhar Road was once known as one of the widest roads but now, its width has been reduced. Some other shopkeepers had raised the issue regarding parking of vehicles but to no avail. Footpaths being constructed are too wide.”Notably, the civic body authorities had recently inspected the ongoing construction work on Malhar Road and found some other flaws there. MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had also issued show-cause notices to three officials of B&R and O&M branches of the civic body.Meanwhile, MC Superintending Engineer, Rahul Gagneja could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trader-faces-trouble-due-to-smart-street-project-263985
06-06-2021||---||5 dead, 201 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 5As many as 201 persons tested positive for Covid, while five persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. Total confirmed positive cases have now reached 85,251, while 2,026 have lost their lives since March 2020.Those who tested positive include two undertrials and one pre-operative case, while tracing of 35 patients is still in process.Four men and a woman, belonging to Khanna, Haibowal Kalan, Mall Road, Millergunj and Rishi Nagar, died of Covid.The active cases in the district were 2,827. As many as 97 Covid patients were admitted to government hospitals and 296 to private hospitals. Forty patients were on ventilator support.Meanwhile, giving an overwhelming response to the appeal of Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, the Ludhiana Jewellers Association on Saturday sponsored vaccine for its members, workers and consumers and held a vaccination camp at the local Sutlej Club.Inaugurating the inoculation camp for persons aged between 18 and 44 years, MLA Surinder Dawar and Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma along with Additional Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar appreciated the jewellers’ association and said this would set an example for other trade bodies and individuals to donate vaccine for the needy persons in this age bracket.They also planted a sapling in the club to observe World Environment Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-dead-201-test-positive-in-ludhiana-263986
06-06-2021||---||Two cops among 4 booked for abetting man’s suicide||Ludhiana, June 5 The Machhiwara Sahib police booked an inspector, a woman constable and two others for allegedly abetting the suicide of a man. The deceased had jumped into the canal after they threatened him and his family of dire consequences. The suspects have been identified as inspector Davinder Singh of Khanna, woman constable Rajinder Kaur of Garhi Tarkhana village, Rajinder’s uncle Varinder Singh and his son Lakhi of Kartar Nagar, Khanna. The complainant in the case, Harpreet Singh, of Garhi Tarkhana village,  near Khanna, told the police that one of the accused was his wife, constable Rajinder Kaur. She had an affair with inspector Davinder due to which there was tension between him and his wife. Harpreet said he got married with Rajinder in October last year and she was working with the police control room at Khanna. After our marriage, his wife was also not on good terms with his mother Paramjit Kaur and brother Rajpal and she was forcing him to leave his parents’ house and stay with her at the police quarters. “Since my wife had an extramarital affair with inspector Davinder, who was also working at the police control room, whenever I told her to stay away from the inspector, he used to create trouble at our home. She even used to call him to home whenever I indulged in any argument with her and the policeman always used to support my wife,” alleged the complainant. “On May 31, after I had some arguments with my wife, she called Davinder to home, who while supporting my wife threatened me, my mother and brother of dire consequences and warned all of us not to trouble Rajinder at home. He even insulted my mother and threw her ‘duppata’ away, “ he alleged. Afterwards, the deceased’s brother, Rajpal Singh (23), went under depression, fearing that the inspector and relative of Rajinder may bring more trouble in their lives due to which he went to the canal near Garhi on his bike. After parking the bike there, he jumped into the canal and committed suicide. Investigating officer ASI Vipan Kumar said the suspects were at large in the case and raids were being conducted at their suspected whereabouts to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-cops-among-4-booked-for-abetting-mans-suicide-263987
06-06-2021||Ludhiana||Gang of snatchers busted, four held||The Salem Tabri police busted a gang of snatchers and arrested four of its members. Station House Officer (SHO) Gopal Krishan said on May 26, Jatin Verma of SBS Nagar, Salem Tabri, approached the police station and lodged a complaint that he was heading towards the Jalandhar bypass on his scooter when three armed persons stopped him on the way. They were carrying sharp weapons. They snatched his wallet containing cash and other important documents. The SHO said later, ASI Jinder Lal Sidhu led the probe in the case and acting on a tip-off, the police laid a naka on the Jassian road near the Pepsi ground where three persons riding a scooter were arrested. They were identified as Pawan Kumar Mota (32) of Ashok Nagar, Sahil Nahar Golu (25) of New Ashok Nagar and Shivam (20) of Ashok Nagar. Three mobile phones, a sharp weapon and Rs 200 recovered from the trio. Later during questioning, the accused admitted that after snatching mobile phones, they used to sell the same to Sahil Kumar (50), a resident of the Jalandhar bypass area, at a meagre price of Rs 500 only. The police also rounded up Sahil and three more mobile phones, which the gang had sold to him, were also recovered. The SHO said Pawan had a notorious past as six cases of drug snatching, drug smuggling and cheating were already registered against him in the past. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-four-held-263988
06-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Active cases lowest in 70 days in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 5Today the active Covid cases have recorded the lowest count in 70 days in Ludhiana district, giving a much-needed sigh of relief and showing the signs of gradual retreat besides plateauing of the impact of the devastating second Covid wave.The count of active virus patients dropped considerably to 2,827 on June 5, which was lowest after March 27 when the district had logged 2,776 active cases.Since then, the active cases were on a constant high and had touched a record high of 13,217 on May 16. This was the highest number of active cases registered in any district of Punjab so far.The increasing trend of active cases was evident from the fact that the figure kept rising with each passing day for the past two months.From 2,776 on March 27, the active cases went up to 2,853 on March 28; 2,889 on March 29; 2,858 on March 30; 2,937 on March 31 and April 1; 2,943 on April 2; 2,918 on April 3; 2,834 on April 4; 2,835 on April 5; 2,876 on April 6; 2,987 on April 7; 3,147 on April 8; 3,293 on April 9; 3,298 on April 10; 3,434 on April 11; 3,381 on April 12; 3,391 on April 13; 3,501 on April 14; 3,756 on April 15; 3,817 on April 16; 4,277 on April 17; 4,444 on April 18; 4,704 on April 19; 5,029 on April 20; 5,292 April on 21; 5,829 on April 22; 6,252 on April 23; 6,620 on April 24; 7,117 on April 25; 7,112 on April 26; 7,462 on April 27; 7,853 on April 28; 8,012 on April 29; and 7,790 on April 30.The month of May played mayhem with the count of active virus patients breaking all previous records and touching a new high. From 8,839 on May 1, the figure kept rising to 9,870 on May 2; 10,309 on May 3; 10,316 on May 4; 10,778 on May 5; 11,022 on May 6; 11,212 on May 7; 11,368 on May 8; 12,047 on May 9; 11,194 on May 10; 11,480 on May 11; 12,278 on May 12; 12,266 on May 13; 12,586 on May 14; 12,832 on May 15; and reached a record high of 13,217 on May 16.However, the reverse trend of decline in the active cases started from May 17 when 12,837 active patients were logged in the district and it started receding to 12,371 on May 18; 11,373 on May 19; 10,687 on May 20; 9,988 on May 21; 9,355 on May 22; 8,617 on May 23; 7,804 on May 24; 7,133 on May 25; 6,629 on May 26; 6,189 on May 27; 5,614 on May 28; 5,226 on May 29; 4,740 on May 30; and reached 4,276 on May 31.The month of June started from 3,604 active cases on the first day, further dropping to 3,604 on June 2; 3,325 on June 3; 3,064 on June 4 and 2,827 on June 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/active-cases-lowest-in-70-days-in-ludhiana-district-263989
06-06-2021||---||Song to motivate cops amid Covid||Ludhiana, June 5 To motivate the police force to encourage people to follow the Covid norms and to show the hard work being done by the police during the pandemic, the Ludhiana police have launched a song, ‘Honsla’. The video song was produced by FICCI FLO as a tribute to the Punjab Police for helping and supporting residents during these tough times. The song depicts police personnel doing their Covid-related duties and other work at oxygen plants, hospitals, on roads. The police, including the city top cop, are also seen encouraging the force and residents to stay bold in the crisis to win the battle together against Covid. The song has also highlighted ‘behind-the-scene’ works being initiated by the police force and the way they are discharging their day and night duties amid Covid. Reader to Police Commissioner Suresh Kumar was also shown cycling in police uniform in the video to show that how police personnel are staying fit to give their more than 100 per cent to win the fight against the virus. The police have also uploaded the video song on its official Facebook page and Twitter handle, which is being liked by a large number of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/song-to-motivate-cops-amid-covid-263990
06-06-2021||---||Farmers burn copies of agriculture laws outside BJP leaders’ residences||Ludhiana, June 5While observing the day of the promulgation of the farm ordinances last year as ‘Sampoorna kranti diwas’ as per the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers staged a protest and burnt copies of the Centre’s three farm laws outside the residence of former state chief of the BJP Prof Rajinder Bhandari here today.The farmers associated with the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) gathered near MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road. Later, they started a march on tractors and other vehicles towards the residence of Bhandari. They raised slogans against the BJP-led Central Government, demanding repealing of the farm laws.The members of the union criticised the Union Government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They accused the Centre of ignoring the voice of farmers and labourers and blamed it for destroying the farming sector by benefiting some big corporates.Gurpreet Singh of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said: “We burned copies of the three black laws which are against farmers and labouers. The Modiled Central Government should repeal the farm laws at the earliest. The farmers’ movement against the farm laws has become a ‘jan andolan’. We will keep fighting for our rights. If these laws are not repealed, we will intensify the agitation.”During the protest, police personnel were also deployed.Meanwhile, a group of farmers said: “We staged a dharna outside the residence of the BJP leader at Rishi Nagar here to express our protest against the farm laws.Protests are also being staged at various other locations in the country today. The farmers have been staging protests on the Delhi borders since November but the Centre has failed to pay heed to their demands so far. Centre’s policies are anti-people and the government just wants to benefit some big corporates. We are staging a protest in a peaceful and democratic manner to awaken the Central Government.”Kisan morcha holds protestMandi Ahmedgarh: The Sanyukat Kisan Morcha (SKM) today held protests in front of residences and establishments belonging to BJP workers and leaders across the town. They also burnt copies of the three farm laws.The police remained on toes to take charge in case the protest took an ugly turn. However, no untoward incident was reported.Meanwhile, the Sanyukat Kisan Morchaactivists continued to protest at Lehra toll plaza on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road and dry port at Kilaraipur on the Dehlon-Pakhowal road.Earlier, addressing a rally at the grain market, speakers alleged that the Union Government had paid no heed to the demands of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-burn-copies-of-agriculture-laws-outside-bjp-leaders-residences-263991
06-06-2021||---||Residents vow to protect environment, plant trees||Ludhiana, June 5World Environment Day holds much greater significance in today’s times when there is a pandemic around. Factors such as rise in industrial pollution, increasing number of vehicles on roads, deforestation, excessive deforestation and other factors have contributed significantly in environmental degradation, which has resulted in havoc in the life of humans and animals.Many city residents are contributing in their capacity to keep the environment around them healthy and disease-free.Dr Monika Singla, Associate Professor of neurology at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), says though she has been environment friendly most her life but ever since the pandemic has struck the country, she has become much more focused on growing plants inside and outside her home. “This activity creates a lot of happiness and satisfaction when there is nothing much to do in an otherwise normal routine,” says Dr Monika Singla.Another employee of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Nisha Chandel, who works in the billing department, is an avid gardener and has grown many plants and flowers to beautify her surroundings. She said she always encouraged her friends and colleagues to find time for this environment-friendly activity.“An interest in gardening and working with plants is a way to save the Earth and serve for the better interest of the community. Ever since the city has been under a lockdown, my friends have also started taking keen interest in improving the environment and make life better for everyone,” she said.In the pandemic times now when there are no regular schools, parents are encouraging their children to take interest in gardening and plantation activities.An eight-year old Devansh, student of BCM School, Shastri Nagar, has recently developed a keen interest in gardening with his mother, Deepak Sharma. Deepak says she spares equal time for teaching his son his school subjects and activities pertaining to plantation and gardening.Same is the case with two-year-old Anaisha, who enjoys watering plants at her home. Her parents say they have encouraged the habit of watering plants at this tender age so that she develops a liking for maintaining a safe and healthy environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-vow-to-protect-environment-plant-trees-263992
06-06-2021||---||Civil Surgeon plants saplings, urges staff to shun plastic use||Ludhiana, June 5 World Environment Day was celebrated with fervour today at the Civil Surgeon Office. The theme for this year’s celebration was “Ecosystem restoration”, which focuses on preventing, halting and reversing the damage caused by human activities in forests, mountains and oceans. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill planted saplings in the office and distributed jute and cloth bags among the employees. She urged the employees to shun the use of plastic bags for a healthy environment and Earth. The day was also celebrated at Mohandai Oswal Hospital, where a total of 50 saplings were distributed among discharged and OPD patients. Dr Sanjeev K. Uppal, chief executive of the hospital, appealed to residents to plant at least one sapling on the day and nurture till. “Planting trees add oxygen to our atmosphere and this helps in improving the health of the Earth and its inhabitants,” he said. Doctors at Suman hospital also distributed saplings to their patients. IVF specialist Dr Vidhu Modgil said thrust must be given to biodiversity conservation and afforestation was the only solution to resolve issues relating to the environment. Dr Ramesh Super Speciality Eye and Laser Centre also celebrated the day. Dr Ramesh talked about restoration of the ecosystem by planting more trees in cities and towns. Cyclists plant saplings Cycle enthusiasts in the city planted saplings around Issewal in the district to mark World Environment Day. We will make sure that the saplings planted today survive,” said Ranjodh Singh, a cyclist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civil-surgeon-plants-saplings-urges-staff-to-shun-plastic-use-263993
06-06-2021||---||Pact on emissions trading inked||Ludhiana, June 5 In a bid to address the problem of growing industrial air pollution in Punjab, the Departments of Industries and Commerce and Science, Technology & Environment announced partnership with the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) South Asia and the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC India) to launch the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS).  As a first step in the partnership, the government and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) would launch an ETS to regulate emissions from 200 dyeing industries in Ludhiana besides reducing particulate and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the state. Principal Secretary Industries and Commerce Alok Shekhar said, “The government is keen to combat environmental pollution through regulation that promises a win-win situation of cleaner production, coupled with lower compliance costs for industries.”   In his address, prof Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman Distinguished Service Professor in Economics, Director of EPICand Co-Chair of Energy, Environment and Climate Change of J-PAL said, “Pollution reductions can be delivered - the world’s first ETS for particulate pollution in Gujarat has already shown this. Punjab is now becoming the second Indian state to adopt this pioneering vision. For various other Indian cities battling polluted air and expensive regulations, ETS has the potential to improve air quality and health, reduce the regulatory burden on industries, and decrease government enforcement expenditures.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pact-on-emissions-trading-inked-263994
06-06-2021||Ludhiana||CJM kicks off plantation drive at jail complex||To observe World Environment Day, the CJM-cum-District Legal Services Authority Secretary, PS Kaleka, today launched a plantation drive to make the Ludhiana Central Jail campus green. Initiating the drive, the CJM laid emphasis on the need for planting more trees to enhance green cover in the district. He added that keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic, it was imperative that we respect nature and plant more trees to keep our Earth green. As many as 1,000 saplings will be planted in June, which will be maintained properly by the inmates and undertrials under the supervision of jail and forest officials. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cjm-kicks-off-plantation-drive-at-jail-complex-263995
06-06-2021||---||Revamped Mission Tandrust aims to cut pollution: DC||Ludhiana, June 5 To ensure good health of residents across the district and a pollution-free environment for protecting nature, revamped Mission Tandrust was launched today on the occasion of World Environment Day. Under the revamped Mission Tandrust, initiatives would be taken by several departments with a focused and integrated approach towards creating a ‘tandarust’ Punjab, said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. The ceremony was also attended by MLA Surinder Dawar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/revamped-mission-tandrust-aims-to-cut-pollution-dc-263996
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Wife, paramour get life term for killing man||Ludhiana, June 5 “Illicit relationships are a perfect mix for disaster. Such relations turn a family system into hell. The biggest weapon that destroys a family is cheating. The case in hand is a perfect example of this, where a wife was found guilty of murdering her own husband by conspiring with her paramour  to save her illicit relationship,” observed a local court while deciding a murder case.  The Court of Additional Sessions Judge, Jagdeep Singh Marok, made these observations while sentencing life imprisonment to Sangeeta Devi (37), a mother of five children,  and her paramour Shiamji Paswan (38), both residents of New Durga Colony, Dhandari Khurd, Ludhiana, for committing the murder of Mukesh Kumar (45), Sangeeta’s husband, to save their illicit relations. The duo were also ordered to pay a fine of Rs25,000 each.  Additional Public Prosecutor Neelam Pathak said the prosecution examined 11 witnesses to prove the guilt of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wife-paramour-get-life-term-for-killing-man-263997
06-06-2021||---||Police conduct flag march to enforce weekend lockdown||Ludhiana, June 5 The Ludhiana police today conducted a flag march to check the law-and-order situation during the weekend lockdown in city. Additional DCP 4 Rupinder Kaur Sran, along with ACP (East) Davinder Chaudhary, SHOs and a force of various police stations, conducted a flag march covering Moti Nagar, Tibba, Focal Point and Chandigarh Road. The ADCP said a foot march was also conducted in certain areas of the police zone to ensure law-and-order situation and to implement curfew norms. People were also made aware about weekend lockdown norms and were urged to stay home, the ADCP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-conduct-flag-march-to-enforce-weekend-lockdown-263998
06-06-2021||Ludhiana||Vet varsity official gets fellowship||Dr Jasbir Singh Bedi, director, Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), has been awarded with the fellowship the of Indian Association of Veterinary Public Health Specialist (IAVPHS) for his contribution in the field of veterinary public health and epidemiology. Dr Bedi started his career as Assistant Professor at Punjab Agricultural University in 2004. He has been honoured with prestigious Commonwealth scholarship for MSc degree from the University of London and for PhD from University of Sussex, UK. Dr Bedi has handled research projects funded by the Department of Biotechnology, the University Grants Commission, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Gates Foundation among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vet-varsity-official-gets-fellowship-263999
06-06-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||World Environment Day observed||Government College of ScienceJagraon: The Postgraduate Department of Botany of Sanmati Government College of Science Education and Research organised poster-making and speech competitions on the theme of environment to observe World Environment day. College director Dr Sukhwinder Kaur motivated students to spread awareness about the importance of conserving the environment.DD Jain CollegeLudhiana: The NSS unit of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women organised a plantation drive to promote practices that help in conserving the environment. As many as 25 NSS volunteers took part in the drive. Principal Dr Sarita Bahl said the idea behind celebrating the day was to highlight the importance of environment and to remind people that nature should not be taken for granted. TNSSri Aurobindo CollegeThe NSS volunteers of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management used digital platform to raise awareness about protecting the environment on the occasion of World Environment Day. Students made a video showing the importance of protecting the environment and how we can restore our ecosystem. TNSAtam Vallabh Jain CollegeShree Atam Vallabh Jain College celebrated World Environment Day by organising a tree plantation drive on the campus. Principal Dr Sandeep Kumar and president of the college managing committee Ashok Jain told students the importance of planting trees and how it was the responsibility of the younger generation to adopt a lifestyle that does not harm the environment. TNSSDP College for WomenWorld Environment Day was celebrated by the NSS Department of SDP College for Women. The NSS officers, along with other volunteers, planted saplings in Noorwala village and nearby places. Around 500 plants were distributed among villagers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-environment-day-observed-264003
