07-06-2021||Ludhiana||Students observe environment day||HVM Convent Sr Sec SchoolWorld Environment Day was celebrated virtually at HVM Convent Senior Secondary School, Karamsar Colony. Students were sensitised about current environmental issues and global challenges at the grassroot level by participating in activities such as poster-making and best-out-of-waste competitions, planting saplings and watering plants. Principal Sunita Kumari encouraged students to take a pledge to plant at least one tree on their birthday. She told the students the importance of rethinking our relationship with nature, environment, ecosystem and biodiversity and how to work towards its restoration. TNSDAV Public School, BRS NagarDAV Public School, BRS Nagar, celebrated World Environment Day virtually with zeal and enthusiasm. The objective of the celebrations was to spread awareness about the need to protect the environment. Rohit Mehra, known as the Green Man of India, was the keynote speaker on this occasion. In his address to students, parents and teachers, Mehra highlighted the plight of the environment caused by pollution and the need for conservation and protection for the current and future generations. He also spoke on the need to protect biodiversity. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-observe-environment-day-264788
07-06-2021||Ludhiana||World environment day observed||College of fisheries, GADVASUTo makr World Environment Day, College of Fisheries organised a plantation drive to commemorate environment’s unlimited services to the mankind. The theme of the drive was ‘Ecosystem restoration’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-environment-day-observed-264787
07-06-2021||Govt should take help of NGOs||Awareness in rural areas crucial to bust myths||Residents , especially rural citizens, have expressed frustration at some administrative policies regarding the innoculation drive. In my opinion, it is not the fault of villagers but the lack of spread of awarness by the administration regarding the benefits of getting vaccinated. People in rural areas needed to aware properly with given detailed information about the gravity of the pandemic. Local representatives should have accompanied health workers during the collection of Covid samples and vaccination drives to ensure that health workers were not harassed.Amarpreet KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWith the number of daily cases, deaths and even active patients coming down drastically, Ludhiana district continues to remain under tight restrictions of a daily 12-hour curfew and complete weekend lockdown. Should the restrictions be eased or be continued to avert the much-anticipated third Covid wave? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comGive police protection to healthcare workersThe news of health workers getting attacked during Covid sample collection from villages and surrounding areas was extremely disturbing. The attack on frontline workers is completely unjust. The administration must depute the heads of villages for spreading awareness about the pandemic and how to deal with it. Health workers must have been given some police force so that such incident could be prevented. Special campaigns must also be organised to tell people how testing is helpful is curbing the spread of the virus. Residents must also come forward and lend their support by assisting health workers and local government.Farzana KhanQuacks spreading misinformationHealthcare workers have continued to serve people with great courage during the Covid-19 pandemic. Many have even lost their lives to the virus and the news of attack on these frontline warriors by misguided elements is deplorable. Many misconceptions are being propagated by quacks regarding the efficacy of the allopathic medicine system. These quacks, having little knowledge of the subject, have misguided villagers about the pandemic. To make sure that healthcare workers are not attacked, NGOs and other social outfits should come forward and help the government spread awareness about the virus in rural areas and educate them about the benefits of Covid testing and getting vaccinated.Raghbir SembhiHolding awareness sessions need of the hourAlthough there has been a significant drop in Covid-19 cases, prevention is still better than cure. People who do not pay heed to Covid-19 guidelines and violate them must be penalised, be it villagers or people living in urban areas. The attack on healthcare workers in rural areas is proof that awareness about the virus has not reached the interior areas. The administration can team up with sarpanches of villages and social outfits of the region to make villagers aware about the seriousness of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is also necessary that villagers are told the importance of getting vaccinated to curb the spread of the virus. After all, a stitch in time saves nine.Chaitya MarkandaEngage sarpanches to spread awarenessAfter an attack on healthcare workers was reported, it is now important that security is given to them whenever they go to collect Covid samples from remote areas and villages. Villagers must be sensitised about the ill-effects of this virus. The government must also send teams for counselling of villagers so they may feel motivated to give samples for testing. In each village, the job of spreading awareness must be carried under the supervision of the sarpanch of that village. The government can also take the help of NGOs so that health workers do not face any problem. Special drives must be carried out to encourage villagers to get tested if they experience symptoms related to coronavirus.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiEncourage villagers to reveal symptomsIn these tough times, we should be thankful to healthcare workers who are risking their lives and compromising with their own health for taking care of Covid-19 patients. It is only by respecting Covid guidelines that we can reduce the burden on healthcare workers and win the invisible fight against the virus. But there are some misconceptions about the virus and healthcare workers in the minds of villagers and people living in remote areas. To remove such obstacles in the fight against the virus, awareness campaigns must be organised to tell villagers about the importance of coming forward to reveal if they have symptoms of Covid and getting tested for the same. This will help in reducing the attacks on healtcare workers when they go to such places to collect Covid samples.Ritu PriyaAttack on health workers deplorableIt is really shocking and shameful that healthcare workers, who are working round the clock and putting their own lives at risk to fight the pandemic, have been attacked by residents of a village in Ludhiana. The attack is unacceptable. The strictest actions need to be taken against the culprits. Villages sarpanches must come forward to assist healthcare teams and assure their safety. If such incidents are not stopped now, then the war against the pandemic will suffer a setback. It is the need of the hour to ensure safety of healthcare workers.Bir Devinder Singh BediResidents should unite to fight virusThe war against the pandemic requires unity of residents from both urban and rural areas. Our healthcare workers are frontline warriors, many of whom have not been able to cater to their own families for more than a year now. The Resident Welfare Associations and social outfits should join hands with the administration to help spread awareness about the virus in rural and remote areas so that attacks on healtcare workers can be stopped. A security team must always accompy the workers so that they do not experience such harassment in the future.Jassica GoyalSupport healthcare workers to defeat virusTo win this fierce battle against Covid-19, we need to stand by our healthcare workers at all costs. They risk their own lives to save the lives of patients. At no cost, should they be harassed, abused and attacked. This results in underestimating their role in the fight against the virus. It is high time to boost their morale rather than abusing them and calling modern system of medicine a fraud.Dr Sunil ChopraResponsible behaviour imperative to curb attacksCurbing the pandemic is not possible through medical care alone. It is largely possible with more responsible community behaviour, be it social distancing, staying home and wearing a face mask. More important is public participation in healthcare advisories. The problem of rural folk not cooperating with healthcare workers and even a few incidents of getting violent is a case of poor communication and counseling. The panchayats must show some responsibility. The solution lies in creating effective opinion leadership. The local governments should counsel panchayat members through extensive online meetings and personal interactions. Community counseling can also help in solving such issues. The village educated youth can be roped in to aware others about the virus.Dr Harpreet SinghDisrespect to health workers intolerableWe are living in testing times. It is the responsibility of all family members to take care of each other and keep the virus at bay, be it rural or urban families. This self-awareness, in turn, helps doctors and nurses to fight against the virus in hospitals. But when we read and hear about healthcare workers getting attacked, it represents the fact that awareness about the disease has not reached rural and remote areas. The government should join hands with social organisations, NGOs, residents and youth to make people aware about the virus and the benefits of getting tested. Villagers should be encouraged to come forward and reveal if they are experiencing symptoms of the virus.Simranjeet KaurSupport from rural areas of utmost importanceIt is our moral responsibility to be polite to healthcare workers who are risking their own lives to keep Covid-19 patients safe. Misconceptions in the minds of people have been fed by quacks and other sinister groups, who provoke people to do such unethical actions. It is the most unfortunate residents are falling for the trap that misguided elements have set for them. It was completely wrong of villagers to attack healthcare workers who had come to collect Covid samples. A strong vigil needs to be created to bring to light these miscreants. In this hour of crisis, we all need to be united to fight against the virus.JBS NandaSpreading awareness is the only solutionCovid-19 is here to stay for a long time now and the battle to fight it does not seem to be ending. Health workers have put every effort to fight this battle but some residents do not care two hoots about it. Many people, especially from rural areas, still have stigma attached to testing and vaccination. The only way to get rid of their fear is to spread awareness about the importance of getting tested and vaccinated. This will also help in reducing attacks on healthcare workers.Sharanpreet Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/awareness-in-rural-areas-crucial-to-bust-myths-264786
07-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Make process for obtaining TS1 certificate easy, say residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 6As visitors commonly face problems in obtaining the TS1 (tax summary) certificate at the MC offices, residents want the MC to improve the service and make the process easy.A number of persons are forced to make repeated rounds of the civic body offices to get the certificate even after depositing property tax and water supply and sewer charges. The applicants are also asked to personally visit the offices of the officials concerned for verification.Sharing his experience, a senior citizen said he was forced to make repeated rounds of an MC office to get the TS1 certificate about three months ago. Even when he provided documents regarding property tax, water supply and sewer charges, he was asked to visit clerks concerned to get clearance reports.He said: “When I visited Suvidha Kender first time, they gave me a form and asked me to visit different officials for collection of reports about property tax, water supply and sewer charges. For two days, I could not understand how to collect the reports. After getting someone’s help, I understood the procedure. After I submitted all documents, I was made to make multiple rounds to an MC office as the process was being delayed. When the matter was brought into the notice of a higher official, the certificate was then issued to me.”The senior citizen said, “All the documents should be verified by the MC itself instead of asking the applicant to visit different clerks or any other official for the collection of required reports.”A former councillor, Parminder Mehta, said, “First of all, the MC should maintain the record of property tax, water supply and sewer charges of all properties in a right manner. When any application is received, the civic body should cross check the record. If property tax, water and sewer charges are pending, the MC should ask the applicant to deposit dues first at Suvidha Kender.”“The applicant should not be asked to visit different officials for clearance of property tax, water supply and sewer charges. The process for obtaining the certificate should be made easy and transparent. A separate counter at MC offices should be dedicated for receiving all pending dues and TS1 application. The MC must verify the documents itself instead of asking the applicant to collect reports from the clerks of different branches. The TS1 certificate should be given within a fixed time period once all required documents and payments are deposited by the applicant,” he said.Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has also asked the officials to do the needful to make the process simple for obtaining the TS1 certificates. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they had taken some steps to make the process easy for obtaining a TS1 certificate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/make-process-for-obtaining-ts1-certificate-easy-say-residents-264765
07-06-2021||---||Two cops die of cardiac arrest||Ludhiana, June 6 Two police personnel died of cardiac arrest here today. In the first incident, inspector Baljinder Singh (50), SHO, Daresi police station, suffered a cardiac arrest when he was on patrol near the Shivpuri chowk this morning. His health deteriorated in the police vehicle. Police personnel rushed him to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police administration expressed shock on his demise and assured all possible help to the family. The deceased was a native of Fatehgarh Sahib. About three ago, he was shifted from Mohali to Ludhiana. He was posted at the Daresi police station. In another incident, ASI Harbans Singh (52), posted at the Zila Parishad office for the security of EVMs, died of cardiac arrest. On Saturday night, the police officer had slept in his room and the next morning, he was found dead. He was a native of Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-cops-die-of-cardiac-arrest-264766
07-06-2021||---||203 contract virus, 3 dead  in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 6As many as 203 persons tested positive for Covid today while three lost their life to the virus. Now, the total number of positive cases from Ludhiana district are 85,454 while 2,029 persons have lost their life so far. Now, the case fatality rate of the district is 2.37 per cent.Those who tested positive today also include two expecting mothers, one pre-operative case and a healthcare worker while 30 are still being traced.The persons who succumbed to the virus today include two men and a woman who belonged to the Urban Estate, Mundian Kalan and Prem Vihar areas in the district.On Sunday, 83 patients were admitted to government hospitals, 282 to private hospitals in the district and 32 persons were on ventilator support.Till date, a total of 14,53,544 samples have been taken, of which reports of 14,53,194 have been received.Of these, 13,56,550 samples were found negative while reports of 350 were pending. As many as 14,427 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols to not only save themselves but also people around them.Two new cases ofblack fungus reportedToday, two new patients suffering from black fungus were detected. One of the patients is from Ludhiana while the other belongs to another district. A total of 94 confirmed cases have been detected so far.The patients have been admitted to various hospitals. Twelve persons have lost their life so far to the disease of which four belonged to Ludhiana and eight to other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/203-contract-virus-3-dead-in-ludhiana-264767
07-06-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana residents rue vax shortage for 18-44 age group at govt hospitals||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 6The wait for getting jabbed against Covid for those belonging to the 18-44 age group is getting longer due to shortage in supply of vaccine at government hospitals. Those who can afford the vaccine are switching to private hospitals while the less privileged ones are bearing the brunt.In the government hospitals, vaccine is given free of cost while in private ones, one has to shell Rs 850 for one dose, putting extra financial burden on residents.Jasmeen (22) said: “Earlier, the category was not open and now, the vaccine is not available. The vaccine is available for the 45 above category but not for the 18-44 age group. The priority of the government should be to ensure free vaccination for all. I am a citizen and the government should ensure my vaccination, why should I pay for it? All these years we have been paying taxes and now, it is the government’s duty to protect us against the Covid-19 pandemic.”Sudhir Sharma (47), who works with a private firm, said he got vaccinated for free but now, three members of the family are in the 18-44 years’ age group. “I was waiting for the vaccine to arrive at government centres but the stock is not coming. I will have to shell out nearly Rs 5,000 for the doses which is little difficult for me. I will wait for one more week, otherwise I will get them vaccinated on my own,” he said.Another city resident said since the vaccine was not available in government hospitals, she opted to get vaccinated from a private hospital. “I got both my sons vaccinated from a private hospital and I paid Rs 850 for each of them. Me and my husband had received the vaccine for free,” she said.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the stock of vaccine was expected to arrive in the next week.Karanjit Singh Soni Galib, president, District Congress Committee, Ludhiana (Rural), has taken up the issue of free vaccination facility for all citizens with President Ram Nath Kovind.He has submitteda memorandum addressed to the President with the SDM Jagraon. Galib said as per the government data, it has administered 21.31 crore vaccine doses till May 31. But, only 4.45 crore Indians have received both the doses of vaccine, which is only 3.17% of the country’s population. In the past 134 days, the average pace of vaccination is about 16 lakh vaccine doses per day. At this pace, it will take over three years for us to vaccinate our adult population.“If this is the case, how will we save our fellow citizens from the third wave of Covid,” questioned Galib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-rue-vax-shortage-for-18-44-age-group-at-govt-hospitals-264768
07-06-2021||---||4 held in Ludhiana for looting people by posing as policemen||Ludhiana, June 6 A gang of robbers, which used to loot people by posing as police personnel, was busted by the city police. Four members of the gang were arrested by the police. The accused have been identified as Manpreet Singh (25) of New Shimlapuri, Santosh Kumar (27) of Ajit Singh Colony, Rakesh Kumar (26) of Lohara and Ajay Tiwari (24) of Lakshman Nagar. The JCP, Sachin Gupta, while addressing a press conference said a tip-off was received that the gang used to loot people by impersonating as police personnel. They used police flashing lights and hooter to give the impression of a police vehicle.  The JCP added that the accused also used to wear the police uniform and mask. Today, a police party, led by SHO Daba Manjinder Kaur, conducted a raid on 33 Feet Road near vegetable market and arrested them. The police recovered one Venue car (PB91H7861), one hooter, police flashing light, police turbans, pair of police shoes, police masks and Rs50,000 in cash from the gang. JCP Sachin Gupta said the gang had looted several people by threatening them to register fake cases against them.  The police remand of the accused would be sought to arrest more members of the gang, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-held-in-ludhiana-for-looting-people-by-posing-as-policemen-264769
07-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Scheme for defaulting allottees launched||Ludhiana, June 6Defaulting allottees of all regional area development authorities — PUDA, GLADA and those in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali, Patiala and Bathinda — have been given a one-time opportunity for settlement of the default amount and get their allotments regularised under the ‘Amnesty scheme – 2021’, launched by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Punjab.The scheme notified by the government on April 19, 2021, will remain open for three months (till July 19, 2021).As per the notification, default in payment of instalments or other dues on or after December 31, 2013, for properties sold through auction, allotment or any other method by any development authority will be eligible for consideration under the scheme.It has been laid down in the scheme that defaulting allottees would have to deposit the entire default amount with simple interest at the rate mentioned in the allotment or sale letter. Penalty, if any, levied by the Estate Office on the default amount would be waived off.The cases where allotment has been cancelled due to default in payment or where there is litigation on this account would be considered under the scheme but the scheme would not be applicable where physical possession of property under default has been taken by the authorities concerned.It has also been stipulated in the scheme that the allottees/applicants concerned would be solely responsible for calculation of default amount and interest thereon and in case of any short payment against outstanding amount as per record, the cases would be dealt with in accordance with terms and conditions of the allotment letter.Through the notification, PUDA and all regional development authorities have been directed to depute a nodal officer for effective implementation of the scheme so that maximum number of defaulting allottees could avail benefits under the Amnesty Scheme.Amnesty Scheme to remain open till July 19The ‘Amnesty Scheme – 2021’ notified by the government on April 19, 2021, will remain open for three months (till July 19, 2021). As per the notification, default in payment of instalments or other dues on or after December 31, 2013, for properties sold through auction, allotment or any other method by any development authority will be eligible for consideration under the scheme. It has been laid down in the scheme that defaulting allottees would have to deposit the entire default amount with simple interest at the rate mentioned in the allotment or sale letter. Penalty, if any, levied by the Estate Office on the default amount would be waived off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scheme-for-defaulting-allottees-launched-264770
07-06-2021||Ludhiana||Nine of Shubham Mota Gang and Puneet Bains Gang nabbed in Ludhiana's Moti Nagar firing incident||The city police nabbed nine persons who were involved in a firing incident that occurred in Moti Nagar here on the night of June 4. The arrested accused belong to Shubham Mota Gang and Puneet Bains Gang. The arrested members of Puneet Bains gangs have been identified as Prince of Iqbal Nagar, Ranjit Kumar of the Tibba road, Pankaj Kapoor of Dharampura, Neeraj Kumar of the Tibba road, Piyush Kumar of Gurmel Park and Rohit Kumar of Gurmel Park while Vikas, Ajju, and Akash Soni are yet to be nabbed. The three arrested members of Shubham Mota Gang are juvenile while Paras, Raja,  Bajaj, Harsh Vardhan, Mani Lawrence and 18 unknown persons are yet to be arrested in the case. Notably, the kingpin of both gangs are lodged in the Central Jail, Ludhiana, in an attempt-to-murder case and they had asked their respective gang members to show the strength of their gangs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nine-of-shubham-mota-gang-and-puneet-bains-gang-nabbed-in-ludhianas-moti-nagar-firing-incident-264771
07-06-2021||---||Vehicle thieves’ gang busted in Ludhiana, 2 held||Ludhiana, June 6The city police busted a gang of vehicle thieves and arrested two of its members. The police recovered seven vehicles from the gang.The suspects have been identified as Guninder Singh Goni and Dharminder Singh of Bilga village, near Doraha. Two gang members, Dalwinder Singh Bikka and Amritpal Singh Amrit, residents of the same village, are yet to be arrested.JCP Sachin Gupta while addressing a press meet said a tip-off was received that the suspects were operating a vehicle thieves’ gang and they had stolen several vehicles in the recent past.A naka was laid on the Canal road where a Honda City car was intercepted and the two suspects were arrested. Later during the preliminary questioning, the duo confessed that they had stolen several vehicles from the Ludhiana area in the recent past.The police recovered stolen Honda City, Maruti Zen, Hyundai Santro, Mahindra Bolero Camper, two motorcycles and a scooter from the gang members.The JCP said the suspects first used to do a recce in city areas and after finding a soft target, they used to steal vehicles.He said they had sold most of the stolen vehicles to junk dealers. In further probe, the junk dealers would also be arrested.The police said the gang members were also facing cases of liquor smuggling, drug smuggling, cheating and extortion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vehicle-thieves-gang-busted-in-ludhiana-2-held-264772
07-06-2021||---||Man enters doc’s house, injures security guard||Ludhiana, June 6 A mentally-upset man entered the house of a resident, Dr BK Ahuja, near the IG’s official residence on Rani Jhansi Road today. He reportedly entered the premises to commit theft but when the guard noticed him, he injured the guard by hitting a spade on his foot. However, the police probe found that the suspect was of unsound mind and seemed to have accidentally entered the house-cum-clinic of the doctor. When the guard noticed him, both had a scuffle in which the guard suffered injury. Rajwinderpal Singh, SHO, Police division 8,  said the suspect, who seemed mentally upset, had not committed any theft still his medical examination was being conducted to know about his health status. The SHO added that so far no case was registered against the suspect. Residents of the area alleged that no police patrolling was being conducted to prevent such crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-enters-docs-house-injures-security-guard-264773
07-06-2021||---||MSME body writes to PM over rising steel prices||Ludhiana, June 6 The Ludhiana Hand Tool Association has written a letter to the Prime Minister, seeking intervention into the issue of fluctuating steel prices. SC Ralhan, president of the association, said the abnormal increase in the prices of steel has brought the downstream producers, particularly in the MSME sector, at the brink of closure. The MSME industry is unable to absorb the hike in prices of steel as buyers are not willing to provide corresponding increases in the prices of the manufactured products. The irony of the matter is that based on the prevalent prices of steel, exporters are seeking orders which generally fructify between 15 to 20 days and in the meantime, steel prices go up substantially resulting in huge losses to such exporters. Moreover, the process of manufacturing and shipment takes about 45-60 days and the abnormal increase in the ocean freight rates during the same period provides a double blow to MSME. “We are gradually losing out our markets to China in the value-added segment of exports and the recent growth visible in exports is largely on account of hike in the prices of metal and commodities as we are focusing more on raw material exports taking advantage of the upward swing in global metal and commodity prices. If you look at the export trends of the finished engineering goods, the sharp decline is seen in their exports. In the given situation, the MSME industry needs to be provided steel at a reasonable price so that export competitiveness of value-added products is maintained,” he said. If this is not done, a large number of manufacturers will be out of business resulting in closure of factories, loss of employment, creating social unrest and law and order issues, said Ralhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/msme-body-writes-to-pm-over-rising-steel-prices-264774
07-06-2021||Ludhiana||Free vax camp for transgenders, specially abled||A special free vaccination camp for specially abled persons and transgenders was organised at Hero DMC Heart Institute today. The camp was inaugurated by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and MC Councillor Mamta Ashu. The free vaccination camp was organised with the efforts of City Needs, an NGO, while free vaccine was donated by Sachit Jain from Vardhman Special Steels and Prem Gupta, secretary, DMCH Management. The DC thanked industrialists for organising the ‘vaccine langar’ by donating free vaccine for differently abled and transgenders of the city.  Seeking support from residents to protect the needy against Covid-19, the Deputy Commissioner exhorted the people to gift them with vaccine on birthdays and anniversaries which would be service to the humanity. He said it would be a great service to the humanity by sponsoring vaccine for the needy. Prem Gupta said they have already vaccinated close to 75,000 people at the DMCH and they plan to vaccinate close to 1 lakh people in next one month. After getting vaccinated, social activist Mohini Mahant urged transgenders to get themselves vaccinated. Students raise awareness Three city students have launched an awareness campaign for vaccination of differently abled persons. Madhvi Sharma and Pratibha Sharma, both students of Sacred Heart Convent School Sarabha Nagar, studying in Class XI and Class IX, respectively and Gayatri Gupta, a final year student of law in National Law University, Hyderabad, motivated differently abled for vaccination. All three students were present today at the DMCH to motivate the differently able persons to come up for vaccination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-vax-camp-for-transgenders-specially-abled-264775
