08-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Dip in daily Covid cases continues in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 7The constant decline in daily Covid cases in Ludhiana district continued today as well when the 24-hour infection tally touched a three-month low of 135, further cementing the signs of gradual retreat and plateauing of the impact of the devastating second virus wave.The count of daily cases recorded today was lowest after 133 daily infections were reported in the district on March 12. Since then, the 24-hour tally of Covid patients had been on a constant rise and touched a peak of 1,729 on May 9, which was the highest mark registered in any district of Punjab on a single day so far.The reverse trend of decline in the daily virus cases began from May 10 when 1,470 infections were reported in the district.Earlier, the 24-hour coronavirus patient count kept on rising constantly since March 13 when 180 cases were recorded here. From 197 on March 14, the daily cases increased to 226 on March 15; 245 on March 16; 233 on March 17; 237 on March 18; 292 on March 19; 329 on March 20; 330 on March 21; 341 on March 22; 364 on March 23; 311 on March 24; 340 on March 25; 395 on March 26; and 497 on March 27.The count started dropping from 437 on March 28 to 343 on March 29, 329 on March 30 and 328 on March 31.The rising trend once again began from the first day of April when 376 daily Covid patients were reported here. It kept rising from 369 on April 2; 382 on April 3; 446 on April 4; 390 on April 5; 401 on April 6; 415 on April 7; 425 on April 8; 438 on April 9; 389 on April 10; 530 on April 11; 523 on April 12; 480 on April 13; 489 on April 14; 482 on April 15; 598 on April 16; 835 on April 17; 685 on April 18; 758 on April 19; 778 on April 20; 879 on April 21; 880 on April 22; 995 on April 23; 861 on April 24 and touched the four-digit mark on April 25 when 1,389 cases were logged.However, infections dipped to 753 on April 26 before once again shooting up to 1,136 on April 27; falling to 952 on April 28; rising to 1,350 on April 29; and down to 792 on April 30.The month of May played a mayhem with the daily case tally reaching 1,600 on May 1; 1,404 on May 2; 1,198 on May 3; 1,347 on May 4; 1,186 on May 5; 1,257 on May 6; 1,465 on May 7; 1,223 on May 8; 1,729 on May 9; 1,470 on May 10; 1,386 on May 11; 1,215 on May 12; 1,335 on May 13; 1,320 on May 14; 1,132 on May 15; 942 on May 16; 851 on May 17; 991 on May 18; 731 on May 19; and 784 on May 20.The downward trend was once again witnessed from May 21 when the district reported 687 daily cases. The tally kept falling to 582 on May 22; 597 on May 23; 507 on May 24; 461 on May 25; 438 on May 26; 411 on May 27; 416 on May 28; 343 on May 29; 298 on May 30; and reached 223 on May 31.The month of June also started with a low count of 222 cases on the first day barring the increase to 285 on June 2. The case declining phenomenon continued since June 3 when 228 patients tested positive for the deadly virus. The count further fell to 200 on June 4, 201 on June 5, 203 on June 6, and recorded three-month low of 135 on June 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dip-in-daily-covid-cases-continues-in-ludhiana-district-265058
08-06-2021||---||135 fresh cases, six dead in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 7As many as 135 persons tested positive for Covid, while six persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. Those who tested positive include an expectant mother and a healthcare worker, while 32 patients are still being traced.The total confirmed positive cases from Ludhiana reached 85,589, while 2,035 patients have lost their lives so far. There are 2,238 active cases in the district at present. A total of 81,316 patients have recovered in the district so far.Four men and two women lost their lives. The deceased belong to Satjot Nagar, Galwaddi village, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Khatra village, Salem Tabri and Model Town.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and municipal councillor Mamta Ashu dedicated an advanced life support ambulance to the people of Ludhiana at Civil Hospital here.Thanking Avon Cycles Chairman and MD Onkar Singh Pahwa for donating Rs 32 lakh for preparing an ultra-modern hi-tech ambulance, an electronic mortuary van, and 15 oxygen concentrators, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and councillor Mamta Ashu said the ambulance would meet the increased demand for transportation of patients with an advanced life support system.They said the ambulance has facilities of ventilators, air-conditioning, ECG, oxygen machine, defibrillator and infusion system, suction pump, stretcher, oximeters and first-aid kit.Anyone can contact on 95015-00101 and 95015-00102 for the services of the ambulance, they said.Meanwhile, at a solemn occasion at a local restaurant, representatives of Khalsa Aid, Hemkunt Foundation and A Little Happiness Foundation received five oxygen concentrators each from of the representative of the India Business Council.Black fungus patient diesA patient of black fungus, belonging to Ludhiana district, lost his life on Monday. Total 13 patients — five from Ludhiana district and eight from other districts — have lost their lives.Three more patients were diagnosed with black fungus. One is from Ludhiana and two from other districts.Total 97 confirmed patients of black fungus have been detected at various city hospitals and 49 are active patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/135-fresh-cases-six-dead-in-ludhiana-265059
08-06-2021||Ludhiana||Congress MLA’s ‘morphed’ video goes viral, case registered||Congress MLA from Ludhiana East Sanjay Talwar has filed a police complaint against an alleged morphed video doing rounds on social media in which Talwar has been shown dancing with a girl in some party. The police have registered a case under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC. He told the police that earlier also some miscreants had put his computer-edited picture of dancing with a girl on social media. “Now an edited version of the same picture has been put in a video form on social media to defame him and harm his political career,” Talwar asserted, while claiming that the video showing on social media was of some other person with some resemblance with him. The Congress legislator maintained that it was a fake picture/video which had been put on social media by his opponents to defame him that too when he had lost his wife only recently. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-mlas-morphed-video-goes-viral-case-registered-265060
08-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||3 held for theft at spinning mill||Ludhiana, June 7 The police have arrested three persons, Gurpreet Singh, Waseem, both residents of Vardhman Nagar, and their accomplice Shamsher Singh, a resident of Bajra Colony, during investigation of a theft incident committed at Shakti Spinners on Bajra Road here. Three rolls of PVC sheet, of the 23 rolls stolen by the trio, were recovered by the police. In his complaint, owner of the spinning mill Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Flower Dale Colony, said the mill was lying closed due to some family dispute. “On the intervening night of June 5 and 6, the miscreants broke into the factory and stole 23 rolls of PVC, along with a purse of security guard Rakesh Sood containing Rs 500 and some documents. A case has been registered. Electric motor goes missing Hardeep Singh, a resident of Koom Kalan, said a 5 HP electric motor was stolen from his 6.5-acre agricultural land which he had taken on lease. He said during a round of the fields in the wee hours on June 5, he saw that the motor fitted on the mono block pump was missing. He said earlier also, a 3 HP motor installed on another piece of land near the cremation ground was stolen. The police had registered a case under Sections 379 of the IPC. Mobile phone stolen Unidentified persons broke into the room of Rehan Ali, a resident of Dhandari Kalan, when he and his brother were sleeping on the night on June 1 and stole a smartphone. The police have registered a case under Sections 457, 380 and 304-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-held-for-theft-at-spinning-mill-265061
08-06-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Four months on,  Suwidha Centre employees not paid salaries||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 7 The contractual employees working at Suwidha Centres of the Municipal Corporation (MC) are a harried lot as they have not been paid salaries for the past four months. Employees also met the higher authorities, but their salaries were not released till date. These employees have been working on the outsourcing basis with the MC. The civic body had hired a contractor to provide services at its Suwidha Centres through these employees. The agreement of the contractor with the MC ended earlier this year. It has been learnt that the MC did not float tenders to hire a new contractor on time. Employees were asked to continue to work at Suwidha Centres, but not paid salary, which made them suffer. An employee said, “There are around 110 contractual employees working on the outsourcing basis with the MC. The civic body pays to contractor for providing services. Each employee is paid around Rs9,100 per month by the contractor. Despite our repeated requests, we have not been given salary since February 2021.” “I don’t know whether the contractor or the MC is depositing employees’ provident fund in their respective accounts or not. The matter regarding delay in salaries was taken up with the MC authorities, but no action has been taken in this regard,” the employee added. “We have been forced to borrow money from others to meet our daily needs. We are working even during the Covid pandemic. We appeal to the MC Commissioner and Mayor to get our salaries released at the earliest,” said another employee. Questions are also being raised over the MC’s role in not floating tenders on time after the expiration of the contractor’s agreement.  Sources said many times the MC had hired those contractors, who handled paid parking lots in the city, to provide staff on outsourcing basis at Suwidha Centres.  A few contractors also violated norms and overcharged parking fee from visitors at several places in the city, the sources added. But, the MC always kept a soft corner for such contractors and awarded them with contracts to provide services at Suwidha Centres, said the sources. A former councillor Inder Aggarwal said, “The MC should directly recruit employees for its Suwidha Centres instead of hiring any firm/contractor to provide services on the outsourcing basis. Actually, a contractor generates good income, but exploits employees by paying them less salary. The exploitation of employees should be stopped. Salaries of employees must be released on time.”  Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he had talked to the MC Commissioner regarding the matter. Salaries of all employees would be released soon, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-months-on-suwidha-centre-employees-not-paid-salaries-265062
08-06-2021||---||Tragedy averted as car hits barricade near Clock Tower||Ludhiana, June 7 A tragedy was averted when a car allegedly hit a drum that was placed as a barricade at the storm water drainage project site near Clock Tower on Monday. The vehicle was about to fell in a nearly 8-ft deep pit that was dug up for the installation of storm water drainage pipes. The reason behind the incident is not clear as the car driver could not be contacted for comments. MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh claimed that a car broke down the barricade where the work was going on to install the pipes. “The tragedy, however, was averted otherwise the car could also hit some workers who were installing the pipes on the spot. The car driver later managed to leave the place,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tragedy-averted-as-car-hits-barricade-near-clock-tower-265063
08-06-2021||Ludhiana||2 static waste compactors inaugurated||Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday inaugurated two static compactors near Lodhi Club and behind Orient Cinema in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. He assured the residents that soon Ludhiana would become a garbage-free city. He said for better and effective management of solid waste, static compactors were being installed at 40 different points of the city. The minister said the static compactors were installed for effective management of solid waste in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-static-waste-compactors-inaugurated-265064
08-06-2021||The skill development centre of the university organised a two-day online training course on “Nutritional gardening for maintaining healthy diet”. As many as 60 farmers attended the course.||Training course on nutritional gardening||Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, associate director (Skill Development), emphasised on growing fruits and vegetables at household level for domestic consumption and healthy life. Vegetable science expert Dr Ruma Devi, horticulture expert Dr JS Brar and entomology expert Dr RS Chandi discussed harvesting of fruits and vegetables, insect-pest management and preparation of homemade neem extract, respectively. TNSHead of plant pathology department retiresDr Narinder Singh, head, Department of Plant Pathology, retired from active university service. Vice-Chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, students and faculty and staff members wished him happy retired life.Dr Narinder Singh has been a recipient of the ICAR Fellowship and merit fellowships throughout his study career. Dr Singh joined the service in 1991 as assistant plant pathologist at the university. He became the head of the department in July 2018 and administered the department for two years and 10 months. He has been exclusively engaged in basic and applied research of developing bio-pesticides. TNSLecture organised to mark World Environment DayThe Department of Soil and Water Engineering celebrated World Environment Day by organising a virtual meeting in which students and faculty participated.Dr PK Sidhu, head, Department of Climate Change and Agrometeorology, and Dr Sanjeev Chauhan, head, Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, were the keynote speakers of the day. They also briefed the participants about the history of the day.Dr Sidhu explained the present status of the environment and made participants aware of ecosystem restoration. She shed light on the ill-effects of climate change on agriculture and in the life of human beings.Dr Chauhan deliberated on sustaining forestry and its contribution to the environment. He apprised of various phases of forest cover in India. Principal extension scientist (soil and water engineering) Dr Rakesh Sharda coordinated the event and called upon participants to plant one tree per family member and nurture it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-course-on-nutritional-gardening-265065
08-06-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU HoD appointed adjunct prof at Canadian varsity||Dr RS Sethi, Professor and head, Department of Animal Biotechnology, College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), has been appointed as Adjunct Professor in the Department of Veterinary Biomedical Sciences, Western College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Canada, for four years. Dr Yashpal Singh Malik, dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, said Dr Sethi was actively involved in various collaborations national and international universities. Dr Sethi is also a member of the steering committee for the World Veterinary Association’s (WVA) project on global quality standards for veterinary education. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-hod-appointed-adjunct-prof-at-canadian-varsity-265066
08-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Man dies in road mishap||Ludhiana, June 7 A Canter hit a cyclist, Ram Asheesh (51), near Oswal Hospital on GT Road late last evening. Ram Asheesh was rushed to ESI Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. In a complaint lodged with the police, Prince, resident of EWS Colony and son of deceased Ram Asheesh, said his father was going on a bicycle to purchase medicine from Oswal Hospital when a recklessly driven Eicher Canter vehicle (PB-02B-9039) hit him from behind at the flyover. He said his father sustained serious injuries and later died at ESI Hospital during treatment. The police said the driver of the Canter, identified as Mithu, resident of Vanjhwala, Ajnala, was booked under Sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-dies-in-road-mishap-265067
08-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Depot holder violates distribution system order, supplies suspended||Raikot, June 7 The Ludhiana administration today suspended supplies to the depot holder at Navi Abadi Akalgarh village for alleged violation of provision of the Punjab Public Distribution System (licensing/control) Order. Beneficiaries under the Pardhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna have alleged that the accused depot holder, Dinesh Kumar, has misbehaved with them and issued lesser quantities of food grains than their entitlement. Residents said Kumar had been supplying lesser quantities to them on the pretext that he was receiving lesser quantities from the department. Consumers of ward number 7, 8 and 9 said they were facing a cut of 1 to 2 kg per 10 kg of wheat while receiving supplies. Taking cognisance of the complaints, District Controller, Food Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Sukhwinder Singh Gill, has ordered immediate suspension of supplies to his depot. “We have received complaints that Dinesh Kumar has been misbehaving with consumers and supplying them quantities lesser than their entitlement. He is found to have violated the Punjab Public Distribution System (licensing/control) Order,” reads an order passed by Gill. Another depot holder at Sadhar village has also been found distributing poor quality of wheat. Residents of Dhaliwal Patti and Gill Patti alleged that an authorised depot holder had tried to supply them with poor quality of wheat. Action in this case is yet to be taken, however, inferior quality foodgrain has been withdrawn from the depot holder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/depot-holder-violates-distribution-system-order-supplies-suspended-265068
08-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||New portal for e-filing I-T returns launched||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 7 The Income Tax Department launched its new e-filing portal http://www.incometax.gov.in today to provide modern and seamless experience to taxpayers/tax professionals all over the country. Though professionals tried to login to know portal’s benefits, it was not operational. A tax professional, Mantosh Gupta, said, “The new portal will be taxpayer friendly. It will be integrated with immediate processing of ITRs to issue quick refunds to taxpayers. Besides, all interactions and uploads or pending actions will be displayed on a single dashboard for follow-up action by taxpayer.” “Apart from this, the portal will have a free of cost ITR preparation software with interactive questions. Detailed pre-filing with salary income, interest, dividend and capital gains will also be available,” he added. “Professionals are waiting for the website to become operational as it is expected to assist taxpayers with prompt response to their queries. In this portal, detailed FAQs, user manuals, videos and chatbot/live agent is also provided. Taxpayers can submit responses to notices in faceless scrutiny or appeals. The department will also release a mobile app,” he said. “Familiarisation with the new system might take some time. Taxpayers should be patient during the initial period. Taxpayers and professionals feel that the government should ensure that they are at ease while filing returns and doing business. It should not be like the launch of the GST portal, which had tedious technicalities,” he added. As per tax-professionals, the portal will initially be soft-commissioned at the Delhi Zone headquarter with effect from June 21 and gradually rolled out at other zonal headquarters and subordinate benches across the country within a period of four weeks thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-portal-for-e-filing-i-t-returns-launched-265069
08-06-2021||Manav Mander
||Wrongly entered data causes problems during second dose||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 7 Some of the beneficiaries of Covid-19 vaccination are facing issues in the registration process. A few cases came forward where data was entered wrongly by staff and hence the beneficiaries are facing problem in getting their second dose or final certificate of vaccination. In some cases, while making registration for Covid vaccination staff sometimes enter the mobile number wrongly, as a result the beneficiary fails to receive the message and faces problem during the second dose. Meena Kasi, who got her first dose of Covaxin on April 27, did not receive the message from the department after her vaccination. “A few days back, I went for the second dose of the vaccine at a centre near my house but the staff told me that my phone number was not registered and they were unable to initiate the process for my second dose. I returned without the jab and next day went to the same session site where I had got my first dose. I showed them the slip they gave me after my first dose. With the help of my Aadhaar number my data was searched and I got my second dose,” she said. Another city resident, Suchit, said recently he got the second dose of his vaccine but the message from the department he got was about being administered the first dose. “These days vaccination certificate is required for travelling. I am also planning a business trip in the coming days but I haven’t received my vaccination completion certificate. I have approached the centre where I got my second dose but they have failed to give me satisfactory reply,” he said. Sharing a similar issue, Satnam Singh another beneficiary, said he got the first dose of his vaccine a month ago but received no message till date. “I visited the hospital where I got the first dose but they have no record. I am feeling helpless and don’t know from where to get my data,” he said. District Immunisation Officer, Dr Puneet Juneja said people should not worry if there is some mismatch in the data. “If phone number has been entered wrongly then we can use Aadhaar card number for verification and to know about the status. People should visit the centre where they got their first dose if there is any mismatch in the data and their problem will be solved,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wrongly-entered-data-causes-problems-during-second-dose-265071
08-06-2021||Ludhiana||B.Pharmacy exam results||Paper-reading contestThe youth club of the Government College for Girls organised an online paper-reading contest on “Manas ki Jaat Sabhai Ekay Pehchanbo” to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bhadur. Participants spoke on the relevance of the topic in the current scenario and on highlighted the teachings of Guru Gobind Singh and other Sikh Gurus. Principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur urged students to inculcate the teachings of the Sikh Gurus. TNSWebinar on relevance of literatureThe Postgraduate Department Hindi and Research Centre of SCD Government College organised a national webinar on “Sant-Sahitya ki Prasangita” (The relevance of the literature of the saints in the present context). The resource person for the webinar was Prof Aruna Rajendra Sukla from Nanded, Andhra Pradeshr. The head of the department, Dr Ashwani Bhalla, also emphasised upon the importance of this literature and said it should be made a part of the curriculum of the sciences and commerce streams as well. TNSPAU expert advises farmers on ‘krand’An expert of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has advised farmers to manage hard crust (Krand) in direct seeded rice (DSR) technology. ‘Krand’ refers to the formation of hard crust on the surface of soil which prevents emergence of crop seedling. Dr MS Bhullar, head of the Department of Agronomy, said: “If rainfall occurs after sowing and before emergence of crop seedling, ‘krand’ formation occurs in all field crops, including direct seeded rice. There is, however, no need to panic.” He suggested farmers to visit their fields regularly and personally after rainfall to check the formation of ‘krand’. TNSworld environment day observedWorld Environment Day was observed at Gulzar Group of Institutes to create awareness among students and faculty about the importance a green environment. Students actively participated in the celebrations virtually and planted saplings in and around their homes. Students and faculty members also took pledge to adopt a tree. The focus of the day was on resetting relations with nature. TNSGobindgarh Public CollegeKhanna: The Alumni Social Welfare Society of Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, in association with the NSS unit of the college observed World Environment Day. The theme of the celebrations was “Go green, think sustainable, act responsible”. Principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni was the chief guest. She motivated students to plant more trees to protect the environment and save our future of the coming generations. OCSCD Government CollegeTo observe World Environment Day, a plantation drive was conducted at SCD Government College. Saplings of gulmohor tree were planted in the college campus. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur said the drive was organised to motivate students to plant more trees. TNSGuru Nanak Dev Engineering CollegeSchool of Architecture of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College organised an expert lecture on environment to celebrate World Environment Day. Dr Anil Prakash Joshi, founder, Himalyan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organisation (HESCO), was the guest speaker on the ocassion. A tree plantation drive was also conducted in and around the campus. TNSGuru Nanak Khalsa College for WomenMembers of the eco club of Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, celebrated World Environment Day by planting saplings in and around their houses. Students also shared the pictures of planted saplings on social media platforms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/b-pharmacy-exam-results-265077
08-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||In Ludhiana, cremations with Covid norms almost double the official toll||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 7Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, over 2,100 more deaths were registered by the Municipal Corporation of Ludhiana in May as compared to the deaths registered in the corresponding month in 2020 and 2019.According to the records, the birth and death registration wing of the MC registered 3,256 deaths in May, three times more as compared to the fatalities in the same month last year. In May 2020 and 2019, as many as 1,083 and 1,121 deaths were registered, respectively.In April 2021, the MC recorded 1,824 deaths as compared to 667 and 1,256 deaths in the corresponding month in 2020 and 2019, respectively. As per the media bulletin issued by the health department, 624 deaths due to Covid-19 were confirmed between May 1 and May 31 in Ludhiana district.However, the number of bodies that were cremated with Covid protocol at the six cremation grounds of the city under the MC’s jurisdiction in May 2021 is higher than the deaths confirmed by the Health Department in Ludhiana district in May 2021. Over 1,150 bodies were cremated following the Covid protocol at the cremation grounds in May.A member of marshals or volunteers’ team, which has been deployed by the MC for the cremation of the infected bodies, said they had conducted around 850 cremations with the Covid protocol at the cremation grounds in Barewal, Model Town, Dana Mandi, Daresi and Sunet in Ludhiana city during May.Besides, 318 bodies were cremated with the Covid protocol in May at the cremation ground in the Dholewal area of Ludhiana, said Ranjodh Singh, president, Ramgarhia Education Council.Sources said a number of persons who died of the virus were also cremated at the cremation grounds in various other parts and rural areas of the district.“The correct number acts as an important tool for epidemiologists and for dealing with the situation, one should understand the true number of deaths,” a city doctor said.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said: “Sometimes, the primary cause of death is other than Covid-19. If a patient is Covid positive, but he died due to any other reason, the body is also cremated with the protocol. Our committee conducts a review meeting daily and then confirms the deaths due to Covid-19.”MC Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the civic body was following the process based on the documentation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-ludhiana-cremations-with-covid-norms-almost-double-the-official-toll-264968
