09-06-2021||---||115 test +ve, 6 dead in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 8As many as 115 persons tested positive for Covid, while six persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. Now, total of 85,704 persons have tested positive for the virus, while 2,041 have lost their lives so far since March 2020. As many as 2,110 patients of Covid were active in the district.Those who tested positive included a pregnant woman, healthcare worker and cop, while 23 patients are still untraceable.Three women and three men, belonging to Shimlapuri, Haibowal Kalan, Jodhan, Sekha village, Ghungrali village and Rattan Kheri village lost their lives.As many as 1,673 patients were in home isolation, 73 admitted to government hospitals and 254 admitted to private hospitals, while 32 were on ventilator support.As many as 9,203 persons were vaccinated against Covid on Tuesday. There will be 13 session sites for first and second dose of Covaxin (for 45 and above age group), while there will be no Covishield session site tomorrow.The DMCH had returned 930 doses of Covaxin, which were brought from the state government. Seventy doses have been used by the hospital which will be returned after the hospital receives its supply from the company. After a controversy raged, the Punjab Government had issued an order on June 4 withdrawing its earlier decision of providing limited Covid-19 vaccine doses to 18-44 years age group through private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/115-test-ve-6-dead-in-ludhiana-district-265720
09-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana Improvement Trust draws flak for plan to convert green belt into residential plots||Ludhiana, June 8The Council of Engineers (CoE) has served a legal notice on the state government through the Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary, Local Government, Punjab, against conversion of a designated green belt in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar (behind 651-E to 684-E) into 33 residential plots as well as construction of a metalled road.A copy of the notice has also been sent to the Chairman of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT).The CoE president, Kapil Arora, said it had come to the notice that the LIT had made a proposal about such illegal conversion of green belt into residential plots. It had also come to fore that in the process a large number of trees as well as plants would be chopped too. “Such act is against the directions of the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal and conversion of designated green belts into residential plots is like encroachment over the land left for its prime motive,” the notice said.The notice said as per sale deeds of nearby residents, a green belt was mentioned on the rear of their plots/houses. As such conversion was illegal and against the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Moreover, quality of air in the city was deteriorating at a rapid speed due to existing and upcoming illegal colonies, coupled with unplanned industrial areas which were lacking green belts and parks.The notice says, “Due to illegal commercial activities in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar there is already an increase in air pollution level. With conversion of designated green belt into residential plots, the land area under green belts will decrease and as a result quality of air will deteriorate further.”Arora pleaded that the National Green Tribunal, vide its orders, had directed the Chief Secretaries of all states/UTs to continue to monitor progress in execution of action plans at the state level with the assistance of monitoring cells in their offices and the AQMCs (air quality monitoring committee). He added, “It is pertinent to mention here that as per the Punjab Model Building Byelaws as well as Notification No Dir.TP-2016/2850 on dt. 15/12/2016 issued by Government of Punjab, the green cover in urban areas must be increased by at least 15 per cent.”But it was unfortunate that despite knowing all these facts, the LIT authorities seemed determined towards causing severe damage to the environment by their illegal act of converting green belts into residential plots which called for immediate intervention of the state government, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-improvement-trust-draws-flak-for-plan-to-convert-green-belt-into-residential-plots-265721
09-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana DC honours 85 frontline Covid warriors||Patting doctors and paramedical staff engaged in Covid-19 duty at  the Civil Hospital here, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday awarded special honorarium worth Rs 3.07 lakh to 85 frontline Covid warriors. Presiding over an event held at the hospital, the Deputy Commissioner, along with Additional Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar, also distributed 2,000 isolation gowns and 2,500 N95 masks for doctors and paramedical staff, besides 40 blankets were provided to the hospital for patients. In his address, the Deputy Commissioner said the Punjab Government in general and the district administration in particular acknowledged the endeavour of these warriors during the fight against Covid and this honorarium was just a small token of appreciation. He said the indomitable spirit and fortitude displayed by them were an example for others. Sharma said the war against the virus was particularly important as the enemy was totally invisible but the threat was large. The DC said all doctors and nursing staff exhibited exemplary courage and determination during the fight due to which several precious lives were saved. He said these Covid warriors are real heroes who had played a vanguard role to keep the pandemic at bay and expressed hope that the they would continue to perform exceptionally well till the war against Covid was won. The DC said the district administration was duty bound to play a key role in this exercise by serving as a link between the government and people, adding that it would motivate the public to remain vigilant and safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-honours-85-frontline-covid-warriors-265722
09-06-2021||Ludhiana||Five booked for committing online frauds||The Khanna police have registered two cases against five persons for committing online frauds with two persons in separate incidents. In the first incident, complainant Ritu Rani of the Samrala road told the police that two persons had committed a fraud of Rs 8,800 with her by sharing some link on her Google Pay mobile app. During the police probe, the suspects have been identified as Anil Singh of Madhya Pradesh and Mukhiram of Chhattisgarh. A case of fraud has been registered. In another incident, the police have registered a case against three persons, Ashok Kumar of UP, Batel Ali of Assam and Chandan Bag of Assam. Complainant Kamaljit Singh of SBS Nagar, Doraha, said she wanted to buy a second-hand car and when she was searching the OLX for the same, she saw an advertisement of a Maruti Swift Dzire car. “When I initiated talks to buy the car, the deal was finalised at Rs 1.80 lakh. I also deposited the amount in the bank account, in the name of Ashok Kumar. They failed to delivered the vehicle and also refused to return the money. The suspects had also stopped taking my calls, for past some days,” the complainant added. Inspector Karnail Singh said raids would be conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-booked-for-committing-online-frauds-265723
09-06-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Police: Persons giving shelter to gangsters identified, to face FIR||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 8After a series of clashes between gangs in Ludhiana in the recent past, in Hargobind Nagar and other areas, the Ludhiana police have increased vigil in the sensitive areas. A large number of police personnel have been deployed in such areas for day and night to prevent any further clash.So far, the police have arrested nine gangsters in these incidents, who are members of the Shubham Mota Gang and its rival Puneet Bains Gang. Clashes between the two gangs had occurred in the city as both gangsters Shubham and Puneet, who are at present lodged in the Central Jail, Ludhiana, had challenged each other and had directed their respective gang members to orchestrate attack. On June 3, both gangs had attacked each other at a wedding.Now the police have erected several nakas in these sensitive areas and even police personnel in civvies are also patrolling the city to prevent any further clash. Police officials are also interacting with residents to get any clue about gangsters at large in these cases.Police sources privy to the development said the police had identified several persons who had been giving shelters to these gangsters in different ways.“Some people are giving shelters to gangsters either by supporting them financially or helping them by providing them hideouts. We have identified such persons and once we verify their roles, the police will register FIRs against them soon. We are not going to spare anyone. Action will be taken on merit in the case,” ADCP Pragya Jain told The Tribune on Tuesday.The ADCP, however, did not make names of such persons public, citing the pending investigation.The ADCP asked residents if they have any information about these gangsters and their associates, they should inform at 78370-18503. Identity of the informer will be kept secret. “I urge residents to be a part of policing and support the police in nabbing the gangsters. By this way, either they will be arrested or leave the city,” the ADCP added.Kin of accused meet CP, seek probeToday, kin of Akash Soni, one of the persons booked in the clash occurred at Hargobind Nagar, today met the CP and urged him to conduct a fresh probe into his role. They alleged that Akash was rather attacked by Karan Walia and others and brutally injured but the police registered a case against Akash. They said they would hold a protest against the police if the latter fail to withdraw the case against Akash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-persons-giving-shelter-to-gangsters-identified-to-face-fir-265724
09-06-2021||---||Ludhiana MC resumes sterilisation drive in city||Ludhiana, June 8As the newly constructed building of the Municipal Corporation’s animal birth control (ABC) centre has opened, the process of sterilisation of stray dogs has been resumed in the city. The centre aims to sterilise between 60 and 100 stray dogs daily.Notably, the MC, Ludhiana, had started the sterilisation project in February 2015. The MC has conducted sterilisation of thousands of stray dogs in the past but a number of canines were yet to be sterilised. The drive had remained off for some time in the past. Now, the MC has hired a new firm to conduct the sterilisation of the remaining stray dogs in the city.On Tuesday, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the new building of the centre. He said that each sterilisation would cost Rs 1,200 and the centre would carry out up to 100 sterilisations daily and in the next one-and-a-half year, all stray dogs of Ludhiana would be sterilised.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal were present.According to officials, the centre has been developed at the cost of nearly Rs 1 crore and it would have a team of three expert veterinary doctors, along with a staff of 14 assistants. The centre has preparation, sterilisation rooms, operation theatre, 22 kennels, including six pre and 16 post-operation.The centre has two dog-catcher vehicles which would catch the dogs daily and then, they would be taken to the landing area, kennels and later to the operation theatre where doctors would perform surgery.Following the surgery, the sterilised dogs would be kept under observation for five to six days in kennels and later would be left at the place from where they were caught by the dog-catcher team as per directions of the Animal Welfare Board for natural habitat. Before leaving the stray dogs, the anti-rabies shot would be administrated.Senior Veterinary Officer Harbans Dhalla said: “About 40,000 stray dogs were sterilised in the past. Now, the new firm has started operations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-resumes-sterilisation-drive-in-city-265725
09-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Halwara international airport to be operational by October 31||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 8Come November, Ludhiana, known as the Manchester of India, will have its own international airport. Coming up at the Air Force Station in Halwara, which is one of the oldest frontline airbases of the Indian Air Force (IAF), the facility will be made operational by October 31.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting, chaired by the Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, recently.Confirming the development, the Chief Secretary told The Tribune that based on the advice of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to the Punjab Civil Aviation Department, two separate tenders — one for the construction of new terminal building and other for the apron — will be floated.“The PWD has been directed to float the tenders immediately and the same will be awarded after requisite approval from the AAI,” she said.Mahajan disclosed that the entire funds of Rs 43 crore estimated to be spent on the new airport terminal and apron would be spent by the GLADA and later reimbursed by the AAI.“Operations from the new airport will be started at the earliest in consultation with the AAI,” added the Chief Secretary, who reviewed the progress of the project at a virtual meeting of the Public Investment Management (PIM) committee on the infrastructure development projects under implementation in the state.She directed the officials concerned to ensure that the project was completed as per the approved specifications and within the stipulated timeframe.Sharing the progress report of the ongoing work on the project, which has been marked as project of key concern on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said over 95 per cent construction of boundary wall at the Halwara airport had been completed and it was expected to be completed on schedule by June 10.Similarly, 90 per cent construction of the approach road to the new airport had been completed and was expected to be completed on schedule by June 15, he revealed.The ADC (Projects), Dr Neeru Katyal Gupta, said separate tenders for new terminal building and apron were being floated forthwith.The tentative cost of the civil terminal conclave to be spread across 135 acres, worked out by the PWD, was brought down from initial Rs 58 crore to Rs 43 crore after consultation with the AAI and approval by the Technical Adviser to the CM.While the construction of 630-metre-long boundary wall had cost Rs 3.01 crore, a sum of Rs 8.3 crore was spent on the construction of 5.1-km-long with 5.5-metre width approach road.Sahnewal airport to closeThe decision to build a new international airport in the Maximum City of Punjab was taken after the state government had raised the demand with the Centre sometime back following which the AAI conducted a pre-feasibility study of the Halwara IAF station and gave nod to set up international civil enclave here to meet the growing demand for civil flight operations.The existing Ludhiana domestic airport at Sahnewal will be closed once the flight operations commence at the new civil enclave in Halwara.Pre-fabricated steel structureThe project entails building an interim arrangement to attend immediate requirements to make international flights available to the residents of Ludhiana, which was the state’s largest industrial and business city with a population of nearly two millions, by the end of this year.The interim terminal building will be pre-fabricated steel structure with modern outlook, spread over 2,000-sq km area with 3,800-sq metre canopy space having a seating capacity of 300 passengers. The PWD (B&R) was the main executing agency, while a private firm was hired for architectural design of the project.The scope of the project includes a new terminal building along with the ancillary facilities like apron taxiway extensions, substation, boundary wall and approach road.“The terminal will be a state-of-the-art building as per norms and requirements of the AAI, while construction of apron will be suitable to park one AB321-200 type aircraft and widening of taxi track and car park will accommodate 75 cars,” the DC revealed.The common concourse area will have provision for snack bar, toilets, AC switch room, drinking water, separate toilets for men and women, first-aid room, supporting office for AAI and airlines. The check-in area will comprise four check-in counters, adequate queuing space and baggage conveyor belt with storing space for 50 baggage trolleys.Besides the flight information display system with adequate number of display devices in departure, arrival and security hold area for passenger facilitation, an adequate number of X-ray machines for scanning baggage with required number of security equipment will be installed as per the AAI norms.Interim terminalBefore the construction of a regular terminal, an interim building will come up to begin the airport operations here, informed the ADC (Projects), while adding that 161.28 acres of land, comprising 135.54 acres for airport and 25.74 acres for future development, had already been acquired.She revealed that an alternate approach road to the airport from the Delhi-Katra Expressway was also under proposal by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/halwara-international-airport-to-be-operational-by-october-31-265726
09-06-2021||---||Man drowns in Sidhwan canal near Jagraon, close shave for kin||Ludhiana, June 8A man drowned in the Sidhwan canal near Jagraon while his nine-year-old son and his wife had a miraculous escape.The trio had gone to the canal to wash their car and after washing it, they started taking a bath. Afterwards, the flow of water increased and the trio started drowning. Passers-by came to the rescue and managed to save the woman and her son while her husband Sunny drowned in the canal.ASI Manjit Singh said had people standing near the canal not tried to rescue the family, all would have been drowned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-drowns-in-sidhwan-canal-near-jagraon-close-shave-for-kin-265727
09-06-2021||---||BJP alleges Rs8-cr scam in purchase of ‘Fateh’ kits||Ludhiana, June 8 The Punjab BJP unit has targeted the state government by alleging a multi-crore scam in the purchase of ‘Fateh’ kits. In a press conference here, Anil Sarin, chief spokesperson, Punjab BJP, and other senior leaders of the party said the state government had floated tenders to procure 50,000 ‘Fateh’ kits. A firm, Sangam Medical Store, had offered the kit for the lowest price of Rs 837.76.  However, the state government issued a purchase order by increasing the price of kit at Rs 940.80 and combined two other companies with Sangam store and divided the order of 50 thousand into three parts.  Sarin alleged that the government bought only 16,668 kits from the store. The remaining 33,332 kits were purchased from two other companies. Surprisingly, when the earlier firm was willing to give for Rs 837.76, why did the state government went for Rs 940.80 per kit, he asked Not only 17 days later, the state government bought 20 thousand kits of the same items from another company by paying even more for the similar kit. The BJP leaders demanded a CBI probe into the scam worth Rs 8 crore and asked the Punjab Chief Minister and the Health Minister to resign as during tough times of Covid, such scams were done by the government, alleged Sarin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-alleges-rs8-cr-scam-in-purchase-of-fateh-kits-265728
09-06-2021||Manav Mander||Rare syndrome found in kids post-Covid recovery: Experts||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 8Even as the state is witnessing cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, which affects the adult population after recovery from Covid-19, instances of multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) are also being reported among children post-Covid recovery.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Kiran Gill, has shot letters to 20 private hospitals and Civil Hospital in this regard, asking to earmark beds in their hospitals for such patients.Dr Gill said they have asked the hospitals to prepare the record of patients and submit the weekly data to the department. “Till now, only two patients from the DMCH came forward last month but exact figure can be known only after the hospitals submit their data,” she said.Further, Dr Gill said MSI-C in children has been seen in children in 0-19 years of age who had contracted Covid in the past. Followed by high grade fever, the patient suffers pain, inflammation in various organs and could lead to serious cardiac problems if not treated on time.According to the experts early diagnosis of the disease can reduce morbidity and advised parents not to take fever among the kids lightly. Children with asymptotic or mild Covid-19 have developed this disease and is usually seen two to four weeks after getting infected by covid.Symptoms of MSI-C:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rare-syndrome-found-in-kids-post-covid-recovery-experts-265729
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||4 vax camps organised in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, June 8 A total of four free vaccination camps were organised in Sahnewal today. The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, who inaugurated the camps said the state  government is committed to vaccinate all its residents and free vaccination camps are being organised across the state. The vaccination camps were organised at Government Primary School, Kuliewal, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Chandigarh Road, Mundian Kalan, Government Primary School, village Latton Dana and Valmiki Dharamshala, Kuliewal. Bindra added that the youth clubs associated with the PYDB were working hard to make Covid vaccination a mass movement. He said special camps for members of youth clubs are being organised by the PYDB across the state.  Special emphasis is being laid towards the vaccination of the Punjabi youth. He said all youth clubs associated with the board are being motivated to encourage residents of their respective villages to get vaccinated in large numbers. He informed that he is personally motivating all PYDB members and youth clubs across the state for organising such camps in their respective areas so that we can weed out Covid-19 from our society. He said that the PYDB is making concerted efforts to administer the dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible people and PYDB would leave no stone unturned to ensure speedy coverage of those eligible at the earliest. The Chairman said that only accelerated vaccination drive can help to build herd immunity resulting in breaking the transmission chain of the infectious disease. Prominent among those present on the occasion included Pal Singh Grewal Councillor, Harpreet Singh, Happy Mundian, Inderpal Grewal, Gurdeep Kaur Distt. President Mahila Congress, Harminder Kumar Pappi, Harpreet kaur Grewal Block President, Mandeep Singh Sahnewal, Baljinder Kaur , Sunita Tezaniya, Nitin Tandon and Jashanjot Singh Shergill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-vax-camps-organised-in-sahnewal-265730
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Oxygen plant to come up at Raikot hospital||Raikot, June 8 To fight the apprehended third wave of Covid-19, the Ludhiana administration has initiated the process for the construction of a pressure swing adsorption oxygen plant at the subdivision-level Civil Hospital at Raikot. The foundation of the plant was laid by Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai during a function held under supervision of Raikot SDM Dr Himanshu Gupta on Monday. MP Boparai said frequent shortage of medical oxygen had emerged as a major impediment in the treatment of Covid patients during the second wave of the pandemic, which necessitated the establishment of an oxygen generator plant in the subdivision. Residents of villages falling under Sadhar, Pakhowal, Bassi and Jagraon will be benefitted from the installation of the plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/oxygen-plant-to-come-up-at-raikot-hospital-265731
09-06-2021||Ludhiana||Shopkeepers demand ease in restrictions||The Malhar Road Shopkeepers’ Welfare Association today met the senior vice-chairman (Excise and Taxation) of the Punjab State Traders’ Board, Bhupinder Basant, to discuss issues being faced by traders in the city. The president of the association, Paramjit Singh, demanded that the parking problem on Malhar road be redressed on priority basis to provide a relief to the traders. He also demanded that the duration to open shops should be extended so that shopkeepers do not run into further losses. “Many shopkeepers are finding it difficult to pay rents of their commercial buildings,” he said. Basant told traders that even though restrictions had been extended in the state till June 15, certain relaxations would be provided to shopkeepers and they would be allowed to open their shops till 6 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shopkeepers-demand-ease-in-restrictions-265732
09-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Lockdown comes as boon for youngsters||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 8 The Covid-19 pandemic has brought in anxiety to the lives of many but a few youngsters decided to get the maximum benefit of the time they had in the lockdown and work on their skills to set an example for others not to lose hope in such times. “I started my venture last year and the journey so far has been amazing. Since the pandemic had already caused anxiety and depression to many, I decided to make people happy by making customised balloon bouquets by the name of Air Affair. With 4,200 followers on Instagram, I get a lot of appreciation for my work. The only thing I need to survive is innovation,” said Sehej Malhotra. She added that her venture created helium balloon bunches and flower balloon bouquets with personalised balloons to add an element personal touch for their customers. Another young entrepreneur, Sanya Jain, who never really had a sweet tooth all her life, discovered a passion for baking in the lockdown. “I had attended baking classes when I was in school learnt about eggless baking. It was there that I got fascinated and interested in baking chocolate cakes and other bakery food. In the lockdown, I started my venture El Pastel Love and got so received many orders for chocolates, pastries, cakes and other food items,” she said. Several other young entrepreneurs have also started their own work. Some have started delivering mocktails for in-house parties with others venturing into other fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lockdown-comes-as-boon-for-youngsters-265734
09-06-2021||Ludhiana||Unclaimed ashes immersed in canal||As nobody came to claim the ashes of a number of persons died of Covid-19, the Ramgarhia Cremation Ground staff with support of the Dukh Bhanjan Sewa Society immersed their ashes at Gurdwara Katana Sahib on Tuesday. Ranjodh Singh, president of the Ramgarhia Cremation Ground, said they immersed the ashes of 137 persons whose bodies were cremated at the cremation ground in the past two years. Many of them had died of the virus after the pandemic was announced last year, he said. “We carry the unclaimed ashes in a respectful manner to Gurdwara Katana Sahib and Pracheen Shiv Mandir. The ashes were then immersed in the canal water there,” said Ranjodh Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unclaimed-ashes-immersed-in-canal-265735
09-06-2021||Sahnewal||Woman’s body stuffed in sack recovered from Kanganwal||The body of a woman stuffed in a sack was recovered today near Rudra Enclave in Kanganwal. The body is yet to be identified. The body was found by morning walkers. No case has been registered so far. Kanganwal chowki in-charge Gagandeep Singh said the police got the information today early morning. “The woman seems to be around 40-years-old and had borne cut marks on the body. We think that the crime had not been committed on the spot but the body was dumped here,” he added. “The police are trying to inquire from other police stations about a missing person report. It is after affirmation that we will be registering a case in this regard,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/womans-body-stuffed-in-sack-recovered-from-kanganwal-265736
09-06-2021||Ludhiana||Chart-making contest organised||Summer camp concludesA virtual summer camp organised from June 1 to 8 at BCM Senior Secondary School, Focal Point, concluded. Various activities such as yoga, physical fitness, music, cooking, art and craft and dance were organised during the camp. As many as 350 students of Class III to XI participated. TNSRam Lal Bhasin Public SchoolA three-day virtual summer camp concluded at Ram Lal Bhasin Public School. Numerous yoga and aerobics activities were organised during the camp. Besides health-related activities, flower-making, bookmark-making, painting and henna application activities were also organised. TNSBCM Kindergarten, Basant AvenueBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, organised a virtual summer camp for kindergartners with the aim to focus on their overall growth and development. The seven-day camp included activities such as immunity booster, fitness pack, table etiquette, personality development,fun on paper and zumba. TNSBVM, Udham Singh NagarBVM, Udham Singh Nagar, organised a three-day virtual summer camp to develop creative skills of students. Numerous classes related to art class, yoga and meditation, cookery, dance and music workshops were organised for students to equip them with multidisciplinary life skills. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chart-making-contest-organised-265738
09-06-2021||Khanna||Theatre workshop organised by Gobindgarh Public College, Alour||Webinar on artificial intelligenceLudhiana: The Postgraduate Department of Computer Science and Applications and the IQAC of Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, organised a webinar on “Artificial intelligence-based object detection”. K Kalayan Kumar, a software developer, was the resource person for the webinar. A total of 376 participants from various institutions across the country participated in the webinar. TNSTania shines with 94.7% in BA resultsStudents of Arya College shined in the results of BA Semester-V declared by Panjab University, Chandigarh. In girls section, Tania secured 94.75 per cent, Vinampreet got 92 per cent and Ipsha obtained 90.8 per cent. In Arya College (Boys section), Rinku got 89.5 per cent, Harjot Singh got 88.8 per cent and Tarun Goyal obtained 86.3 per cent. College principal Dr Savita Uppal congratulated the students for their achievement. TNSSDP College for WomenStudents of SDP College for Women have brought laurels to the college by performing well in BA Semester-V results. Sheetal secured 93.5 per cent, Mehakpreet Kaur Grover scored 93.15 per cent while Harpreet Singh obtained 92.25 per cent. TNSVirtual alumni meet organisedThe Alumni Association of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised a virtual alumni meet of the college to bring back fond memories of former students. The meet was attended by around 100 former students. The alumni shared their experiences of work, their struggles and achievements. TNSSCD College holds extension lecturesThe Postgraduate Department of Chemistry and Geography of SCD Government College organised online extension lectures on Tuesday. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur welcomed resource persons of both webinars and congratulated the departments for organising successful webinars. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/theatre-workshop-organised-by-gobindgarh-public-college-alour-265741
