11-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Boost for industrialisation, four focal points coming up in Ludhiana dist||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 10In what appears to be a further impetus to industrialisation in the industrial hub of the state, four new industrial focal points were coming up in different parts of Ludhiana district.While a facility in Ludhiana will be ready by August this year, another industrial area in Khanna will open by May 2023. Two other industrial focal points in Kum Kalan and Kadiana Khurd were under planning stage.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting, chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, recently.The Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Alok Shekhar, intimated to the meeting that the matter regarding transfer of the village panchayat land for the passage to connect the focal point in Kadiana Khurd with a hi-tech cycle valley was pending with the Rural Development Department for approval.It was informed that a few industries have already evinced interest to take over the entire chunk of the undeveloped land earmarked for the Kadiana Khurd industrial focal point, for which e-auction would be done after the cost, including that of the new passage, was frozen.Regarding the project in Kum Kalan, it was decided that the Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development, will arrange a meeting with the Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner, and local industrialists for considering the fixation of the auction price of the land.While reviewing the progress of the projects at the fourth meeting of the public investment management (PIM) committee, the Chief Secretary directed the Finance Department to ensure the release of funds as per requirements of implementing departments, so that the public-oriented projects were completed within the stipulated time frame.While the 100 per cent state-funded focal point in Ludhiana will cost Rs 33 crore, of which provision of Rs 20 crore has been made in the state Budget for the current fiscal, the Khanna facility will come up at a cost of Rs 10.66 crore, of which 80 per cent share will be borne by Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation and rest 20 per cent by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/boost-for-industrialisation-four-focal-points-coming-up-in-ludhiana-dist-266713
11-06-2021||---||Five more succumb, 113 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 10Today, 113 persons tested positive for Covid while five patients lost their lives to the virus. Total positive cases have now reached 85,921 while 2,054 persons have succumbed to Covid so far. There were 1,806 active cases in the district today.Those who tested positive also included a healthcare worker, an expecting woman and two undertrials while 22 have not been traced so far.Those who lost their life today included four women and a man belonging to Katari village, Janta Nagar, Chimna village, Jagraon and Gill Road.Covid cases have shown a downward trend since the past week in Ludhiana. But, still the mass media team is in the field to sensitise people about the disease and motivate people for sampling and vaccination. These are the only methods through which we can save ourselves from the virus.Second wave hit rural areas more, says Civil SurgeonLudhiana Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said the second wave had affected rural areas more. Hence, it was important that sarpanches and panches of villages should be sensitised beacause they have direct link with each and every person of the village and they could make people aware of the Covid guidelines of the state government. To achieve this, mass media team of the Health Department, Ludhiana, visits different villages of Ludhiana to sensitise them.She said the state government had also invited residents from each village to come and be a volunteer of their area to make sure that Covid guidelines were followed in the village.In the end, she appealed to all residents of Ludhiana to follow the Covid guidelines of the state government.Besides, Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) has rolled out Mission HO2PE. As part of the mission, HUL has partnered with the KVN Foundation and Portea Medical, home healthcare company, to make oxygen concentrators available free of cost to Covid patients promptly and efficiently. The HUL will also be donating concentrators to hospitals in nearly 35+ locations across urban and rural areas of the country.Through the mission, the HUL has airlifted over 50,00 oxygen concentrators into India. The firm’s partnership with the KVN Foundation and Portea Medical will provide access to oxygen for Covid-19 patients directly in their homes, thereby reducing pressure on our healthcare infrastructure which is already under duress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-more-succumb-113-ve-in-ludhiana-district-266714
11-06-2021||---||Father-son duo held with heroin, Rs1.5L||Ludhiana, June 10 The Special Task Force (STF) wing of Ludhiana arrested a man and his son and recovered 1.33 kg of heroin and Rs 1.52 lakh drug money from their possession. They have been identified as Joga Singh (27) and his father Balwinder Singh (64), residents of Dashmesh colony, Noorwala road. STF Ludhiana in-charge Harbans Singh said a police party was patrolling on Kali Sadak, near Basti Jodhewal, where they received a tip-off that the duo were into the notorious trade of heroin smuggling and they were present near their house. Accordingly, the STF team conducted a raid and nabbed them. During their search, heroin and drug money were recovered from them. During preliminary questioning, Joga said he was addicted to heroin and to fulfill his need of the same, he also started selling drugs for the past three years. Balwinder said he was earning his livelihood from e- rickshaw and he also started heroin smuggling to become rich in a short span of time. The STF in-charge said their police remand would be sought to bust the entire supply line and in further probe, more members of the gang could also be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/father-son-duo-held-with-heroin-rs1-5l-266715
11-06-2021||---||Thieves target mobile phone shop, Suwidha Centre in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 10 Two major theft cases reported in the city in which cash and goods worth lakhs were stolen. The first incident reported in New Madhopuri where thieves targeted a mobile phone showroom and decamped with mobile phones and other valuables worth lakhs. The miscreants were also captured in a CCTV camera footage. Raju Verma, owner of Bharat Mobiles, told the police that he had closed his shop on the night of June 8 and the next morning, when he came to open the shop, he was shocked to see the broken locks of the main shutter. “I was shocked to see that the entire shop was ransacked and thieves decamped with a laptop, mobile phones, mobile accessories, cash and other valuables worth lakhs. When we checked the CCTV footage, six thieves were seen inside the shop and they were wearing mask,” the shop owner said. Daresi police station ASI Rajinder Singh said CCTV cameras were being scanned to identify the accused and soon they would be nabbed. In another theft incident, miscreants targeted the Suwidha Centre near Rakh Bagh and decamped with 16 batteries. Security guard Munish Kumar said on June 9 when he came to open the centre, he found the main locks lying broken and 16 batteries were found missing. The Police Division 8 have registered a case and initiated further probe. Despite night curfew and presence of police force on roads, thieves are still committing thefts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-target-mobile-phone-shop-suwidha-centre-in-ludhiana-266716
11-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Ludhiana residents fume over erratic power supply, stage protest||Ludhiana, June 10 Residents of several colonies in the city have raised their voice against Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for its failure to provide uninterrupted power supply to consumers during hot weather conditions. The situation seems to be grim in areas falling in the Aggar Nagar division of the PSPCL. Residents from colonies in Chander Nagar, New Tagore Nagar, Dream Land Colony, Smart City Colony, Jassian Road, Durgapuri, all areas falling under the Aggar Nagar division, today staged a protest outside the Aggar Nagar Division office of the PSPCL near Sidhwan Canal to protest against the erratic power supply.  They alleged that even in such a hot weather they are forced to suffer for hours without power supply as complaints were not attended. Many times, we receive SMSes from the customer care that the complaint has been resolved despite the faults were not being rectified.  Pradeep Gupta and Vicky from Dreamland Colony said the transformer in the colony was installed early last year. Now, the number of residents have increased manifold which led to frequent tripping and power failure.  Residents of Civil City Colony in Chander Nagar near Haibowal said the distribution equipment in the area was obsolete and overloaded. People had to go without electricity for days or nights at a stretch. Fearing attack by an angry mob, the main gate of divisional office of the PSPCL was closed during the protest. However, after some time, the JE, SDO and XEN of the division came out and assured the protesters that snags in power supply in their respective areas would be rectified immediately. Despite several attempts the Additional Superintending Engineer of Aggar Nagar Division of the PSPCL Parminder Singh could not be contacted for comments. The Chief Engineer, PSPCL/Central Zone, Bhupinder Khosla, said directions were issued to the officials concerned to attend to faults and rectify pending complaints of power failure without any further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-fume-over-erratic-power-supply-stage-protest-266717
11-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Garbage dump at Ludhiana's Focal Point to be converted into mini-forest||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 1o With the efforts of the Municipal Corporation (MC), a few industrialists and Rohit Mehra, known as the Green Man of India, a garbage dumping site in the Focal Point area is being converted into a “mini-forest”. The huge chunk of land is being converted into a small forest but the trees being planted here will bear fruits in future.  Income Tax Officer Rohit Mehra said a total of 6,000 plants and trees would be planted in the area with the help of the MC and FICCI FLO. On 3,000 square land, this mini jungle will have all the saplings planted within next 15 days. Mehra said it was not easy to convert it into a green belt because while digging, iron and scrap was found all over as it was a dumpyard.  The mini-jungle will have trees such as jamun, guava, neem, bil, peepal and many others having various ayurvedic qualities.  Suraj Udyog has happily agreed to adopt the land in the most polluted area to create a mini-forest based on the principle of Vriksha Ayurveda under the guidance of Geetanjali Mehra and Rohit Mehra.  The idea behind creating the project triggered keeping in mind the current scenario where people are spending their entire life savings just to buy oxygen for their loved ones amid the Covid crisis.  Richa Bassi from Suraj Udyog said that Ludhiana is an industrial hub. “I am sure if every industrial house adopts a small chunk of land to make the city greener. We should always give back to our mother earth from whom we get everything”, said Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-dump-at-ludhianas-focal-point-to-be-converted-into-mini-forest-266718
11-06-2021||---||Thieves fleeing after stealing bike open fire at man||Ludhiana, June 10 Thieves fleeing after stealing a motorcycle from the Moti Nagar area opened fire at the owner. The latter was chasing them and he had a miraculous escape when thieves fired at him. Later, the police identified the suspects as Ranjan Kumar of Sarpanch Colony and Ankit Kumar of Gobindgarh village. Complainant Sunil Kumar of Sherpur Kalan told the police that he had borrowed a motorcycle from his friend and on June 8, he had parked the vehicle outside his house. The next morning, he heard some noise outside his house and when he went to the place, he was shocked to see that his motorcycle was missing. He said when he asked his neighbours, they said two unknown persons had stolen the motorcycle and fled the spot. “Afterwards, I started chasing them but the thieves after noticing me, opened fire at me. Fortunately, I escaped unhurt,” he said. Investigating officer ASI Anil Kumar said after registering a case late on Wednesday evening, when a probe started in the matter, both suspects were identified. Later, one of the accused, Ankit, was arrested. The police also recovered a live cartridge and a motorcycle from the suspect. ASI Kumar said raids were also being conducted to nab the other suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-fleeing-after-stealing-bike-open-fire-at-man-266719
11-06-2021||Ludhiana||Collect samples of road material, say residents||Raising questions over the undergoing road recarpeting work at street number 1 of Chandar Nagar in ward no. 92, some residents have demanded from the MC to collect samples of road material being used there. A resident, Keemti Rawal, said: “We have sent a letter to the Commissioner and requested him to send a quality control team to collect samples of the road. The test report of the samples must be made public.” “We are not satisfied with the ongoing road work in the area. There is a need to check the quality of the work. If the samples are collected in a right manner, the report can disclose the quality of work,” Rawal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/collect-samples-of-road-material-say-residents-266720
11-06-2021||---||Contractor accused of fleecing cart pullers at Ludhiana veggie market||Ludhiana, June 10 Cart-pullers/owners, who transport vegetables and fruits at sabzi mandi near Jalandhar Bypass, today staged a protest against a private contractor for allegedly fleecing them. A former councillor of the Lok Insaaf Party, Randhir Singh Sibia, also supported the protesters and demanded from the Punjab Mandi Board to take immediate steps to stop fleecing of the cart-pullers and other visitors at the sabzi mandi. Sibia said: “The cart-pullers transport vegetables from inside the Sabzi Mandi to the road outside the mandi gate to meet their daily needs but the private contractor charges Rs 20 every time from them. The authorities concerned had turned a blind eye over the violations due to which the cart owners are being exploited. Thus, the cart owners were forced to mark protest at the mandi today. A fee should be collected only one time daily.” Sibia added: “The contractor has been violating the rules under the nose of the administration. An entry fee is also being charged from bike riders and cyclists who purchase vegetables from inside the mandi. The contractor also charges fee from pedestrians if they have two bags of vegetables. The government and Punjab Mandi Board officials have failed to keep a check on the violations at the mandi.” Meanwhile, Ward 2 Councillor, Gurmail Singh Jajji blamed the state government and Punjab Mandi Board authorities for ignoring the violations at Sabzi Mandi. “The contractor openly fleeces visitors but the officials ignored the violations. A strict action should be taken against the contractor and responsible officials”, said Gurmail Singh.  Punjab Mandi Board officials also reached the protest site to resolve the matter between the cart owners and the contractor. The District Mandi Officer, Davinder Singh, said, “The matter has been resolved. The contractor has been asked to follow the guidelines.” He, however, denied the allegations about fleecing of visitors. He said, “The contractor can’t charge any fee for the two-wheelers. I have also inspected the sabzi mandi but the contractor was not found charging any fee from two-wheelers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractor-accused-of-fleecing-cart-pullers-at-ludhiana-veggie-market-266721
11-06-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Sweepers’ strike enters 28th day, towns stink||Doraha/Sahnewal, June 10 The Safai Sewak Union today entered its 28th day of strike after talks with Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra failed on Wednesday. Members of the union have said they will not withdraw their protest till their demands are met. Meanwhile, the sanitation conditions in and around the towns have deteriorated further. The president of the Doraha unit of the union, Rocky, said: “When every section of society can raise its voice to get its demands fulfilled, why not us? The sanitation workers are the most deprived and needs immediate attention of the government. Inflation rate keeps increasing but our salaries remain the same. How can we satisfy our day-to-day needs with such low wages?” he said. The general secretary of the Sahnewal unit of the Safai Sewak Union, Sukhdev Singh, said: “It is shameful on part of the government that we have been protesting for nearly a month now but our demands have not been heard. Is it not the duty of the government to take prompt decision in our case to avoid further accumulation of waste in the districts?” “We met Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra yesterday and urged him to accept our demands. We want the government to take a decision and implement the same as early as possible. We had decided to gherao the Moti Mahal today but the government nullified our plans. But now, we have planned another protest on June 15 at the Moti Mahal in Patiala and the residence of the Cabinet Minister,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sweepers-strike-enters-28th-day-towns-stink-266722
11-06-2021||---||NAFLD one of most common liver diseases: Docs||Ludhiana, June 10Every year, June 10 is observed as International Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis Day (NASH). The theme for this year is ‘NASH around the world’.“NASH is a severe form of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), in which the fat in the liver causes inflammation called hepatitis and damage liver cells. This later on leads to fibrosis or scar and cirrhosis. NAFLD is one of the most common liver diseases and is seen in all races and ethnicities. Its incidence and prevalence are increasing with an increase in obesity and diabetes in the world population,” said Dr Harmeet Singh Saluja, chief gastroenterologist at Deep Hospital.During an awareness session at the Advanced Gastroenterology Institute, Dr Nirmaljeet Singh Malhi shared the latest insights on how to prevent, diagnose and manage fatty liver disease.Dr Rajiv Grover talked about how worldwide community participation was essential to reduce the global prevalence of fatty liver disease, which could advance dangerously if left undetected and unacknowledged.Dr Jasmeet Singh Dhingra counselled caregivers about how to support patients diagnosed with NASH. He highlighted the public benefit of preventive liver health packages that could be availed for early screening of fatty liver disease.Mandi Ahmedgarh: Identifying NASH as a cause of worry for medical fraternity and patients, office-bearers and activists of social and medical organisations today launched a coordinated programme to spread awareness the about causes and consequences of this liver disorder.An oath was taken during the concluding session of a function held at the Hind Institute of Paramedical Studies, Bhai Bir Singh Nagar, on occasion of International NASH Day.The president of the Social Welfare Organisation, Dr Sunit Hind, was the keynote speaker on the occasion.Speakers said the NASH was a severe form of fatty liver which occurred in nearly 20 per cent patients already detected with NAFLD.People who do not consume alcohol or consume insignificant quantity could also become a victim of the disease, Dr Sunit Hind said.“NAFLD is a lifestyle disease which is taking the shape of an epidemic affecting approximately one-fourth of the general population, with higher prevalence in those with risk factors including obesity, sugar, high blood pressure and abnormal blood lipids,” said Dr Sunit Hind.He cautioned participants against living a sedentary life, which normally leads to obesity with excess of fat accumulation in the body. He said: “The excess fat in the body gets re-distributed to other organs, with liver being the most favoured site, leading to a fatty liver.”Symptoms of NAFLD/NASHRisk factors for developing NAFLD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nafld-one-of-most-common-liver-diseases-docs-266723
11-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Payal MLA distributes ‘Fateh’ kits to patients||Payal, June 10 Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha today distributed ‘Fateh’ kits to coronavirus patients at the Covid care centre at Sant Ishar Singh Memorial Hospital at Karamsar (Rara Sahib) near here. He said the state government was also providing kits to patients in home isolation. The MLA had visited the Covid care centre to review arrangements and services provided to patients. “We have full confidence in the healthcare workers and doctors who are looking after arrangements at the Covid care centre. I have advised senior functionaries to ensure that the standard protocol for treatment of Covid patients and prevention of the spread of the virus was followed in letter and spirit,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/payal-mla-distributes-fateh-kits-to-patients-266724
11-06-2021||Ludhiana||MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains denies rape allegation||After another woman has levelled rape allegations against him, Lok Insaaf Party chief, MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains on Thursday denied the allegations. Notably, a woman teacher has made a complaint against Bains to the police recently. While addressing mediapersons during a press meet today, he said the allegations levelled by the woman were false and politically motivated. Bains also said he would meet the DGP soon. Bains blamed some opposition party leaders, who had lost elections, for the “conspiracy” against him. He said: “As the assembly elections are approaching, such false allegations are being levelled against me. One day, truth will come out and those who were behind the conspiracy would get exposed.” A woman had also levelled rape allegations against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains in November 2020. She had been staging protests, demanding action against the MLA.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-simarjeet-singh-bains-denies-rape-allegation-266725
11-06-2021||Ludhiana||Coding summer camp held||Webinar on communication skillsBCM School, Chandigarh Road, organised a webinar for teachers on enhancing communication skills. Harpreet Kaur Kang, dean of international affairs at PCTE Group of Institutes, Badhowal, was the resource person for the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/coding-summer-camp-held-266726
