12-06-2021||Shillong||Paras Singh case: Speakers of NE assemblies to move LS Speaker on racism issue||Following the arrest of social media influencer Paras Singh for his alleged racial slur against an MLA of Arunachal Pradesh, Assembly Speakers of the eight Northeastern states have decided to write to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on the issue of racism faced by the people of the region outside it.Meghalaya Assembly Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh said on Saturday that they would also petition Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the menace.“Assembly Speakers of the eight Northeastern states have decided to submit a memorandum to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to address issues of racism faced by citizens of Northeastern states living outside the region,” Lyngdoh told PTI.He said that the decision was made at a virtual meeting of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association held on Friday under the chairmanship of Arunachal Pradesh Speaker Pasang Dorjee.There were instances that people hailing from the eight NE states—Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura— faced racial comments in various places in the country outside the region.In one of his YouTube channels dealing with mobile games, Paras Singh had allegedly described senior Arunachal Pradesh Congress MLA Ninong Ering as “a non-Indian” and the state as a part of China.The social influencer was arrested from Punjab’s Ludhiana on May 25 on the charges of inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of the Northeastern state. He was then brought to Arunachal Pradesh and an Itanagar court granted him bail on Saturday.According to police, the YouTuber was enraged after Ering wrote a letter to the PM seeking a ban on PUBG, as banning the online game would have meant a loss in income for him. His channels on the video-sharing website are monetised. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/paras-singh-case-speakers-of-ne-assemblies-to-move-ls-speaker-on-racism-issue-267425
12-06-2021||---||4 succumb to virus, 140 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 11A total of four persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours while the Health Department on Friday confirmed 140 fresh cases in the district.Of the 140 cases, 83 persons with influenza-like illness visited flu corner, 28 visited the OPD and four persons had come in contact with positive patients while 21 patients were yet to be traced. Also, two patients with a severe acute respiratory infection and two others tested positive for the virus.Those who died include a 53-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar,a 52-year-old woman from Jagraon, a 55-year-old man from Sunet and a 64-year-old man from Jungpur village in the Ludhiana district.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill told that 152 cases, including 140 from Ludhiana and 12 from other states or districts, were confirmed today. Besides, five persons, including four from Ludhiana and one from Patiala died due to Covid-19, she added.There are 1,724 active cases in the district at present while 25 patients including 14 from Ludhiana and 11 from other areas are on ventilator support. A total of 15,13,842 samples were collected to date. As many as 11,810 samples for the Covid-19 test was collected today.The Health Department has confirmed 86,061 cases of Ludhiana district and 11,308 cases of other districts or states here since the pandemic was declared.The department has confirmed the death of 2,058 persons of Ludhiana district and 1,016 persons belonging to other districts or states due to Covid-19 here.105-year-old vaccinatedA vaccination camp was organised at Dr DN Kotnis Acupuncture Hospital at Salem Tabri, Ludhiana. Dr Inderjeet Dhingra from the hospital said a number of persons, including a 105-year-old man Gulzar Singh, was also vaccinated at the camp. MLA Rakesh Pandey inaugurated the camp that was organised with support of UPHC Salem Tabri, incharge Dr Amrik Singh Sidhu.50K vaccines at 159 centresAs per officials of the district administration, 50,000 vaccines will be made available at 159 centres of the district on Saturday. Anyone above 18 years of age can visit the centres for vaccination. The administration has appealed to all youth to come in big numbers to take benefit of the opportunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-succumb-to-virus-140-test-positive-in-ludhiana-266971
12-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district turns safest from worst-affected in state||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 11It’s official! Ludhiana has turned into the safest district in Punjab. Having assumed the dubious distinction of being the worst-hit district with the maximum number of daily Covid cases and deaths till last month, Ludhiana has made a remarkable turnaround by recording the lowest daily positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, even below 1 per cent.If it was mayhem in May when the second Covid wave had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis with the health facilities unbearably falling short, oxygen supplies running low and many dying even without seeing a doctor, June gave a sigh of relief with the signs of gradual retreat and impact of deadly virus plateauing.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana’s average daily Covid positivity rate remained lowest at 1.6 per cent in the state last week. While the district’s average daily positivity rate was half than the state’s average of 3.2 per cent, it was more than four-times less than Mohali’s ratio of 6.9 per cent, which was highest in the state from May 31 to June 6.The safe state of Ludhiana continued in the current week as well with the district’s average daily Covid positivity rate further dropping to 1.1 per cent on June 7, which was less than half of the state’s average of 2.57 per cent. On June 8, the ratio of positive cases fell even below 1 per cent at 0.98 per cent, lowest in four months after 0.99 per cent recorded here on February 7. This was again almost three-times less than the state’s average of 2.47 per cent.The hit rate further dipped to 0.87 per cent on June 9, which was lowest in almost five months after 0.87 per cent registered on January 18. This was also almost three-times less than the state’s average of 2.29 per cent.On Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday also, Ludhiana’s daily positivity rate remained lowest in Punjab.However, the ratio slightly went up to 1.07 per cent on June 10 and 1.19 per cent on June 11, which was still almost half than the state’s average of 2.36 per cent.This U-turn was all the more significant as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 18.73 per cent from the highest-ever ratio of 19.57 per cent in little over a month. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The data compiled by the district administration, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.Ludhiana’s positivity rate had started at a high of 18.92 per cent on the first day of May, further rising and touching its peak of 19.57 per cent on May 2.The analysis of weekly average positivity rate showed that Ludhiana reported 4.3 per cent positivity rate between May 20 and 26, which was almost half of 7.3 per cent positivity rate recorded in the district between May 13 and 19.From the sixth lowest positivity rate in the state and almost one-third less than state’s average of 10.7 per cent between May 13 and 19, and the fifth lowest with 2.3 per cent less than the state average of 6.6 per cent between May 20 and 26, Ludhiana’s hit rate not only turned out to be the lowest at 1.6 per cent in the state but also half of Punjab’s average of 3.2 per cent between May 31 and June 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-turns-safest-from-worst-affected-in-state-266972
12-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||High-velocity winds uproot trees, power supply hit||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 11The thunderstorm that hit the city last night uprooted trees in at least 55 locations in the city, affecting traffic movement and power supply at many places.Many trees fell on the electricity wires causing disruption in power supply and damaged several vehicles parked on roads.Officials of the Horticulture Wing, Municipal Corporation (MC), swung into action and started clearing the uprooted trees.As the high-velocity winds hit the city, a tree fell down outside MC Commissioner’s residence while one tree got damaged outside the DC’s residence. There are reports that trees got uprooted at Dr Lekhi Road, Mall Road, Tikona Park Model Gram, Dugri and various other locations in the city.A tree had also fallen down near Dana Mandi on Gill Road due to which traffic got affected. Besides, a tree fell on cars at Jamalpur Chowk as per the information.Some trees reportedly fell inside the houses and other places too. Manjit Singh, a resident of Tajpur Road, said: “We had a big 14-year-old jamun tree at our house but the storm uprooted it. It is a very sad moment for us that the tree has got damaged.”Kirpal Singh, an official of the MC’s Horticulture Wing, said, “Our staff have been working since last night when high-velocity winds hit the city. We had started getting reports from different areas about the uprooted trees. Many of the sites were cleared by the morning. We had got information about uprooted trees at around 55 locations in the city.”According to the information, a boundary wall of a vacant plot collapsed and debris fell on a car at Haibowal Khurd. A boundary wall also collapsed near the Civil Surgeon office in Ludhiana while a director board fell down on Chandigarh Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-velocity-winds-uproot-trees-power-supply-hit-266973
12-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Half of Ludhiana sinks into darkness||Ludhiana, June 11The thunderstorm wreaked havoc on the power distribution system in the city uprooting electric poles in many localities and brought down a 220 kV HT line tower near Ladhowal. Many parts of the city plunged into darkness for four to six hours. Power which went off at around 7.00 pm remained disrupted in nearly half of the city with 35 to 40 per cent feeders remaining shut down and restoration of supply commencing after 10.00 pm.According to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials, several trees were uprooted in the PAU complex, Sarabha Nagar, Civil Lines (Near Sutlej Club), Haibowal and Jamalpur localities which brought down 11 kV and LT cables at many places, plunging the city in darkness for several hours. Only saving grace, even though temporary, was that the weather had turned a bit pleasant from the extremely hot and humid conditions.Reports said some jhuggis on Tajpur Road were damaged during the thunderstorm where five persons sustained injuries and one person had died. However, the loss of human life was not confirmed by authorities till now.While PSPCL officials claimed that power had been restored at most of the places affected by bad weather, residents of many colonies, including Smart City Colony near Jwala Singh Chowk in Haibowal, Sector 32 on Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road and some more areas in Haibowal, asserted that supply was still disrupted in their colonies.It was also learnt that power supply was again cut off in the morning in some localities as the maintenance and transmission line staff had taken a shut down for couple of hours to repair a fallen 220 kV HT line tower near Mega Food Park in Ladhowal.Despite tall claims by the PSPCL authorities of having strengthened the power distribution system with laying new 11 kV lines, setting up more 66 and 220 kV sub stations and under-loading of distribution transformers across the city, most people in residential areas termed the distribution network of power utility as ‘vulnerable’ to the vagaries of weather.“A lot more needs to be done to ramp up electricity distribution system in the designated Smart City,” quipped a resident of Sarbha Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/half-of-ludhiana-sinks-into-darkness-266974
12-06-2021||---||NGOs protest against MC for ‘ignoring’ NGT orders||Ludhiana, June 11Members of different NGOs, including the Wake Up Ludhiana and Council of Engineers, staged a protest in front of the office of the Municipal Commissioner at Zone-D, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana against the MC authorities for allegedly ignoring the orders of the National Green Tribunal Act (NGT) regarding trees. The members accused the civic body officials of failing to remove the interlocking tiles around trees.Harpreet Soin, president, Wake Up Ludhiana, and Amrita Mangat said, “When concrete is placed over the roots, it damages critical root structures. Covering this zone with concrete inhibits the tree’s ability to take in water and oxygen. As a result, laying concrete under an existing tree may result in the tree’s death,” they said.The protesting members said due to lack of nutrients because of chocking of their roots, the grip/strength of roots of matured trees with the earth decreases and such trees are more likely to fall during wind storm.“The officials concerned of the MC, GLADA as well LIT, without consulting the horticulturist and environment experts about the effect of concrete around bottom of trees, are continuously covering the areas around the trees with concrete and fixing interlocking tiles (paver) over it” said, Kapil Arora and Mohit Jain of the Council of Engineers.“A petition was filed with the National Green Tribunal against such unlawful act of the MC, LIT and GLADA. The Green Tribunal issued directions to all three departments to take remedial action to clear the roots of trees within 1 metre radius of bases of existing trees in Ludhiana but they failed to follow the orders,” protesters said.Gagnish Singh Khurana and Kuldeep Singh Khaira saidt they had submitted copy of orders to the Municipal Commissioner. But, despite numerous reminders, the orders were not implemented by the MC, they alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngos-protest-against-mc-for-ignoring-ngt-orders-266975
12-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||GLADA razes structures in 8 illegal colonies||Ludhiana, June 11 A team of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials today carried out demolition in eight illegal colonies under development in Dhandra, Manakwal and Mehmoodpura villages. Accompanied by a duty magistrate, heavy police force from three police stations, GLADA officials pulled down structures and boundary walls, dug up sewerage and water pipes, pulled out electric poles and dismantled interlocking tiles laid on pavement area. At some sites, developers and plot/property owners tried to stop the demolition and were persuaded not to interfere with the enforcement action being carried out. At more than one site, the GLADA team disconnected a sewer main line illegally connected to the Municipal Corporation sewerage network by one of the developers of illegal and unlicensed colonies. GLADA officials said the developers and plot/property owners were strictly warned against any further construction activity. “They were also told that any further violations of the PAPRA Act (PUDA Act) will be liable to criminal proceedings under the prevailing laws,” the officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-razes-structures-in-8-illegal-colonies-266976
12-06-2021||Ludhiana||Man, son arrested for murdering woman||The city police have cracked the blind murder case of a woman, Ranju Devi (38), whose body was recently found near Sahnewal village. The accused have been identified as Dalip Kumar and his son Deepak Kumar, residents of New Smart Colony, Gaispura.  While addressing a press conference, ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said on June 8, the badly-injured body of the woman wrapped in a sack was found in Rudra Colony. The ADCP said during the investigation, it was revealed that the deceased had extramarital affair with Dalip in the past but now they were not in good terms. “Ranju was forcing Dalip to pay her monthly expenses but he was not able to arrange the money, so he decided to kill her,” the ADCP said. On June 7, Dalip called Ranju at his home where he along with his son strangulated her to death. After killing her, they slit her throat and damaged her private parts. Both the accused then dumped the body in Rudra Colony. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-son-arrested-for-murdering-woman-266978
12-06-2021||---||Fire breaks out in yarn mill||Ludhiana, June 11 Fire broke out in a yarn mill located on the Chandigarh road this evening. A loss of goods and machinery worth lakhs of rupees has been reported in the incident. When fire broke, workers rushed out to save their lives. Fortunately there is no injury or loss of human life in the incident. Fire officials said over 25 fire tenders were used to douse the flames completely. A short circuit was said to be the cause of fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-in-yarn-mill-266979
12-06-2021||---||3 armed robbers loot petrol station||Ludhiana, June 11Three bike-borne armed robbers today looted a petrol station on the Dhandra road.Jashanpreet Singh, owner of the petrol station, said on Friday evening three bike-borne persons came to fill fuel in their bike. When a petrol station employee was filling fuel in their bike, one of the robbers went inside the office and pointed a gun at an employee. He asked the employee to hand over cash to him.“One of our employees Sushil had a scuffle with the robbers. The robbers attacked him with a sharp weapon on the head and he suffered serious injuries,” he said.After the robbers fled, employees informed the owner and police. The entire incident has been captured by the CCTV cameras.The Dugri police registered a case against three robbers and launched a hunt to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-armed-robbers-loot-petrol-station-266980
12-06-2021||---||LIP protests delay in issuance of SC scholarship funds to colleges||Ludhiana, June 11 The SC wing of the Lok Insaaf Party today staged a protest against the Congress for allegedly deceiving Dalit students. During the protest, activists and members of the party also burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh outside the office of Deputy Commissioner. Rajesh Khokhar, president, Lok Insaf Party SC wing, said: “We have sent a memorandum to the Governor of Punjab requesting him to take action as roll numbers of two lakh Scheduled Caste students have not been issued, owing to which they may face troubles during their exams.” He alleged that the state government had not released Rs 1,850 crore under the Post-matric Scholarship Scheme to colleges. “The Punjab government has deceived students belonging to the SC community,” he said. Protesters demanded from the Governor to issue orders to the state government to release the scholarship funds of Rs 1,850 crore to colleges and issue roll numbers to students at the earliest. They also demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged Post-martic Scholarship Scheme scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-protests-delay-in-issuance-of-sc-scholarship-funds-to-colleges-266981
12-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Congress protests hike in fuel prices||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal/ Amargarh/Raikot, June 11 Congress activists today protested against a hike in petrol prices and the inaction of the Union Government to control the same. While some activists staged demonstrations at various filling stations in the region, others rode horse carts around the region to express their concerns over the increasing prices of petrol and diesel. The protestors held placards and raised slogans against the Centre.  Leaders said petrol prices had almost reached Rs 100 per litre and the hike had affected the budget of the common man. “Petrol prices should come under the purview of GST and there should be a complete rollback in the price hike,” said protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices-266982
12-06-2021||---||Industrialists demand one-time settlement for PSIEC plot holders||Ludhiana, June 11 The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation today demanded one-time settlement for PSIEC plot holders in the Focal Point Enhancement case from Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The chairman of FICO, KK Seth, said the MSME Sector was already struggling for survival due to curfews and lockdowns and needed the relief of one-time settlement. The president of the organisation, Gurmeet Singh Kular, said almost six years back, the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) issued a notice of Rs 249 per square yard to Focal Point, Phase VIII, allottees, which was finally settled at Rs 24 per square yard. Now again, the PSIEC has issued a notice and demanded Rs 474 per square yard from the allottees whereas it had already taken 100 per cent anticipatory enhancement, he added. “With inclusions of interest and other charges, the cost has now reached around Rs 1,000 per square yard, which is totally unjustified and unviable. Owing to the PSIEC enhancement pendency, the industry situated in Phase VIII is suffering a lot as all works related to financial institutes have been put on hold as they demand a clearance certificate from the PSIEC,” Seth said. “The ‘No Enhancement Policy’ of the Haryana State Industries Development Corporation should also be applicable to Punjab to facilitate the industry in the state. The industrialists at Focal Point, Phase VIII, are demanding for one-time settlement solution from the PSIEC, just like property tax and other departments under the OTS Scheme,” Kular said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industrialists-demand-one-time-settlement-for-psiec-plot-holders-266984
12-06-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Residents protest setting up waste compactor at cremation ground||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 11 Accusing the Municipal Corporation and Ludhiana Improvement Trust of ignoring the dignity of the dead, a large number of residents staged a protest against these departments for making an attempt to set up a static waste compactor at cremation ground of Barewal. Slamming the authorities, the residents said they have been cremating dead persons at the cremation ground for a long time with full respect and they don’t want any garbage dump or static waste compactor to be set up on the land of the cremation ground. When the residents came to know that the work is going to start for the construction of the dumping site, they gathered there to mark their protest today. Meanwhile, the police also reached the site to control the situation. The MC’s plan to set up a static waste compactor on the cremation ground land is being strongly criticised by a religious body. Tarlochan Singh, a resident, said: “The management committee of Gurdwara Sanjha Sahib had earlier gone to the court against the MC and LIT’s plan of setting up a garbage dump on the cremation ground land. The court has issued a stay order. Now, these departments are violating the court’s stay order.” A senior officer of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust, Boota Ram, said the MC had identified the site for setting up the static waste compactor. The LIT was to execute the project only, he said. On the other hand, MC officials claimed that the court had allowed them to set up a dump on one side of the cremation ground. The MC’s Assistant Town Planner MS Bedi said the MC House had approved a resolution to set up a static waste compactor at a portion of the cremation ground land, which is the MC’s land, about a few years ago. “The compactor is not to be set up at that location where the court had earlier issued a stay order. Now, the court has allowed the MC to set up the waste compactor at the new proposed location. Moreover, entrance to waste compactor would be from the Sua side, while the visitors enter the cremation ground from another side,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-protest-setting-up-waste-compactor-at-cremation-ground-266985
12-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Two held with 15-gm heroin||Doraha, June 11 Doraha police have arrested two drug peddlers with 15-gm of heroin and drug money. Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the peddlers were arrested from Rampur village at a naka near Lakar Mandi, Doraha. Drug money worth Rs 1,76,000 was also recovered from their home. The arrested have been identified as Amandeep Singh and Harwinder Singh. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. During the interrogation, it was found that the arrested were running a drug trade in connivance with Jatinder Kumar of the same village, who is at present lodged at Ludhiana Central Jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-with-15-gm-heroin-266986
12-06-2021||---||Summer camps in full swing at govt schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 11Under the guidelines of the Education Department, online summer camps are being organised by various schools of Block Mangat-1.During the camp, students are participating in various activities such as yoga, tree-plantation drive, mehandi design, ‘dastarbsndi’, clay modelling, calligraphy, salad-making, painting, mask-making among other activities.Media in-charge Dr Devinder Singh Chhina said summer camps enhanced the spirits of students and helped in their personality development. Over 300 school students are getting a chance to explore and exhibit their talents in the district, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/summer-camps-in-full-swing-at-govt-schools-267292
12-06-2021||---||Varsity start-up gets Greenpreneur Award||Black Eye Technologies Private Limited, a start-up incubated under Punjab Agri Business Incubator (PABI), Directorate of Extension Education of the university, has been honoured with Greenpreneur Award 2021. Amandeep Srivastava, founder of the start-up, received the award during an online ceremony organized by FICCI FLO, Amritsar, in collaboration with Start-up Punjab. TNSDiscussion on creating awareness on CovidThe College of Community Science organised an online panel discussion to create awareness about coronavirus among villagers. About 100 villagers from various districts of Punjab attended the discussion.College Dean Dr Sandeep Bains said lack of awareness was the main reason behind the spread of the virus in the villages. The panel discussion was initiated by Assistant Professor Dr Sukhdeep Kaur and experts from different departments of the college.Dr Kuldeep Singh, head, Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, laid stress on vaccination to curb the spread of the virus. Professor Dr Kanwaljit Kaur sharing her experience of recovering from the virus and laid emphasis on the importance of getting tested. TNSMoU on brewed vinegar signed with Nashik start-upThe university entered into an agreement with a Nashik (Maharashtra) startup, Celebrating Farmers Edge International Private Limited, for licensing of fermentative processing technology ‘Brewed vinegar production from sugarcane and fruits.’ The pact was signed by Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director of research; and Vipan Sareen, director of the start-up.Dr GS Kocher, principal microbiologist-cum-head, Department of Microbiology, said the university had been actively engaged in research on fermented vinegar. The research focuses on increasing the use of fermented/natural vinegar prepared from traditional fruits that carry nutritional and therapeutic values besides value addition of the horticultural produce, he added.Dr AS Dhatt, additional director of research (Horticulture and Food Science), said the university had so far signed six memoranda of agreements for the commercialisation of brewed fruit vinegar technology. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/varsity-start-up-gets-greenpreneur-award-267293
12-06-2021||---||DMCH honours docs for fight against Covid||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 11To boost the morale of the medical fraternity, a brief felicitation ceremony conducted for doctors and resident doctors at Hero DMC Heart Institute. The secretary of DMCH managing society, Prem Kumar Gupta, awarded appreciation certificates to residents of various specialities.Certificates and mementoes were awarded to recipients in their respective departments.Principal Dr Sandeep Puri, Vice-Principal Dr GS Wander and medical superintendent Dr Sandeep Sharma lauded the efforts of the medical fraternity for their contribution and dedication in the fight against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dmch-honours-docs-for-fight-against-covid-267294
