13-06-2021||Ludhiana||After 3 months, cases below 100 in Ludhiana||Today, 92 persons tested positive for Covid and it is after a gap of three months that less than 100 persons have tested positive in the district. It was on March 8, when 92 persons had tested positive. In March, the second wave started picking up and after this, daily more than 100 people tested positive and the highest in the second wave was on May 9 when 1,729 persons tested positive.Two persons lost their lives to the disease in the district today. Total positive cases from the district are now 86,153, while 2,060 persons have lost their lives since the outbreak of the pandemic. Today there were 1,531 active patients in the district.Those who lost their lives were both women aged 57-year-old and 65-year-old and belonged to Guru Nanak Colony and Mandiani Kalan, respectively.As many as 58 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 159 to private hospitals, while 26 patients were on ventilator support. In the second wave of Covid more rural lives were affected than urban.Mass media teams of the Health Department, Ludhiana, are going from village to village to make sarpanches, panches, volunteers and residents aware of Covid vaccination. Today the team visited various villages to sensitise people to make the ‘Corona Mukt Pind’ mission of Capt Amarinder Singh govt a success.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said, “People should not hesitate to take vaccination. In today’s scenario we have only three ways to protect ourselves from this deadly virus — First is taking precautions like wearing masks properly, sanitising or washing hands after short intervals and maintaining social distancing. Second way is to get vaccination as per schedule from the government. Third one is to get sample done in case of having any kind of symptoms or when anyone has contact with a positive patient.”She said, “Vaccination is completely safe. There is no harm in taking vaccination at any point of time.”In the end she shared her views about the concept of the Punjab Government of seven rural Covid volunteers from each village. She said it was a very good initiative taken by the state government. Those volunteers would make sure that Covid guidelines were followed in each village. They would also sensitise people on latest Covid guidelines of the Punjab Government.Black fungus patient diesA patient suffering from black fungus lost his life on Saturday. The patient belonged to some other district and was admitted to a Ludhiana hospital. Total 17 persons have lost their lives due to black fungus.Five more patients were diagnosed with black fungus. Out of these, four belonged to Ludhiana and one to other district. A total of 114 black fungus patients were admitted to hospitals in the district so far, while 51 are active patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-3-months-cases-below-100-in-ludhiana-267716
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||As Covid plateaus, infection in kids under 15 up 10 times||Even as the devastating second Covid wave has started showing the signs of gradual retreat with its impact plateauing, the incidence of deadly virus infection among the children below the age of 15 shot up over 10 times in the state last month.The week-wise trend of Covid cases in the under-15 category, compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that the rate has risen from 0.5 per cent between April 12 and 18 to 5.2 per cent between May 24 and 30. However, this over 10 times increase was less than half than the highest-ever ratio of 11.9 per cent recorded in the state between March 1 and 7.The official data showed that the virus infection among minor children receded to 10 per cent between March 8 and 14, and further dropped to 5.4 per cent between March 9 and 21, 3.7 per cent between March 22 and April 4, 3.5 per cent between April 5 and 11, before touching the record low of 0.5 per cent between April 12 and 18.Since then, the trend took a U-turn and started constantly rising to 3.9 per cent between April 19 and 25, 4.1 per cent between April 26 and May 2, 4.2 per cent between May 3 and 9, 4.1 per cent between May 10 and 16, 4.8 per cent between May 17 and 23, and reaching 5.2 per cent between May 24 and 30.Also, 14 cases of multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) among Covid positive children have been identified, of which one child has died, in the state so far.The government has identified 17 institutes, both government and private, for reporting MIS-C cases in the state.OfficialspeakWe have been making adequate arrangements with capacity building and upgrade of treatment facilities for the children to tackle the increased caseload, if any, in future. — Hussan Lal, Principal Health Secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/as-covid-plateaus-infection-in-kids-under-15-up-10-times-267717
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||10-year-old girl sexually abused by neighbour||A man sexually abused a 10-year-old girl at New Basant Vihar, Kakowal road, here.He has been identified as Jagir Singh, also a resident of the same area.The complainant, the mother of the victim, told the police that on June 10, her daughter was looking depressed but she was not revealing the behind the same to any family member.“Later, she revealed that the man took her to his room on the pretext of playing some game where he undressed the girl and touched her private parts. He also forced my daughter to touch his private part, “ she alleged.The woman said afterwards, she rushed to the Basti Jodhewal police station and lodged a complaint against him.SI Rachpal Kaur said a case under Section 376 A-B and 506 of the IPC and under Section 6 of the Pocso Act has been registered against the suspect and efforts were on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-year-old-girl-sexually-abused-by-neighbour-267718
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Man held with 1.3-kg heroin||The Special Task Force nabbed a smuggler and recovered 1.30 kg of heroin from his possession.The accused has been identified as Deepak Kumar Deepu (32) of Machhiwara Sahib.The STF, Ludhiana, in-charge, Harbans Singh, said a tip-off was received that notorious smuggler Deepak Kumar was on his way to deliver a huge consignment of heroin to his clients.Accordingly the STF team laid a naka near the house of Deepak. After intercepting Deepak, his checking was done and heroin recovered.During preliminary questioning, Deepak Kumar confessed that he had been into drug smuggling for the past 10 years and he himself was a drug addict.Inspector Harbans said police remand of Deepak Kumar would be sought from the court so that entire supply line could be busted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-1-3-kg-heroin-267719
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||AAP protests, burns Dharamsot’s effigy||Accusing the Congress government of committing a scam in post-matric scholarship of SC/ST students of Punjab, the state unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today staged a protest against the Congress government, led by Capt Amarinder Singh, at the Jalandhar Bypass, Ludhiana.The protesting AAP workers, led by MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke, burnt an effigy of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.The protesters raised slogans against the Congress government and demanded strict action against the ministers and officials involved in the scam. Manuke said, “At this time the Aam Aadmi Party has launched helpline number 78272-73487 for Dalit students on which students can register their problems.”She said the Education Minister of the Congress government was making tall claims of development in the education system, whereas the real picture of the education system in Punjab was that more than 2 lakh SC/ST students in Punjab could not take exams.Manuke said although the Punjab Government had announced to release the final instalment of the post-matric scholarship for Scheduled Caste students for the academic year 2020-21, the future of the students of the remaining three sessions was still at stake as the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) had made it clear that it would not issue students roll numbers due to arrears for the remaining years.Suresh Goyal, president, Ludhiana urban, AAP, said the lives of lakhs of students was ruined by the scam in SC scholarships as many colleges in the state had refused to issue roll numbers to the students.Jeevan Singh Sanghowal, vice-president, SC wing, AAP, Punjab, demanded that the Capt Amarinder government should immediately release the post-matric scholarships of SC and ST students of Punjab and a criminal case must be registered against the ministers and officials concerned for embezzlement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-protests-burns-dharamsots-effigy-267720
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two youths held for sharing child pornography||In two separate incidents, the Ludhiana police on Saturday arrested two youngsters for browsing, viewing and sharing objectionable content related to children on social media platforms.Those arrested have been identified as Ranjit Tiwari (23), a resident of Gurpal Nagar, Ludhiana, and Vikram Singh (20) of Bhagwan Nagar here.Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal said following reports from CyberTipline, the cyber cell of the Ludhiana police, arrested Matric-passed Ranjit Tewari, who was found sharing child pornographic content on his Instagram ID. Earlier, an FIR was registered under Section 67-B of the Information Technology (IT) Act at the Division 6 police station here.The CP said in another case, Vikram Singh, who is pursuing a diploma, used to share objectionable content related to children on Instagram.CyberTipline, nation’s centralised reporting system for the online exploitation of children, being run under the supervision of Ministry of Home Affairs, GoI, regularly monitors various social media platforms and Internet websites to keep a check on online enticement and objectionable content related to children.While exhorting the public to refrain from sharing any kind of child pornography content or videos knowingly or unknowingly on any social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook or WhatsApp, Agrawal said it was a serious crime under Section 67-B of the IT Act, which entails imprisonment upto five years and a fine of upto Rs 10 Lakh. “Even sharing a video having pornography content can land you in jail,” he added.The CP also urged citizens of the city to bring to the notice of the police authorities in case they find any objectionable content circulating online.ADCP (Investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ACP (Cyber Crime) Vaibhav Sehgal and ACP Kulwant Singh are monitoring social media profiles of suspects to gather more information about such miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-youths-held-for-sharing-child-pornography-267721
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Plumes of dust trouble traders, commuters||Commuters and shopkeepers are continuously facing inconvenience due to the ongoing storm water drainage project near the Clock Tower here.When the project was started, MC officials had claimed that commuters would not face any inconvenience but traffic snarls due to the ongoing work are common there.Traders want speedy completion of workAs the road was dug up for the installation of pipes, flying dust has also increased woes of the commuters and shopkeepers. The shopkeepers complained that plumes of dust that fly each time a vehicle crosses flows into their shops the whole day. Some traders could be seen sprinkling water as well to avoid the dust. They want the MC to complete the work at the earliest and then reconstruct the road.A trader, Simranjeet Singh Sheri, said: “We are facing a lot of inconvenience due to the ongoing project. Our business has got affected. After the road portion was dug for the installation of pipes, a large number of dust plumes enter our shops. We want the MC to conduct the work on war footing. Also, necessary steps should be taken to avoid dust and the stretch should be reconstructed.”The MC is installing the storm water drainage pipes on a stretch between Rekhi Cinema Chowk and an old nullah (drain) near the Bhadaur House. The underground drainage pipes will have to be connected with the drain. In the absence of a proper drainage system, the commuters are generally forced to pass through knee-deep water near the Clock Tower during rains.The MC’s SDO concerned, Sandeep Sharma, said: “We have installed all water drainage pipes on the stretch. Now, the work is underway to construct manholes there. Two manholes have been constructed while eight more are to be constructed. Once the work is done, the storm water drainage system will be made functional.”Notably, a senior official of the MC on May 22 had stated that the project work was expected to be completed within a month.Executive Engineer Pardeep Saluja said the work was going on at the site and the deadline for the project was June 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/plumes-of-dust-trouble-traders-commuters-267722
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Traffic police provide green corridor to critical patient||The Ludhiana traffic police acted as a Good Samaritan as they came to the rescue of a critically injured patient of Kotkapura in Faridkot district.The police created a green corridor for the patient being ferried in an ambulance from Faridkot to Ludhiana’s SPS hospital.Patient Amit Kumar (35), resident of Geeta Bhawan, Kotkapura, who works in a bank, was hit by a rashly driven truck when he was heading towards office on his motorcycle today. He was rushed to a hospital in Faridkot, but due to serious head injuries, doctors referred him to SPS Hospital in Ludhiana.The entire operation was supervised by the Joint CP, City, Deepak Pareek, and on ground, ACP, Traffic, Varunjit Singh practically implemented the idea.Varunjit Singh said on Saturday afternoon he got a call from Joint CP Pareek, who asked for an immediate green corridor for a critically injured patient coming from Faridkot district.“I deployed cops at various places from where the ambulance was to cross. The moment ambulance reached the octroi post on the Ferozepur road, I along with police pilot started towards the SPS Hospital and the ambulance driver was told to follow the pilot vehicle. We covered 15 km in just 12 minutes and the hospital started the treatment of patient on time,” said ACP Varunjit.The ACP said had the ambulance tried to reach the hospital from the octroi post on the Ferozepur road without green corridor, it would have taken more time as it had to pass through various traffic lights and roundabouts. Even the road leading to the hospital remains busy with traffic.“What we did was, we switched off all the traffic lights and traffic cops were deployed at every traffic signal. Cops created one empty lane for the ambulance at every traffic signal so that the ambulance could pass easily,” added the ACP.Relatives of the patient thanked the traffic police for enabling their patient reach the hospital in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-police-provide-green-corridor-to-critical-patient-267723
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||New govt college to be reality soon||A new government college will open in Ludhiana East next month, if all goes as per the official plan.The Rs 14-crore higher education project was in the advanced stage of completion and the target date of its completion was July 31.With this, the number of government colleges in the city will go up to three as two institutes — SCD Government College and the Government College for Girls — were already providing higher education here.Third govt college in cityThe progress of the ongoing work on the project was reviewed during the fourth meeting of the public investment management (PIM) committee on infrastructure development projects under implementation in the state, chaired by the Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, recently.The Chief Secretary directed the officials concerned to ensure quality control and completion of the project within the stipulated timeline.However, the original timeline of the project was July 2019, which could not be met due to certain reasons and now, the likely date of completion was fixed as July 31.The 100 per cent state-funded project was coming up at the cost of Rs 13.97 crore and was part of the higher education project to construct 10 new degree colleges in the state at the cost of Rs 100 crore in the current fiscal 2021-22.The Public Works Department (PWD) was the executing agency of the project.The other new government colleges in the state were coming up at Sidhpur, costing Rs 13.5 crore, Gidderbaha in Muktsar at Rs 12.49 crore, Bhawanigarh at Rs 12.25 crore, Malout at Rs 12.01 crore, Boota Mandi in Jalandhar at Rs 11.47 crore, Kartona Fatehgarh at Rs 10 crore and a sports college in Jalandhar at Rs 24.96 crore.The new colleges in the state were targeted to be completed till September this year.Education facilitiesAs far as education facilities were concerned, there were a total of 35 arts, science and commerce and home science colleges in the district where 1,258 teachers were providing higher education to 34,540 students.Besides, there were 18 teachers’ training colleges with 38 teachers and 384 students, 15 technical art and craft schools and industrial polytechnic institutions with 212 teachers and 3,560 students, 361 senior secondary schools with 5,794 teachers and 1,36,111 students, 367 high schools with 3,652 teachers and 99,552 students, 322 middle schools with 1,974 teachers and 39,059 students and 1,129 primary and pre-primary schools with 4,044 teachers and 1,24,048 students in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-govt-college-to-be-reality-soon-267724
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Experts dwell on remote-sensing applications||The Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) organised a five-day online faculty development programme (FDP) on “GIS and Remote Sensing and its applications”. The programme concluded yesterday.A total of 200 participants from 22 states of the country consisting of faculty members, PhD Research scholars and officials from the academic institutions and industries took part in the programme.The session was designed for the participants to get the best exposure of fundamentals of GIS and remote sensing for their future research and career advancement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-dwell-on-remote-sensing-applications-267725
13-06-2021||Our CorrespondentSahnewal||3 vax camps organised in Sahnewal||Of the 159 free vaccination camps organised for those aged above 18 in the district, three were held in Sahnewal today. The Punjab Youth Development Board, Chairman, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, accompanied by ADC (Development) Sandeep Kumar, inaugurated three vaccination camps under Mission Fateh 2.0 at Radha Soami Satsang Ghar, Mundian and Kadian and at Government Senior Secondary Boys School, Sahnewal.Expressing his resolve to hold more such camps in villages and towns, Bindra said, “More such camps will be organised in villages and small towns is to get the rural population inoculated. The urban people can devise a number of ways to keep the virus at bay. We aim to inoculate the rural youth at all costs.”“It is utmost essential for the rural youth to be healthy as they are the future of our country, Bindra said. He said the youth clubs associated with Punjab Youth Development Board are playing a pivotal role in fighting against Covid-19.Bindra said that there is no shortage of vaccine in the district now and people should not shy away from getting themselves vaccinated. “We have played our part by specially arranging vaccine and now it is the duty of Ludhianvis to get themselves vaccinated,” said Bindra. Badges and car dtickers were distributed to the vaccinated youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-vax-camps-organised-in-sahnewal-267726
13-06-2021||Doraha||Pensioners slam govt move to extend pay panel term||The executive committee of the Government Pensioners Association, Doraha, condemned the state government for postponing the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission report and extending the term of the commission till August 31, 2021. A meeting in this regard was held which was presided by Pawan Kumar Kaushal, president, Pensioners Association of Doraha.The commission had already submitted its report to the state government. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had announced its implementation from July 1.The decision of the Punjab Government to extend the term had caused resentment among pensioners and employees.“This is sheer exploitation and harassment of the employees. The extension of the 6th Pay Commission clearly shows the delay tactics on the part of the government. Such a government which is unable to give the employees their right dues should not be supported in any case,” the members said. The extension of the 6th Pay Commission by the Punjab government, at the time when the employees were eagerly waiting for the implementation of its recommendations, is highly condemnable, the association said.Kaushal said, “This is a highly condemnable move of the government. The government intends to delink its employees and pensioners from the pay commission,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-slam-govt-move-to-extend-pay-panel-term-267727
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Folk singers, musicians struggle to make ends meet||The music industry has been hit hard by the pandemic and lockdown. Singers, musicians and performing artists all are facing a tough time as restrictions on social gatherings and functions have directly affected their livelihood.Suresh Yamla Jatt, nephew of legendary folk singer Yamla Jatt, said artists are without work since the pandemic began. “We understand lockdown is necessary but under such circumstances, the government should announce some compensation for the artists,” he said.He further added, “Singing is in my blood. I can’t do any other work. I am using all my savings in this difficult time but it would not continue like this for long.” Either the government should announce some relief package or allow artists to work, he said.Balwinder Tara, an expert alghoza (paired woodwind instrument) player, who has also worked for famous film like Singh is Kinng and Jab We Met is struggling to make ends meet.“I am an expert alghoza player. Toombis made by me are famous among folk singers such as Manmohan Waris and late Sardool Sikander. Now, as schools, colleges and universities are shut and no functions are being held I am out of work,” he shares.“I have tie up with various dance groups like Malwai giddha group, bhangra group etc. for whom I play alghoza and educational institutes also call me whenever there is any cultural function,” he said.Rakesh Jogi, a drummer, who used to perform in foreign countries and was part of various folk dance groups is now living on his savings. He has his own Punjabi Dhol Group and was regularly called by various universities, schools and colleges across the state during their cultural events.“We are doing this work from generations and don’t have any other skill. I have a family to support and till now I am running the household with whatever savings are left with me,” said Jogi.Sonu, a folk entertainer, is also facing the heat of the lockdown. His family consists of 14 members and there is no consistent source of income. “We go to take ‘vadhai’ whenever we come to know about any marriage being solemnised in the area near us. Earlier, we use to get as much as Rs 10,000 from one family but now people don’t give more Rs 2,000 as no elaborate functions are being held these days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/folk-singers-musicians-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-267729
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||Mayor visits waste compactor site||After residents protested against the Municipal Corporation (MC) and the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for starting the construction work to set up a waste compactor on the land of cremation ground of Barewal, the LIT has given a complaint to the police after residents opposed the work on Friday.On Saturday, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu visited the site. The Mayor said the work was on at the site.He said for better and effective management of solid waste, 40 static compactors were being constructed in various parts of the city. He assured residents that soon, Ludhiana would become a garbage-free city.While accusing the corporation and the LIT of ignoring the dignity of the dead, a large number of residents had staged a protest against the authorities of these departments on Friday. They had demanded that no static compactor or garbage dump should be set up on the cremation ground land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mayor-visits-waste-compactor-site-267730
13-06-2021||Ludhiana||BA Semester-V results declared||Virtual session with film artiste heldThe Postgraduate Department of English of SCD Government College organised a virtual interaction with Padma Shri Mohammad Ali Baig, an internationally renowned figure in the field of film and theatre. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur said the session helped students find answers to queries on films and theatre world. TNSWebinar on iron deficiency in womenThe women development cell of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised a webinar on “Nutritional iron deficiency in women”. Dr Neetu Dhawan was the resource person for the session. She stated that women’s health is affected due to growth spurt, beginning of menstruation and poor intake of iron. TNSCT varsity sets up blockchain centreCT University has set up a Global Blockchain Centre of Excellence. Vice-Chancellor Dr Harsh Sadawarti said: “The need for creation of large reservoir of highly qualified manpower in all fields related to blockchain and multiple emerging technologies is required in the current scenario. There is a mandate requirement to form a nucleus for promoting excellent quality manpower in the fields of engineering, technology and sciences with special emphasis on blockchain and multiple emerging technologies.” TNSPowerPoint presentation contestThe Department of Botany and Industrial Microbiology of SCD Government College organised an online PPT presentation competition. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur encouraged students to explore their hidden talents. Students presented PPTs on ‘Cultivation practices and new varieties of groundnut’, ‘Wood seasoning and its preservation’, ‘Cultivation practices of grapes’ among others. TNSWebinar on social media, politicsThe Postgraduate Department of Journalism of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College organised a one-day national webinar on ‘Impact of social media on Indian political scene’. Department coordinator Dr Sushmindarjeet Kaur was the keynote speaker for the day. She made the participants aware of the relevance of how social media has a crucial role to play in politics. Dr SP Singh, president, Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council, said the present scenario had uplifted the use of technology and social media to a great extent but at the same time, it had corrupted the intentions of media. TNSThree-day eco fest organisedThe planning forum society and consumer forum society of the Government College for Girls organised Econovista, a three-day virtual event comprising various activities such as essay-writing, slogan-writing, quiz and extempore competitions. TNSGHG Khalsa pupils shine in BEd examThe B.Ed students of GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, have brought laurels to the college by performing excellently in B.Ed Semester-III examinations, results of which were declared by Panjab University, Chandigarh. Jaskiran Kaur stood first in the college by obtaining 92.75 per cent while Manpreet Kaur secured the second position with 367 91.75 per cent, followed by Bindia Jhanji with 90 per cent. TNSCollege federation thanks ministerThe members of the Non-Government Colleges’ Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh expressed their gratitude to Cabinet Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa for the crucial role he played in the recent decision of the state government to keep the Non-Government Aided Colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh out of the common online admission portal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ba-semester-v-results-declared-267731
