14-06-2021||Ludhiana||‘Mango party’ held for tiny tots||HVM Convent to hold summer campHVM Convent Senior Secondary School, Karamsar Colony, Subhash Nagar, is commencing an online summer camp for ten days for its students. The summer camp will include activities such as art-and-craft, health and fitness, music, dance etc and will provide students a platform to keep themselves engaged in a constructive and positive manner at their home. TNSWorld Environment Day observedPolice DAV Public School held a poster-making competition to observe World Environment Day. Besides, students were also urged to water plants at their homes regularly, use cycles for small commutes and plant saplings around their surroundings. Teachers said the objective of the celebrations was to make students more sensitive towards protecting the environment to make the planet a healthier and happier place to love. TNSPoetry contest on Guru Teg BahadurGujranwala Guru Nanak Public School, Rose Garden, organised a poetry and declamation contest for students of Class VI to VIII on the life and teachings of Guru Teg Bahadur. The event was organised in continuation with the Gurmat Sabha programmes initiated by the Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council to commemorate 400 years of Parkash Purb of the ninth Sikh Guru. TNSSummer camp concludesA summer camp at BVM, Sector-39, concluded on Tuesday. Principal Upasna Modgil appreciated the endeavours of students and also teachers during the camp and said such summer workshops encouraged them to develop their skills and talents. TNSAdarsh Public teachers win awardsThree teachers of Adarsh Public School have brought laurels to the school by winning awards at the recently held “Teach-nology awards” organised by QUESTT, a homework app. A webinar on ‘Future of Learning’ was also organised on the occasion, for which Dr G Balasubramanian, former academic director, CBSE, was the keynote speaker. Tammana, Sukriti Dogra and Deepika have won the coordinator, inquisitive teacher and the most active teacher award, respectively. The winners have been awarded an e-certificate to honour their commitment to teaching. TNSWebinar on skill developmentBCM School, Chandigarh Road, organised a series of teachers’ training programmes to enhance their skills and equip them with tools to groom 21st-century learners. A webinar on child psychology was also organised. Dr Suprerna Khanna, Assistant Professor, BCM College of Education, was the resource person for the webinar. As part of the webinar, a session on “Magic of gratitude” was also conducted by Kulwant Kaur Rehal, teacher trainer for CBSE seminars. Around 250 teachers attended the webinars. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mango-party-held-for-tiny-tots-268244
14-06-2021||Ludhiana||Online clipping competition held||Training on preservation of fruitsA five-day training programme on “Preservation of fruits and vegetables” concluded at Punjab Agricultural University. As many as 75 farmers and farm women participated in the training programme. Dr Poonam Sachdev, head, Department of Food Science and Technology, highlighted the importance of preservation. Food science and technology experts Dr Sukhpreet Kaur, Dr Neha Babbar and Dr Jagbir Kaur demonstrated the preparation of potato chips; synthetic vinegar; tomato puree, chutney and juice; and pickles, respectively. TNSFaculty development programme heldA five-day online faculty development programme in apparel design (Elementary) successfully culminated at the Department of Fashion Design Knits, Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT). The programme was sponsored by ATAL Academy. As many as 182 faculty members, research scholars, assessors and industry personnel from premier textile and fashion institutes participated in the training. The programme covered various aspects of Apparel Design, right from concept of designing till final garment production. TNSGCG bids adieu to final year studentsThe Government College for Girls organised a virtual farewell for final year students. A cultural extravaganza comprising music and dance performances was organised for the students. The participants got ready at their homes in traditional attire to enjoy the programme. A ramp walk and talent round was also held. A question round was also held after the pageant. Sukhroop Kaur of BA-III won the title of Ms while Aastha Dhawan of BSc-III was declared the first runner up. Inayat Sharma of BA-III was adjudged the second runner-up. Juniors also spoke about their seniors. Principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur wished students success for their future. TNSPAU appoints HoD of plant breedingDr VS Sohu, principal wheat breeder, has been appointed as head, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), for a term of four years. During a meeting of the board of management held under the chairmanship of Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor, PAU, the appointment was approved. Dr Sohu joined the PAU as assistant extension specialist (cotton) in March 1992 and was soon transferred to the post of assistant wheat breeder, Department of Plant Breeding. TNSTraining on shrimp farmingCollege of Fisheries, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, organised a five-day online training programme on “Best management practices (BMPs) for shrimp farming.” Addressing the participants, Dr Meera D Ansal, dean of the college, advocated for shrimp farming in the state. She emphasised on following quality shrimp production SOPs, to create a reputed niche as a favourite destination for shrimp buyers from domestic and overseas market. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-clipping-competition-held-268242
14-06-2021||Say imposition of lockdown||Residents divided over lifting Covid restrictions||With vaccination drives picking up pace, Covid cases have been on a decline. Considering the economic condition of the poor and the middle-class residents of the city, lockdown and curfew hours can be done away with. However, people must responsibly follow all Covid-appropriate guidelines and avoid public gatherings if absolutely not necessary.Amarpreet KaurAdmn should continue with lockdown, curfewThe administration should continue with lockdown and curfew hours as it has led to a significant decrease in coronavirus cases. The third wave of the pandemic can be stopped only if we follow the advice of doctors and administration. But for making sure that people do not become careless and disobey Covid-appropriate behaviour, it is important that awareness is created among people.JBS NandaOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONNon-preparedness of the civic body to ensure proper rainwater drainage during the monsoon, which is approaching fast, became evident from the widespread waterlogging with several low-lying areas virtually turning into pools after brief showers in the past few days. Should the civic authorities be taken to task and what needs to be done to avoid monsoon mess? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comSituation still not under control, curbs importantEven though coronavirus cases have reduced, there is still a danger of third wave. If we have not follow restrictions religiously, then third wave might prove to be more harmful than the second one. It is important to abide by “Prevention is better than cure”. Till the situation becomes better, lockdown and curfew should not be removed and every resident should adhere to norms implemented by the government.Adish SoodRestrictions are in favour of residentsThe increase and decrease in Covid-19 cases is like a rollercoaster ride. In this situation, the officials cannot risk to ease restrictions completely as the city has been a red zone since the beginning. People need to understand that these restrictions are in the best interest of residents. So we should respect the decision and stay safe for a better future.Gurpreet KaurRemove restrictions, strengthen vax drivesThough lockdown and weekend curfew have been advantageous in controlling coronavirus cases in the city, such steps cannot be continued for a long time. These steps have heavily decreased income generation from business, industrial production in the city and affected the labour community. So many labourers have lost their jobs and are struggling to sustain their families. To curb the third wave, it is now necessary to organise awareness campaigns extensively and tell people the importance of social distancing, use of face mask and washing hands. However, there is also a strong need to take strict action against those who do not follow the guidelines pertaining to the virus. Simultaneously, vaccination programmes must also be strengthened to vaccinate as many people as possible.Gautam DevOur safety is in our handsIt is rightly said that prevention is better than cure. According to me, the only way to curb the spread of Covid-19 is to stay home. Hence, it is important to continue with restrictions till the situation improves across the country. Lockdown imposition is the only way to restrict people to gather at public places. Our safety is in our hands in these tough times.Simarjot KaurFoolish to let guard downJust because Covid cases are declining, it is wrong to think that we have won the war against the virus. It is foolish to let guard down. All necessary preparations should be taken to tackle the third wave. It is important that we learn lessons from mistakes made in the second wave. The administration has already relaxed a number of lockdown restrictions but more relaxations will only lead to an increase in the number of cases.Raghbir SembhiGovt should introduce more relaxationsThere has been a drastic improvement in the Covid situation in Ludhiana with cases and death rate both reducing drastically. The government should now observe the situation and try to introduce some relaxations so that the economic condition of the industry can be improved. Curfew and complete lockdown should be lifted up so that the labour class and vendors can survive in such tough times.Ritu PriyaImportant to learn lessons from second waveIt is good news that the number of coronavirus cases are decreasing continuously. Keeping in view this trend, the government announced unlocking of shops and other establishments with curfew being restricted only to Sunday. But the decision can be proven fatal. To put a curb on further expansion of the spread of the virus, the government should continue this lockdown at least for the month of June. It is still important to follow pandemic norms and guidelines. It is irresponsible of people to think that the virus has gone.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiContinue weekend curfew for two more monthsIf the third wave of coronavirus hits, we will have to be extra cautious. Night curfew and lockdown on Sundays should be continued for at least two more months and at no cost we should stop taking precautions and shun Covid-appropriate behaviour. Use of face mask and social distancing will go a long way in preventing the third wave of the virus.Dr Sunil ChopraEase restrictions to revive industry, economyWith the number of Covid cases falling in the district, it doesn’t mean that we can lower our guard. At any cost, we must not behave in a lax manner. Restrictions can be eased more but as far as Covid-appropriate behavior is concerned, it must be followed in letter and spirit. We have to ease restrictions so that businesses can flourish again. Industry also had a setback during the pandemic. So, to revive the economy, we have to opt for the reopening of business establishments. But under no circumstances, residents should be allowed flout Covid guidelines.Bir Devinder Singh BediGradually introduce relaxations in curfewResidents should thank the administration for successfully implementing guidelines to curb the spread of the second wave of the virus. Following it, restrictions should be continued so that no the third wave doesn’t hit as hard as the second. Many families have lost their loved ones to the virus. However, gradual relaxations can be provided while keeping the rise in cases in mind.Chaitya Markanda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-divided-over-lifting-covid-restrictions-268239
14-06-2021||---||Free limbs distribution camp held||Ludhiana, June 13 A free artificial limb distribution camp was organised by Lions Club, Ludhiana Greater, in cooperation with Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust, Punjab, today at Viklang Shayata Kendre, Rishi Nagar. Artificial limbs, calipers, try cycle and hearing aids were distributed among 10 physically handicapped persons in the camp.  Members of the Lions Club, Ludhiana Greater, congratulated Bharat Vikas Parishad for providing aids and appliances to the physically handicapped persons and assured all help for such a noble cause.  The recipients also expressed their gratitude to the organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-limbs-distribution-camp-held-268190
14-06-2021||Manav Mander
||Anxiety, nervousness normal during Covid crisis: Experts||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 13 The second wave of Covid-19 infections has raised anxiety levels among many persons. Experts have called upon people to understand that anxiety, nervousness and uncertainty is a normal response to the challenging circumstances due to the pandemic.  Being anxious and experiencing uncertainty need not be a part of illness. However, there are people who have developed anxiety disorder, depression and PTSD during this period and should seek the help of a psychiatrist. According to Dr Ranjive Mahajan, head, psychiatry, DMCH: “Consulting a psychiatrist for your mental illness should not be considered as a taboo or stigma. These conditions are easily treatable like any other physical illness. We have seen a rise in the number of patients suffering from these illnesses during the pandemic.” He advised that people can remain positive by the following measures such as-stay connected even when socially isolated and rely on trustworthy sources of information, to limit their media consumption and not to indulge in any kind of addictions. Dr Navkiran, professor of psychiatry, said there is no option but to live through this Covid situation. People have gone through grief and bereavement in ways they were not previously accustomed. “To go through this we should have a positive approach and engage in meaningful activities both on personal and social front in order to cope with the situation,” she said. Another clinical psychiatrist adding further said that there is so much gloom around which is causing unrest and anxiety among people. This psychiatric problem should be taken seriously and one should speak up and talk to others if facing any issues. There should be no hesitation in seeking expert help, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anxiety-nervousness-normal-during-covid-crisis-experts-268191
14-06-2021||---||GST relief on Covid essentials||Ludhiana, June 13 The 44th GST Council meeting was held on Saturday, in which huge GST relief in medicines, equipment and other related Covid-19 material has been given by the government. The council in its meeting has decided to reduce the GST rates on the specified items being used in Covid-19 relief and management till September 30. As per the latest recommendations by the Council, GST on tocilizumab was earlier five per cent, now it is nil. Similarly on  Amphotericin B, it was five per cent, now nil. On anti-coagulants such as heparin it was  12 per cent while now it has been reduced to 5 per cent. On  Remdesivir, GST was 12 per cent, now is 5 per cent. Any other drug recommended by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and Department of Pharma (DoP) for Covid treatment Applicable will for GST 5 per cent. Besides, on Medical Grade Oxygen, the GST is reduced to five per cent from 12 per cent. The Oxygen Concentrator/ Generator, including personal imports thereof from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. On Ventilators, Ventilator masks/ canula/helmet, BiPAP Machine, High flow nasal canula (HFNC) device, GST will now be five per cent and not 12 per cent. The GST on Covid Testing Kit has been reduced to five per cent from 12 percent. The GST on hand sanitizers will be now 5 per cent from 18 per cent. The GST on Ambulances has been reduced from 28 per cent to 12 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gst-relief-on-covid-essentials-268192
14-06-2021||Ludhiana||51 units of blood collected||To mark the World Blood Donor Day, a blood donation camp was organised by Zindagi Live Foundation, an NGO, that works for thalassemia unprivileged patients. A team of doctors from Christian Medical College and Hospital came for collection of blood and 51 units of blood were collected. The camp was inaugaurated by ACP East Devinder Chaudhary and Dushyant Pandey, son of MLA Rakesh Pandey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/51-units-of-blood-collected-268193
14-06-2021||---||112 test +ve, 3 dead in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 13A day after less than 100 Covid cases were reported in the district, today again cases crossed the hundred mark. Today, 112 persons from the district tested positive and three people lost their lives to the virus. The case fatality rate on Sunday was 2.39 per cent and recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 95.97 per cent.Those who tested positive today included an undertrial and 14 others referred from various OPDs while 31 are still being traced by the department.The deceased were two women, aged 62 and 64 years, and a 79-year-old man belonging to Sudhar, Shamgarh and Saya Kalan villages, respectively.Today, 51 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 153 to private hospitals and 26 were on ventilator support.Till date, a total of 15,36,493 samples have been taken, of which reports of 15,36,305 have been received. Of these, 14,38,704 samples were found negative while reports of 188 were pending. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 86,265 while 11,336 patients were from other districts or states.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, gets information about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples are immediately sent for testing. As many as 11,541 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/112-test-ve-3-dead-in-ludhiana-268182
14-06-2021||---||Wrestler Khali’s mother admitted to hospital||Ludhiana, June 13 Tandi Devi (75), mother of wrestler The Great Khali, aka Dalip Singh Rana, was admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) yesterday evening.  She was not keeping well for the past few days and was rushed to the hospital late on Saturday evening by the wrestler.  Her Covid report has come negative and she is at present admitted to the medical ICU. Khali will be staying with his mother at the hospital during her treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wrestler-khalis-mother-admitted-to-hospital-268183
14-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||A ‘micro forest’ created by schoolkids in city||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 13A tree plantation drive was organised by children wherein they planted 750 tree saplings on 250 sq yrds in Rakh Bagh here.The drive was organised under the supervision of Rohit Mehra (IRS), also known an ‘Green Man of India’, and Geetanjali Mehra.A total of 10 children namely Pratibha Sharma, Madhvi Sharma, Vaibhav Kapoor, Dhruv Mehra, Udhay Mehra, Diya Bharara, Lavanya Sehgal, Viraansh Bharara, Nitya Bassi and Dishita Bharara took part in the noble initiative.Take vow to maintain it for two yearsTen schoolchildren planted 750 saplings on 250 sq yrds in Rakh Bagh during a plantation drive. Sixty different plant varieties of the state have been planted in the ‘micro forest’. All children pledged to save the 'micro forest' and maintain it for two years.Mehra said it was the first-ever ‘micro forest’ created by children in the world, which was for the kids. The team is known as ‘Indian green warriors’ and have 10 school-going children. He said 60 different plant varieties of the state had been planted in the ‘micro forest’.Madhvi Sharma, a Class XI student at Sacred Heart Convent School, Ludhiana, said amid the Covid crisis, everyone has realised the importance of oxygen.They said: “We all know that trees are the only source of natural oxygen.” Pratibha Sharma, a Class IX student at Sacred Heart Convent School, here, said the current weather was the best for planting trees and urged everyone, especially children, to plant more trees.Vaibhav Kapoor, a Class VII student at Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, BRS Nagar, said the ‘micro forest’ had been created so that future generations could have a source of natural oxygen.All participating children pledged to save the micro forest and maintain it for a period of two years till it becomes sustainable.They said the micro forest would host a variety of flora and fauna, who find it difficult to get a safe adobe in urban areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/a-micro-forest-created-by-schoolkids-in-city-268184
14-06-2021||Ludhiana||Residents move rights panel against illegal dumping of debris in SBS Nagar||Irked over alarming rise in environmental pollution and public nuisance created by mounds of building material, sand and debris in the outer area of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar locality illegally by contractors engaged by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for laying interlocking tiles, residents of the D and E blocks of the colony have filed a petition with the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) to rid them of this health hazard. Seeking immediate intervention of the PSHRC as the fundamental ‘right to life’ of the public was under threat from the conditions created due to negligence of the LIT authorities and contractors engaged by them, Arvind Sharma, a resident of the E block of the colony, has said dumping building material, dug out sand and debris from streets where interlocking tiles were being laid by contractors engaged by the LIT, has made the life of residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, especially those residing in the D and E blocks, miserable. “Mounds of sand, debris and building material illegally dumped in front of constructed commercial pocket (booths) in the D block, fly into houses and turns into mud even during light showers. If remain unchecked, it could lead to many serious respiratory ailments among residents due to the rise in environmental pollution,” said the petition. Attaching photographic evidence of heaps of sand, debris and other material with the complaint, Sharma has maintained that it was not the first instance of such gross negligence on the part of LIT officials, most of whom have affinity to the contractors assigned various development works. “More often than not, the contractors create unhygienic conditions for  residents where development projects are undertaken and LIT field staff and officials, having a soft corner for contractors, look the other way, thereby compromising interests of the residents of affected areas,” the complainant said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-move-rights-panel-against-illegal-dumping-of-debris-in-sbs-nagar-268185
14-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Ludhiana MC all set to hand over job of arrear recovery to pvt agency||Ludhiana, June 13 Despite facing stiff opposition from various quarters for its proposed ‘privatisation’ of recovery of arrears of user charges, the Municipal Corporation (MC) top brass has reportedly given in-principle approval to handover the job to a private agency.  A sub-committee formed by the Mayor was said to have submitted its report in favour of hiring a private agency for effective recovery of arrears from the city residents. The report of the sub-committee would be now placed in the next meeting of the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC), and thereafter, the matter would be discussed in the general house before seeking statutory approval from the state government for inviting bids for the task from private companies. Sources in the MC indicated that even after fixing several deadlines and weekly quota of recovery of arrears for the staff and concerned officials, both the Mayor and the MC Commissioner, Pradeep Sabharwal, were not happy with the performance of officials and heads of departments.  During last financial year, despite constant monitoring and later promise of a ‘reward and punishment policy’ for recovery of arrears of user charges, the MC could collect just about Rs 90 crore out of a total arrears of a whopping Rs 400 odd crores. “Even now, the Commissioner and Mayor are holding weekly review of recovery of local taxes and arrears of water and sewerage charges, but the move has apparently failed to yield desired results,” claim the sources. However, the main opposition parties, especially SAD-B and BJP were averse to handing over recovery in private hands. Both the district president of SAD-B Ranjit Singh Dhillon and that of BJP Pushpinder Singhal have gone public to oppose the move for privatisation. They had alleged that the recovery agents would not hesitate to use strong-arm tactics to achieve their targets and the Covid-stressed common people would fall victims to highhandedness of private agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-all-set-to-hand-over-job-of-arrear-recovery-to-pvt-agency-268186
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Showers leave city roads inundated||Ludhiana, June 13Light but persistent showers in the wee hours on Sunday led to waterlogging of several roads and localities.Two-wheeler drivers, cyclists and pedestrians had a harrowing time traversing through knee-deep water at several places.Main Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, Kitchlu Nagar, Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Old DMC Road (around Commissioner of Police residence) and Old GT Road around Clock Tower were the worst-hit areas where vehicular traffic came to a complete standstill and even those on foot found it tough to wade through water accumulated on roads and streets.Kitchlu nagar, old gt road among worst hitMain Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, Kitchlu Nagar, Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Old DMC Road (around Commissioner of Police residence) and Old GT Road around Clock Tower were the worst-hit areas where vehicular traffic came to a complete standstill and even those on foot found it tough to wade through water accumulated on roads and streets.The stretch of Old GT Road from Raikhy Chowk to Mata Rani Chowk (near railway station) wore a pathetic look as the whole road has been dug up from one side to lay storm water drainage lines. The entire area has become accident prone with reports of at least two bicycles and a scooter skidding on the road due to mud and riders sustaining minor injuries. Deep ditches and the dug-up area are filled with rainwater.To make the matter worse, the construction agency has not put up any warning signboard around the project site.Meanwhile, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra has raised questions on the working of the Municipal Corporation. He said MC employees seemed to be playing with the lives of the people. He said huge pits were dug up in streets and left unattended for days or even weeks together, posing a threat to the lives of people.Mehra alleged that residents of street number 5 in Durgapuri, Haibowal (in ward no. 93), were facing trouble for the past five days as the area around the main intersection of the street had been dug deep and left unattended. Traffic through the intersection stood completely closed, causing huge harassment to commuters and local residents.He called upon MC officials to complete the work for which digging was done and properly repair the dug- up area. He also demanded that big potholes on Ferozepur Road and other main roads and streets in the city be also filled at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/showers-leave-city-roads-inundated-268187
14-06-2021||---||Civic body to develop parks at EWS Colony, Dairy Complex||Ludhiana, June 13Finally, after passing of a long period, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to develop over 25 parks at the economically weaker section (EWS) Colony and Dairy Complex on Tajpur Road, here. The civic body will get the parks developed under the Smart City Mission and tenders for the same have been floated.The parks were in a shambles for the past some years. Local residents had been complaining about the poor condition of the parks at the EWS Colony while the parks at the Dairy Complex were being used to dump cow dung, as per information.Jagjit Singh, a resident, said: “There is dire need to develop parks in these areas. If the authorities are going to develop the same, they should focus on more plantation. A good quality grass is required. After carrying out the development of the parks, the Municipal Corporation should also ensure their maintenance. A team of gardeners should be deployed to look after these green areas.”Air pollution caused by industrial units is also one of the major issues in areas located on Tajpur Road. As per the residents, the green cover should be increased and air pollution levels must be controlled.MC Superintending Engineer (B&R) at Zone B Parveen Singla said they had floated the tenders for the project. Once the tendering process was completed, work would be started for the development of the parks.Ludhiana East MLA Sanjay Talwar said: “The parks of both areas will be developed soon. The estimated cost of the project work is about Rs 2.25 crore.”He said plantation would be done at the parks while footpaths and canopies would also be made available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-develop-parks-at-ews-colony-dairy-complex-268188
14-06-2021||---||PSPCL slammed for imposing heavy penalties||Ludhiana, June 13 The Small Scale Manufacturers Association has threatened to sit on continuous dharnas against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for slapping heavy penalties on industries already reeling under recession.  JS Thukral, president of the association, said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has slapped heavy penalties on industries for overload. Even the industries, which have used the power for two months (more load usage) are being asked to pay for at least one year.  Thukral said five members will sit on dharna from June 15-18 while he will sit on dharnas all these days, which will be held outside Chief Engineer office.  He said despite several attempts, they were not able to meet A Venuprasad, chairman, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-slammed-for-imposing-heavy-penalties-268189
14-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana firms discharge effluents ‘without treatment’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 13Effluents from more than 12 steel-based plants in the city, which use hydrochloric acid (HCl) for the pickling process, are flowing into the already polluted Buddha Nullah, the sewerage or bored deep into the earth without treatment.These plants, discharging poisonous material into the nullah, have no treatment facilities. Interestingly, these industries have an agreement for removal of effluents with JBR Technologies Private Limited, located on the Kohara-Macchiwara road, which treats sulphuric acid but not HCl.Contaminated water recycled: CompanyRajinder Singh of the JBR group said they had another plant to treat HCl in the Focal Point area. Around 30,000 litre water containing HCl was treated there daily. On being asked that more than 50 lakh litre of HCL was consumed by the industry in Ludhiana and where did the excess water go, Singh said it was the duty of the PPCB to keep a check on the industry.Following a complaint, a team of environmental engineers of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) took samples from the pickling tanks of about 24 industries between May 31 and June 4. As many as 12 units were found to be using HCl, nine sulphuric acid and three were using both.The pickling process is done on steel for smoothening and making it rust-free. The HCl process is comparatively cheaper than the sulphuric acid process but the pollutants emitted are much more dangerous. As per information, 50 lakh litre HCl is consumed per month by the industries of Ludhiana.The JBR group is re-processing sulphuric acid and not HCl while the agreements with the industries reveal the particular company is hired on contract for treating HCl too. A sister firm was also opened by the JBR group but that never got the consent to operate. However, inspection showed that power worth lacks of rupees was consumed by the sister firm.Rajinder Singh of the JBR group said they had another plant to treat HCl in the Focal Point area. Around 30,000 litre water containing HCl was treated there daily, which was ultimately recycled.Asked about 50 lakh litre HCl consumed by the industry in Ludhiana and where the excess water went, Rajinder Singh said it was the duty of the PPCB to keep the industry and use of HCl in check.Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Department of Science, Technology and Environment, Government of Punjab, said a complaint had been received against many industries and teams had been formed for inspection. “Action as per law will be taken against the industries. This can include closure of units or huge environmental compensation,” said Verma.Rajesh Goyal from KISCON Industries said they had an agreement with the JBR group for lifting the HCl for treatment. “Now, we are not aware what the company does. We were giving it money for HCl treatment,” Goyal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-firms-discharge-effluents-without-treatment-267974
