15-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||2 ‘racing’ SUVs claim Ludhiana youth’s life||Ludhiana, June 14Two Toyota Fortuner SUVs (PB-10EC-0111 and PB-10CX-1656), allegedly engaged in a race on Sidhwan Canal Express Highway late last night, claimed the life a city youth, Parminder Singh (24), who was riding a Royal Enfield (Bullet) motorcycle. After colliding with each other and hitting a pole along the highway, both the SUVs went out of control.Eyewitnesses said one SUV hit at least three two-wheelers, whose drivers sustained minor injuries, while the driver of the other Fortuner, in a bid to overtake the other SUV, rammed into the Bullet motorcycle. The crash had such an impact that the SUV dragged the motorcycle, along with its rider, to a distance of at least 20 feet. Parminder, running a mobile repair business, died on the spot, while other injured two-wheeler drivers were rushed to local hospitals.The SHO, Dehlon police station, Sarbjit Singh said the driver of the ‘killer’ Fortuner (PB-10EC-0111), identified as Prashottam Sharma, running a cycle ancillary unit here, was arrested and charged under Section 185 (drunken driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act along with Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC.In another road accident, Satpal Kaur (52), resident of Jassian village, was killed when a speeding Tata 407 vehicle truck hit the motorcycle she was riding pillion in front of a petrol pump, near V to V Hotel, on GT Road on Sunday.Daljit Singh, son of the deceased woman, said he and his mother were returning home after getting shot of Covid vaccine from Oswal Hospital on his motorcycle. “When we reached near the HP petrol pump near V to V Hotel, a recklessly driven Tata 407 (PB-10CV-9166) rammed into the motorcycle. Both of us fell down on the road and the mini-truck ran over my mother, who died at the spot,” said the complainant.He said the driver of the vehicle (Tata 407) fled from the scene. The police said a case under Section 304-A of the IPC was registered against the truck driver, who was identified as Chand Kishore, resident of Dehlon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-racing-suvs-claim-ludhiana-youths-life-268455
15-06-2021||---||52 more test +ve, one dead in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 14As many as 52 persons tested positive for Covid, while one woman lost her life to the virus in the district today. It is after four months that decreasing graph of positive cases was seen in the district.On February 1, the district saw 50 positive cases, 57 on February 14, 51 cases on February 17 and 54 on February 25. The maximum cases reported in February were 81 on February 23 and minimum on February 7, ie 23 cases.The positive cases saw an upward trend February onwards.The case fatality rate today was 2.39 per cent and recovery rate of Covid-19 patients reached 96.14 per cent. Till now 82,986 patients have recovered from Covid in the district. There are 1,267 active patients in the district.A total of 52 persons from Ludhiana district and 17 from other states/districts tested positive in the last 24 hours. A 71-year-old woman, belonging to Samrala and admitted at SPS Hospital, succumbed to the disease.According to the Health Department officials, till date, a total of 15,46,313 samples were taken, out of which the report of 15,46,122 samples have been received. As many as 14,48,452 samples were found negative, while reports of 191 samples are pending. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 86,317, while 11,353 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives to the virus is 2,064 from Ludhiana and 1,022 from other districts.Today 9,820 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/52-more-test-ve-one-dead-in-ludhiana-district-268456
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent||One held for snatching cell phone||Ludhiana, June 14The police have arrested a person and booked four others in three incidents of mobile phone snatching reported from different parts of the city.Gaurav and Gopal were booked under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC for snatching a mobile phone from Jhuggi Lal, a resident of Subhash Nagar in Gur Mandi, here, on Saturday.The victim said he had gone to the market when the two youths pushed him and fled the spot after snatching his mobile phone.Upinder Yadav, a resident of Visakha Colony in Dhandari Kalan, lost his mobile phone to two motorcycle-borne persons when he was going on foot from Industrial Area towards Cheema Chowk on Sunday. Upinder said the duo, who were riding the motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10GF 1454), came from the rear side. The pillion rider snatched his cell phone and afterwards, the duo managed to escape. On the basis of information provided by the victim, the police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC against Chindri and his unidentified accomplice.In the third incident of mobile phone snatching, the police have arrested Bablu, a resident of Salam Tabri, for snatching a mobile phone from Farooq, a resident of New Kundanpuri, who runs a hair dressing shop in the same locality.The police have also recovered a mobile phone from his possession. He has been charged under Section 380 of the IPC. The victim told the police that the suspect had come to his shop on June 11 to borrow some money.“When I expressed my inability to give him money, he took the mobile phone lying on the counter and ran away,” the complainant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-held-for-snatching-cell-phone-268457
15-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Women, 30-39 age group most prone to Covid variants of concern||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 14Women and the persons between the age group of 30-39 were found to be most prone to the various Covid variants of concern (VoCs) in Punjab, the government has said.Of the total 1,011 cases of VoCs confirmed in the state so far, 57.2 per cent were women, 24.5 per cent were in age between 30 and 39, 92.5 per cent were asymptomatic and 75.9 per cent patients were from urban areas, the data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department has revealed.The official data from January to June till date, which is available with The Tribune, showed that a total of 2,309 samples of Covid patients were sent for whole genome sequencing (WGS), of which 1,164, which account for 50.4 per cent, were processed till date and 1,011 of them, accounting for 86.8 per cent, were found to be VoCs.Though the UK’s Alpha variant continued to be the most dominant among all the VoCs in the state, its ratio has, however, dropped drastically from 94.5 per cent in March to 53.9 per cent in April.The Delta variant, which originated in India, was growing fast and shot up from mere 0.6 per cent in March to 44.1 per cent in April.While the B.1 variant has increased from 0.1 per cent in March to 1.2 per cent in April, no cases of South African Beta variant, Nigeria’s B.1.525 and B.1.36 have been reported in April. There were 0.3 per cent cases of Beta and 0.1 per cent cases each of other two variants in Punjab in March.The socio-demographic distribution of VoCs among the total 1,011 cases revealed that the maximum of 24.5 per cent patients were in the 30-39 age group, followed by 18.9 per cent in 20-29 category, 17.4 per cent in 40-49 age group, 13.7 per cent in 50-59 age group, 12.8 per cent in 10-19 age group, 6.8 per cent in 60-69, 4.7 per cent in 70 and above, and the minimum incidence of 1.2 per cent was detected in 0-9 age group.In the gender ratio, 571 women, who accounted for 57.2 per cent, and 427 men, accounting for 42.8 per cent, were among the total VoCs.The distribution of VoCs by clinical profile, as prescribed by the ICMR, showed that 92.5 per cent cases were asymptomatic, while only 7.5 per cent were symptomatic. Of the total 49 symptomatic patients, 27, which accounted for 55.1 per cent, were having mild symptoms, 21 (accounting for 42.9 per cent) moderate, and only 1 (2 per cent) was having severe symptoms.The distribution of VoCs by type of isolation and outcome revealed that 98.4 per cent cases were under home isolation and only 1.6 per cent were admitted to hospitals — 63.6 per cent in Level-2, 27.3 per cent in Level-1 and 9.1 per cent in Level-3 facilities. While 99.9 per cent cases were discharged after recovery, only one case was transferred for further treatment.OfficialspeakWe have been monitoring the situation very closely and have pulled out all the stops to combat the devastating second Covid wave in the state. The strict restrictions put in place have started showing desired results but we cannot afford to put our guards down till the situation returns to normal. —Hussan Lal, Principal Health Secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-30-39-age-group-most-prone-to-covid-variants-of-concern-268458
15-06-2021||Ludhiana||Nine booked in assault cases||The police have booked as many as nine persons in three separate incidents of assault, house trespass, intimidation and other criminal charges yesterday. Sukhdev Singh, his wife Amarjit Kaur and their two sons Gurdeep Singh and Gurjit Singh, residents of Dhode village, were booked for allegedly assaulting Surinder Singh, a resident of the same village, his sister Kirandeep Kaur and mother Harjiwan Kaur due to some old enmity. Three more persons, Neha, Neeraj Chopra, alias Budhu, and Kala, all residents of Subhash Nagar, were booked by the police for allegedly beating up Sunil Kumar, a resident of Ajit Nagar, Jalandhar. The complainant said he had gone to the police station in connection with a marital dispute of his relative Raj Kumar with his wife Neha when the suspects, including the woman, attacked him. In another incident, the police have registered a case against Mandeep Singh and his accomplice Pardeep Singh, residents of Alampatti, for assault and forced entry into the house of Kulwinder Singh of the same village. The complainant said they barged into his house, beat him and his wife, tore his turban and also broke door of the bathroom with bricks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nine-booked-in-assault-cases-268459
15-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Cleanliness takes a back seat near martyr Sukhdev Thapar's ancestral house in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 14Though the claims are commonly being made by politicians to make Ludhiana a garbage-free city soon, the cleanliness is being ignored near the birth place of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Mohalla Naughara in Ludhiana.The waste is being thrown in open just near the martyr’s ancestral house but the authorities concerned are yet to do the needful. The MC has planned for the beautification of some other sites under the Smart City Mission, while the residents want that the birthplace area should be beautified too.Members of the All India Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust said the civic body and administration must take the required steps to ensure cleanliness there.Tribhuvan Thappar, a member of the trust, said, “Some persons often dump waste near the martyr’s house in the area but the civic body pays no attention to ensure cleanliness at the place. We want the authorities to take immediate steps in this regard to maintain cleanliness in the area. The martyr’s birth place area must be beautified.”He said: “A tree had fallen due to high-velocity winds a few months ago but parts of the tree were not even cleared. We also want that the sewers must be cleared because of the rainy season.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu could not be contacted for comments.Surinder Dawar, MLA, said, “If there is any cleanliness issue, the trust members can bring it to my notice. I will take the necessary steps to get it resolved.”The Punjab Government had earlier deployed an official to acquire land to make a direct way to the ancestral house of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Mohalla Naughra from the Chaura Bazaar area. Around 40 sq yards area is to be acquired to make the direct way, as per the information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cleanliness-takes-a-back-seat-near-martyr-sukhdev-thapars-ancestral-house-in-ludhiana-268460
15-06-2021||---||Cong up in arms against fuel price hike||Ludhiana, June 14Congress workers today protested against the rising fuel prices in the country. The protesters burnt photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised slogans against him and the Centre.Addressing the protest demonstration, senior Congress leader Krishna Kumar Bawa said since the day Modi had become the prime minister, the intentions and policies of his government had been against the favour of the common man. “People of the country are facing many difficulties and challenges under his leadership,” he added.“The Modi government has brought a lot of people to the brink of financial ruin through his policy of demonetisation. The Centre has also sold the country’s railways, ports and airports to the big corporate of the country,” Bawa said.Bawa said the Modi government was implementing new schemes across the country with the objective of providing financial benefits only to the big industrial houses of the country. “It doesn’t matter to the Modi government if the people in the country die due to inflation. Today, the situation is such that the budget of every household has been shaken due to an increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and gas,” he added.Cong leaders oppose hiked water, sewer tariffAs the Assembly elections are likely to be held early next year, the newly hiked water and sewer tariff in the city are being politicised by political leaders.After some opposition leaders, now, a few Congress leaders have recently opposed the new water and sewer tariff.The exemption on water supply and sewer charges given to residential properties up to 125 sq yds has been revoked while the exemption will be given to the single-storey houses up to 50 sq yds. The new water and sewer tariff has been hiked up to 60 per cent for different categories.Navneet Singh Ghail, a Congress councillor, said: “The MC should give relaxation to people during these tough times. The new water and sewer tariff should not be implemented now.”MLA from Ludhiana West Surinder Dawar said he had raised the matter before the Mayor. The hiked tariff should not be implemented.When the Municipal Corporation House had given nod to the resolution regarding the new water and sewer tariff in November last year, a majority of House members, including opposition councillors as well as ruling councillors had remained silent on the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cong-up-in-arms-against-fuel-price-hike-268462
15-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Hotel, restaurant assn seeks relief package||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 14 The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India (HRANI), the northern outfit of the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India, has requested the state government to provide a relief package to the industry as the impact of Covid-19 on the hospitality industry has been extremely disruptive. The association said among the core sectors of the economy, hospitality was the first one to fall and was going to be the last to recover. In a letter to the Chief Minister, the members of the association said the industry had lost all its business after the lockdown came into effect and the zero-business scenario remained for seven-ten months in the past year. “With the second wave of Covid resulting into more restrictions, it is impossible for the hospitality sector to stay afloat. Today, hospitality has become the most unviable and unsustainable business in the country and is heading towards closure of thousands of establishments across the country,” reads the letter. Expecting relief package from the government, the association members also demanded that the excise fee paid by licensee bars, hotels and restaurants for the non-operation period between March 22 and September 4, 2020, should be either refunded or adjusted. Amarvir Singh, secretary of the northern outfit, said contracted capacity of power consumption had also not used by hotels but fixed charges at the applicable rate had been billed to them, including during the non-operations period. “Therefore, keeping in view the closure of hospitality establishments, we request you for a complete waiver of fixed charges,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hotel-restaurant-assn-seeks-relief-package-268464
15-06-2021||Sports Correspondent||Basketball assns mourn player Karamjit Singh’s demise||Ludhiana, June 14The Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) and the District Basketball Association (DBA), Ludhiana, today mourned the death of former basketball player and a prominent sports promoter Karamjit Singh Dhaliwal.Karamjit, who was in his late fifties, died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where he was admitted a week back following Covid-related complications.A meeting of the two associations was held here at the office of the PBA, during which the office-bearers paid their tributes to Dhaliwal.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, PBA; JP Singh, president, DBA, other members, along with basketball coaches recalled Karamjit’s contribution towards the development of the game in the region.Karamjit, a native of Dhanaula village in Barnala district, had represented the state in various basketball tournaments. He had also played for the Punjab State Electricity Board and was instrumental in organising the All India Invitation Basketball Tournaments for many years at Patiala.Teja Singh said Dhaliwal worked relentlessly for the promotion of sports in Sangrur district and its surrounding areas and his death had created a void in the sports fraternity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basketball-assns-mourn-player-karamjit-singhs-demise-268465
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Kotwali SHO fined Rs 5,000 for defiance 
of RTI Act||Ludhiana, June 14The Punjab State Information Commission has fined the SHO of Police Division No 1 (Kotwali) with a penalty of Rs 5,000 for a delay in providing information to an applicant and defiance of provisions of the Right to Information Act. The amount will be deducted from his salary.Taking up an appeal case filed by applicant Jagshir Singh, a resident of Mandi Mullanpur, the state Information Commissioner took note of the fact that the respondent — Public Information Officer (PIO), office of SHO, Police Division No 1, had not provided desired information to the applicant to date. The PIO had failed to appear personally as directed by the commission at the last hearing besides not replying to the show cause notice issued to him on March 16.The SIC has further directed the respondent PIO to be present personally on the next date of hearing with the complete information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kotwali-sho-fined-rs-5-000-for-defiance-of-rti-act-268466
15-06-2021||Ludhiana||F&CC discusses 150 resolutions||Three booked for fraudLudhiana: The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B (fraud and criminal conspiracy) against three persons, Vicky Gill, a resident of Bhaura village near Salem Tabri, AG Madam and Mintu, both residents of Ludhiana, on the complaint of Suresh Kumar of Model Town Extension. The complainant said he was running an auto spare parts trading firm in Dashmesh Nagar on Gill Road and had also obtained a GST number. “Under a criminal conspiracy, they purchased some goods from a firm giving his GST number which was tantamount to fraud with me, the seller and the subsequent buyers,” he said. OC14-yr-old girl goes missingLudhiana: A 14-year-old girl has been reported missing from her house in the Chander Nagar locality in Haibowal here since June 11. In a complaint to the police, father of the girl Brahma said his daughter had left around 9 am on Friday for market and did not return. He apprehended that his daughter might have been kidnapped by someone. A case has been registered. OCTwo nabbed with smuggled liquorLudhiana: The police have arrested two persons for smuggling liquor in two cases on Sunday. The police said Manpreet Singh, a resident of Gobindsar in New Shimlapuri, was nabbed with 24 bottles of 999 XXX Rum being carried in a plastic bag near a hotel in Model Town. He has been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. Another person, Hoshiar Singh, a resident of Baukan Gujjran village, was arrested from his village while selling liquor from his residence. Following the seizure of 16 bottles of 111 Ace Whisky, the suspect was booked under various sections of the IPC and the Excise Act. OCOne held with Banned drugsLudhiana: The police have arrested Mai Chand, a resident of Khasi Kalan village, when he was coming on foot from Mundian Kalan towards Sunder Nagar 33 Feet Road, carrying a bag. On seeing the police, he tried to flee the spot but was overpowered. Search of the bag led to recovery of 540 tablets of Alprozam 0.5 mg. The police said a case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against the suspect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fcc-discusses-150-resolutions-268470
15-06-2021||Drishti RC Jain Innovative Public School organised a webinar on mental health. Rajwinder Kaur||Webinar on mental health||Sacred Heartians shine in NIFT examLudhiana: Two students of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, have scored distinctive positions in the mational-level NIFT entrance examination held on February 14, 2021. Sachit Chopra secured 76 common merit rank and 68 merit rank in the general category while Arshia Bansal secured 327 common merit rank and 285 merit rank in the general category. Principal Sister congratulated the students. TNSWorld Day Against Child LabourGreen Land Convent School, Dugri, observed World Day Against Child Labour. The principal students the importance of the day and said the aim of the celebrations was to spread awareness among students about the mental and physical issues faced by children forced into child labour worldwide. TNSPU Regional Centre gets new directorLudhiana: Professor Dr Arti Puri took charge as the new director of Panjab University Regional Centre. Faculty members from UBS and UIL, along with other staff members were also present to congratulate her on the occasion. TNSWebinar on impact of cyber crimeSchool of Engineering and Technology, CT University, organised a webinar on “Impact of cyber crime during Covid-19”. Rakshit Tandon, director- HackDev Technology Private Limited, was the keynote speaker. He said: “It is important to stay vigilant about phishing emails and websites, using only trusted Wi-Fi networks and adopting a password manager to help to avoid same password for multiple websites.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-mental-health-268473
