16-06-2021||---||Woman dies, 67 test +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 15As many as 67 persons tested positive for Covid, while one woman lost her life to the virus in district today.The deceased belongs to Maachiwara. She was 33 years’ old and admitted to CMC Hospital.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 96.3 per cent, while the case fatality rate is 2.39 per cent.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said under the Mission Fateh of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in the district is increasing with each passing day. There are 1,133 active patients in the district at present and 83,186 patients have recovered so far in the district.A total of 77 patients (67 new patients from Ludhiana district and 10 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 15,57,183 samples were taken, out of which reports of 15,57,031 samples have been received. As many as 14,59,284 samples were found negative, while reports of 188 samples are pending. He said now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 86,384, while 11,363 patients belong to other districts/states.He said unfortunately one patient (from Ludhiana district) lost his life on Tuesday. Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,065 from Ludhiana and 1,022 from other districts.Today 10,870 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said people are scared of coronavirus but they should also know that it is very easy to stay away from it. All they need to do is follow the Health Department’s guidelines.Patient falls prey to black fungus, 6 new casesA mucormycosis (black fungus) patient from Ludhiana lost his life on Tuesday. Now total deaths due to black fungus have reached 18 — eight deceased belonging to Ludhiana and 10 from other districts.Six new patients of mucormycosis were detected. Three patients belong to Ludhiana and three are from other districts. Total 122 mucormycosis patients — 64 belonging to Ludhiana and 58 from other districts — have been detected in Ludhiana hospitals so far. At present there are 56 active patients of mucormycosis in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-dies-67-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-269171
16-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Unregistered workers top in prioritised Covid vaccination||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 15The unregistered workers have topped the list of priority groups covered under the ongoing Covid vaccination drive for the 18 to 44 age group in Punjab, the government has said.Of the total 4,90,504 beneficiaries registered so far for vaccination, 1,91,887 were unregistered workers, which accounts for 39.12 per cent, the data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department has revealed.The official data available with The Tribune showed that construction workers stood second with 1,00,941 of them already getting vaccinated, followed by 84,372 persons with comorbidities, 64,733 family members of healthcare workers, 26,317 private industrial workers, 12,402 family members of unregistered workers, 6,843 family members of construction workers, 2,528 jail inmates with comorbidities and 481 healthcare workers.According to the vaccine inventory, the state government had received 4,29,780 doses of Covishield for the prioritised 18-44 age group category, all of which have since been utilised, while 60,724 of the total 1,14,190 Covaxin doses received so far have been consumed, leaving the balance stock of 53,466 doses.The Centre has allocated 14,34,370 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin to Punjab for June, of which 2,40,940 doses were received on June 2, while the supply of the remaining 11,93,430 allocated doses is still awaited.Besides, the state government has also got 1,95,400 doses of Covishield and 1,13,120 doses of Covaxin on June 1 from the total order of 3,80,350 doses placed under the direct procurement by the states on May 25.Moreover, 6,88,870 additional doses of both the vaccines are in the pipeline under the state supply quota.As far as the vaccination of healthcare, frontline workers and population above 45 years is concerned, the Centre has already supplied 45,88,010 doses of Covishield to Punjab, of which 43,79,278 doses have since been utilised, while 4,65,190 of the total 5,98,060 doses of Covaxin received so far have also been consumed in the state.Under these categories, 1,99,801 healthcare workers have got their first shot, 1,14,504 second dose; 8,95,552 frontline workers first jab, 1,95,218 second shot; and 29,51,219 45-plus population have already been immunised with first dose and 4,88,184 have been given the second jab as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unregistered-workers-top-in-prioritised-covid-vaccination-269173
16-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Customer beats food kiosk owner to death over bill||Ludhiana, June 15An owner of an eating joint was allegedly beaten to death by a customer following a dispute over unpaid food bill. The deceased has been identified as Suraj Kumar (22), a resident of Balaji Colony, Sahnewal, who used to run an eating joint near State Bank of India in Kohara.The police have registered a case against Mohammed Suleman, a resident of Roubal Da Vehra in Kohara, under Section 302 of the IPC in this regard but the accused was yet to be arrested.The complainant, Pappu Shah, brother of the deceased, alleged that the accused, Mohammed Suleman, had consumed some eggs at the eating joint a few days back but didn’t pay the bill which led to a scuffle between the accused and his brother Suraj.“On June 13, when Suraj, along with Guddu Shah, went to the kiosk (eating joint) just to make a round, they were accosted by Suleman who was under the influence of liquor at that time. The accused hurled abuses at my brother and hit him several times with a brick. Suraj fell on the ground in an unconscious state and when rushed to ESI Hospital, the doctors declared him dead,” said the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/customer-beats-food-kiosk-owner-to-death-over-bill-269174
16-06-2021||Ludhiana||Bus runs over man, driver held||A man, Shiv Raj (48), was run over by a bus of the Aman Transport Company on GT Road, near the Ladhowal toll plaza, on Monday. The driver of the bus (PB-10DK-3571), identified as Tarsem Singh, resident of Daria village, Tanda, in Hoshiarpur district, has been arrested by the police. According to complainant Kusind he and Shiv Raj were going towards Phillaur in an auto-rickshaw. “When the vehicle reached near Sarv Vyapak Ekjot Satsang Ghar just after crossing the toll plaza, some currency notes slipped from the hand of Shiv Raj and fell down. As Shiv Raj bent down to pick up the notes, the speeding bus ran over him, killing him on the spot,” said the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bus-runs-over-man-driver-held-269175
16-06-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for posting intimate videos of brother, wife||The police have booked Baljit Singh, resident of Kwality Road in Shimlpauri, under Sectiozzns 354, 354-B and 328 of the IPC and Section 67 of the IT Act for allegedly posting indecent and intimate videos of his brother Kuldeep Singh and his wife Priya on social media.Rajesh Kumar, father of Priya, said Baljit Singh, elder brother of Kuldeep, was having bad intention about his sister-in-law Priya. After being rebuffed repeatedly, on June 13, he administered some intoxicant in some eatable to Kuldeep and Priya. “When the couple was barely conscious, Baljit made their intimate videos and posted these on social media,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-posting-intimate-videos-of-brother-wife-269176
16-06-2021||Ludhiana||2 thieves held, motorcycle seized||Thieves and burglars apparently had a field day both on Sunday and Monday as they struck a textile mill, factory, house and godown on the nights of June 13 and 14. The police have arrested two of them.Thieves broke into a godown of Bhisham Pandey, son of Ludhiana North MLA and former minister Rakesh Pandey, in Fathegarh Mohalla on the night of June 14. They damaged four refrigerators and made away with crockery and some other valuable material. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.A textile mill, Chawla Handloom, in Geeta Nagar, and another factory in Guru Nanak Nagar were burgled on the nights of June 13 and 14. From the handloom factory the thieves took away 10,000 pieces of shawls, stoles, along with a refrigerator, LCD, microwave oven, computer and 10-12 bales of yarn, while from the other factory one thief took away an I-Tel mobile handset. The mobile thief was later caught by the PCR and booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC and identified as Rahul, resident of Sardar Nagar. With regard to theft in the textile mill, the police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.Three domestic servants, identified as Lov, Kush, alias Chhotu, and Ganga Ram, reportedly stole cash, gold jewellery, British Pounds and Australian Dollars by breaking open the safe at their employer’s house in South Model Gram on the June 13 and escaped. Owner of the house Harjit Singh, resident of Cheema Park in South Model Gram, said he would provide the details of stolen cash and gold ornaments later. The police have registered a case under Sections 381 and 120-B.The police nabbed a two-wheeler thief and snatcher from Hundal Chowk on Monday while riding a stolen Hero Splendour motorcycle (PB-10FS-5347). The thief, identified as Gurmeet Singh, resident of Tajpur Road, has been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC. Sub-Inspector Dhanwant Singh, who arrested Gurmeet, said the accused was stopped at a naka for checking on the basis of a tip-off. — TNSGodown of MLA’s son targetedThieves broke into a godown of Bhisham Pandey, son of Ludhiana North MLA and former minister Rakesh Pandey, in Fathegarh Mohalla on the night of June 14. They damaged four refrigerators and made away with crockery and some other valuable material. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-thieves-held-motorcycle-seized-269177
16-06-2021||---||NGOs protest NGT orders’ violation, LIT chief ‘loses’ cool||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, June 15During a peaceful protest by the Council of Engineers (CoE) along with NGOs Wake Up Ludhiana and Naroa Manch Punjab against violation of NGT directions by Ludhiana Improvement Trust staff and causing damage to trees, LIT Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam reportedly courted a controversy. He is said to have allegedly not only used derogatory and abusive language against the National Green Tribunal — a quasi-judicial body — but also threatened the protesters with forcible eviction if they do not leave the place at their own.Carrying placards against the continuing practice of laying cement concrete, block pavers or interlocking tiles around trees, leaving no place for air and water to seep in, the protesters were demanding that vacant space of one metre all around the trees ought to be left to enable the plants to breathe as directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made in the case of Kapil Dev vs State of Punjab and others (OA No 62/2021).Kapil Arora, CoE president, who was present at the protest, said the LIT chairman had made an attempt to snatch the fundamental right of peaceful protest and misbehaved with protesters in the presence of activists of several other NGOs.Jaskirat Singh and Kuldeep Singh Khaira of the Naroa Manch Punjab stated that the LIT engineering and horticulture branches were openly defying the directions of the NGT by covering stems of plants and trees with concrete or interlocking tiles, which amounted to contempt of court.“Roots of trees absorb water, oxygen and other nutrients that are essential to growth and development of trees but due to lack of nutrients due to choking of their roots, the grip/strength of roots of matured trees with the earth decreases and such trees are more likely to fall during winds and storms. It was with this concern that disposing of a petition filed by the engineers’ body the NGT had issued directions to the MC, LIT and GLADA to take remedial action to clear the roots of trees within one meter radius of bases of exiting trees in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngos-protest-ngt-orders-violation-lit-chief-loses-cool-269178
16-06-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Teachers slam order to promote Facebook pages of Edu Dept||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 15 Teachers are up in the arms against an order of the Education Department asking them to gather likes, shares and comments for the Facebook pages of the department and schools. Following the recent letter sent by the District Education Officer, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, in this regard, the same process is now being carried out in the district through online meetings organised by the District Education Office. Expressing displeasure over the order, the teaching organisations have termed it as an ‘encroachment into fundamental rights’. Leaders of the Democratic Teachers Front namely Daljit Samrala, Gurpreet Singh, Rajinder Singh, 5,178 teacher union, 6,060 teacher union and other representatives from different unions slammed the department for issuing such orders. Teachers have been directly and indirectly inspired to make Facebook IDs to collect more and more likes and shares for the department’s FB pages. In an online meeting held today, the Deputy District Education Officer, Ludhiana, issued an order to the school principals and teachers to create FB accounts in the name of parents or siblings of kids who are below the age limit of having an FB account. Teachers in various district and block-level online meetings have also been told to like, shares and comment on the Facebook pages of the department and the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-slam-order-to-promote-facebook-pages-of-edu-dept-269179
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||AAP protests scholarship scam, sits on hunger strike||Ludhiana, June 15The SC wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today began its week-long hunger strike as part of the state-level agitation against a scholarship scam.SC wing city president Dharminder Singh Fouji, rural president Amanchain and district joint secretary Jagdish Saini sat on hunger strike at Jalandhar Bypass. The strike will continue till June 22.AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said the party would continue its protest against Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot till he submitted his resignation for his role in the alleged misappropriation of SC/ST scholarship funds.He said: “Protests and hunger strike by the SC wing of the party will continue all across the state. The agitation will be further intensified if the state government fails to take an action against Dharmsot.”Another leader, Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, said the Congress government in Punjab had proved itself to be a group of scamsters as several ministers had been involved in various scams. “Even after bringing the matter of the SC/ST scholarship scam to the notice of the Chief Minister, the action promised against the guilty had failed to materialise,” she added.Payal constituency in-charge Manwinder Singh Gyaspura alleged that the Chief Minister was also a part of the scam as he had been protecting the guilty minister and no action had still be taken against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-protests-scholarship-scam-sits-on-hunger-strike-269180
16-06-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Without electricity for 8 days, farmers protest in front of grid||Doraha, June 15 Without electricity for eight days now, residents of Rajgarh and Ajnaoud villages today staged a protest in front of the power grid of Doraha. With sowing is at its peak, farmers of the villages have demanded immediate restoration of supply. “We are fed up of the dilly-dallying attitude of the PSPCL, which despite our pleas and reminders have failed to acknowledge and realise our urgency for power supply. We cannot sit still and have to complete our sowing operations at the earliest. Delay of even one day means a lot to us,” rued farmers. “Either the employees do not bother to attend to our calls or if at all they do, they demand obligations in return. Why should we be made scapegoats every time? No one is ready to understand the sorry state of farmers in the state,” said another protester. When the protest turned aggressive, the police had to intervene to pacify farmers. Doraha PSPCL executive engineer Daljit Singh said: “Power supply was disrupted by the storm on June 10. Almost all staff has been deployed since then to restore the supply at the earliest.” He said the supply had been restored but would be only till 8 pm today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/without-electricity-for-8-days-farmers-protest-in-front-of-grid-269181
16-06-2021||---||Contractual workers seek increase in pay||Ludhiana, June 15The Manbhatta Kacha Contract Mulazim Morcha today handed over a memorandum to Bharat Bhushan Ashu demanding increase in pay for mid-day meal workers and ASHA workers.The memorandum was submitted by the convener of the morcha, Harjit Kaur, through the minister’s PA Tejbir Singh Johar.The morcha demanded that mid-day meal workers be paid Rs 9,958, ASHA workers Rs 21,000 and part-time sweepers Rs 9,178. “All contractual workers must be regularised. All benefits of regular workers should be given to contractual workers, who are working day in and day out despite all odds,” the members of the morcha added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractual-workers-seek-increase-in-pay-269182
16-06-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Hockey players welcome appointment of new chief coach||Ludhiana, June 15 The hockey fraternity today hailed the appointment of former Olympian Rajinder Singh Jr as the chief coach of Hockey Punjab. International hockey players of yester years, including Olympians, sports promoters and organisers, also thanked Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi for recognising the abilities of Rajinder Singh Jr for the post of the chief coach. They said his appointment will bring positive changes to the game. Rajinder Singh represented the Indian hockey team in Asian Games (1982), Champions Trophy (1983), Los Angeles Olympics (1984) and Dakha Asia Cup (1985). Besides, Rajinder has played for Punjab Police and Punjab and Sind Bank for a long time. He was appointed coach of the national men’s hockey team in 2005. For his outstanding achievements in the field of hockey, he has been decorated with the Dronacharya award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hockey-players-welcome-appointment-of-new-chief-coach-269184
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||No power connections to illegal colonies: PSPCL||Ludhiana, June 15The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided not to issue new electricity connections to illegal and unlicensed colonies in the state.Information provided by the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Central Zone to social activist Rachpal Singh under the Right to Information Act read that the directions were issued to all four heads of circles (under central zone) for strict compliance with the provisions made in the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), 1995, and also in the policy for regularisation of illegal colonies introduced by the Housing and Urban Development Department, Punjab.It was mandated in the PAPRA and later in the policy that “No department of the Central Government or the state government or authority or municipality or board shall sanction any building plan, give water connection, sewerage connection, telephone connection or electricity connection to any building or land situated in a colony or building in respect of which license has not been obtained from a competent authority.”In this regard, the chief administrator of GLADA had written to the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Central Zone on December 11, 2020, about the non-compliance of provisions made in PAPRA and explicit directions issued by the state government through the Housing and Urban Development Department, Punjab.GLADA Chief had pointed out that electricity connections were being given to residents in unlicensed and illegal colonies without asking for an NOC from GLADA, which had given rise to proliferation of such colonies.Notably, the PSPCL headquarters had also issued directions to all zonal heads to ensure that no electricity connection was issued in the name of developer of a colony which had not obtained a licence from the competent authority and further to make sure that temporary connection issued in the name of a developer was not misused to divert supply to its residents or allottees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-power-connections-to-illegal-colonies-pspcl-269185
16-06-2021||---||Lassi more than a refreshing beverage, has health benefits||Ludhiana, June 15Lassi is a healthy fermented dairy beverage whose consumption is linked with several health benefits. Traditionally, it has been a vital part of daily diet of many families in Haryana and Punjab.However, the onset of soft drinks and other carbonated beverages have attracted younger generation due to their flavour, and attractive packaging and advertisements. Hence, in recent years, lassi has lost its popularity. However, with increasing incidences of more harms than benefits of synthetic beverages, there is a realisation to reintroduce lassi and promote this traditional beverage.“Lassi is known for its refreshing taste, thirst quenching and health benefitting properties. On an average, sweetened lassi has one to two per cent protein, 3-3.5 per cent fat, 16 to 18 per cent total solids and acidity varying from 0.75 to 0.88 per cent. Lassi contains appreciable quantities of phospholipids, minerals and vitamins. Besides the nutrients present in milk, it also contains several metabolites produced by lactic acid bacteria. Lassi is nourishing and healthful,” said Jaspreet Kaur from the Department of Food Science and Technology, Punjab Agricultural University.Adding further, Poonam Aggarwal from the same department, said good quality lassi should have creamy consistency, smooth texture, glossy sheen and white colour with yellowish tinge. “Mild acidic flavour and sweetish taste of lassi make it a refreshing soft drink. The major steps involved in processing of lassi are selection and standardisation of milk, heat treatment, inoculation and incubation, adjusting total solids, addition of flavourings and packaging.”Health Benefits of LassiComparison with other soft drinksSeveral carbonated drinks are available in the market and are high in sugar content and acidity. Over-consumption of these is not recommended as they are detrimental to our general and oral health. Some of these additives are potentially carcinogenic and may lead to cardiovascular problems. However, consumption of lassi has several health benefits as it has proteins, high contents of minerals such as calcium, vitamins A, B and D. Besides, lassi is loaded with pro-biotics that prevent infections and stomach disorders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lassi-more-than-a-refreshing-beverage-has-health-benefits-269186
16-06-2021||---||Ayurvedic immunisation camp held||Ludhiana, June 15As the third wave of Covid is predicted to affect kids, several measures are being taken by the department to tackle the same. Enhancing body’s natural defence system plays as important a role in combating the virus.Keeping it in mind, an ayurvedic immunisation camp was held by the district Ayurvedic Department at Government Ayurvedic Hospital, Model Gram.Known as ‘swarn prashan’, it is an ancient health tonic which is given to children in the age group 0-16 years. It is repeated after 28 days. During the camp, a total of 180 kids were given this ancient form of immunisation.The in-charge of Government Ayurvedic Hospital, Dr Hemant Kumar, told parents about ‘swarn prashan’ and said it was a process in which purified ash of gold was administered with fortified ghee prepared with herbal extracts and honey in liquid or semi-solid form.“With so many predictions about the third wave posing a danger to kids, we thought of the immunisation camp. The main aim of ‘swarn prashan’ is to increase the immunity of kids,” said Dr Pankaj Gupta, district Ayurveda and Unani Officer.The next camp would be held on July 11, he added.Benefits of ‘swarn prashan’ for kids||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ayurvedic-immunisation-camp-held-269188
16-06-2021||---||Manufacturers’ assn up in arms against ‘unreasonable’ fines||Ludhiana, June 15 The Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’Association today staged a dharna outside the office of the Chief Engineer of PSPCL against “unreasonable” penalties slapped on the industry. The dharna will continue till Friday. Members of the association said the industrialists had been penalised for overload use of two to three months, for which they had been asked to pay for the whole year. Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, president of the association JS Thukral Thukral said six members of the association sat on the dharna. A police force was also deployed on the spot but we continued our protest peacefully, he added. “We plan to sit on the dharna against PSPCL’s anti-industry policies till Friday. They have slapped huge penalties even on small manufacturers, who have used power (overload) for two or three months but have been asked to pay for the whole year. This is not acceptable to us,” said Thukral.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/manufacturers-assn-up-in-arms-against-unreasonable-fines-269189
16-06-2021||Ludhiana||Food team seals bakery||Food safety officers on the directions given by Dr Rajesh Garg, Designated Officer, Food Safety, today inspected a bakery after a complaint was received. The owners were preparing food articles in unhygienic conditions and without food licence. Four samples, including colours being used in the preparation of cakes, pastries, etc, were collected. A challan was issued and the premises sealed. A few other complaints were also attended by the team today and total 12 samples were taken for further analysis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/food-team-seals-bakery-269190
16-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two arrested for smuggling liquor||Two nabbed with heroin, ganjaLudhiana: The police have arrested a resident of EWS Colony for possessing drugs. Kishan alias Lallu was nabbed from Sanjay Gandhi Colony on Tajpur Road. His search led to the seizure of 25 gm of heroin from his possession. A case under sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. One Raju Jaiswal, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in the Janakpuri area, was nabbed by the police from near Ghora Colony in Transport Nagar on Monday with 800 gm of cannabis (ganja) in his possession. The accused has been booked under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-269192
