18-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Daily positivity rate plummets to record low of 0.39% in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 17Having made a remarkable turnaround from worst-hit to the safest district in Punjab, Ludhiana has recorded its lowest-ever daily Covid positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge.At the record low of 0.39 per cent on Wednesday when only 43 of the total 10,898 samples taken during the past 24 hours tested positive, Ludhiana’s hit rate continues to be the lowest in the state.However, the district’s 24-hour positivity rate rose to 0.6 per cent on Thursday when 64 of the total 10,645 samples tested positive here.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana’s daily positivity rate was almost 1 per cent less than the state’s average of 1.33 per cent on Wednesday.On Thursday also, Ludhiana’s hit rate remained lowest in the state and was half than the state’s average positivity rate of 1.28 per cent.Retaining the tag of safest district and constantly recording the lowest hit rate in the state for the past one week, Ludhiana’s positivity rate continuously remained below 1 per cent since June 12.From 0.83 per cent on June 12, the 24-hour hit rate went slightly up to 0.97 per cent on June 13, and fell to 0.53 per cent on June 14, bit increased to 0.62 per cent on June 15, dropping to a record low of 0.39 per cent on June 16, and once again going up a bit to 0.6 per cent on June 17.The data compiled by the district Health Department since August last showed that the daily positivity rate had never plummeted below 0.73 per cent, which was the previous lowest recorded in the district on October 19, 2020.And now for the past four days continuously, Ludhiana’s daily hit rate continues to be the lowest-ever with 0.53 per cent on June 14, 0.62 per cent on June 15, 0.39 per cent on June 16, and 0.6 per cent on June 17.This U-turn assumed much significance as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 19.18 per cent from the highest-ever ratio of 19.57 per cent in 45 days. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The official data suggested that the daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.Ludhiana’s positivity rate had started at a high of 18.92 per cent on the first day of May, further rising and touching its peak of 19.57 per cent on May 2.The analysis of weekly average positivity rate showed that Ludhiana reported 4.3 per cent positivity rate between May 20 and 26, which was almost half than 7.3 per cent positivity rate recorded in the district between May 13 and 19.From the sixth lowest positivity rate in the state and almost one-third less than the state’s average of 10.7 per cent between May 13 and 19, and the fifth lowest with 2.3 per cent less than the state average of 6.6 per cent between May 20 and 26, Ludhiana’s hit rate not only turned out to be the lowest at 1.6 per cent in the state but also half than Punjab’s average of 3.2 per cent between May 31 and June 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daily-positivity-rate-plummets-to-record-low-of-0-39-in-ludhiana-district-270150
18-06-2021||---||Three dead, 64 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 17As many as 64 persons tested positive for Covid, while three persons lost their lives to the virus in the district today. The total positive cases from the district have reached 86,491, while 2,071 have lost their lives to the virus so far. There are 902 active cases in the district, while the case fatality rate today was 2.39 per cent.Those who lost their lives today were two men aged 58 years and 83 years and one woman aged 39 years. All the three deceased belonged to rural areas.As many as 44 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 103 to private hospitals, while 23 patients were on the ventilator support. As many as 694 patients were in home isolation.As many as 10,645 samples were collected from various government and private hospitals and centres. The result of 115 samples that were sent yesterday is awaited.DC Varinder Sharma appealed to residents to follow all directions of the Punjab Government.“Covid has not gone but it is still around and people should not go careless and wear mask and wash hands regularly,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill.Mucormycosis patient diesA mucormycosis patient from Ludhiana died on Thursday. Now the total casualties due to the disease have reached 19 — nine from Ludhiana district and 10 from other districts.Five more persons from Ludhiana district were diagnosed with mucormycosis and now total confirmed patients of the disease have reached 130, out of which 72 were from Ludhiana. At present there are 50 active patients from Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-dead-64-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-270151
18-06-2021||---||Ludhiana MC team on Chennai tour to study solid waste management||Ludhiana, June 17To study how a private firm is handling the solid waste management system in Chennai, a team of the Ludhiana MC is on a tour to Chennai these days. The team, comprising of 11 members — Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, two councillors and six officials — is studying the solid waste management system there, as per the officials.Talking over the phone, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they checked the door-to-door collection and other works related to solid waste management in Chennai.“We saw how they are using e-rickshaws for door-to-door collection there. We will check as to how they conduct road sweeping work at night. We will study the waste processing work in Chennai also,” said Sandhu.Superintending Engineer, MC, Rajinder Singh, who is part of the team, said the company had invited the MC team to study the solid waste management there.A team of the MC had also gone to Indore last year to study the solid waste management system there but no steps were taken to implement the Indore model here in Ludhiana.A private firm, A2Z group, had terminated its services with the Ludhiana MC in February this year. The MC has failed to run the waste processing plant to date since the A2Z group left services. The MC has also failed to deal with legacy waste (old waste) at main dumping site. Besides, many uncovered garbage dumps (secondary collection points) in the city are haunting the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-team-on-chennai-tour-to-study-solid-waste-management-270152
18-06-2021||---||Man arrested for killing wife||Ludhiana, June 17The city police claimed to have solved a case of mysterious death of a woman who was found dead on June 13 at her house.ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran, ACP Davinder Chaudhary addressed a press meet regarding the matter.The ADCP said on June 13, Aarti was strangled to death by her husband at their rented accommodation. After killing her, he had taken her to a hospital on the pretext of arranging treatment for her but doctors declared her brought dead.The suspect has been identified as Pintu Kumar, a native of Uttar Pradesh, at present staying in Vishawkarma Nagar, Tajpur Road.Initially, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPc, on the statement of the woman’s father as the latter suspected that she might have died a natural death. Later on June 15, when the autopsy of the deceased was conducted, doctors stated that cause of her death was strangulation.“After the autopsy report, when we started the probe, we found the role of woman’s husband suspicious. When he was rounded up, he confessed to having killed his wife. He had killed the woman as he suspected that she had an illicit relationship with some other person,” the ADCP said.She said yesterday, he had planned to leave for UP but was nabbed from near the Samrala chowk bus stop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-270154
18-06-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||28 nabbed for snatchings, thefts in 2 weeks||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 17In a special drive against snatchers and thieves, the police zone 1 of the city police today claimed that it had arrested 28 snatchers and thieves in 15 days and recovered 67 mobile phones and 13 motorcycles from them.ADCP 1 Pragya Jain and ACP Waryam Singh addressed a press meet in this regard.“From June 1 to June 15, the Police Zone 1 had launched a special drive against gangs of snatchers and thieves. With the arrest of the 28 accused, we have solved 75 cases of snatching and theft. We are still questioning some of the nabbed accused. More recovery of mobile phones or other looted valuables could be made,” the ADCP said.Jain said some of the snatchers and motorcycle thieves were repeated offenders as they again started commiting the crime after coming out of jail on bail.The ADCP revealed that 13 snatchers and thieves were arrested by the Basti Jodhewal police followed by six by the Police Division 2, four by the Salem Tabri police, three by the Police Division 1 and 2 by the Daresi police.The ADCP said now, those persons who had bought snatched mobile phones or stolen vehicles would also face action and many of such persons were already been identified. They would soon face action. Most of the nabbed miscreants were drug addicts. They used to sell snatched cell phones and stolen bikes to buy drugs.As per the police, in most of the cases, snatchers had targeted daily wagers and migrant laboures.“We will find real owners of the recovered mobile phones and the same will be handed over to them. The recovered motorcycles will also be handed over to their owners, “said a police official.Criminals out on bail under scanner: ADCPADCP Pragya Jain said in maximum cases, the nabbed snatchers and thieves are repeated offenders. After coming out of jail on bail, they again start committing crimes. Now, to stop such repeated offenders from committing crime, all police stations have been told to keep a tab over their activities when they come out of jail on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/28-nabbed-for-snatchings-thefts-in-2-weeks-270155
18-06-2021||Ludhiana||Portion of road caves in at Gol Market||A road portion caved-in at Gol Market in Model Town, here, on Thursday. A shopkeeper, Arvind Sharma, said the complaint was made to the MC in this regard. After getting information, the caved-in portion was filled with soil. Residents demanded from the civic body to ensure safety of commuters and make necessary measures to avoid further road cave-ins during the rainy season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/portion-of-road-caves-in-at-gol-market-270156
18-06-2021||---||Gang of snatchers busted, 3 arrested||Ludhiana, June 17The city police busted a gang of snatchers and arrested three of its members. The police also recovered two motorcycles, an auto-rickshaw and a mobile phone from them.The accused have been identified as Ekjot, alias Honey, of Preet Nagar, Daba, Amandeep Singh, alias Aman, of Gobindsar, Daba, and Ashwani Kumar Ashi of Nanaksar, Daba.SHO, Police Division 6, inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, in a statement issued said on June 15, Ram Pal Bharti had boarded an auto-rickshaw. Later, three persons, including its driver, stopped the vehicle on the way and snatched a mobile phone from him. After snatching the same, they threw the victim on a road and fled the spot.Brar said when a probe started in the case, the three accused were identified and nabbed from near Giaspura.The SHO said all of them had a notorious past. Ashwani was facing five cases of snatching and thefts, Amandeep two cases of snatching and Ekjot was facing a case of theft.Revealing about their modus operandi, the SHO said they used to park their vehicle at some isolated place and when passengers board their auto-rickshaw, they used to loot mobile phones and other valuables from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-3-arrested-270157
18-06-2021||---||Flood control rooms set up in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 17In view of the rainy season, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday said the district administration has set up a 24x7 flood control room (0161-2433100) in the administrative complex.The Municipal Corporation has also set up a flood control room at Daresi Ground.Chairing a high-level meeting of all departments to review arrangements for flood control here today at the Bachat Bhawan, the Deputy Commissioner said the duty roster of staff has also been prepared in the control room to ensure it operates round the clock.The Deputy Commissioner said officials must remain alert to avoid any sort of untoward incident due to rain. He directed the officials to strengthen flood-prone sensitive places to minimise damage in the possibility of excess water being released from the water reservoir.He also asked the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to set up local level flood control rooms in their division for constant monitoring of the situation.The Deputy Commissioner instructed them to constantly coordinate with each other via WhatsApp groups to closely monitor the situation during the monsoon season. He directed them to keep their mobile phones switched on round the clock.Sharma said the administration had already made adequate arrangements to meet any sort of situation in the wake of rainy season.He also reviewed the arrangements made by the Food and Supply, Irrigation, Power, Drainage, Municipal Corporation and Police departments for tackling the situation, in case of floods.The Deputy Commissioner asked the Drainage Department to start the work of cleaning of all drains in the district. He also told the officials to install the wireless public address system in vehicles to alert people of floods.The MC has set up a flood control room at Daresi Ground that will be made functional from July 1 to September 20.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has deployed officials to perform duty in different shifts at the control room. The 24x7 control room staff can be contacted at 0161-2749120.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/flood-control-rooms-set-up-in-ludhiana-270158
18-06-2021||---||Woman booked for cheating husband||Ludhiana, June 17A woman has been booked for cheating her husband. The woman, Gurleen Kaur, was allegedly sent to Canada by her husband, Jaskaran Singh, after marriage and all expenses were also borne by him as decided before marriage. However, after settling down in Canada, Gurleen Kaur allegedly dumped her husband in India and refused to apply for his visa.The Jagraon police registered a case against Gurleen Kaur, resident of Iyali Kalan, her mother Gurtej Kaur and Karan Grewal of Assi Kalan.Jaskaran Singh of Sherpur Khurd complained to the police stating that he had solemnised marriage with Gurleen in 2018. The marriage was solemnised on the promise that Gurleen would go abroad after marriage and she would apply for his visa after reaching there.“After spending some time abroad, my wife asked me to apply for visa and she assured that being a wife she will complete all the formalities in the embassy. I sent my required documents to my wife and after a few months she said she had filed a case but the embassy rejected the same. Now for the past few months, instead of applying for my visa, she has been making hollow promises,” the complainant alleged.Jaskaran Singh said recently his wife told him that she had solemnised marriage with him with the sole motive of reaching Canada and now she had reached abroad, shewould not apply for his visa.Jaskaran Singh said his wife even went on to say that she would seek divorce from him and would solemnise marriage with some other man.Investigation officer ASI Anwar Masih said a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy was registered against the accused and further probe was on in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-booked-for-cheating-husband-270159
18-06-2021||---||AAP slams Bittu for ‘hurting’ Dalit sentiments||Ludhiana, June 17 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today staged a protest in the city against MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and the Congress party for terming some seats in Punjab as “sacred and unholy”, thus allegedly inciting hatred towards the Dalit community. They burnt effigies of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and MP Bittu during the protest. Senior leader of the AAP, including Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and others, said the AAP strongly condemned the Congress leader’s recent remarks over the Assembly seats in Punjab. Manuke alleged that Congress leaders called “some Assembly seats in Punjab as sacred and some unholy” but for AAP the whole country, including Punjab, is sacred. Manuke and Jeevan Singh Sangowal, vice-president, SC Wing, began fast to death on the issue of scholarship for Dalit children. The AAP leaders said the Gurus had risen above castes and religions and taught the lessons of ‘Manas Ki Jaat Sabhe Ek Pehchanbo’ and ‘Awal Alla Noor Upaya Kudrat Ke Sab Bande’. “But the opinion of the Congress party leaders is completely contrary to the message given by the Gurus and the path shown,” they added.  Harpal Singh Cheema said that CM Captain Amarinder Singh was now ‘pretending’ to be benevolent of dalits while during his tenure Captain had committed various atrocities on dalits, embezzled student scholarships money and abolished the quota of youth jobs. He said the Congress leaders were showing inferior attitude towards the Dalits and calling assembly seats as sacred and unconsecrated. “If the CM had been serious in the matter, he would have condemned the statement made by Bittu and taken action against him,” said Cheema. He said that it may be recalled that AAP senior leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura has been on a hunger strike against the ‘scam’ perpetrated by the Congress party on scholarships for dalit students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-slams-bittu-for-hurting-dalit-sentiments-270160
18-06-2021||---||BJP protests water, sewer tariff hike||Ludhiana, June 17 Several BJP leaders, including some councillors, staged a protest outside all the four zones of the Municipal Corporation against hiked water and sewer tariff in the city. They also opposed the MC’s plan to hand over recovery drive to private firms. The BJP leaders criticised the state government and the local Congress leaders for putting extra the financial burden on residents by hiking the water and sewer tariff amid the pandemic. They also criticised the Congress government as the MC is going to hand over the task of recovery to a private firm. Notably, the MC has revoked the exemption on water supply and sewer charges to residential properties up to 125 sq yards. Now, the exemption is being given to single-story houses up to 50 sq yards. Besides, the MC has hiked water and sewer tariff for different categories. The protesting BJP leaders, including Pushpinder Singhal president, BJP Ludhiana unit, said the MC has imposed Rs 2,400 annual water and sewer charges on the houses up to 125 sq yards and it has increased the tariff for properties above 125 sq yards.  Singhal said, “We strongly criticise the MC’s move and appeal to the people of Ludhiana that all the residents of 50 to 125 yards should not deposit their water sewerage bill as in 2022 when the BJP government comes into power, the MC’s order will be withdrawn immediately. We will stand with the people to oppose if anyone comes for recovery.” BJP leaders Anil Sareen among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-protests-water-sewer-tariff-hike-270161
18-06-2021||---||Akalis, BSP demand Cong MP’s arrest||Ludhiana, June 17 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) today submitted a complaint against Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu, demanding registration of a case against him as well as his immediate arrest for allegedly making casteist and defamatory comments against the Dalit community. The complaint was submitted to the Police Commissioner here by a delegation of SAD-BSP leaders. Senior leaders Charanjit Singh Atwal and Gulzar Singh Ranike said the delegation demanded that a case should be registered against the MP under Section 295 (a) for hurting the sentiments of the Scheduled Caste community. He said the delegation brought it to the notice of the Commissioner that conclusive evidence was already available against Bittu in public realm and that the police should not try to save him as he belonged to the ruling party. Leader Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said it was clear that Bittu had deliberately slandered the Dalit community to please his political masters by questioning why the holy seats of Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib had been given to the BSP under its alliance with the SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/akalis-bsp-demand-cong-mps-arrest-270162
18-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Seven  vaccination camps organised||Sahnewal, June 17 As many as seven free vaccination camps were inaugurated today by the chairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, in Sahnewal. The camps were organised at Government Middle School, Khakat, and government primary schools at Raian, Gobindgarh, Mundian Kalan, Kohara and Sahnewal. Bindra said the board was holding 159 camps in a fortnight and urged people to come forward and get vaccinated at the earliest. He also urged the youth to mobilise others to get jabbed to help to prevent the next wave of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-vaccination-camps-organised-270163
18-06-2021||Manav Mander||3,660 children tested +ve in dist this year||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 17In the second wave of Covid, 3,660 children (up to 18 years) were infected in the district. Parents need to be extra careful of their wards as children will be worst hit by the anticipated third wave, according to health experts.Majority of children who got infected were above 10 years of age and 57 were one-year-old. Some were even few days and few months old. A total of 3,660 kids got infected from January 1- June 15. This year transmission among kids was seen in form of intra uterine death as newborn babies also tested positive after delivery.The latest serosurvey (Dec 2020-Jan 2021) showed that around 25 per cent children were infected in the age group of 10-17 years, the same percentage is in adults too. It indicates that while children are being infected like adults, they are not getting the severe disease.District Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said nothing can be said about the third wave but people need to be careful and should not let their guard down. “Parents should get themselves vaccinated and it will also help in keeping their kids safe as it is parents with whom the kids are spending maximum time as schools are closed,” he said.Dr Rajinder Gulati, member, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said in the first wave, the severe disease occurred primarily in the elderly and individuals with co-morbidities. In the second wave, large number of younger age group (30-45 years) individuals have developed severe disease as also those without co-morbidities.“After the second wave is over, if we do not continue following Covid appropriate behaviour, the third wave, if occurs, is likely to infect the remaining non-immune individuals – that may include children also,” he said.“Children are as susceptible as adults and older individuals to develop infection but not severe disease. It is highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children,” said Dr Gulati.Safeguarding kids||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-660-children-tested-ve-in-dist-this-year-270164
18-06-2021||---||Manufacturers’ dharna enters third day||Ludhiana, June 17 The protest of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association against the PSPCL entered its third day today. Jaswinder Singh Thukral, president of the association, said the manufacturers were protesting against the “undue” heavy penalties slapped on them by PSPCL. Members said the penalties imposed on the small scale industry would bring down the morale of industrialists during the pandemic. Thukral added that if the penalties were not withdrawn, the dharna would continue tomorrow as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/manufacturers-dharna-enters-third-day-270165
18-06-2021||---||Man holds free vax camp on mother’s bhog||Ludhiana, June 17 Nothing was more appropriate than holding a free vaccination camp in the memory of their mother for Verma family, instead of following the traditional rituals on the bhog ceremony. The family acted upon the suggestion given by Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma during the live session with city residents recently. Parvesh Sharma, a resident of Janpath Estate, said his 82-year-old mother, Laxmi Verma, died due to Covid on June 1.  “We lost our mother to Covid. She was not vaccinated,” said Verma. The camp was held at Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust through Shree Krishna Charitable Hospital and 220 free doses were administered to people free of cost. “People should not hesitate to take the jab. It is an important tool to stay protected against the virus,” said Mohit and Shubha Verma, family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-holds-free-vax-camp-on-mothers-bhog-270166
18-06-2021||Ludhiana||Virtual summer camp concludes||Delhi Public School, KhannaDelhi Public School, Khanna, had organised a 15-day virtual summer camp. Students from across the country had participated in the camp under the Pan India initiative. Students honed their skills in yoga, aerobics, zumba, cookery, story-telling, art-and-craft etc. Various competitions were also held during the camp. TNSYoga, meditation week kicks offBhartiya Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Sector-39 , Chandigarh Road, kicked off an online yoga and meditation parents of the students under the guidance of yogacharya Balmukund . The session was addressed by Neetu Dogra, head of the Department of Hindi. The trainer demonstrated various yogsanas and told participants the importance of each. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virtual-summer-camp-concludes-270167
18-06-2021||Ludhiana||KLSD College shines in BCA exams||Ramgarhia Girls CollegeStudents of Ramgarhia Girls College have excelled BCA Semester-I examinations. Sant Kaur secured first position with 86.75 per cent, followed by Sanjana Dhiman 86.5 per cent and Sakshi with 86 per cent. Principal Dr Rajeshwarpal Kaur congratulated the head of the department and students for their results. TNSDD Jain CollegeStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women have brought laurels to the college by performing well in BCA-I examination. Juhi secured first position in the college by securing 88 per cent. Maninder Kaur bagged second position with 87 per cent, followed by Shivani Dhiman with 85.75 per cent. TNSArya College shines in BA examsStudents of Arya College girls section have made the college proud by excelling in BA Semester-III examinations. Renu secured 94.5 per cent while Tara Rani stood second with 93.75 per cent and Anshu bagged third position with 91.25 per cent. In boys section, Sanyog Grover scored 93.3 per cent, followed by Jasveer Kumar with 88.5 per cent. The third position was shared by Harpreet Juneja, Harshit Jain and Nikhil Nayyar with 86.3 per cent. TNSCT varsity builds ventilation deviceThe Robotics and Automation Department of CT University has developed a ‘Vehicle ventilation regulation device’. The device has been made with the support of two students, Parth Verma, student of Class VIII at CT Public School, and Satyam Gupta, BCA Semester-IV student. Dr Harmeet Singh, deputy director of the IPR cell of the university, said the vehicle ventilation regulating device maintained the flow of pure air inside the vehicle by restricting the flow of polluted air present in the surroundings. TNSGADVASU holds vaccination campThe Directorate of Clinics of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, in association with the Civil Surgeon Office, organised a Covid vaccination camp at the veterinary hospital of the university. A total of 405 persons were vaccinated during the camp. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/klsd-college-shines-in-bca-exams-270168
