20-06-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj
||Police provide green corridor to critical patient||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 19 The Ludhiana Traffic Police today provided a green corridor to a critical Covid patient, Vipul Jindal, of Tagore Nagar here. He was picked up from Hero Heart DMC Hospital and was taken to the Sahnewal airport in just 14 minutes.  A private air ambulance of some hospital of Hyderabad airlifted the patient to Hyderabad. Lungs of the Covid patient had damaged due to which he had to be shifted to Hyderabad for immediate transplant. After getting information about the urgent shifting of patient to Hyderabad, Joint Commissioner of Police Deepak Pareek had directed ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh to arrange a green corridor for the patient from Hero Heart DMC Hospital to the Sahnewal airport. “The moment I got directions from senior officials, I informed my team to switch off all traffic lights on the way to airport. Traffic police personnel were deployed at every intersection to prevent any jam. We started from the hospital at 12.24 pm  and reached the Sahnewal airport at 12.38 pm. Afterwards, in five minutes the patient boarded the air ambulance,” ACP Gurdev told The Tribune. Notably, this is not the first time that the Ludhiana traffic police arranged a green corridor for a critical patient, earlier also the police took such initiatives to save the lives of patients. The ACP said if any vehicle or person stops ambulance or any other emergency vehicle, they could face a penalty of Rs 10,000 under Section 194 E of the Motor Vehicles Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-provide-green-corridor-to-critical-patient-271117
20-06-2021||---||YAD, SOI protest jobs to sons of 2 MLAs||Ludhiana, June 19 Members of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) and Student Organisation of India (SOI) today staged a joint protest against appointments of sons of Congress MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Fateh Jung Bajwa at Jagraon Bridge. They termed these appointments as “illegal and unconstitutional”. During the demonstration, the YAD and SOI activists distributed laddus to people and said that they were protesting in this unique way to ensure that the government awakes from its deep slumber.  Parmbans Singh Romana, president, YAD, said it is shameful to see that Capt Amarinder Singh government has betrayed the youth of Punjab on fulfilling promise of ‘ghar ghar naukri’ and instead has turned it to ‘apne ghar naukri’ and was giving jobs to sons of MLAs. Romana said, “This is the first-of-its-kind incidence in country where a sitting chief minister was bribing its MLAs in this way with a sole motive to save its chair.” He said that this action of the government has rubbed wounds of lakhs of youth who were demanding jobs from the Congress government after believing words of Capt Amarinder Singh. He said now thousands of contractual employees were seeking regularisation of their services and lakhs of youth are staging dharnas seeking jobs as per promise of the CM. The YAD leader said it is unfortunate that apart from ignoring unemployed TET teachers and others, the government has completely failed to keep its promise of providing jobs to families of farmers who have committed suicide. He said more than 2,000 farmers have committed suicide in the state during last four and a half years after government failed to waive of loans of farmers but government has not provided job to any single family. He said the families of over 500 farmers martyred at Delhi borders were also looking for government help in vain and nobody visited their homes with offer letters of jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/yad-soi-protest-jobs-to-sons-of-2-mlas-271118
20-06-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Students rejoice timely release of scholarship||Sahnewal, June 19 The release of post-matric scholarship for SC students this year has come as a big relief for them, especially at the time when their exams are drawing nearer and they have to seek clearance from their respective institutions to get their roll numbers. Sukhdeep Kaur, a student of a local college, said she has received an amount of Rs 7,500 as scholarship and it means a lot to her. “My father is a daily wager. I could not arrange the fee in time. I was getting repeated calls to deposit the fee or my roll number would be withheld. My father is out of work due to the lockdown and could not arrange the money. But the day I found the scholarship amount transferred in my account, my joy knew no bounds,” she said.  “The scholarship amount has come as a big relief for us. We did not have even the slightest inclination of receiving the same. While my father had remained adamant to enable me to complete my graduation and arranged the amount on interest, it had not been the same in the case for other students,” rued another.  “The pending amount if cleared can enable us to pursue further studies, otherwise we will end up as simple graduates,” said another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-rejoice-timely-release-of-scholarship-271119
20-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana first district in Punjab to vaccinate one million||In a historic feat, Ludhiana has become the first district in Punjab to vaccinate one million residents, a feat achieved in five months. Hailing the contribution of doctors, paramedics, NGOs and all stakeholders engaged in the inoculation drive started in Ludhiana from January 16, MLA Surinder Dawar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and MC Councillor Mamta Ashu visited the Civil Hospital and congratulated the staff for the remarkable achievement.  They said without caring about the vagaries of weather, the doctors and healthcare workers reached every nook and corner of the district to jab the people. They said it is an incredible mark that has been achieved just because of the hard work doctors and health workers of Ludhiana. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the administration has now further scaled up the vaccination drive as we are looking at vaccinating the next one million beneficiaries in next two months.  He said the administration has a stock of 55,000 Covid vaccines and every eligible must turn up to get the jab to ensure the maximum number of vulnerable beneficiaries are covered as fast as possible. Sharma emphasised that the people must not doubt the efficacy of any vaccine as both Covishield and Covaxin are equally effective and safe and would help to save precious lives. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-first-district-in-punjab-to-vaccinate-one-million-271120
20-06-2021||dhiana||AAP’s dharna forced CM to release funds, says Mann||Punjab unit president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and MP Bhagwant Mann said the hunger strike held by the AAP activists had put pressure on the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government and forced it to release the post-matric scholarship amount of Dalit students. Describing the decision as a victory for the Aam Aadmi Party, Bhagwant Mann said Capt Amarinder Singh himself had knelt down before the struggle of the AAP warriors. Bhagwant Mann had arrived in Ludhiana on Saturday to culminate the hunger strike of Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Manwinder Singh Giaspura and other leaders on a dharna against the Congress government’s alleged scam in Dalit students’ post-matric scholarships. Mann ended the hunger strike by giving juice to Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Manwinder Singh Giaspura and other leaders. He said the decision to release the scholarship amount of Dalit students had proved that the state government was lying till now that the amount of only the Central Government was pending. Mann stated that now the government had agreed to give 40 per cent of its share to colleges, which was around Rs 200 crore. On the occasion, Bhagwant Mann said CM Capt Amarinder Singh should now immediately dismiss Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot who had “embezzled” Rs 64 crore in this scholarship and was messing with the future of Dalit students.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aaps-dharna-forced-cm-to-release-funds-says-mann-271121
20-06-2021||ibune News Service
||Employees hold protest, seek regular jobs||Ludhiana, June 19 Members of the Democratic Janglaat Mulazam Union, Punjab, under the banner of the Mannbhatta Kacha Contract Mulazam Morcha, Ludhiana, held a protest today at Samrala, demanding regularisation of services of contractual employees of the Forest Department, ASHA workers, mid-day meal workers and contractual workers of other departments in the state. District convener of the union Harjit Kaur, along with other workers, carried out a protest march in Samrala and handed over a memorandum to Amrik Singh Dhillon, Congress MLA from Samrala They said it was difficult to meet their daily expenses due to low income. She said contractual employees had been working with the Forest Department for over two decades but their jobs were not being regularised. She said the then government in 2016 had announced to regularise the services of the contractual employees of various departments and many employees had undergone medical fitness tests also but their jobs were not regularised so far. A protesting union member said: “Before the previous Assembly elections, the Congress had promised to provide jobs to all unemployed under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar mission. A promise was also made to regularise the jobs of contractual employees but nothing was done. Thus, we are forced to hold protest. Our jobs should be regularised at the earliest.” Along with regularisation of their services, a good salary and all allowances must be paid to the ASHA workers, mid-day meal workers and contractual employees of the Forest Department as well as other departments of the state. If demands were not met, they would be forced to intensify their agitation, the protesters said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employees-hold-protest-seek-regular-jobs-271122
20-06-2021||---||GST scam: Rs40 lakh seized from hosiery entrepreneur||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 19Rs 40 lakh, suspected to be the proceeds from the multi-crore GST scam unearthed some time back, was seized from a local hosiery entrepreneur, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Commissionerate officials said here on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Yogesh Jain, a distant uncle of the main accused in the multi-crore GST scam, Sahil Jain.Principal Commissioner Ashutosh Baranwal disclosed that tracking crucial documents and whereabouts of the accused in the Rs 33-crore GST fraud case, the CGST authorities landed up at the main accused’s relative, who was also caught indulging into the GST evasion scam.“Acting upon specific information, the anti-evasion wing of the CGST Commissionerate in Ludhiana conducted a search on the residential premises of Sahil Jain’s relative from where Rs 40 lakh, suspected to be the proceeds of the scam, has been seized,” he said.The kingpin of the GST fraud, Sahil Jain, was arrested by the CGST Commissionerate on November 11 last year for running a bogus billing racket worth Rs 393 crore and fraudulently availing ITC worth Rs 33 crore.Baranwal said it was believed that some crucial documents relating to the GST fraud were secreted at Sahil’s relative’s residential premises, where the search was conducted on Saturday.The search and seizure operation revealed that Yogesh Jain, a distant uncle of accused Sahil Jain, is running a hosiery enterprise. “Rs 40 lakh, suspected to be the proceeds of the crime, was recovered from the cupboards of a bedroom, thus seized,” he informed, while adding that on questioning about the cash retrieved from the residential premises, Yogesh Jain confessed that he was evading the GST by indulging into undeclared supply transactions, receiving and supplying goods without issuing proper invoices and mostly generating unofficial bills for the goods supplied.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gst-scam-rs40-lakh-seized-from-hosiery-entrepreneur-271273
20-06-2021||Nitin Jain||12% Covid samples test +ve for variants||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 19Almost 12 per cent of the total Covid samples processed for whole genome sequencing (WGS) have tested positive for variants of concern (VoCs) in Ludhiana district, the government has confirmed.Ludhiana stood third after Mohali and Patiala in the spread of VoCs in the state, the official figures have revealed.The district-wise distribution of VoCs in the state compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that VoCs have been detected in 130 cases, which accountedfor 11.9 per cent of the total 1,093 samples processed for the WGS, in the district.While Mohali with 341 VoC cases, accounting for 31.2 per cent, topped the state, Patiala with 323 VoC cases, which accounted for 29.6 per cent of the district’s total samples processed for the WGS, stood second.Among other districts, Ropar ranked fourth with 69 VoC cases at 6.3 per cent ratio, followed by Kapurthala 60 VoC cases at 5.5 per cent, Nawanshahr 57 cases at 5.2 per cent, Jalandhar 31 cases at 2.8 per cent, Hoshiarpur 27 cases at 2.5 per cent, Mansa 25 cases at 2.3 per cent, Faridkot 17 cases at 1.6 per cent, Sangrur four cases at 0.4 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib three cases at 0.3 per cent, Fazilka and Moga two cases each at 0.2 per cent, Bathinda and Gurdaspur reported one VoC case each at 0.1 per cent of their total samples processed for the WGS.When it comes to the socio-demographic distribution of VoC cases in the state between January and June, when a total of 1,149 VoC cases were reported in the state, 279 patients between the 30 and 39 years age group contracted VoCs, which accounted for the maximum of 24.5 per cent VoC cases.It was followed by 221 VoC cases in 20-29 years age group, accounting for 19.4 per cent, 193 in 40-49 years age group at 17 per cent, 157 in 50-59 years age group at 13.8 per cent, 138 in 10-19 years age group at 12.1 per cent, 75 in 60-69 years age group at 6.6 per cent, 54 in 70 years and above age group at 4.7 per cent, and 21 VoC cases in 0-9 years age group, which accounted for 1.8 per cent, in the state.Of the total 1,136 VoC cases distributed in the gender ratio, 634 VoC cases were reported among women, which accounted for 55.8 per cent, and 502 men, accounting for 44.2 per cent.The distribution of VoC cases by clinical profile by the ICMR categories suggested that 676 VoC cases, which accounted for 93.2 per cent, were found to be asymptomatic, while 49, accounting for 6.8 per cent, VoC positives were symptomatic.Among the symptomatic cases, only one VoC patient, which accounted for 2 per cent, complained of severe symptoms, while 21 VoC cases, accounting for 42.9 per cent, reported moderate, and 27, accounting for 55.1 per cent, were found to be having mild symptoms in the state.The distribution of VoC cases by type of isolation and outcome revealed that 767 cases, which accounted for 98.6 per cent, remained under home isolation, while only 11, accounting for 1.4 per cent, were kept under institutional isolation.Among the institutional isolated cases, only one patient, which accounted for 9.1 per cent, was admitted to Level 3 health facility, while seven patients, accounting for 63.6 per cent to Level 2, and three patients, accounting for 27.3 per cent, were treated at Level 1 hospital.While 777 cases, which accounted for 99.9 per cent, were discharged after being recovered, only one case, accounting for 0.1 per cent, was transferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/12-covid-samples-test-ve-for-variants-271274
20-06-2021||---||Notorious Saharanpur gangster arrested||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 19The city police nabbed a notorious gangster, Nadim, a native of Saharanpur, UP, who is facing eight criminals cases.Later, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) Rupinder Kaur Sran, ACP Davinder Chaudhary conducted a press meet regarding the matter.The ADCP said on June 4, the accused was booked by the Tibba police on the charges of attempt to murder after he, along with other gangsters Rohit Teda, Raja Bajaj, Rishab Benipal, alias Nannu, and several others, attacked members of another gang, Swaranjit, Kamal, Akash Soni, and also damaged an i20 car at Gurmel Park.The ADCP said Nadim was a member of the Nannu gang, members of which were also facing serious cases. Today, a tip-off was received that Nadim was planning to leave for UP to evade arrest.The ADCP revealed that on June 3, Nannu’s brother was beaten up by Akash Soni at a marriage due to which Nannu wanted to take revenge from Aakash. On June 4, Nannu, along with Nadim and other accused, attacked Akash and his accomplices.The police said Akash had also made a video of Nannu’s brother Kannu, when he was thrashed by Akash and his accomplices on June 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/notorious-saharanpur-gangster-arrested-271276
20-06-2021||---||Sports fraternity pays tributes to legendary sprinter Milkha Singh||Anil DattLudhiana, June 19Players, coaches, sports organisers and promoters today paid glowing tributes to legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who breathed his last in Chandigarh on Friday.Paying respect to the great departed athlete, they observed that Milkha Singh was par excellence who inspired a large number of players across the country to aim to achieve the ultimate goal.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, Balraj Sharma, general secretary, Punjab Swimming Association, Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer, Hardeep Singh Grewal, former hockey Olympian, Harbans Singh, former coordinator and in-charge, Sports Authority of India Training Centre, Ludhiana, Bhupinder Singh, former District Sports Officer and senior coach (gymnastics), Jagrrop Singh Jarkhar, director, Jarkhar Hockey Academy, Sanjiv Sharma, senior athletics coach of the Punjab Sports Department and Parveen Thakur, judo coach, termed Milkha Singh as India’s one of the greatest sportsmen who encouraged the young boys and girls to become athletes.After the morning session at the Athletics Coaching Centre, Guru Nanak Stadium, two-minute silence was observed to pay respect to the legendary athlete.Similarly, a condolence meeting was organised by the Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Welfare Trust, Jarkhar, at the village stadium to mourn Milkha’s death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sports-fraternity-pays-tributes-to-legendary-sprinter-milkha-singh-271277
20-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Abhishek bags rank 2, Navkiran 5th||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 19Three candidates from the district are among the top five candidates who have cracked the Punjab Civil Services-2020 examination, the result of which were declared by the Punjab Public Service Commission yesterday.Abhishek Sharma of Khanna city bagged the second rank in the exam. Sachin Pathak from Sahnewal ranked third and Navkiran Kaur bagged the fifth rank in the PCS examination.Abhishek Sharma (28), who topped the Ludhiana district, wants to work for the welfare of society. After studying B.Tech in 2014 from Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar, Sharma was selected as assistant commandant in CRPF but he later resigned. It was his second attempt.He had been preparing for the examination since 2015. “I feel lucky. Now, I have got a platform to meet my goal to work for the welfare of society”, he said.His father Pawan Kumar Sharma and mother Rama Sharma have served as bank officials. His both elder sisters are serving as doctors.Navkiran Kaur of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar has bagged the fifth rank in the examination. She cleared the exam in her first attempt.She did her schooling from DAV School, Pakhowal Road, Ludhiana, and then did graduation in B.Sc (Physics) Hons. from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University. After studying the Master of Science in Physics from JNU Delhi, she worked as a geophysicist in ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited) for about two years. Reading books is her hobby.After resigning from the job, she started preparing for the exam. Navkiran said. “Whatever responsibilities are given to me, I will perform these with honesty. I would like to work to bring a positive change in the state,” she added. Her father, Tarsem Singh is DGM, Central Bank of India and her mother Sarabjit Kaur is a lecturer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/abhishek-bags-rank-2-navkiran-5th-271278
20-06-2021||Ludhiana||44 test positive, woman dies in Ludhiana||As many as 44 persons tested positive for Covid, while one woman lost her life to the virus in the district today. The case fatality rate of Ludhiana was 2.40 per cent. The recovery rate now has increased to 96.69 per cent.Total confirmed positive cases from the district are 86,602 and 2,075 persons have lost their lives to the disease so far. There are 794 active cases in the district.The woman patient who lost her life today was 61 years’ old. She was from Sanhewal and admitted to Fortis Hospital.Today 40 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 89 to private hospitals, while 22 persons were on ventilator support.Today 10,186 samples were sent for testing, while from yesterday’s samples results of 109 samples are pending. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/44-test-positive-woman-dies-in-ludhiana-271279
20-06-2021||Manav Mander||Civil Surgeon office — a treasure trove of antiques||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 19The office of Civil Surgeon at Civil Lines is nothing less than treasure trove in itself. The building dates back to pre-independence times and is home to various antique gadgets and equipment.Recently, the staff found two old cameras inside an old almirah in the Media Wing of the department while cleaning the office. One camera is Rolleiflex (Made in Germany) and other is Yashica 635 (Made in Japan). A senior staff member from the office said these cameras date back to 1950s.“I was astonished to find these antique cameras from the bygone era. Today, everything is available in mobile phones, be it is taking pictures, sending e-mails or making a call but those were the days when clicking pictures was a rarity,” said Rajinder Singh from media wing of the Civil Surgeon office.Talking about the Civil Surgeon office, the building of the office dates back to pre-independence times. Wind vane and anemometer atop of the building are still intact and point towards its rich past. Another thing that speaks volume about its rich heritage is a hooter that is now hidden behind the branches of the tree and wires.“The hooter was connected with Deputy Commissioner’s office. It used to blow three times a day. Firstly, at 9 am to mark the starting time of office, then at 1 pm for lunch break and then at 5 pm to call the day off. Now, hooters can be listened only in industrial areas,” said an old employee of the office.Dr Arvind Bawa, who lives nearby, said he was born in 1948 and since then it was Civil Surgeon office and also had residence of the official. Remains of the building of residence of the Civil Surgeon which was a British Architectural wonder are still there.“I still remember in 1960 somebody donated a Volkswagen Beetle car to the department and it was used by the then Civil Surgeon and everybody use to stand and stare whenever the car passed by. There were only 4-6 cars in the city and the Beetle car use to rule the roost,” he said.Recalling the past, Dr Ravinder Vatsayayan, another resident of Civil Lines area, said he has been seeing this building since his childhood. The whole Civil Lines area was known as officer’s area with Christ Church at Fountain Chowk where British Officers came to attend Sunday prayers and has also seen lavish weddings and solemn funerals.“It was one of the most posh locality of the city and not many people use to come towards this side. Such buildings should be preserved but it is sad that the government is not taking keen interest in the same. Adjacent to the Civil Surgeon’s office was Daak Bangla where all the IAS officials, politicians and other VIPs use to take rest during their visit to Ludhiana but sadly it was demolished recently,” said Dr Ravinder Vatsayayan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civil-surgeon-office-%E2%80%94-a-treasure-trove-of-antiques-271280
20-06-2021||Ludhiana||Three booked for abetting woman’s suicide||They have been identified as Deepak, his father Subash, and brother Aman, all residents of Indira Colony. Complainant Ajay Kumar said on Thursday night, they tortured the deceased following which she took the extreme step. The hanging body of the woman was found on Friday morning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-booked-for-abetting-womans-suicide-271281
