21-06-2021||People suggest roping in private companies to help the civic authorities & spread awareness on proper waste disposal||Joint effort by civic body, residents will go a long way||Civic authorities should install water-suction pumps in low-lying areas of the city, where there are no outlets for water to drain during the monsoons. Sewage works are under way in many parts of the city and can lead to major accidents during the monsoon. The authorities of civic bodies should install proper diversions in these areas to avoid accidents. Proper cleaning and suction of sewage pipes should also be done in time. If timely action is not taken, the problem of waterlogging will worsen.Dhruv SharmaGive installation work to private companiesThe problem of waterlogging is not new to the city but despite knowing that it is an annual problem, the Municipal Corporation has not been able to solve it for many years now. It is high time that the government should now appoint private companies to perform this task. A proper functioning sewerage system can only be assured by private companies. It is also important to make sure that undue delays and interference of political parties is avoided at all costs. Corrupt practices in infrastructure projects should be heavily fined.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWith the rising mercury, power and water shortage have started testing the patience of residents. As the authorities concerned are found wanting every summer, public suffering has become a norm. Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comRitu PriyaDilly-dallying will cost administration dearIt is the ripe time for civic authorities to take concrete steps to speed up sewerage work in the city to avoid monsoon mess. Monsoon has struck northern India 15 days in advance, so it is high time for the Municipal Corporation to ensure proper drainage of the monsoon water, failing which the city will become a pool with only a few showers. The authorities must take necessary steps to avoid last-minute chaos. An action must be initiated against the erring officials for undue delay in the progress of sewerage work. Dilly-delaying will cost dearly both to the administration and residents.Bir Devinder Singh BediWard-wise plan to prevent waterlogging neededEvery year, Ludhiana faces the problem of waterlogging of rainwater due to faulty drainage system. The Municipal Corporation should chalk out a concrete ward-wise plan to overcome the problem of waterlogging on roads. It also becomes a breeding ground for diseases. Councillors must order to lay down a big pipe for sewerage with proper facility of drainage by digging pits along both sides of the roads and streets. Proper connections of underground services, such as water and telephone, should be given to all consumers in advance and after the stipulated date, nobody will should be allowed to dig any part of the road in the street. Proper levelling of roads and streets should be done timely to avoid waterlogging. Residents must also cooperate with the local government in keeping the city clean and not throw garbage in sewers.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiDon’t litter streets with garbageResidents of the city face the problem of accumulation of water during the monsoons every year. There are many roads in the city, parts of which have sunk and will lead to serious accidents if not taken care of in time. The local government must dig pits for drainage purposes. A well-connected underground water and sewerage system should also be constructed so that water does not accumulate on roads and in streets. People should throw garbage only in dustbins and not on streets to avoid accumulation of water.Farzana KhanInstall water pumps in low-lying areasArrival of monsoon in the city leads to stagnation of rainwater, especially in low-lying areas of the city, blocking sewerage lines across the district. Civic authorities must gear up and prepare in advance to prevent waterlogging in the district. Water pumps need to be installed permanently at locations prone to waterlogging so that water can be cleared as soon as possible. Drains in localities must be cleaned regularly, especially before rains set in, ensuring that sewerage water does not accumulate on roads and in streets. It has also been noted that when it rains or gets windy, there is always a breakdown of electricity supply. During the rainy season, locations with standing water become mosquito-breeding stations, resulting in the possibility of spread of malaria and other diseases.Gautam DevCarpet roads before arrival of monsoonCivic authorities should do their homework before the arrival of the monsoon lest the people suffer. All manholes and drainage pipes should be cleaned timely so that roads and streets are not waterlogged. Roads should also be metalled before the arrival of monsoons to plug all potholes. A stitch in time saves nine.Dr Sunil ChopraPotholes pose danger to commutersAs soon as monsoon arrives in the city, rainwater accumulates in potholes, resulting in accidents and inconvenience to commuters. Given the limited infrastructure of the city to handle such weather, the city has been witnessing flood-like scenes during the monsoon. Open drains built along many roads also do not have proper drainage. The city administration should take necessary steps for proper drainage of rainwater on roads.Adish SoodEncourage practice of rainwater harvestingMonsoon is approaching the state and civic authorities must pull up their socks to make sure that waterlogging does not adversely affect residents in the district. For this, sewerage manholes should be tightly covered. It is also the responsibility of residents to ensure proper disposal of waste. They should not throw garbage on streets as that leads to choking in drainage areas. Drainage pipes must be cleaned regularly, especially before the monsoon. Rainwater harvesting should be encouraged among residents. Broken roads and drainage pipes must be repaired in time.Chaitya MarkandaSpread awareness about water-borne diseasesDamaged water pumps installed on roads should be repaired and maintained for proper drainage of rainwater. There must be necessary measures introduced for rainwater harvesting so it can be used judiciously. Residents must be made aware of the water-borne diseases so that they can take preventive measures. It is imperative to hold awareness campaigns for against dumping garbage on roads.Amarpreet KaurAdmn should pull up socks in timeLife of residents is severely disrupted due to waterlogging in the streets during the monsoon. It is not only the administration but also residents who are part of the problem. With the joint efforts of residents and the administration, the problem can be dealt with effectively. It is important to spread awareness about choking in drainage pipes due to garbage thrown on the streets. The administration should also prepare in advance to deal with the problem of waterlogging.JBS Nanda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/joint-effort-by-civic-body-residents-will-go-a-long-way-271825
21-06-2021||Manav Mander||Pandemic is affecting mental health of children, say doctors||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 20With the world facing a pandemic, schools throughout the country have been suspended to curb the spread of the virus. Closure of schools has adversely affected the lives of many children and has disrupted their day-to-day and educational routine.Dr Rajeev Gupta, consultant psychiatrist at Manas Hospital and Manas Clinic, said students from kindergarten to university level were compelled to take online classes to continue their studies. He said although the concept of online teaching and learning is not new, its application to school education, especially for younger children, is still debatable.“On many occasions, scientific and education community advise to cut the screen time of children for improving their mental and physical health. In this context, introducing online teaching for five to six hours a day seems paradoxical. Many parents complained that online study concept brought dramatic changes in the personality of their wards. Children are misusing electronic gadgets for playing online games, using social media and watching adult web series. The effect of these activities is appearing in the form of behavioural and psychological changes,” Dr Gupta said.Expressing similar concern, Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, professor of psychiatry at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital said due to schools remaining closed for a long time, many children had restricted themselves to the surroundings of their room and hanging on to smartphones and iPads to keep them occupied. Such activities could cause depression in some children, who find it difficult to adjust to new changes, he added.“Children with special education needs, such as those with autism spectrum disorder, can become frustrated and short-tempered due to disruption in their daily routine. Then, there are such students who are in their career-building stage and can’t afford to take any chances due to the present situation,” said Dr Chaudhary.Ways parents/elders can help children||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pandemic-is-affecting-mental-health-of-children-say-doctors-271808
21-06-2021||Ludhiana||Row over under-construction building||Irregularities and illegalities galore in an under-construction residential building being raised in the staggered area of around 4,000 square yards by a politically-connected government official on a road linking Ayali village to Sidhwan Canal here.Earlier, a complaint was lodged by former DSP Balwinder Singh Sekhon with the Punjab Chief Minister that the building was being constructed without any approved plan, payment of the change of land use (CLU) charges and NOC from the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) thereby causing huge loss of revenue to the government exchequer.Besides, the residential building was being constructed by throwing all norms, building bylaws and other rules to the winds. It has now come to the fore that a part of the land under the building had been attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the alleged charge of money laundering against a city-based business family.In this regard, the ED officials had lodged an FIR (No. 93 dated May 28, 2021) under Sections 420/421/465/467/468/471 IPC against Kailash Aggarwal, Rajni Aggarwal and others charging them with selling attached properties of M/s Genex Infratech Limited and fraudulently siphoning off huge funds. (Copy of FIR is available with The Tribune).In their complaint to the police the Enforcement Directorate officials stated that the matter was being taken up with revenue officials concerned for cancellation of mutations of the part of the land, which being properties of the directorate, had been sold in a fraudulent manner with forged and fabricated documents.Knowledgeable sources maintain that some part of the land where residential building was being constructed by the government official had been attached by the ED.Even Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority officials were in the dark about the ownership of the land. A team of officials had visited the site and issued directions to stop further construction henceforth as the building was being raised without any approved plan, payment of theCLU charges and obtaining the NOC from Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority.Senior Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority officials said they had no official information whether part of the land where residential building was being constructed had been attached by the ED or that its ownership was questionable.A notice was issued to the owner of the building to stop construction, which was in violationof bylaws and without any statutory approval, they added.However, as things stand at present the construction work was continuing as before and only an independent probe could bring out the real truth and expose illegal acts of the government official and those conniving with him, said Sekhon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/row-over-under-construction-building-271803
21-06-2021||Ludhiana||Shatabdi Express to resume service soon||With restrictions being removed and the region slowly limping towards another ‘unlock’, the Ferozepur Division of Northern Railway has announced restoration of six pairs of trains, which include New Delhi-Ludhiana-Amritsar Shatabdi Express (02013/14 and 02029/30). The Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Railway Rajesh Aggarwal, said in an online interaction that other trains to be back on track were 02461/62 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Shri Shakti Express (July 1), 02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Express (July 2), 04605/06 Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi-Rishikesh Express (July 4) and 04639/40 SAS Nagar (Mohali)-Ferozepur-SAS Nagar Express.  Among other trains to be restored by other divisions of Northern Railway to provide connectivity to Shri Mata Vishno Devi Katra, Jammu Tawi, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Kalka and Shimla to other destinations were 02005/06 and 02011/12 New Delhi-Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (June 21), 02045/46 New Delhi-Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (June 21), 04515/16 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka Express (June 21), 04527/28 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka Shivalik Deluxe Express (June 21), 04517/18 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka Express (June 21), 04505/06 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka Rail Motor Special Express (June 21) and 04011/12 Delhi Jn-Hoshiarpur-Delhi Jn Special Express. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shatabdi-express-to-resume-service-soon-271804
21-06-2021||---||Wrestler Khali’s mother passes away at 75||Ludhiana, June 20 Tandi Devi, mother of wrestler Great Khali aka Dalip Singh Rana (75), breathed her last at the DMCH here today. She died due to prolonged illness. She was suffering from heart and lung disease.  She was admitted to the hospital on June 13 after her condition deteriorated. She had tested negative for Covid and was admitted in the ICU. Khali himself brought his mother to the hospital. Throughout her admission in the hospital, Khali was with her.  Her last rites will be performed in Himachal Pradesh tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wrestler-khalis-mother-passes-away-at-75-271805
21-06-2021||Ludhiana||Teachers seek regular jobs||The Government School Teachers’ Union, Punjab, today raised slogans against the state government for failing to regularise the services of contractual teachers. The members of the union said the union strongly condemned the state government’s stubborn attitude towards contractual teachers. Leaders of the union said contractual teachers had been in the department for past 15 years but the state government had not formulated any policy to regularise their services. “The state government is constantly turning a blind eye while contractual teachers have been working on a meagre salary of Rs6,000 per month. If services are not regularised, we will intensify the stir,” members said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-seek-regular-jobs-271806
21-06-2021||---||Ludhiana-based industrialist duped of Rs7 lakh by cyber criminals||Ludhiana, June 20Four West Bengal and one Gujarat-based cyber criminals duped a city- based industrialist of Rs7 lakh allegedly by hacking his mobile phone.The accused have been identified as Samar Bahadur Patel of Surat, Gujarat, Raju Atha of Bankura (West Bengal), Samrat Ali and Ishan Chowdhury, both of Murshidabad (West Bengal), and Sonali Mandal of Maldah (West Bengal).Complainant Gurbir Singh of DPS Enclave, Jhammat village, told the police that he owned Hemkunt Paper Mill in Ludhiana and his bank account was in HDFC Bank branch, BRS Nagar.The complainant stated that the bank allowed him daily transaction limit upto Rs10 lakh. Recently, he felt the need to increase his daily transaction limit. He searched Google about the process to increase the transaction limit and got one mobile number purportedly of HDFC Bank.“When I called on the mobile number, the person, who answered the call claimed himself to be senior bank official. On the pretext of providing help to me, he hacked my mobile number and later withdrew Rs7 lakh from my bank account through different transactions,” the complainant added.Money was transferred in various bank accounts, which belonged to five persons.After the cyber cell received complaint, a probe was initiated following which a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy was registered against five persons.The investigation officer, ASI Amritpal Singh, said the police would send a team to nab the accused booked for the crime.In a similar case, the police division No. 6 booked Bhubneshwar Maji and Yogesh Kumar of Delhi on the charge of committing a cyber fraud of Rs8,500 with a city-based man. Complainant Kewal Singh Panesar of Chet Singh Nagar told the police that he got a call from some unknown persons, who asked him to follow the required steps on Paytm app to complete the KYC process. When he followed the steps and clicked on links sent by them, Rs8500 got deducted from his bank account. Later, when the police started a probe two persons were found involved in the crime.Victim’s mobile phone hacked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-based-industrialist-duped-of-rs7-lakh-by-cyber-criminals-271807
21-06-2021||---||Ludhiana records 36 fresh cases; recovery rate reaches 96.7%||Ludhiana, June 20Thirty six people tested positive for Covid while one person lost his life to the virus today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 96.78 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 2.4 per cent in the district.The virus claimed the life of a 76-year-old male, a resident of Kitchlu Nagar. He was admitted at the DMCH.COVID-19 figuresNow, the total number of persons, who succumbed to Covid, include 2,076 from Ludhiana and 1,030 from other districts.The Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, today said under the “Mission Fateh” of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid patients, who were getting cured from the disease in Ludhiana district, was increasing with each passing day. At present, there were 717 active patients in the district, the DC added.In all, 49 patients, including 36 from Ludhiana district and 13 from other states/districts, tested Covid positive during the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid patients related to Ludhiana district was 86,638 while 11,433 belonged to other districts/states.According to the Health Department till date, 16,10,961 samples were collected out of which report of 16,10,863 was received. The number of samples found negative was 15,12,792. The report of 98 samples was pending. Today, 11,412 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing. Their results were expected shortly.Meanwhile, the DC appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to save themselves and others from the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-records-36-fresh-cases-recovery-rate-reaches-96-7-271798
21-06-2021||Manav Mander||Keeping an eye on eye health, experts explain how||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 20Yogic eye exercises, also called eye yoga, are movements that strengthen and condition the muscles in your eyes. It has become all the more important amid the pandemic when people, including kids and elders, are studying/working from home and spending maximum time before screen. Extending working hours, online classes and binge watching is adding strain to the eyes due to prolonged exposure to harmful rays. On World Yoga Day (June 21), everyone should keep an eye on their eye health and practice eye yoga for keeping the eyes healthy.Swastika Sobti, a yoga enthusiast from the city, said, “Eye yoga benefits with better vision, increased concentration and spiritual insight. Yoga postures for the eyes will help protect your vision from the stresses of light, tension, and other environmental conditions, keeping them refreshed and bright. Since we are passing through pandemic with increased screen time, practicing eye yoga will help in keeping the eyes healthy and also increased vision”.FICCI FLO held a workshop on Eye Yoga which was conducted by Siddhi Shah, an eye yoga Specialist and Nuritionist. Siddhi has worked with people of all ages and helped them repair and restore their vision.“Due to the pandemic everything is virtual now a days and screen time has increased manifolds which is really tiring for the eyes of kids, elders and everyone. Eye yoga workshop is the need of the hour and the members were delighted to learn simple exercises and techniques for the eyes,” said Shah.“Both kids and parents are spending lot of time before the screen due to work from home set up. Increased strain time has led to prolonged exposure to harmful rays and as a result significant increase in eye related problems has come forward during the last one and a half year. People should give break and let their eyes relax,” said the city-based ophthalmologist.Simple exercises6 tips for better vision||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/keeping-an-eye-on-eye-health-experts-explain-how-271799
21-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Petrol pump to pay Rs 10,000 penalty for poor amenities||Ludhiana, June 20The public sector oil company – Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) – has imposed a penalty of Rs10,000 besides issuing warning to one of its dealers in the city. The penalty has been imposed on Pathak Power Point, Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, for poor public utilities and amenities at the outlet.A city-based social activist Gajjan Singh Jassal had lodged a complaint on April 17, 2021, with the HPCL management and the District Food and Supplies Controller about poor condition of toilet, drinking water block, non-availability of free air service for vehicles and poor sanitation at the petrol pump.Later, a team of the Food and Supplies Department had also conducted an inspection of the petrol pump, which had prima facie corroborated the complaint lodged by Jassal.The HPCL Chief Regional Manager, Chandigarh region (Retail), through his office letter dated May 26, 2021, intimated the owner of Pathak Power Point that after perusal of reply received to the show-cause notice it had been decided that for minor deficiencies like poor condition of toilet, drinking water block, refusal to provide complaint book and alleged misbehaviour with the customer, all being first offences, warning was being issued.Further, the complaint of non-availability of free air being second offence in a period of five years, a penalty of Rs10,000 had been imposed as per clause 8.4 (iii) of MDG (Marketing discipline guidelines). The erring dealer has been directed by the company to send the amount of penalty by a bank draft within 10 days of the receipt of the letter failing which the amount would be deducted from his account.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/petrol-pump-to-pay-rs-10-000-penalty-for-poor-amenities-271800
21-06-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Drive against drugs launched||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 20Ahead of the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, which falls on June 26, the police today conducted cordon- and-search operation (CASO) in various areas of the city. SHOs of police stations in the Commissionerate led the search operation in their respective areas.The police today also launched a special drive against drug trafficking under which the top cop told all the SHOs and senior officials to identify people involved in drug smuggling in their respective areas and take strict action.Besides, cops have also been told to hold maximum drug awareness drives in their respective jurisdictions so that youth could be saved from falling prey to the drug menace.Under the drive, the police also organised drug awareness seminars at various places in which residents took an active part. The people, who attended seminars, were apprised about the possible legal action they might face if found involved in drug smuggling. They were also told that if someone was not directly involved in drug smuggling but he/ she gave shelter to smugglers then such person could also face strict action.During seminar, police officials also gave their phone numbers to people and asked them to share information about drug smuggling activities and smugglers. They even assured that if people shared such information, which was found true, the informant would be given due cash reward.Cycle rally to raise awareness against drugsThe police organised a cycle rally to raise awareness about drugs. Cops in large numbers and residents took part in the rally. The police division No. 6 SHO, Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, led the rally. Brar said the purpose of orgainsing cycle rally was to raise awareness about drugs. The police would continue to organise awareness rallies to win the fight against drugs, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-against-drugs-launched-271801
21-06-2021||Ludhiana||Will strike work on June 23 in Punjab: PCMS doctors||Slamming the state for delinking the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from the basic pay, the PCMS Association, Punjab, on Sunday decided to observe a statewide strike on Wednesday.After a meeting, Dr Rohit Rampal, president, PCMS Association, Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, said the medical fraternity was unhappy with the 6th Pay Commission as it wasn’t beneficial for them. “We have submitted a memorandum to the Health Minister to rollback the new NPA norms. In this regard, we have decided to go on a strike across the state on Wednesday,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services Association, said: “Doctors have been working hard since the Covid outbreak and this is their reward? What to expect of allowance or bonus, the government had instead reduced their salaries.”“Initially, the NPA at 25% was a part of the pay for calculating all allowances. Now with the 6th Pay Commission, the NPA has been delinked from the pay and reduced to 20%, which means it has been fixed now and no other allowances will be calculated on the NPA.”“The decision will remarkably affect the net salary of all government doctors,” he added. — TNSAssns oppose moveChandigarh: Various associations of doctors on Sunday opposed the move to delink the NPA from the basic pay. Rural Medical Officers’ Association, Senior Vet Officers’ Association, Veterinary Officers’ Association and Ayurvedic Doctors’ Association have decided to come on a common platform to oppose the govt move. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-strike-work-on-june-23-in-punjab-pcms-doctors-271709
