22-06-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||Snatchers’ gang busted, 6 held in Ludhiana||The city police arrested six members of a gang of thieves and snatchers from near the Dhuri Line rail overbridge in Dugri on Sunday while planning a major crime. Two country-made pistols, four datars (swords), one stolen scooter and a stolen motorcycle were recovered from them.Pistols, swords, two-wheelers seizedTwo country-made pistols, four datars (swords), one stolen scooter and a motorcycle were recovered from the six suspects, who were arrested near the Dhuri Line rail overbridge in Dugri on Sunday while planning a major crime.They have been identified as Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Raipur village, Jalandhar, Hardip Singh of Davida Ahrana Khurd village in Hoshiarpur, Vijay Kumar, a resident of Basdhera village, Satnam Singh, a resident of Mo Sahib village, Jalandhar, Jimashu Heer of Subhash Nagar, Ludhiana, and Gurdeep Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Dhandra Road, here, have been booked under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.The police said the arrested members of the gang were being interrogated to know the trail of crime committed by them in the city and elsewhere in the state.Guard arrested for stealing auto partsBalbir Singh, a resident of Lakhowal village in the district, employed as a security guard in auto parts manufacturing firm Jyoti Auto India Factory on Raina-Bhagpur Road, was arrested by the police and charged under Section 381, IPC, for allegedly stealing auto spare parts from the factory.In a complaint to the police, owner of the firm Yuvraj Kaushal, a resident of Tagore Nagar, told the police that the suspect used to steal auto spare parts from the factory during night and would take the same with him in the morning after his duty.2 booked for snatching mobile phone, cashThe police have booked two persons, Sahib Singh, a resident of Sahibzada Fateh Singh Nagar, and his accomplice Jasvir Singh, a resident of Nanak Nagar in Shimlapuri, under Sections 379-B, 341 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code ()IPC) for allegedly snatching a mobile phone and Rs 1,600 from Anirudh Yadav, a resident of Giaspura. The victim said he was going home on his motorcycle after his duty when the duo, riding a Bajaja Platina motorcycle (bearing registration number PB 10EZ 5748), followed him and snatched the mobile phone and cash at sword point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/snatchers-gang-busted-6-held-in-ludhiana-272275
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||19 test positive, 1 dead in Ludhiana||What has come as relief for the residents of the district is that the graph of Covid cases and deaths is going down. The figures remind of the starting of the year. Today 19 persons tested positive for Covid and it was on January 11 that 15 persons had tested positive and 14 had tested positive on January 18. The recovery rate of Ludhiana district now is 96.92 per cent, while the case fatality rate is 2.40 per cent.Today for the third consecutive day there was only one death due to the disease in the district. A 60-year-old man from Dholewal, admitted to Oswal Hospital, lost his life.Total confirmed cases from the district now are 86,657, while 2,077 persons have lost their lives since March 2020.Today 35 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 81 to private hospitals, while 21 patients were on the ventilator support. There are 462 persons under home isolation.According to the Health Department till date, a total of 16,20,345 samples were taken, out of which reports of 16,20,241 samples have been received. As many as 15,22,143 samples were found negative, while reports of 104 samples were pending. Today 9,384 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Meanwhile, mass media team from the Health Department visited Nishkam Sewa Ashram at Beehla village in Pakhowal block. The motive of the visit was to sensitise elderly persons living in the old-age home regarding Punjab Government’s newly launched helpline number exclusively for elderly persons and regarding Covid-19 preventive measures.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said the Punjab Government has launched a 24x7 helpline number exclusively for the elderly and they can call at this number to get any kind of help from the government. She said, “We have instructed all our civil hospitals, SDHs and CHCs to provide support to the implementation of helpline 14567 (a national helpline for senior citizens), so that any elderly person can call at this number.”Tarsem Lal, trustee of the Nishkam Sewa Ashram, assured the team regarding adherence to the government Covid protocol.5 Covid care centres shutKeeping in view the decline in the Covid-19 cases in the district, five Covid care centres have been shut down.Now Urban Primary Health Centre at Jawaddi, Mother and Child Hospital Vardhman, Meritorious School, Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan at Hambran and Mundian cease to be Covid care centres.Meanwhile, OPD and Emergency of Civil Hospital which was shifted to ESI Hospital due to Covid will be shifted back to Civil Hospital. Both during the first and second wave, OPD and Emergency from Civil Hospital were shifted and only Covid-19 cases were handled at Civil Hospital. From tomorrow everything will be back to normal.June has seen decline in the number of Covid cases in the district. On June 1, 222 persons had tested positive. On June 12, cases declined to 92 and on June 19, 50 persons had tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-test-positive-1-dead-in-ludhiana-272277
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||Need 100 teams for vaccinating 1 million: DC to IMA||To further ramp up the mammoth vaccination drive and inoculate 33,000 persons daily in Ludhiana, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday asked the local body of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to give at least 100 health teams to cover the next one-million target in one month for protecting Ludhiana from the anticipated third wave of the deadly virus.Presiding over a meeting in his office, the DC said now the supply of the Covid vaccine is far better and the need is just to vaccinate all adults against Covid-19.He added that the need of the hour is to further scale up the vaccination drive to prevent any fresh wave of the pandemic by sending teams in every nook and corner of the district.He added that vaccination is being done on a large scale in Ludhiana and the administration is in action mode to further strengthen this protection system against Covid-19.He said the accelerated vaccination drive would help to build herd immunity, thus would break the transmission chain.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “Vaccination is the most effective weapon against this invisible enemy and now it is our responsibility to come forward for the jabs.”The DC also appealed to people to come forward for vaccination in huge numbers.Sharma asked the IMA to share the details of teams with the Health Department so that more new inoculation camps can be organised in the district as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/need-100-teams-for-vaccinating-1-million-dc-to-ima-272280
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccination: Ludhiana 3rd in giving first dose, sixth in both doses||Even as Ludhiana, being the biggest and most-populated district, continues to excel in the Covid vaccination coverage with the one and only district exceeding the 1-million inoculation mark, it ranks third in first dose vaccination and sixth in administering both doses in the state.Ludhiana has so far partially vaccinated 32,507 per lakh population with the first dose of the vaccine against the dreaded virus, while 5,447 per lakh people have so far been fully vaccinated with both doses, the official figures have revealed.The district’s vaccination rate was, however, much better than the state average of 25,431 per lakh population coverage with first dose, and 4,029 per lakh people given both the doses.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Mohali has topped Punjab in both partial and full vaccination with 68,131 per lakh population given the first dose and 7,815 per lakh people administered both the shots, while Mansa remained the laggard with the minimum 12,391 per lakh population given the first dose and 1,562 per lakh people administered both the vaccine shots.In partial vaccination with the first dose, Hoshiarpur has ranked second with 34,230 per lakh population coverage and Jalandhar fourth at 32,346 per lakh people coverage, followed by Pathankot at 31,609, Nawanshahr 29,314, Gurdaspur 28,848, Patiala 25,783, Kapurthala 25,027, Ropar 24,554, Faridkot 23,147, Amritsar 21,049, Tarn Taran 18,436, Moga 18,403, Barnala 17,589, Bathinda 16,782, Muktsar 16,225, Fatehgarh Sahib 15,894, Ferozepur 15,018, Fazilka 13,771 and Sangrur second last with 13,103 per lakh population.In full vaccination with both doses, Gurdaspur stood second with 6,540 per lakh population coverage, Pathankot third with 5,722 per lakh people coverage, followed by Jalandhar at 5,475, Hoshiarpur 5,447, Nawanshahr 4,784, Faridkot 4,214, Amritsar 4,118, Kapurthala 3,540, Patiala 3,022, Bathinda 2,806, Barnala 2,806, Ropar 2,794, Fatehgarh Sahib 2,690, Moga 2,417, Ferozepur 2,398, Tarn Taran 2,397, Fazilka 2,292, Muktsar 2,047 and Sangrur second last with 1,742 per lakh population.In the overall vaccination coverage, Ludhiana topped the state by administering 10,60,208 shots till Sunday, while Mansa remained the laggard with the minimum 79,295 total doses administered so far.Among other districts, Jalandhar ranked second with 6,29,172 shots, Mohali third with 5,23,741 doses, followed by Hoshiarpur 4,74,358, Amritsar 4,56,625, Gurdaspur 4,37,769, Patiala 4,04,698, Bathinda 2,02,900, Pathankot 2,02,545, Sangrur 1,82,466, Kapurthala 1,75,019, Tarn Taran 1,63,919, Nawanshahr 1,58,671, Moga 1,55,219, Ropar 1,40,146, Ferozepur 1,28,241, Faridkot 1,25,862, Muktsar 1,21,716, Fazilka 1,17,794, Barnala 90,931 and Fatehgarh Sahib stood second last with 85,129 jabs administered so far.OfficialspeakAll the Deputy Commissioners have been asked to ramp up the ongoing inoculation drive for all the 18-plus eligible population, while prioritising the super spreaders, vulnerable and the comorbid people in the state. They have also been authorised to plan effective outreach strategies to vaccinate maximum people in the coming days to thwart the much-anticipated third Covid wave. — Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-ludhiana-3rd-in-giving-first-dose-sixth-in-both-doses-272284
22-06-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||672 bottles of illicit liquor seized, 4 held in Ludhiana||In the course of a stepped-up drive to curb sale of smuggled liquor in the city, the police have arrested four persons from various places in the city on Sunday with the recovery of 56 boxes (672 bottles) of illicit liquor. All of them have been booked under various sections of the Excise Act.40 boxes seized from dhandari kalan manThe police said Raj Kumar, a resident of Dhandari Kalan, was nabbed by a team of the anti-smuggling wing of the police, led by SI Harjap Singh, while he was waiting for customers to sell liquor in front of his house. Forty boxes (480 bottles) of different brands of liquor were seized from him.The police said Raj Kumar, a resident of Dhandari Kalan, was nabbed by a team of the anti-smuggling wing of the police, led by SI Harjap Singh, while he was waiting for customers to sell liquor in front of his house. Forty boxes (480 bottles) of different brands of liquor were seized from his possession.Sonu, a resident of Ashok Vihar in Bhamian Kalan, was arrested from near his house where he was selling liquor on a motorcycle (bearing registration No. PB 10GB 3304), parked on a vacant plot. The police said 10 boxes (120 bottles) of First Choice whisky were recovered from the spot. The two-wheeler being used for the illicit trade was also impounded.In another incidents, the police nabbed Sikander Singh, a resident of Ram Nagar, on Tajpur Road, from Sahibiana village with 24 bottles of countrymade liquor and Vishnu Kumar, a resident of Jaswant Nagar, with the seizure of 48 bottles of 111 whisky brand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/672-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-4-held-in-ludhiana-272286
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two arrested for violating lockdown||4 nabbed with opium, ganjaLudhiana: Four drug peddlers were arrested by the police from various places in the city with 1,640 gm of ganja, 510 gm of opium and 6 gm of intoxicating powder. Vijay Sahni, a resident of Roop Nagar Colony, Dhandra Road, was nabbed from near the cremation ground in Model Town with 540 gm of ganja, Lal Vikas Kumar, a resident of Paranjit Colony, Mundian Khurd, with 510 gm of opium and two persons, Manish Kumar of New Krishna Colony, Hoshiarpur, and his accomplice Harsh Kumar of Krishna Nagar, Hoshiarpur, were arrested with 1,100 gm of ganja and 6 gm of some intoxicating powder. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. OCMan booked for raping minorLudhiana: The police have booked Pawan Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Jhuggi Colony, for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl living in his neighbourhood on the night of June 18. The mother of the victim told the police that taking advantage of darkness, the suspect took her daughter inside his jhuggi and raped her. Afterwards, the accused fled the spot after threatening the girl with dire consequences if she told anybody about the incident. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-272289
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||Yoga effective in achieving holistic development: Doc||The 7th International Day of Yoga was celebrated with great zeal today by various organisations in the city.A state-level function by the Ayurveda Department was held at Sangrur and was live telecast. Other districts also participated in the programme. District Ayurveda and Unani Officer Dr Pankaj Gupta said the pandemic had highlighted the importance of physical and emotional well-being of a person and yoga was one of the most powerful ways to of achieving holistic development.The Nehru Yuva Kendra organised special camps in 12 blocks of district to observe the day today. As many as 28,000 people participated in the camps.District Youth Officer Rashmeet Kaur said due to the Covid-19 restrictions, no major event was organised but various small camps were held across the state with strict adherence to Covid norms.“Yoga is essential to maintain a fit body and sound mind. Yoga is a form of exercise that does not require equipment and can be practised at home. Every individual must make it a part of their daily life. It has multiple health benefits, including flexibility, muscle strength, blood flow, boosted immunity, heart rate, controlled blood pressure and many others,” the District Youth Officer said.Meanwhile, at Hero DMC Heart Institute, yoga consultant Dr Sanjeev Singh Rawat demonstrated various yoga asanas to frontline healthcare workers. Rawat said in the past few years, yoga had gained popularity among people of various age groups.Nursing Superintendent Manjeet Bawa said during the Covid times, many nursing staff at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and DMC Heart Institute performed yogasanas regularly to keep them in a better frame of mind.A team of the ABVP also celebrated the day at Rakh Bagh. Students from various educational institutions performed yoga and took part in various fun games. After the session, the team planted saplings of neem and ‘jamun’ at the bagh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/yoga-effective-in-achieving-holistic-development-doc-272291
22-06-2021||BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School||School students, teachers perform asanas, pranayams||Ludhiana: BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary organised a yoga session for students and their parents. Parents thanked the school authorities for conducting the activity to make students aware of the benefits of practising yoga. Principal Dr Paramjit Kaur motivated students to take up yoga in their daily routine and protect themselves from contracting the virus.SDP Senior Sec SchoolTo commemorate the 7th International Day of Yoga, yoga week was organised at SDP Senior Secondary School for students of all classes. Students performed yoga asanas and prayanams and participated in various competitions on the theme of yoga.BVM, Kitchlu NagarStudents and staff members of BVM, Kitchlu Nagar, participated in online International Day of Yoga celebrations with great zeal. Students were told about basic yogic poses for maintaining mental and physical discipline in life. Tips on performing various asanas were also given to the participants.Police DAV Public SchoolStudents of Police DAV Public School enthusiastically participated in a 20-day virtual summer yoga camp. Principal Dr Anu Verma guided students on the benefits of practising yoga and encouraged them make it a part of their daily routine.Drishti Dr RC Jain Innovative Public SchoolDrishti Dr RC Jain Innovative Public School conducted a yoga session to observe International Day of Yoga. Explaining the importance of yoga, students expressed their views on how practising yoga was an effective form of exercise to develop both mind and body. An online quiz competition was also organised for the participants.Green Land Convent School, New Subhash NagarGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, observed the 7th International Day of Yoga by conducting a 15-day yoga programme, in which more than 500 students, their parents and staff of the school participated. Students performed various yoga asanas and shared videos of the same with their fellow participants.Green Grove Public SchoolDoraha: International Day of Yoga was celebrated virtually at Green Grove Public School. Students from nursery to Class XII participated in the celebrations. Students highlighted the need for yoga in bringing a balance in life. President of the school JPS Jolly told students that yoga helped to achieve balance between physical, spiritual and mental health. Principal Suzy George also applauded the efforts of teachers for making the celebration a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/school-students-teachers-perform-asanas-pranayams-272294
22-06-2021||PU Regional Centre||Lectures on importance of yoga organised||Ludhiana: Panjab University Regional Centre observed International Day of Yoga by organising a lecture on ‘Maintaining health and sanity during the pandemic through yoga’. The keynote speaker was Pooja Gandhi. The webinar was divided into three sections. The first session was a theory session, followed by a session on stretches on chair and a question-and-answer round.Khalsa College for WomenThe NCC wing of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, organised a virtual event to observe the 7th International Day of Yoga. As many as 94 NCC cadets and their family members participated in the online session. Principal Dr Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of the department and spoke on the importance of practising yoga.CT UniversityThe Department of Sports and Physical Education of CT University conducted a yoga session by Dr Aman Sood, Guinness World Record holder. The session was conducted on the campus. Dr Sood motivated the audience to take up yoga to lead a healthy life and increase immunity to protect themselves from Covid-19.Ramgarhia Girls CollegeRamgarhia Girls College organised webinar on ‘Yoga for better living’ to celebrate International Day of Yoga. Dr Deepika, Assistant Professor at Rajasthan University, Jaipur, was the resource person for the session. She told the participants how yoga improved health and helped to build immunity to fight diseases. Students of the Department of Fine Arts made posters to aware students about the benefits of taking up yoga in their daily life.SCD CollegeThe NSS unit of SCD Government College, in collaboration with Bhartiya Yog Sansthan, organised a yoga camp on the occasion of International Day of Yoga. A video and photography competition on ‘Stay at home, stay with yoga’ was also organised for students.Gobindgarh Public CollegeKhanna: A yoga camp was organised at Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, during which principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni talked about the Indian roots of yoga and explained how it embodied unity of mind and body, and thought and action. She also highlighted the benefits of practising yoga during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lectures-on-importance-of-yoga-organised-272296
22-06-2021||Ludhiana||Malhar Road residents rue slow pace of work||The traders, showroom owners and residents of the Malhar Road here are miffed over the slow pace of road widening work.The project has already missed the deadline and going by the pace of work, it seems it will take many more months for completion, rued the residents.“This is the heart of the city and the most expensive localities in Ludhiana. But look at its condition today. The entire road has been dug up and no one knows when the work will be completed,” said Gurmukh Singh, a resident.The road is being widened under the smart city project.“The rainy season is approaching fast. We are worried as the mud and filth will enter our premises. We have met the showroom owners too and sent representations but there is no respite,” he added.The last year and this year have been slow as far as businesses are concerned. The markets have opened now and it is the time to make up for the losses, but there is no proper parking space and the width of the road has also been squeezed. In such a scenario, who will visit our showrooms?” asked one of the showroom owners.The traders have also approached Bhupinder Singh Basant, vice president, Traders’ Board, but to no avail.Sanjay Goel, one of the directors of the smart city project, said: “Earlier, there was some fault in the design as they wanted to come up with a cycle track. But now, the design has been changed. However, I still feel the pavement is a bit high and wide and it is eating into the road space.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/malhar-road-residents-rue-slow-pace-of-work-272298
22-06-2021||Lovleen BainsSahnewal||Sahnewal students finally get a way to reach school||The children studying in schools situated on both sides of the NH-1 at Sahnewal have been finally heard.Since all the entry and exit points had been bricked up under the road widening project, the students were forced to walk at least 3 km extra, treading through the messy interiors of the town to reach their schools. A number of parents stopped sending their wards to schools, especially those studying in government institutions.Now, Member of Parliament from the Fathegarh Sahib constituency, Dr Amar Singh, has come to the rescue of these children. He recently met the chairman of the National Highway Authority of India, Sukhbir Singh, and requested him to build a ramp-crossing to enable hassle-free movement of children.The work on the crossing began today, much to the relief of thousands of students studying on both sides of the highway.Sahnewal Council chief Captain Sukhjit Singh Hara, who inaugurated the first of its kind ramp-crossing, thanked Amar Singh for his efforts.“The school is catering to the educational needs of more than 1,000 girls of the town and the surrounding villages. While students of private schools can arrange one or the other source of transportation, the students of government schools mostly come from low economic strata and cannot afford anything better than a bicycle. The erection of the ramp-crossing is a great relief for these girl students,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-students-finally-get-a-way-to-reach-school-272299
