23-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana: Mother, stepfather held for killing 9-year-old girl||Ludhiana, June 22A woman, Pinky, and her husband Narinder Pal, residents of Mullanpur Road, Humbran, allegedly killed their nine-year-old daughter by strangling her on the intervening night of June 19 and 20 in a bid to pocket Rs 90,000 of the insurance policy purchases in her name in 2018.Autopsy revealed death by strangulationInitially, the police were treating it as a case of natural death and had lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC on June 20 on the statement of Pinky. But the finding of the post-mortem report that the girl had died due to strangulation turned the natural death into a cold-blooded murder and accordingly both Pinky and her husband Narinder Pal were booked under Sections 302, 120-B, 182 and 34 of the IPC at the Ladhowal police station.Initially, the police were treating it as a case of natural death and had lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC on June 20 on the statement of Pinky. But the finding of the post-mortem report that the girl had died due to strangulation turned the natural death into a cold-blooded murder and accordingly both Pinky and her husband Narinder Pal were booked under Sections 302, 120-B, 182 and 34 of the IPC at the Ladhowal police station.Giving details, police officials said the deceased girl, Bharti, was born from the first marriage of Pinky and after second marriage of Pinky, her husband Narinder Pal used to treat the girl a burden on him and this factor had led to domestic quarrels many a times.The accused couple had revealed during preliminary interrogation that as both of them wanted to get rid of the girl and the money they could get from insurance policy of Bharti to tide over their financial difficulties being another allurement, they conspired and killed the girl in her sleep by strangling her with a ‘dupatta’ and in the morning spread the word that their daughter had died.The police said the duo was produced in a court today and police custody was obtained for three days to carry out further interrogation.Man booked for sexually abusing minor daughterIn a case of child abuse, the police have booked Tejinder Kumar, a resident of New Kuldeep Nagar, under Sections 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act for alleged sexual assault on his infant daughter.The action came on the complaint lodged by the estranged wife of the suspect, Jaswinder Kaur, who got married to him in December 2018. In her complaint, she said her married life was disturbed due to persistent dispute with her in-laws following which she returned to her parents’ house at Jalalabad after four months of the marriage.With the intervention of both families and relatives, Jaswinder Kaur returned to her house on June 13, 2021.She said: “On June 15, my infant daughter (around 21 months old) got unwell and started vomiting. I noticed swelling on her private parts. On June 16, as my daughter started crying in the wee hours, I found my husband touching the private part of the child.”She said she left the house and went to her aunt’s house on Tajpur Road where the girl was medically examined and a complaint was filed with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mother-stepfather-held-for-killing-9-year-old-girl-272868
23-06-2021||---||LIP workers protest jobs to sons of Punjab Cong MLAs, detained||Ludhiana, June 22Workers of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) were detained by the police when they were moving towards the DC office to mark their protest against the Congress government for awarding government jobs to sons of Congress MLAs.Had planned to lock DC’s officeThe LIP workers had planned to lock the DC office to express their anger against the Captain government for giving jobs to sons of legislators when a large number of unemployed persons, including physically challenged, have been waiting for jobs for years.The LIP workers had planned to lock the DC office to express their anger against the Captain government for giving jobs to sons of legislators when a large number of unemployed persons, including physically challenged, have been waiting for jobs for years.Sunny Kainth, LIP leader, said, “We had staged a protest against the Congress government for awarding government jobs to sons of MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Faethjang Singh Bajwa. They have assets of crores of rupees but still, they wanted jobs from the government on compassionate grounds. The Congress had promised to provide jobs to the unemployed but the Captain government failed to do the same since it came to power in 2017. The unemployed youth are running from pillar to post but the government failed to provide them jobs.”Kainth said, “There are many physically challenged people who have not been provided any job by the Captain government. Today, we want to know from the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner that how many jobs have been provided by the government to common people, who were actually deserving, on compassionate grounds. If the work is to be done on the instructions of politicians, the DC office should be closed. I am shocked to know that some MLAs have come in support to provide jobs to sons of MLAs. We strongly oppose the government’s move to provide jobs to sons of MLAs.”“When we were going towards the DC office, the police detained us and then took us to Sarabha Nagar police station. We were later released,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-workers-protest-jobs-to-sons-of-punjab-cong-mlas-detained-272613
23-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district picks up pace in inoculating 18+ age group||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 22Ludhiana has picked up pace in inoculating its young population under the new Covid vaccination regime, allowing free jabs to all above 18 years of age at government facilities and at prescribed controlled rates at private institutions, since Monday.We have adopted a demand driven policy for supply of vaccine to the districts, under which requisite quantity of vaccine doses will be made available on the basis of consumption. All the field staffers have been instructed to upload inoculation data daily on Cowin mobile application in order to facilitate procurement of additional supplies from the Centre. Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryThe district has ranked second in the state in giving first shot to the people aged between 18 and 44 years of age at the rate of 14,655 per lakh population, which was double than the state’s average of 7,147, the officials figures have revealed.Continuing to remain the leader in the state with one and the only district to cross the 1-million vaccination mark so far, Ludhiana inoculated 10,74,503 persons till Tuesday, which included 2,89,276 between the age group of 18 and 44 years. While 2,42,215 beneficiaries in 18-44 age group have got Covishield shots (2,40,816 first and 1,399 both), 47,061 have been administered Covaxin jabs (46,969 first and 92 both doses).The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Mohali has topped Punjab with the highest per lakh population coverage of 17,087 in the 18-44 age group, while Fazilka remained the laggard with the lowest 1,321 per lakh people inoculation in the youngest age category.Among other districts, Hoshiarpur stood third with 11,346 per lakh vaccination of young in 18-44 age group, followed by Ropar at 10,398 per lakh population coverage, Patiala 9,589, Jalandhar 9,218, Kapurthala 8,052, Gurdaspur 6,141, Pathankot 5,058, Bathinda 4,709, Ferozepur 4,669, Faridkot 4,569, Amritsar 4,390, Fatehgarh Sahib 4,060, Moga 3,813, Nawanshahr 3,720, Barnala 3,082, Tarn Taran 2,803, Sangrur 2,755, Mansa 2,003 and Muktsar second last with 1,881 per lakh people in the 18-44 age group administered the Covid vaccine.In other categories, Ludhiana ranked eighth in giving first dose to the people above 60 years at the rate of 56,777 per lakh population coverage, which was higher than the state’s average of 51,293, and seventh in fully vaccinating above 60 year population.In the 45-59 age group, Ludhiana ranked seventh in giving first shot with 45,980 per lakh coverage, which was again higher than the state’s average of 36,627, and third in administering both doses at the rate of 6,499 per lakh population, which was also higher than the state’s average of 4,290 per lakh coverage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-picks-up-pace-in-inoculating-18-age-group-272614
23-06-2021||---||Covid19: Two succumb, 34 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 22Today 34 persons tested positive, while two persons lost their lives to the virus in the district. Now total positive cases have reached 86,691, while 2,079 persons have lost their lives to the virus.Today there were 538 active cases in the district. The recovery rate was 96.98 per cent and case fatality rate 2.40 per cent.A 44-year-old woman from Amarpura and 68-year-old man from Bhairomuna village lost their lives to the virus.As many as 27 Covid patients were admitted to Government hospitals and 71 to private hospitals, while 17 patients were on ventilator support and 408 in home isolation. Today 10,748 samples were collected and from yesterday’s samples, report of 81 samples is pending.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said a considerable decline has been seen in Covid cases which is a relief for everybody but that does not mean people should adopt a careless approach towards the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid19-two-succumb-34-positive-in-ludhiana-272615
23-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||No efforts made to check waterlogging on highways||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 22Even after passing of several years, a major problem of waterlogging on national highways that pass through the city has not been resolved before the rainy season this year too. Thus, commuters may suffer again due to waterlogging during the monsoon.Drains not cleaned for yearsStorm water drains along the national highway near Jalandhar Bypass, Karabara Chowk, Giaspura Chowk, near the Dhandari railway station and other points in the city on the Jalandhar-Delhi road (NH-44) are lying choked. Several covers of the drains have broken while trash dumped in drainage structures has not been cleaned for years.Whenever it rains heavily, thousands of commuters are forced to suffer due to water accumulation at various points on the NH-44 (Jalandhar-Delhi Road) and the NH-5 (Chandigarh Road) in the city. Residents blamed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the MC and the district administration for not getting the issue resolved till date.Storm water drains along the national highway near Jalandhar Bypass, Karabara Chowk, Giaspura Chowk, near the Dhandari railway station and other points in the city on the Jalandhar-Delhi road (NH-44) are lying choked. Several covers of the drains have broken while trash dumped in drainage structures has not been cleaned for years.A resident near the Jalandhar bypass said: “As the drainage system is not functioning properly, waterlogging is commonly witnessed at various locations on Delhi Road. We have raised the matter many times but the authorities concerned paid no heed to the issue for a long time. It seems commuters would be forced to face inconvenience this rainy season too.”Notably, a group of residents had earlier raised the issue of waterlogging at Giaspura Chowk but no action was taken by the department concerned, alleged residents.Commuters faced hardships due to water accumulation near Police Colony Chowk and other points on Chandigarh Road here when the rainfall lashed the city recently as the MC and NHAI are yet to resolve the waterlogging problem. Residents blamed the MC’s poor sewer system for water accumulation during the rainy days.In 2020, MC officials had stated that the issue would be resolved soon after installing the storm water drainage line but the project was yet to be started.“Sewers start overflowing on the stretch whenever it rains, even after a short spell. When vehicles pass through the accumulated water, the water flows into our house too.” said Premjit Singh of Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana.President of a city-based NGO, Yuva, Kumar Guarav, said: “People pay huge taxes to governments. It was the responsibility of the governments and its departments concerned to resolve such issues on a priority basis. If the authorities did not resolve the problem at the earliest, we will be forced to hold protests.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said a project for the installation of the storm water drainage system project on Chandigarh had been approved and the NHAI will handle the Rs 6-crore project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-efforts-made-to-check-waterlogging-on-highways-272616
23-06-2021||---||Old drain reopened, cleaning under way||Ludhiana, June 22To avoid waterlogging near Dholewal Chowk on the old GT Road, Gill Chowk and nearby areas, the Municipal Corporation has reopened an old drain that was closed more than two decades ago.The drain is located near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib and it is reopened after a Congress leader from Ward 51 raised the matter with the MC.Waterlogging has been a major problem at Dholewal Chowk, Miller Ganj and nearby areas for a long time.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and officials inspected the drain site today. The cleaning work is underway at the site. Now, rainwater will be released through this old drain into the Ganda Nullah that passes through different areas before merging into Buddha Nullah.A Congress leader, Iqbal Singh, who is the husband of the elected councillor from Ward 51, said the old drain was closed around 1998. But, waterlogging during rains was a major issued at Dholewal, Gill Chowk and other areas since the drain was closed. Iqbal Singh said the width of sewer lines is 36 inches in the area while the drain is 3 feet wide and 7 feet deep. “Around 400 feet of drain span is being cleaned. With the reopening of the drain, the waterlogging problem at Dholewal, Gill Chowk, Gill Road and nearby areas will get resolved now. It will be a landmark achievement for our area,” IqbalSingh said.Iqbal Singh said they had also coordinated with the Railways regarding the cleanliness ofthe drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/old-drain-reopened-cleaning-under-way-272617
23-06-2021||Our Correspondent||4 booked in cheating cases||Ludhiana, June 22The police have booked two persons for immigration fraud and two others for cheating in the sale of properties.Two persons, identified as Dinesh Chawla, a resident of Army Apartments, Phase 3, Dugri, and Randeep Singh of Jammu Colony, Dhuri Line, have been booked by the police for cheating the complainant on the pretext of sending his son abroad.Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of the Police Lines, lodged a complaint that Dinesh Chawla had taken Rs 9,98,252 on the promise of sending his son Manpreet to Australia.“The accused neither sent his son abroad nor did he returned the money,” said the complainant. The police have registered a case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and investigation was on. Randeep Singh was booked under Sections 420 of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act for his failure to send the nephew and the daughter-in-law of the complainant, Neelam, a resident of New Satguru Nagar, for a job abroad after taking Rs 1.5 lakh from her in two instalments. Neelam said the suspect failed to send her kin to abroad and also refused to return the money.In a case related to property fraud, the police have registered a case against Pavneet Singh, a resident of Phase 2, Urban Estate, Dugri, under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC on the complaint of Honey of Shastri Nagar, Model Gram. The suspect has been charged with signing an agreement to sell a house in Phase II for Rs 56 lakh to the complainant and having received Rs 33 lakh in advance. However, the deal did not mature as the complainant learnt that the suspect had already taken a bank loan on the plot. According to the complainant, he returned Rs 10 lakh to him and refused to pay the balance amount.In another case of fraud, the police have booked Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Gill village, under Section 420, IPC. Complainant Parminder Singh, a resident of the same village and brother of the suspect, said Sukhwinder had signed a deal for the sale of a 500-sq yrd land for Rs 3 lakh but the sale deed was not registered even after he had paid the entire amount to the suspect.Rs99,998 siphoned off in cyber fraudJagjivan Singh of Phase II, Dugri, fell victim to cyber criminals who siphoned off Rs99,998 from his bank account. In a complaint to the police, he said he was trying to get in touch with the customer care of a payment gateway in connection with a failed payment. “The person on the other end told me to click on a link and fill my bank details. Thereafter, the amount was withdrawn from my account in three transactions. The police said they had identified four suspects as Roshan Singh, a resident of Katihar in Bihar, Rohit Kumar Rai of Kosam (Gujarat), Raju Ansari of Mangia Bandh (Jharkhand) and Ujmeer Sheikh, a resident of Murshidabad (West Bengal), who had been booked under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-booked-in-cheating-cases-272618
23-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||3 members of swindlers’ gang held||Mandi Ahmedgarh, June 22 The city police claimed to have arrested three members of a notorious gang of swindlers and snatchers. The accused has been identified as Jitpal Sharma alias Banti of Gill Railway Station Road, Raman Sharma of Gill village and Gagandeep Singh of Guru Nanak Colony, Ludhiana. The accused have confessed of looting at least 10 persons. The police are yet to identify their accomplices and recover cash or valuables from them. Ahmedgarh DSP Sandeep Vadhera said the gang was busted during an ongoing investigation in a case in which some unknown persons had snatched Rs 50,000 from Deepam Kumar, a local trader, who had gone to deposit the amount at the local branch of Punjab National Bank on May 29. Investigations revealed that the swindlers lured the victim on the pretext of depositing black money through one of their accounts in exchange for an amount. The victim later reported to the police that the accused had swindled him of Rs 50,000 after drugging him with anaesthesia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-members-of-swindlers-gang-held-272619
23-06-2021||---||Now, Ludhiana MC team to visit Gurugram to study solid waste management||Ludhiana, June 22 After Chennai, now a team of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, will visit Gurugram to study the solid waste management system. After returning from Chennai, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they could not study the waste processing unit there. Sandhu said they checked the door-to-door collection, sweeping and other works related to solid waste management in Chennai and these were being done in a proper manner. But, they were not able to study the waste processing plant at Chennai as the private firm’s waste processing plant was yet to be made functional, the Mayor said. He said they would float tenders for solid waste management in the city soon and before it, a team would now visit Gurgaon to study the solid waste management system. Around 1,100 MT of solid waste is generated in the city daily while the MC wants to find a firm that could process the entire waste on a daily basis, said Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra. “Around 5,000 MT of waste is generated on a daily basis in Chennai while the firm is using e-rickshaws for door-to-door collection there. Roads are clean and solid waste management system is being handled in a proper manner there. Their annual Budget for the same is high as compared to Ludhiana. The solid waste management system will be improved here soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-ludhiana-mc-team-to-visit-gurugram-to-study-solid-waste-management-272620
23-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||GLADA clears encroachments on  forest land, villagers protest||Ludhiana, June 22 Affected families of nearly 60 to 70 cultivators and population of Sekhowal village, forming part of the Mattewara Forest reserve, are up in arms over the move by GLADA in clearing alleged encroachments from the land officially handed over to it for the development of an industrial park. While the GLADA officials justify their action saying that certain mischievous elements had encroached upon the land under the ownership of GLADA, the village population and affected cultivators said the government agency had acted in a high-handed manner by destroying the standing crops on the land under question. Affected farmers and cultivators also allege that GLADA and the village panchayat had acted in a clandestine way in taking control of the forest land and evicting the cultivators without giving any notice, making proclamation and fulfilling promised conditions for compensation against relocation. NGOs seek ban on axing of trees in state for a decade Civil society organisations and citizens concerned across the state have joined hands to launch a public movement, ‘Rukh Maroo, Manukh Maroo’, (If trees die, mankind will die too) to demand a complete ban on axing of trees for 10 years in the state. The movement is spearheaded by the Naroa Punjab Manch and HC Arora, a lawyer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Jaskirat Singh, member, Naroa Punjab Manch, said: “We have requested residents and NGOs across Ludhiana and the state to write emails to the Chief Minister to put a complete ban on axing of fully grown trees for at least next 10 years as green cover in the state is among the lowest in the country at 3.5 per cent, which is even below Rajasthan. People have realised during the pandemic how precious oxygen is. In the past few years, a lot of fully grown trees have been axed in the state either in the name of development or just to sell timber. Therefore, the drive has been launched.” He added: “There is an internationally accepted legal principle of intergenerational equity and not leaving natural environment in a good condition for our future generation is a serious crime under that. Hence, we are requesting the government for a complete ban on axing of trees further so that the green cover gets some time to heal itself.” Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, convener of the manch, claimed that a large number of doctors, lawyers, engineers and businessmen were supporting the movement. City-based environmentalist Harinder Kuckreja said the decision to set up an industrial park at Mattewara had come as a serious blow to the state and its people as the state was already going through the crises of incessant flow of untreated chemical waste into rivers. “Mattewara forest was the only reservoir of bio-diversity in the state,” he added. The president of the Council of Engineers, Kapil Arora, said: “We are trying to save trees both in forest and non-forest areas of the state. We have also approached the NGT in a number of cases and we hope the state government will also support this cause for the benefit of the state, its citizens and future generations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-clears-encroachments-on-forest-land-villagers-protest-272621
23-06-2021||Ludhiana||Manufacturers to intensify stir against PSPCL||The protest of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association against PSPCL entered the fourth day today. Members of the association stated that it seemed that PSPCL was not interested in withdrawing the penalties imposed on the industry and had now decided to intensify their agitation. Members said they would burn an effigy of the chairman of PSPCL at nine sub-divisions here starting from June 28 to August 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/manufacturers-to-intensify-stir-against-pspcl-272622
23-06-2021||Anil Datt
||Vax camp for sportspersons organised||Ludhiana, June 22 The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) organised a special vaccination camp for sportspersons at Guru Nanak Stadium today. PYDB chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra inaugurated the camp. He said the camps were being organised with the support of the assistant directors of the Youth Services Department, District Sports Officers and youth clubs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vax-camp-for-sportspersons-organised-272624
23-06-2021||---||Narinder elected  Punjab State Chess Association  chief||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, June 22A new team of office-bearers of the Punjab State Chess Association was elected during the annual general meeting of the body held today.After the meeting, BK Mehta, District and Sessions Judge (Retd), announced the names of the office-bearers and wished them good luck.Narinder Singh from Amritsar was elected as president while Jalandhar’s Jagjit Singh Cheema will be the new secretary. Ludhiana’s Vikas Sharma was named vice-president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/narinder-elected-punjab-state-chess-association-chief-272852
23-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana doctor nominated as national body member||Certificates given to yoga activity participantsTo encourage children and adolescents who participated in a yoga activity on Monday on the occasion of International Yoga Day, the department of yoga, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) awarded certificates to all participants online. Dr Sanjeev Singh Rawat, yoga consultant, DMCH, acknowledged all children who enthusiastically participated in the yoga activity. Associate professor of paediatrics Dr Gurdeep Singh Dhooria said in the present times, yoga was beneficial for children who have to undergo a lot of stress due to heavy study load. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-doctor-nominated-as-national-body-member-272854
23-06-2021||Ludhiana||World Music day observed||Faculty development programmeA seven-day long faculty development programme on “Quality assessment and enhancement in higher education in the light of new framework of NAAC” commenced at GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar. Principal Dr Pargat Singh Garcha said the FDP was being organised under the PARAMARSH Scheme of the UGC. Professor Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was chief guest on the occasion. TNSGNDEC to host ‘Toycathon’Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College has been selected by MIC/AICTE for hosting the grand finale of Toycathon 2021, an event conducted by the Government of India to promote indigenous toy industry. On the inaugural function, Principal Dr Sehijpal Singh said such events were need of the hour and would go a long way in stopping brain drain in the country. TNSInternational Day of Yoga observedThe NSS, NCC unit and youth welfare services club of SDP College for Women observed International Day of Yoga. Students performed various asanas on the occasion. The principal laid emphasis on the importance of practising yoga and doing exercise in daily life. TNSWorkshop on life skills heldThe career counselling and placement cell of Arya College, in collaboration with Global Talent Track, Pune, organised a two-week Barclays Life Skills GIG workforce training programme for students. “The focus area of the programme included discussion on topics such as benefits of becoming a freelancer, social media presence and digital marketing among others. TNSLecture on scope of mathsThe Postgraduate Department of Mathematics of SCD Government College organised an extension lecture on “Exploring future with mathematics”. The programme was organised under the guidance of principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur Sandhu and head of mathematics department Dr Satya Rani. Dr Khushwinder Kumar, Principal, Multani Mal Modi College, Patiala, was the keynote speaker of the day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-music-day-observed-272855
23-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two nabbed with stolen motors||3 mobile tower Batteries stolenLudhiana: Three SAFT batteries were reportedly stolen from a mobile tower of Reliance Jio in Dharor village around 10 days ago. The theft was reported to the police by a company official, Sachin Kumar, a resident of SAS Nagar. The police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 379 of the IPC. oc4 arrested with heroin, marijuanaLudhiana: Two drug traffickers, Satwinder Singh and Satyam Kumar, both residents of Sunder Nagar, were nabbed by the police from Bapu Market Chowk on Monday when they were riding a motorcycle. The police recovered 7 gm of heroin from the duo. They suspects are booked under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Their motorcycle was also impounded. In another incident, the police arrested Deepak Singh, a resident of Preet Nagar, Shimplapuri, from Sooraj Nagar with 4 gm of heroin and Sikander Sahni, a resident of Dhandra Road, from near Sidhwan Canal on Pakhowal Road with 410 gm of marijuana. The suspects have been booked under various sections of the NDPS Act. ocYouth dies in road mishapLudhiana: Krishna Chauhan (24), a resident of Main Market, Sherpur Kalan, who was riding a motorcycle with his elder brother Ajay Kumar, was critically injured when another speeding motorcycle hit their vehicle near a dump on 100 Feet Road on Sunday. Krishna was rushed to Oswal Cancer Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. The police have registered a case under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC against the unidentified driver of the motorcycle (bearing registration number PB 37B 3698). OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-nabbed-with-stolen-motors-272858
