24-06-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana among 9 dists with no vaccine wastage||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 23Ludhiana, being the biggest and the most populated district in the state, is not only leading in the overall coverage of Covid vaccination with close to 11-lakh inoculation mark, which is almost one-third of the total population of 35 lakh, but also among nine such districts which have so far reported no wastage of Covid vaccine in the state, the government has confirmed.While Ludhiana is among the five best performing districts with their vaccine wastage below even minus 1 per cent, four other districts have reported zero vaccine wastage, the official figures have revealed.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana and Ropar ranked fourth best performing districts with minus 1 per cent vaccine wastage, Pathankot topped Punjab with minus 8 per cent vaccine wastage, Sangrur second with minus 3, and Patiala stood third with minus 2 per cent vaccine wastage in the state.Punjab reported an overall net vaccine wastage of 1.98 per cent, which included 1 per cent state procured vaccine, till June 18.Among other districts, Mohali reported 1 per cent vaccine wastage, followed by Jalandhar 2 per cent, Faridkot and Kapurthala 3 per cent each, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Mansa, Amritsar 4 per cent each, Barnala 7 per cent, Gurdaspur 9 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 10 per cent, and Fazilka and Muktsar proved to be the worst-performers with the highest vaccine wastage of 11 per cent of the total stock provided to them by the state government till last week.The comparison of wastage trend in vaccine type suggested that the wastage of Covishield in Punjab drastically dropped from 5 per cent between May 13 and 20 to 2 per cent between May 27 and June 3, before touching the record low of minus 2 per cent on June 17. Comparatively, the wastage of Covaxin remained static at minus 1 per cent from May 27 to June 17.On the national front, the Covishield wastage came down from a whopping 13 per cent on April 1 to 2 per cent on June 17 and Covaxin wastage dipped from 5 per cent on April 1 to zero on June 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-among-9-dists-with-no-vaccine-wastage-273166
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 170 LPG cylinders seized from Indane gas agency||The Ludhiana police, along with officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, today conducted a raid at Aman Gas Enterprises and seized 170 LPG cylinders from the agency.The owner of the agency had been stealing gas from LPG cylinders which were to be supplied to residents.ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran while addressing a press meet in this regard said a tip-off was received that the owner of the gas agency had been stealing gas from the LPG cylinders and they had been supplying underweight cylinders to residents. They used to fill other cylinders with the stolen gas to sell the same in black market.Today, the police, along with the officer of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, conducted a raid at the Indane gas agency at Bajra village, the ADCP said, adding that around 10 persons who were stealing the LPG from cylinders fled the spot after seeing the police personnel.The police recovered 170 LPG cylinders of Indane of which 82 were found filled as per required weight while 78 cylinders were found underweight and 10 were empty, she said.The police also recovered some equipment which were being used to steal gas from cylinders and to fill other cylinders. Four auto-rickshaws were also seized by the police. The police said further probe had been launched in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-170-lpg-cylinders-seized-from-indane-gas-agency-273167
24-06-2021||---||Elderly dies, 50 fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 23A 60-year-old man from Aittiana village in Ludhiana district succumbed to Covid, while 50 fresh cases of the virus were reported on Wednesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said 62 fresh cases — 50 from Ludhiana and 12 from other districts or states — were confirmed today. She said three persons — one each from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Ferozepur — died due to the virus.In Ludhiana, four persons came in contact with positive patients, 16 visited OPDs and 21 visited Flu Corner, while seven cases are yet to be traced. An undertrial and a person with severe acute respiratory infection also tested positive for the virus.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma informed that there are 476 active patients in the district at present.He said to date, a total of 16,42,102 samples were taken, out of which reports of 16,42,027 samples have been received. As many as 15,43,822 samples were found negative, while reports of 75 samples are pending. He said now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 86,741, while 11,464 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,080 from Ludhiana and 1,034 from other districts, the Deputy Commissioner said.Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-dies-50-fresh-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-273168
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Robbers loot Rs 2 lakh from scrap dealer||Two armed robbers looted Rs 2 lakh from a scrap trader in the Industrial Area on Wednesday morning. The duo committed the crime after throwing chilly powder into the eyes of the victim.  SHO, Police Division 6, Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, reached the spot and started a probe. Complainant Jatinder Nagpal, of Basant Avenue said he owns Kanchan Manufacturing and Traders in Industrial Estate. This morning when he reached his shop and opened the lock, two bike- borne persons came and threw chilly powder into his eyes. “I was carrying a bag containing cash. Despite robbers throwing the chilly powder into my eyes, I secretly put the bag under the air conditioner to prevent the loot, but they threatened to kill me with sharp weapons and asked me to handover the bag. It seemed that they were aware that the bag was containing cash,” the victim said. The victim said robbers were wearing turbans and their faces were covered with masks. The SHO said CCTV cameras of the areas were being checked to get any clue about the accused. Soon, they would be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/robbers-loot-rs-2-lakh-from-scrap-dealer-273170
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||19-yr-old kidnapped, raped by three youths||Three persons allegedly kidnapped and raped a 19-year-old girl in the city. One of the accused has been identified as Sunny, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Colony, and the others are yet to be identified. The complainant, a resident of Moti Nagar, told the police that on June 22, she, along with her friend, had gone for a walk at Dental College Park, Moti Nagar, and later her friend dropped her at house. “While on the way to my house, my friend stopped the motorcycle at Rajiv Gandhi Colony and went to answer nature’s call. Afterwards, three scooter-borne youths came and forcibly took me along with them to some flats in Ram Nagar where they raped me,” she added. The victim said she could identify only one youth as Sunny. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-yr-old-kidnapped-raped-by-three-youths-273171
24-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Residents oppose plan to set up garbage compactor at Ludhiana's Bhai Chattar Singh Park||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 23After facing residents’ ire for setting up waste compactor at the cremation ground land at Barewal, the Municipal Corporation’s plan to set up a garbage compactor/dump at Bhai Chattar Singh Park, one of the prominent parks in the city, is being criticised by the environmental activists and residents.A student of Arya College, Ludhiana, and cadet of 3rd Punjab Battalion of the NCC Chattar Singh Dhadhli died on January 2, 1954, when he was helping his fellow cadets in digging a pit, but suddenly a portion of earth caved in due to vibrations caused by a train. He got buried under the soil. The park was named in the memory of the cadet.Relatives of the late cadet had earlier raised a demand that the government must develop the park but no dump or compactor should be set up at this park. But, the MC is going ahead to set up a waste compactor on one side of the park.When a team of MC officials along with police reached Bhai Chattar Singh Park on Wednesday, an activist and resident of Model Town, Gurpal Singh Grewal, opposed the MC’s move. Grewal said, “The MC has demolished a boundary wall of the park to set up the garbage dump on park land. The civic body has planned to set it up near the statue of Bhai Chattar Singh Ji. I have great respect for him.”He said, “I strongly condemned the civic body’s senseless idea of setting up a garbage dump on the park land. I will fight to secure the park till my last breath but no garbage dump or compactor would be allowed on the park land. Moreover, I will oppose the axing of trees for the dumpsite.”Grewal along with his children had also staged protests a few years ago when the MC had made efforts to shift a garbage dump from Scooter Market to the park. Following the protests, the MC had not shifted the garbage dump from Scooter Market to the park but it had not removed the structure that was set up for the garbage dump at the park.The garbage dump is currently located adjoining Scooter Market, under the flyover and opposite Bhai Chattar Singh Park. Earlier, some environmental activists had also raised a voice against the MC’s plan to set up a waste compactor on park land.Leader of Opposition in MC House, Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “The parks are for the public and no park land should be used to set up any garbage dump. We will oppose the MC’s move,” Dang said.Superintending Engineer, MC, Rahul Gagneja claimed that the garbage dump already exists at Bhai Chattar Singh Park. Moreover, the NGT has allowed the MC to set up the compactor at the park.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the compactor is to be set up on one side of the park as per the NGT orders. However, he said they will try to find an alternative land for the compactor.Park was named in NCC cadet’s memoryA student of Arya College, Ludhiana, and cadet of 3rd Punjab Battalion of the NCC Chattar Singh Dhadhli died on January 2, 1954, when he was helping his fellow cadets in digging a pit, but suddenly a portion of earth caved in due to vibrations caused by a train. He got buried under the soil. The park was named in the memory of the cadet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-oppose-plan-to-set-up-garbage-compactor-at-ludhianas-bhai-chattar-singh-park-273172
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Members fire at gym owner||Some gym members fired at the gym owner at Baba Anand Singh Nagar in Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday night. The police started the probe after the incident. They also reportedly seized empty cartridges from the spot. Some members after attending gym had arguments with the owner, Ashish Tiwari, over some issue, after which they fired at him. He had a miraculous escape and he didn’t suffer any injuries. After firing, assailants fled. No case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/members-fire-at-gym-owner-273173
24-06-2021||---||Ludhiana DC office staff observe pen-down strike||Ludhiana, June 23Visitors were a harried a lot as employees of the DC office observed a pen-down strike and held a protest on Wednesday. The visitors were forced to return without getting their works done.The employees were protesting over reduction of allowances by the state government. Gurnam Singh Virk, president of the state unit of the Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union, said they were not satisfied with the Sixth Pay Commission as there were some flaws.He said the government had decided to end the provision of pay commission for new recruitments while many allowances were ended by the government.The protesting employees got rooms at the DC office locked today to mark their protest against the government.They said if their demands were not met, they would be forced to intensify their agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-office-staff-observe-pen-down-strike-273175
24-06-2021||---||Sixth Pay Commission: Doctors resent reduction in NPA||Ludhiana, June 23After non-practicing allowance (NPA) has been reduced by the state government, the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee opposed the Sixth Pay Commission and submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner to mark their protest.Members of the committee Dr Gagandeep Singh (PCMS), Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa (veterinary), Dr Pawanpreet Kaur (dental), Dr Sanjeev Pathak (ayurveda), Dr Balwinder Kumar (homoeopathy) and Dr Deepinder Singh (rural medical officer) gave a joint statement that doctors performed their duties as frontline warriors during the Covid-19 pandemic and some of them have lost their lives too. They hoped that the government would appreciate their courage but it discouraged them by reducing the NPA.“Doctors working in the government sector kept on working day and night with responsibility for the sake of humanity and to save lives and the irony is that many doctors also tested positive as they come in close contact with infected persons and many of them succumbed to the deadly virus. But the state government has ignored the work and efforts done by them during the pandemic,” said Dr Balwinder Kumar, president, Homoeopathic Medical Officers’ Association, Punjab.He said the pay commission had betrayed the doctors’ community working under the government sector a major example of which was the NPA given to state doctors that had been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent.Meanwhile, the Teacher’s Association of the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, expressed dismay over the state government’s move to reduce the NPA of veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals along with delinking it from the basic pay structure.The members said: “The government delinked the NPA to be a part of salary for the calculation of other allowances and post-retirement pension-related benefits. Keeping in view the proactive role of veterinarians during the pandemic which involves selfless rendering of services without caring for one’s own life, the disheartening move of the government is a cruel joke. The government must not forget that professionals in the veterinary field are granted the NPA due to their late entry to service owing to an extended period of studies as compared to other non-medical professionals.”The members expressed anguish over the decision of the state government’s decision to decreasing the NPA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sixth-pay-commission-doctors-resent-reduction-in-npa-273176
24-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana: SBS Nagar residents fume over waste burning in parks||Ludhiana, June 23Irked over the persistent practice of burning waste in parks, residents of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar colony of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) have lodged a complaint with the Principal Secretary, Local Government, Punjab. They said the burning of dry leaves and garbage was adding to air pollution in the colony and damaging trees.Residents, including Arvind Sharma, Atul Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Amarjit Singh, Balraj Chopra, HP Singh and Jagdeep Singh Ghuman, submitted that burning of foliage in parks was in violation of the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had made a recommendation that green pits or compost pits be set up in all parks for disposal of fallen leaves and foliage so that the compost mixture could be used to enhance fertility of the land under green cover.“Compost/green pits for disposal of fallen leaves, foliage and organic waste is the most viable and economical method of disposal as per the guidelines of the NGT. There is need to issue explicit directions to the LIT authorities to immediately stop burning garbage and leaves in the parks, which could instead be disposed in compost pits in the larger interest of conservation of environment and health of the city residents,” said aggrieved residents.Copies of the complaint have also been sent to the NGT and the LIT authorities for further necessary action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-sbs-nagar-residents-fume-over-waste-burning-in-parks-273177
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Veteran athletes motivate youth to take up sports||The World Olympic Day was celebrated at different venues in the district today. A large number of players and coaches participated in different events organised to mark the day.The day was also observed at Jarkhar village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road near here during which the Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Charitable Trust organised a webinar, yoga session and hockey match for the young, promising and talented players.Prominent sports personalities and upcoming players participated in the webinar. They exchanged their views about the importance of the day and how to encourage the youngsters towards sports.Prof Rajinder Singh, former physical education in-charge at GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana, former international athletes along with Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, director, Jarkhar Hockey Academy; media coordinator Yadwinder Singh Toor; former international cyclist Jagdeep Singh Kahlon; Prof Bajinder Singh of Gurusar Sadhar and hockey coach Gursatinder Singh Pargat advised players to motivate youngsters to take active part in games. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/veteran-athletes-motivate-youth-to-take-up-sports-273178
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Drive against overloading launched||The Ludhiana traffic police today launched a drive against the overloaded vehicles which often become the cause of road mishaps.The Joint Commissioner of Police, City 1, Deepak Pareek, said under the drive, in charges of all traffic zones were told to prevent the movement of overloading vehicles on roads.In the drive, over four dozens challans of overloaded vehicles were issued by the police today. Pareek said the drive would continue in future.Notably, today morning an over-loaded truck laden with iron rods was standing on the highway in Khanna and a tourist bus had rammed into it killing two persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-against-overloading-launched-273179
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cops hold cycle rally to raise awareness on drug abuse||To encourage fitness and create awareness against drugs, the Police Commissionerate in association with Aas Ehsaas, an NGO, organised an anti-drugs campaign, ‘Let’s Ride Cycle’, in which people from different age groups took part.The rally was flagged off by Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana Rakesh Agrawal and he also took a round on the bicycle himself for encouraging the participants for fitness.The rally started from police lines Ludhiana and went towards Session Chowk heading towards fountain chowk then turning to Durga Mata Mandir from there to Bharat Nagar Chowk returning toward Fountain Chowk, college road then back to police lines.SS Dhindsa, DCP (Crime) Pragya Jain, ADCP, Ludhiana, were present in the rally along with Ruchi Kaur Bawa, president, Aas Ehsaas and members of the NGO.The police said the main purpose of the rally was to create awareness on drug abuse so that we make the city drugs free. If anybody you know or wants to get admit in rehabilitation centre then they can contact the police. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-hold-cycle-rally-to-raise-awareness-on-drug-abuse-273180
24-06-2021||---||PAU VC releases coffee-table book on green revolution||Ludhiana, June 23A coffee-table book, “Ushering in of Green Revolution: PAU’s Colossal Feat,” brought out by the Communication Centre of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), was released by Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor (VC), PAU.The book was conceptualised by the VC with special contribution by Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research and Dr Tejinder Singh Riar, Additional Director of Communication, PAU. The book has been edited by Sheetal Chawla, Assistant Director, Publications.While releasing the book, Dr Dhillon said the coffee table book was a pictorial history of Green Revolution that grew with the introduction of land reforms; use of short-statured, high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice; provision of irrigation by canals and tube wells; use of chemical fertilisers; construction of rural link roads; provision of rural electrification; expansion of mechanisation; impeccable administration of the government and unsurpassed scientific expertise.He further said that the book adumbrated the hardships faced by the people during the post-independence era, diligence and hard work of Punjabi farmers that made the nation food secure and intellectual prowess of agricultural scientists of PAU (development of varieties – Kalyan Sona 227, PV 18 and PR 106 as well as technologies) that ushered in Green Revolution. Dr Dhillon congratulated the diligent team of the Communication Centre for bringing out the book under the stewardship of Dr Riar.He also paid tributes to renowned scientists Dr MS Swaminathan, Dr JP Srivastava and Dr DS Athwal, who played a stellar role in the development of agriculture.Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education, said the development of improved technologies by PAU and their dissemination to the farmers in association with line departments proved to be a boon for the growth of agriculture in Punjab.Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research, said: “A significant aspect of the Green Revolution, however, is not just its early impact that shut the door on famine, but the continued and progressively larger contribution to the national food security system for about a hundred crop seasons now.”Dr Riar said the book was dedicated to the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, who gave the message to the mankind – ‘Kirat Karo, Naam Japo, Vand Chako’. The book has been designed by Swarnjit Savi and photographs have been contributed by Mr Manjit Singh, Senior Photographer, PAU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-vc-releases-coffee-table-book-on-green-revolution-273181
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||PSPCL’s expanded call centre inaugurated||The expanded customer call centre of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) at the Janta Nagar Division here was dedicated to consumers by DPS Grewal, Director of Distribution, PSPCL, on Tuesday. He said several customer-centric initiatives such as expanding customer care facilities and various strengthening works of 11 kV and 66 kV transmission systems were undertaken by the power utility.He said as a part of the PSPCL’s continuous endeavour to improve its services, the call centre at Janta Nagar has been expanded from 40 to 60 seats with a total cost of Rs 31.01 lakhs in addition to the 60-seat capacity call centre at Chaura Bazaar which was launched last year. With this, the total capacity of 1,912 call centre has gone up to 120 seats. Grewal said several critical transmission works had been commissioned in the last one month. Grewal further said the work of conductor augmentation and shifting from rail pole to towers of 9-km long 66 kV line from 220 kV substation Handiaya to 66 kV substation Barnala was also stalled which has now been completed at a cost of Rs 2 crore. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcls-expanded-call-centre-inaugurated-273182
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Experts hold discussion on air quality management in Punjab||Concerned citizens from across Punjab along with a panel of well-known experts came together here on Wednesday for a virtual discussion on ‘Air quality management in Punjab’, as part of the Clean Air Punjab network in collaboration with EcoSikh. In the session a detailed discussion on the rising air pollution as well as the steps that need to be taken up by authorities as well as the community to manage the deteriorating air quality was held. A series of campaigns have been initiated by the Clean Air Punjab, which is a citizens’ initiative, along with EcoSikh to promote awareness among people as well as sensitisation of degradation of the environment and the rising air pollution levels in Punjab. The panellists for the workshop included Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, Principal Scientist and Head, Department of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana; Kahan Singh Pannu, former IAS officer and Adviser, NHAI, Punjab; Raj Ratra, Senior Environment Engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board; Sarath Guttikunda, founder Director, Urban Emissions; Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead, Risks and Adaptation, Air Quality, Council on Energy Environment and Water (CEEW); Gunjan Jain, Communication Strategist, Climate Trends; and Jaskirat Singh, founder and CEO, Webrosoft. The session was attended by over 100 participants from Punjab and other neighbouring states. Tanushree Ganguly informed that Punjab is home to nine non-attainment cities, of which only six non-attainment cities —Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Patiala, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Khanna —possess real-time monitoring infrastructure. “Data reported by these stations suggest that PM10 concentrations in all six cities were greater than the permissible limit on more than 50 per cent of days in the first half of 2021,” she explained. “Stubble-burning was not the only polluting source across the Indo-Gangetic plains every winter, but it has captured the imagination and attention of popular debate as to the culprit for Delhi’s grey winter skies,” shared Gunjan Jain. KS Pannu said, “Action needs to be taken against the owners of smoke-spewing factories, especially thermal, paper, cement and chemical plants, besides brick kilns, which often deliberately turn off the pollution control devices to save cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-hold-discussion-on-air-quality-management-in-punjab-273183
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab women panel chief meets police ‘torture’ victim in Jagraon||Punjab State Commission for Women Chairperson Manisha Gulati today met a victim of alleged police torture at her house in Jagraon and assured her all possible help. She also assured the family members of the victim of taking up the matter with CM Amarinder Singh and timely resolution of their grievances. Manisha Gulati was accompanied by SSP, Ludhiana (Rural), Charanjit Singh Sohal. While speaking to mediapersons, Manisha Gulati said a matter had come to her notice in which a girl was allegedly tortured and illegally detained by the then SHO in 2005. She said the family had alleged that the police failed to take action against the then SHO. Gulati assured the family that she would take up the matter with the CM and get the matter inquired thoroughly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-women-panel-chief-meets-police-torture-victim-in-jagraon-273184
24-06-2021||Ludhiana||Two killed after bus rams into stationary truck||Two persons died after a tourist bus rammed into a stationary truck on GT Road in Khanna. The bus driver reportedly failed to notice the stationary vehicle laden with iron rods on the highway.Three passengers also suffered injuries in the accident. The deceased are yet to be identified. ASI Avtar Singh said the incident occurred at around 4 am on Wednesday on the flyover near Markfed Ghee Mill in Khanna. The bus was going to Ludhiana from Bihar.When it reached the highway in Khanna, the driver rammed the bus into the truck as he failed to notice the truck, the ASI added. Two injured have been identified as Vishawnath and Kalavsati of Bagga Khurd village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-killed-after-bus-rams-into-stationary-truck-273185
