25-06-2021||---||Three held with banned drugs, injections||Ludhiana, June 24 The Dakha police apprehended three smugglers and recovered banned drugs from them in separate incidents. In the first case, the Dakha police arrested Sagar Singh, alias Nepali, of Hambran road, Mullanpur, and recovered 230 tablets and eight injections from him. Investigating officer ASI Rajdhim Singh said a tip-off was received that the man was into the drug smuggling trade and he was on the way to Mullanpur from Hambran to deliver a huge consignment of banned medicines. Accordingly, a naka was laid at a strategic point where he was intercepted. Later, during the checking of his belongings, the banned medicines and injections were recovered from him. In another incident, the police nabbed Harjinder Singh and Shivdeep Singh, residents of CRPF Colony, Dugri. ASI Satpal Singh said a tip-off was received that the two suspects were on the way to Mullanpur from Ludhiana to deliver a huge consignment of the banned drugs. Later, the police laid a naka on the link road near the Dakha railway crossing where the suspects, who were riding a Honda Activa scooter, were stopped for checking. The police seized 130 tablets, 60 capsules and 15 bottles of syrups from the duo. The police said now, a police remand of the suspects would be sought from the court for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-held-with-banned-drugs-injections-273460
25-06-2021||---||After 110 days, no death due to Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 24 Today after a gap of 110 days, the district saw no death due to Covid-19. Meanwhile 40 persons tested positive for Covid. Till now 86,781 confirmed cases of Covid have been reported in the district. In Ludhiana the first death was reported on March 30 last year, when a 30-year old woman from Amarpura succumbed to the virus. During the first wave in 2020 highest of 19 deaths in a day were reported on September 17, while during the second wave in 2021, highest of 30 deaths were reported on May 10 and 11. There were a few days this year when no death was reported in the district. It was last on March 5 that no death was reported in the district. Meanwhile on January 3, 4, 8, 10, 16, 24, 25 and 28, February 1, 2, 5, 7, 11, 14, 19 and 20, March 2 and 5 there was no death due to Covid. Till now 2,080 persons have lost their lives due to Covid in the district. Today 58 Covid positive patients were admitted to various private hospitals and 21 to government hospitals, while 345 were under home isolation. Since March last year, 84,237 persons have recovered from Covid. According to the data shared by the Health Department, a total of 16,53,171 samples were taken, out of which reports of 16,53,087 have been received. As many as 15,54,837 samples were found negative, while reports of 81 samples are pending. Today 11,069 samples were taken from the district, while report of 84 samples that were taken yesterday is still awaited. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-110-days-no-death-due-to-covid-in-ludhiana-district-273461
25-06-2021||Nitin Jain
||Over 27K fail to turn up for second vaccine dose||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 24 Ludhiana, which leads in maximum Covid vaccination coverage being one and only district having crossed the 1.1-million inoculation mark, also tops Punjab in having maximum beneficiaries who have not taken their second due dose of the vaccine, the government has confirmed. As many as 27,098 recipients — 15,140 of Covaxin and 11,958 of Covishield —have not turned up even after the lapse of 16 weeks, which is the maximum time gap between the two doses of Covishield. The maximum time gap between the two doses of Covaxin is six weeks, the official figures have revealed. The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that 1,78,375 beneficiaries — 1,14,442 of Covaxin and 63,933 of Covishield — have not turned up in the state for taking their second dose even after the lapse of maximum duration of getting their first shot. The official figures suggested that of the total 1,14,442 missing Covaxin beneficiaries, 1,08,550 have crossed over 42 days of taking the first jab, and 5,892 have finished 42 days after taking the first dose. Similarly, of the total 63,933 Covishield beneficiaries who failed to turn up for the second dose, 27,609 have not turned up to take their second shot due even after the lapse of 16 weeks, while 36,324 have crossed 12 weeks of taking their first jab. The district-wise compilation revealed that Gurdaspur ranked second with 11,953 missing beneficiaries of Covaxin, followed by Mohali 10,116, Jalandhar 8,856, Patiala 6,918, Pathankot 6,048, Nawanshahr 5,960, Sangrur 5,722, Hoshiarpur 5,200, Fazilka 5,104, Faridkot 4,416, Muktsar 4,127, Amritsar, 3,845, Kapurthala 3,005, Bathinda 2,951, Fatehgarh Sahib 2,621, Barnala 2,605, Tarn Taran 2,565, Mansa 2,452, Moga 1,977, Ropar 1,701 and Ferozepur reported lowest of 1,160. As far as non-turned up Covishield recipients were concerned, Amritsar stood second with 7,717 missing beneficiaries, followed by Mohali 6,422, Jalandhar 6,080, Hoshiarpur 5,841, Gurdaspur 3,592, Patiala 3,352, Bathinda 2,923, Tarn Taran 2,125, Fazilka 1,835, Sangrur 1,713, Ferozepur 1,568, Pathankot 1,216, Muktsar 1,104, Faridkot 970, Barnala 960, Kapurthala 858, Ropar 839, Moga 823, Nawanshahr 761, Fatehgarh Sahib 724, and Mansa reported minimum of 552 awaited beneficiaries. Stock status Punjab has received from the Centre a total of 54,14,640 vaccine doses —48,16,580 of Covishield and 5,98,060 of Covaxin. As many as 47,06,315 Covishield and 4,98,101 Covaxin shots were administered, while 56,265 doses of Covishield and 69,959 jabs of Covaxin are available. Under the state supply, 10,05,030 doses of Covishield and 2,27,310 shots of Covaxin were received. As many as 6,29,974 doses of Covishield and 83,270 jabs of Covaxin were administered, while 3,75,056 doses of Covishield and 1,42,040 shots of Covaxin are available in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-27k-fail-to-turn-up-for-second-vaccine-dose-273462
25-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Monsoon preparations: Choked sewers, road gullies yet to be cleaned||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 24To ensure cleaning of road gullies, drains and sewer lines in view of the rainy season, the deadline is June 30. However, choked sewer lines and road gullies in a number of areas are yet to be cleaned while waste is still getting accumulated in different drains.Drainage pipes not repaired so farLike the previous year, road gullies on Lakkar Bridge, Elevated Road and in several areas are still lying choked. Defunct drainage pipes of the Elevated Road (Jagraon Bridge towards the Jalandhar bypass) have not been repaired or replaced this year too..Like the previous year, road gullies on Lakkar Bridge, Elevated Road and in several areas are still lying choked. Defunct drainage pipes of the Elevated Road (Jagraon Bridge towards the Jalandhar bypass) have not been repaired or replaced this year too.The MC claimed to have conducted cleaning of all drains but huge waste is still being dumped in a drain near the Bhadaur House and others. Residents want the MC to take timely measures to complete the work at the earliest.Overflowing sewersThe problem of choked and overflowing sewers in several parts of the city was yet to be resolved. The MC had spent a huge amount on upgrading the sewer system on Giaspura Road and then the road was reconstructed. Now, the sewers are overflowing again on Giaspura Road here. RK Yadav of the Yadav Ahir Mahasabha said: “It is difficult to pass through the stretch due to the accumulated sewage on the road. If required steps are not taken we will be forced to suffer more during rainy days.”The residents complained that overflowing sewers are a regular affair in Dhandari Khurd and nearby areas too. Sukhwinder Singh of Guru Ravidas Ji Youth Sports and Welfare Club said: “The sewer overflow near my house at Dhandari Khurd every morning. We have raised the matter many times but to no avail.”Lack of storm water drainage systemThe stormwater drainage system is unavailable in around 89 per cent areas of the city and chances of waterlogging could not be ignored, especially in low-lying areas. MC officials said they were focusing on reducing waterlogging time in the low-lying areas.Notably, the MC is carrying out the work to resume the functioning of an old drain near Dukhniwaran Sahib Gurdwara to avoid chronic waterlogging near Dholewal Chowk, Gill Chowk and nearby areas. Besides, the MC is installing a stormwater drainage line on Old GT Road near Clock Tower.Ongoing projects may increase woesAs work on major projects, including ROB and RUBs on Pakhowal Road, Smart Street Road project on Malhar Road (under the Smart City mission), NHAI’s Elevated Road project on Ferozepur Road and MC’s stormwater drainage project near the Clock Tower are underway, commuters may face more inconvenience during this rainy season.Shopkeepers said the storm water drainage project near Clock Tower must be completed on a timely basis and then reconstruct the stretch wherein pipes were laid to avoid trouble for commuters. But, an official said the stretch near Clock Tower could not be reconstructed as of now.Arvind Sharma, a resident, said: “The MC has not even carpeted the stretch from Pakhowal Road towards Ishmeet Singh Road despite the fact that the issue was raised by me. Only gravels were laid on the road due to which chances of mishaps are high.”Service lanes at some points on Ferozepur Road are also not ready. On Thursday, water accumulated even after a short spell of rain on Ferozepur Road near Aggar Nagar. Rajesh Gupta of Social Reformers, an NGO, said: “It is the responsibility of the MC and other departments concerned to take necessary measures so that the public don’t face any problem.”Act against waterlogging at underpasses: ResidentsThe residents have also sought from the MC, GLADA and PWD to take timely steps to avoid water accumulation at underpasses in their respective jurisdiction. Waterlogging was witnessed commonly at Southern bypass underpasses, Lodhi Club Road underpass and an underpass near Chand Cinema in the past. The work to clean road gullies at the Southern Bypass underpass near Verka Milk Plant was underway. However, waterlogging was witnessed again recently at the underpass along the Buddha Nullah near Chand Cinema.90% road gullies cleaned, claims MC officialMC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had given directions to staff to make all arrangements by June 30. Superintending Engineer (SE) Rajinder Singh claimed that 90 per cent of the road gullies in the city had been cleaned and the remaining would be cleaned by the end of the month.He said the stormwater drainage project near Clock Tower would be completed by June 30. The work on the sewer line on Gill Road was underway and once it was done, the sewer problem on Giaspura road would get resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/monsoon-preparations-choked-sewers-road-gullies-yet-to-be-cleaned-273463
25-06-2021||---||Two minor girls sexually abused, three booked||Ludhiana, June 24The Ludhiana city and the Ludhiana rural police have registered two cases of sexual harassment against three persons.In the first case, the Sadar police have booked a man for sexually abusing a six-year-old girl at Narangwal Khurd village. The suspect has been identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of the same village.The complainant told the police that the suspect was her husband’s brother. About a year ago, he had attempted to sexually exploit her daughter. When the girl told the matter to her husband, he forced her not to inform the police as it would malign the image of their family.A few days ago, Harpal again attempted to rape her daughter and touched her private part. When the girl daughter told them about the matter, a complaint was lodged at the Sadar police station where a case was registered against him.ASI Satinderpal Singh said a case under Section 376-A,B, IPC, and Section 4,6, Pocso Act, was registered against him.In another incident, two persons kidnapped and raped a minor girl in Jagraon. They have been identified as Arsh and Gora, residents of Jagraon.The complainant, the girl’s mother, told the police that on June 22 she had gone to drop her relative at the Jagraon bus stand. When she returned home, she was shocked to see that her daughter was missing.Later, when her daughter reached home, she revealed that the suspects barged into their house and forcibly bundled her into their car. They took her to the house of Gora at Akhara village where both of them raped her and later dropped her at the Raikot bus stand. They also threatened her of dire consequences if she tell about the incident to somebody.The victim’s mother said yesterday, the victim’s health deteriorated and she was rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors confirmed rape.The woman demanded that the duo should be arrested and strict punishment should be given to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-minor-girls-sexually-abused-three-booked-273464
25-06-2021||---||Activists oppose waste compactor at park again||Ludhiana, June 24A group of activists on Thursday morning opposed the MC’s move to set up a garbage compactor/dump at Bhai Chattar Singh Park here. The work regarding the project was to be started at the site today.Notably, the park was named in the memory of late cadet Chattar Singh Dhadhli, who breathed his last on January 2, 1954. A younger brother of Bhai Chattar Singh, Bhawanjeet Singh, said today that no garbage compactor or dump should be set up at the park.Activist Gurpal Singh Grewal raised questions that why the civic body chose the park to set up a garbage dump.He said the park’s land should not be used for a garbage dump or compactor and no tree should be axed for the dump site.MC and police officials, who reached the site, asked Grewal to check waste compactors in the city. Meanwhile, the work was stalled at the park.The MC officials claimed that the waste compactor would not create any nuisance at the park and cleanliness would be ensured. They said the NGT had allowed the MC to set up a compactor at the park.Meanwhile, Jaskirat Singh of the Narao Manch Punjab said: “We want to make an appeal to the Chief Minister and the NGT that no garbage compactor should be set up at the park that was named in the memory of the late cadet. We request the authorities to find an alternative site to set up the compactor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activists-oppose-waste-compactor-at-park-again-273465
25-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||Remove waste from Buddha Nullah at Bachan Singh Road bridge: Residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 24In view of the rainy season, the Municipal Corporation and Irrigation Department are carrying out the work to remove silt and waste from the Buddha Nullah at different locations but a huge amount of solid waste have got collected around the bridge on Bachan Singh Road, near Dairy Complex of Haibowal on Hambran Road here. On one side of the bridge outside the MC limit, the Buddha Nullah highly polluted water is not visible due to a large amount of solid waste collected and weed. Residents want the nullah must be cleaned without any further delay.The trash has covered the Buddha Nullah stretch from several other points inside and outside the MC’s limit but the departments concerned are yet to get it cleaned. The solid waste from an MC garbage dump that is located at the back of a college hostel is falling into the Buddha Nullah and getting collected under a bridge near Haibowal Chowk inside the MC limit. Despite repeated demand of residents, the Municipal Corporation has failed to remove the garbage dump.The waste has also got collected at a point where floating barriers were earlier installed near the Peeru Banda area inside the city. Besides, a huge amount of trash and weed is visible in the Buddha Nullah stretch outside the MC’s limit on the Jainpur and other villages side.The waste from a number factories and dairies (on Hambran Road and Tajpur Road) is still being dumped into the Buddha Nullah as the MC and PPCB failed to act against the violators.A resident Gaganpreet Singh, said, “The solid waste should be removed from the Buddha Nullah stretch inside and outside the city at the earliest, while the authorities concerned should also act against the factories and dairies that have been polluting the drain for decades. Those who throw any kind of waste should be dealt with strictly. The MC should also stop releasing its untreated sewage into the drain. Moreover, the government authorities must pay focus to strengthen the banks of the Buddha Nullah.”The MC is carrying out a drive to remove the waste from the Buddha Nullah inside the city areas. The Irrigation Department is currently carrying out work outside the MC’s limit on Tajpur Road, while the work outside MC’s limit on the Jainpur side (Hambran Road side) is yet to be started.Superintending Engineer, MC, Ravinder Garg said the MC’s limit is till the bridge located on Bachan Singh Road near the dairy complex. He said the area where the huge waste has collected is located outside the MC’s jurisdiction. He said, “The de-silting work has already been done once inside the city limit. Now, the de-silting work is being done with machines once again. If waste has got collected at any point in city areas, it will be checked and removed at the earliest.”Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department Harjot Singh said the work was going on in full swing to clean the nullah stretch, outside the MC’s limit on Tajpur Road. He said the machines would be deployed at various bridges for cleaning of the Buddha Nullah outside the MC’s limit on the Jainpur side from July 1 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/remove-waste-from-buddha-nullah-at-bachan-singh-road-bridge-residents-273466
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Scheme to improve sex ratio launched||Payal, June 24 To improve the skewed sex ratio in the region, the Payal administration has launched a campaign wherein baby- grooming kits and an appreciation letter from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will be given to the mother of girl child as a gift. MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha chaired the function held here. The CDPO informed that the Department of Social Security and Development of Women & Children had launched the baby grooming kit scheme to recognise the proud mothers of girl child to improve the sex ratio in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scheme-to-improve-sex-ratio-launched-273467
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Farmers up in arms over irregular power supply||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal, June 24 Upset over erratic power supply in rural areas, farmers today protested against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. While farmers of the Dehlon Block blocked vehicular traffic at Sayana Chowk, activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) squatted in front of the power grid at Sihar village in the Payal subdivision. The protesters alleged that farmers were not getting regular power supply, thereby hampering the irrigation of fields and transplantation of paddy sapling. Apart from the traditional crop of paddy farmers also grow vegetables and maize in the area of Malwa. Sadhu Singh Ghudani, general secretary, said, “We have been facing the problem for many decades. Despite approaching the powercom authorities on numerous occasions, our requests for regular supply have fallen on deaf ears,” said Ghudani. Many farmers alleged that many paddy cultivators had taken loans so any dip in the yield will worsen things for them. “The government should ensure adequate power supply to farmers during the day,” said Paramdeep Singh Deepa of Dehlon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-up-in-arms-over-irregular-power-supply-273468
25-06-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Doraha residents bear brunt of clogged sewers||Doraha, June 24 Sewer accumulation in Ward 14 of Doraha has been a major problem for past many years now, with the municipal council not giving two hoots about it. Apart from residents of the ward, students of GTB School in particular suffer the most. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, a social worker of the area, said since no action had been taken by the civil authorities, residents had learnt to live with the filth and sewer. “Residents of this ward are the worst sufferers.” “The process has become cyclic now. Sewer gets collected, evacuated and then gathers again, leaving the residents high and dry. You have to hold your breath when you pass through that street,” complaints Harish Kapila, a resident of the ward.  “The problem is so grave but the attitude of the council towards it is extremely casual. It has not thought of a permanent solution to the problem to date. During rains, the problem becomes more intolerable as the sewer water enters houses,” shared Jandeep Kaushal, another resident. Doraha Sanitary Inspector Ajay Kumar said: “We do take up evacuation action from time to time but strike of sanitary workers has brought the entire work to a standstill. It has been one-and-a-half months now since the workers went on strike and the sewer conditions of the town have gone haywire.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-residents-bear-brunt-of-clogged-sewers-273469
25-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||GLADA initiates cancellation of allotment of defaulters||Ludhiana, June 24 After dragging their feet for more than two years in taking action against allottees of LIG flats in Dugri Urban Estate, Phase II, for illegal change of land use (putting residential flats to commercial use), GLADA officials now seem all set to cancel allotment of over 100 LIG flats. GLADA estate officer BS Walia said even though show-cause notices were initially served in November 2018 to a large number of allottees, which converted residential flats fully or partially to commercial establishments against the terms and conditions of the allotment. The show-cause notice strictly laid down that flats could not be used for any other purpose than residential, he added. Thereafter, the process for cancellation of allotment was initiated against more than 100 allottees, after which they were given ample time to explain their position and defend themselves in the manner they deemed fit. “The defaulting allottees were also given personal hearings but imposition of lockdown due to the pandemic has also caused delay in taking final action for illegal CLU. We were taking a lenient view of the violations due to majority of the people facing adverse impact of the lockdown,” Walia said. Now that proper procedure had been followed for illegal change of land use and the violation of terms and conditions of allotment, final notices for cancellation of allotments were being issued to over 100 allottees and the process for cancellation of allotment would commence in a fortnight, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-initiates-cancellation-of-allotment-of-defaulters-273470
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Police rope in councillors to fight drug menace||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot, June 24  The police have roped in councillors and activists of various clubs in its campaign against drug abuse and trafficking. Members of the Municipal Councils at Ahmedgarh and Raikot; Rotary Club, Social Welfare Organisation, Samaj Sewa Society and Lions Club have come forward to support the campaign launched by the Malerkotla police and the Ludhiana (Rural) police led by SSPs Kanwardeep Kaur and Charanjit Singh Sohal, respectively, on occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking that falls on Saturday. SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said the activists have announced to work in tandem with the police against the social evil. Kanwardeep Kaur acknowledged that the efforts of police personnel led SP (D) Harmeet Singh Hundal, SP (H) Harbans Kaur, DSP Ahmedgarh Sandeep Vadhera and DSP Amargarh Rajan Sharma to curb the menace of drug abuse and trafficking. The SSP Kanwardeep Kaur called upon social leaders to be the eyes and ears of the police. She also inaugurated the new office of Ahmedgarh DSP and planted saplings.  A seminar was also organised at Swami Ganga Giri College for Women at Raikot, where SP Jagraon Gurmeet Kaur roped in office bearers of various organisations led by president Sudarshan Joshi in the fight against the menace of drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-rope-in-councillors-to-fight-drug-menace-273471
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Elderly couple found dead||Raikot, June 24 The Hathur police have initiated a probe into the murder of an elderly couple of Lakha village by unknown persons. The couple was murdered at their home on Tuesday afternoon. The dead body of the woman, Shanti Devi (75), was found by her daughter on Tuesday evening while that of the man, Hari Chand Pandit (85), was found on Wednesday in a fodder room. The police said it was suspected that the couple was murdered when their daughter had gone out to take her medicine. The police are investigating the matter and an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-couple-found-dead-273472
25-06-2021||---||Committee seeks CGHS dispensaries in all wards||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 24A member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, Satish Thaman, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan for the opening of health dispensaries under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) in all 95 wards of the city. A copy of the demand has also been sent to the Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.He said a large number of all Central Government department employees would be able to avail the benefit of the CGHS dispensaries. Thaman said: “There is a dire need to open Central Government Health Scheme dispensaries in the city. A number of BSNL retirees and employees also wanted that these dispensaries should be opened so that they can get required treatment at these centres without any hassle.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/committee-seeks-cghs-dispensaries-in-all-wards-273797
25-06-2021||---||Reserve 40 pc of steel for MSMEs, demand traders||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 24Traders, belonging to different industrial sectors, have expressed their concern over the continuous rise in raw material prices. Over 170 industries under the banner of All India Council of Association (AICA) of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) organised a virtual meeting to discuss various important trade-related issues.Upkar Singh, president, CICU and SC Ralhan, president, Ludhiana Hand Tools Manufacturers Association, said the export of steel and iron ore should be banned for at least six months. The coke mines closed due to environmental cleanliness must be permitted to operate their mines. Priority must be given to the MSMEs and distribution of steel must be made in a transparent manner by the Steel authority of India. More steps should be taken by the government to enhance the capacity of steel production in coming years and quick clearance should be given to projects.Besides, incentive in PLI to be given to the MSME producing components from steel such as auto components, bicycle and components, hand tools, sewing machine and parts, hardware etc., stressed Upkar Singh.Ralhan added that there should be a dedicated steel hub for MSMEs. A total of 40 per cent of the steel manufactured should be reserved for the MSMEs. Rather than direct export of steel and iron ore, we should work in value addition on these products as finished products sells at higher price than the raw products. For example if export steel for Rs100 products made from steel such as auto components, bicycle and components, Hand tools, sewing machine and parts, Hardware fetch higher realisation in tune of Rs200 to 400 per kg.He further said that the raw material price hike should be controlled by the Govt. to save the MSMEs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reserve-40-pc-of-steel-for-msmes-demand-traders-273798
25-06-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on probiotics||Vaccination camp organisedA two-day vaccination camp was successfully organised in SCD Government College, Ludhiana, to for people in the age group 18-44 yrs. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur said over 500 people were successfully vaccinated in the camp. TNSPrincipals’ meet heldDedicated to the centenary year of SGPC, Nankana Sahib Education Trust conducted a meet of principals of the SGPC institutions at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) to chalk out a strategy for meaningful alliance of academic institutions. Principals of the SGPC schools and colleges from all across the state attended the meet. GNDEC Principal Dr Sehijpal Singh introduced the programme and stressed upon the need to motivate students at high-school level for developing professional capabilities instead of finding short-cuts for better career growth. TNSinternational Ghazal competitionThe music club of SCD Government College organised an online international ghazal competition, in which participants from various academic institutions from around the world submitted their entries. The chief guest for the competition was ghazal maestro Randhir Kanwal. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur motivated the students to take more interest in Indian classical music. TNSConference on veterinary professionA two-day international virtual conference on “Emerging challenges to veterinary profession” was organised at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU). Nearly 2,000 participants from India and 26 other countries registered for the mega international event. Representatives of Nepal, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Bangladesh shared their opinions, views and suggestions towards existing challenges in the veterinary profession. Speakers from the UK, Australia, West Indies and Israel also addressed the conference. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-probiotics-273799
