26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Patients suffer as doctors go on strike against 6th pay panel in Ludhiana||Doctors went on a strike against the Sixth Pay Commission today. Under the banner of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, all the Out Patient Departments, In Patient Departments, elective surgeries, work related to the Unique Disability Identification and Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana were closed at Civil Hospital.Doctors are protesting against the delinking of the Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) from the basic pay, applicable to all doctors be it allopathic, rural medical officers, ayurvedic, homeopathic or veterinarians.Various associations, led by Dr Avinash Jindal and Dr Rohit of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, Dr Balwinder of the Punjab Homeopathic Association, Dr Raman of the Punjab Ayurvedic Association, Dr Rimple of the Dental Association and Dr Vikrant of the Rural Medical Officers Associations, along with other doctors held a protest at Civil Hospital against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. Members of the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association also held a protest in this regard at Polyclinic on Gill Road.It was decided by the association that all the work related to disability certificate and the Ayushman scheme will remain suspended till further notice.Dr Rohit Rampal of the PCMSA said while the doctors were busy serving amidst the pandemic, the Sixth Pay Commission came as a cruel joke to them. Doctors have slammed the state government for delinking the Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) from the basic pay.Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association, said what to expect any allowance or bonus from the government for working selflessly amidst the pandemic, when it has instead reduced the salaries.“Initially the NPA at 25 per cent was the part of pay for the calculation of all allowances, now with the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission the NPA has been delinked from pay and reduced to 20 per cent, which means it has been fixed now and no other allowances will be calculated on the NPA. It will remarkably effect the net salary of all the government doctors be it allopathic, ayurvedic, homeopathic or veterinary,” added Dr Rohit Sharma, joint secretary, RMSA, Punjab.Dr Narula said Rural Medical Officers have already been given stepmotherly treatment by the state government and the Sixth Pay Commission has only added to their woes. The RMOs are getting 20 per cent less salary as compared to their urban counterparts as their Dynamic Assured Career Progression cadre is still pending.Dr Darshan Kheri, general secretary of the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, said instead of giving new facilities, the government is cutting down on the already paid allowances. “We have given our services 24x7 amidst the pandemic and this is how the government is rewarding us,” he said.Patients feel the heatWhile the doctors were on strike, it was patients who suffered. OPD patients went without consultation, while the in-house patients kept on waiting for the doctors.Sushma Devi, who came from Salem Tabri to see a doctor at Civil Hospital, was left high and dry. “First I went to ESI Hospital as earlier the OPD of Civil Hospital was run from there. After reaching there I came to know that OPD has been shifted back and when I reached here the doctors were on strike. I took one day off from my work to see the doctor and it was wasted in only travelling from one place to another. I cannot take leave tomorrow so now I will be coming next week,” she said.Family of a patient who was admitted to the hospital said they kept on waiting for the doctor the whole day and nobody visited the ward today. “The doctor was to prescribe some new medicines and injections today but nobody turned up,” said a family member.Another patient Gulab Kaur, who had come to see her gynaecologist, said she reached the hospital at 8 am hoping to see the doctor on time but upon reaching she came to know that doctors were on strike today and left with no other option she had to return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patients-suffer-as-doctors-go-on-strike-against-6th-pay-panel-in-ludhiana-274269
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||No death, 53 test positive in Ludhiana||For the second consecutive day, the district reported no additional deaths from Covid-19 while 43 people tested positive for the disease. The total confirmed cases of Covid in the district have reached 86,824 while the death count stands at 2,080.The recovery rate has reached 97.1 per cent in the district while the case fatality rate now is 2.4 per cent. Today, there were 440 active cases in the district.Delta plus variant detected in 62-yr-old manThose who tested positive today included eight under trials, one healthcare worker while ten persons are still to be traced.Today, as many as 308 people were under home-isolation, 66 were admitted to private hospitals, 23 were admitted to government hospitals and 17 persons were on ventilator support.A total of 10,844 samples were collected in the district today while the results of 69 samples taken yesterday are pending.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Kiran Gill, said the main motive of the Health Department is to motivate people to get vaccinated. He said mass media wing teams are visiting different areas of the city to raise awareness about the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-53-test-positive-in-ludhiana-274275
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Fire breaks out at PNB branch in Ludhiana||A fire broke out at the branch of Punjab National Bank, Bija Chowk, Khanna, last night. Banks records and some equipment were gutted in the fire.As per the information, incident occurred at around 10.40 pm on Friday night when some PCR cops noticed smoke billowing out of the bank’s building. Cops immediately informed the fire control room and fire tenders reached the spot in a few minutes.Yashpal Gomi, fire officer, said firemen took an hour to douse the flame. Fire was about to reach the strong room but timely action by the firemen prevented the fire from reaching the strong room.Bank officials said fire damaged some documents, some equipment gutted in the fire but no loss of cash or other valuables reported. Had the fire entered the strong room there would have been huge loss of cash, gold, diamonds and other important documents of people stored there, said bank officials.Fire officials said short circuit seemed to be the cause of fire.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-at-pnb-branch-in-ludhiana-274277
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 64 smugglers held with drugs in week||In what appears to be a record of sorts, the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have arrested 64 smugglers and habitual offenders with a huge cache of drugs and cash (drug money), besides forfeiting properties in the national capital worth Rs 61 lakh and identifying 15 more worth crores of rupees within a week.This was made possible after the cops cracked the whip against the illegal trade and raided 400 suspected hideouts of the dealers and suppliers of drugs in the last seven days.Besides the enforcement, the police also launched a special awareness drive through multiple platforms to sensitise public, especially the youth, on the ill-effects of banned substances on the human health and how the menace brings bad name and trauma to those involved in it.Sharing outreach of the Commissionerate Police against drugs on the eve of the International Day against Drugs Abuse and Illegal Trafficking here on Friday, Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal told The Tribune that a major drive was initiated against drugs during the ongoing anti-drug week under which awareness was spread through multiple platforms and strict action was taken against drug peddlers.Divulging details, the city police chief said at least 400 raids — 100 on drug hotspots and 300 on the hideouts — of proclaimed offenders, bail and parole jumpers in the drug cases were conducted in the last seven days.The action resulted in the arrest of 38 notorious drug smugglers in 27 FIRs and sending to jail 26 habitual offenders after filing 26 ‘kalandaras’ against them besides forfeiting the properties worth Rs 61 lakh of two drug dealers and initiating forfeiting 15 more properties.“In light of the Punjab Government’s mission on eradicating drugs from society, Ludhiana Police Commissionerate undertook a major drive against drugs during the ongoing anti-drug week being organised from June 19 to 26,” disclosed Agrawal.He said a multipronged approach was implemented to take action against drugs, which included awareness programmes, seminars, webinars, cycle rallies and street plays against drugs and raids on drug dealers, POs, parole and bail jumpers, registration of FIRs against the drug peddlers, attachment and forfeiture of their properties.Under the special campaign, 104 seminars, seven cycle rallies and three walkathons were organised in collaboration with different NGOs to spread awareness in public against the ill-effects of drugs. Besides, poster-making competitions were organised to specially involve school students.Announcements were made through the public address system in police vehicles in drug-prone areas regarding penalties and ill-effects of drugs. Special testimonials of drug users, who have been rehabilitated, were shared with public to motivate other drug addicts to give up this habit and live happily in the mainstream.“Rural police officers have been directed to work in close coordination with drug abuse prevention officers of their respective areas, who have played an instrumental role in spreading awareness against drugs among the masses,” he informed.The CP disclosed that 78 cordon and search operations were conducted in the drug hotspots in the last seven days. The recovery included 755 gm of opium, 2.5-kg poppy husk, 10.2-kg ganja, 125-gm heroin, and 330 intoxicant tablets.“Surveillance on the activities of bailed-out accused of the NDPS Act was done minutely. Subsequently, 26 kalandras against habitual drug accused were filed and they were sent to jail. Properties worth Rs 61 lakh located in New Delhi of two drug peddlers were forfeited from the competent authority,” Agrawal revealed, while adding that properties of 15 more drug peddlers have been identified and the process has been initiated to forfeit them.Furthermore, case properties of 117 NDPS cases will be destroyed as per procedure at Khanna Paper Mill in Amritsar as part of the state-level drug disposal scheme on Saturday.‘Will free Ludhiana of drugs’I appeal to the public to support the administration in the war against drugs. I give my commitment to the people of Ludhiana that no stone will be left unturned in curbing the menace of drugs and will take every possible step to free Ludhiana of drugs. The drug peddlers should either stop their activities or get ready to face the music. Nobody found wanting will be spared at any cost. — Rakesh Agrawal, Commissioner of Police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-64-smugglers-held-with-drugs-in-week-274280
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Road along Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah in a shambles||The hot mix plant may remain shut during the rainy season but the potholes on several roads have not been repaired. Big potholes on one such road along the Buddha Nullah near an underpass and the Peeru Banda area are crying for attention but the MC is yet to do the needful.Residents want that the potholes on the road must be repaired before the rains so that the commuters do not face inconveniences.A resident of Chandar Nagar, Keemti Rawan, has raised questions as to why the potholes have not been repaired on the stretch along the Buddha Nullah. He said, “Big potholes have appeared at different points on the road near Peeru Banda and other areas but the MC is yet to repair them. Moreover, safety walls are missing along the Buddha Nullah.”“Two-wheelers can lose balance while passing over the big potholes. The potholes must be repaired without any further delay for the safety of commuters,” he added.Councillor Surinder Atwal said he has asked the officials to patch up the potholes at the earliest. He said the tenders for re-carpeting work of the road will be floated soon.Despite repeated attempts, Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-along-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-in-a-shambles-274282
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Police challan 75 overloaded vehicles in Ludhiana||To prevent road accidents caused due to overloading of transport vehicles, the Ludhiana traffic police have decided to take strict action against such violators. The traffic police challaned as many as 75 vehicles for overloading today. Some vehicles had loaded goods against the permitted heights and length as well.Such vehicles can be commonly seen parked on highways, inviting road mishaps. A few days back an overloaded truck with iron rods had parked on the highway by driver in Khanna and a tourist bus from Bihar rammed into the truck killing two on the spot.Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek said many a times goods loaded hazardously on transport vehicles caused road mishaps in city. Now, the traffic wing of the Ludhiana police have decided to take against such violations.Joint Commissioner of Police Pareek said he had started strictly told the in charges of Traffic Zone 1, Zone 2, Zone 3 , Zone 4 to challan and impound such vehicles. Nakas have been set up at the each nook and corner of the city to check such violations. He said more such drives would be conducted in the future to catch violators.In a day, 75 such vehicles were challaned by the police. Traffic Zone 1 issued 16 challans, Zone 2 issued 35 challans, Zone 3 challaned 11 vehicles, Zone 4 issued 13 challans of overloading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-challan-75-overloaded-vehicles-in-ludhiana-274284
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Garbage collectors harried lot as waste compactor develops snag||Garbage collectors from different areas are facing inconveniences as the waste compactor on Lodhi Club Road, BRS Nagar, remained non-operational after a vehicle (hook loader) being used for transportation of waste to the main dumping site reportedly developed a snag.In the absence of any alternative arrangement, the garbage collectors were forced to keep the waste in their carts. The garbage collectors have demanded from the Municipal Corporation (MC) to ensure a timely garbage lifting system from the compactor site.A garbage collector said, “We collect waste from various houses in Rajguru Nagar and BRS Nagar in our carts and then unload it in the bins attached to the compactor. Now, we are facing a lot of inconveniences as the compactor system is not operational for the past four days. We came to know that a truck being used to transport the waste from the compactor site to the main dumping site near Tajpur Road has developed a snag.”He further said, “In absence of any alternative arrangement, we were unable to unload waste from our carts. The door-to-door lifting is also getting affected.”A resident of Rajguru Nagar said, “As there was no lifting of garbage taking place from the Lodhi club dump, there was utter chaos amongst the garbage collectors. The authorities must resolve the issue at the earliest.”Some of the garbage collectors were also seen waiting outside the compactor site today.Dr Vipul Malhotra said the compactor was not operational only since yesterday as the clutch plates of a vehicle used for transportation of waste got damaged. “We have deployed a tipper to ensure lifting of garbage from Lodhi Club Road. There is no problem in the lifting of waste from Lodhi Club Road,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-collectors-harried-lot-as-waste-compactor-develops-snag-274285
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Ward 2 councillor, residents protest against Ludhiana MC, MLA Sanjay Talwar||The MC has allegedly failed to resolve the problem of overflowing sewers in different areas of Ward 2. The councillor of the ward along with some residents protested against MLA Sanjay Talwar and the MC.Councillor Gurmail Singh Jajji alleged that the sewers in Saryansh Nagar, Deep Vihar and nearby areas are overflowing as the sewer disposal unit is not functioning properly. He said the people are forced to get contaminated water supply as sewage is getting mixed in the water supply line.“I have raised the matter many times but the issue has not been resolved. The disposal unit is not functional. Moreover, a machine from the disposal unit had gone missing but no action was taken by the civic body. Some Congress men are creating obstructions due to which the issue is not getting resolved,” he said.The councillor said the MC should take necessary steps at the earliest in view of the rainy season.The councillor complained that the problem of overflowing sewers in Saryansh Nagar and others has been there for a long time. The MC chief has already given directions to the officials to ensure the proper functioning of the sewer disposal units in the city. Executive Engineer, Pardeep Saluja said a motor had developed a snag and the problem was later resolved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ward-2-councillor-residents-protest-against-ludhiana-mc-mla-sanjay-talwar-274287
26-06-2021||Lovleen BainsDoraha||Erratic power supply spells trouble for paddy farmers||The newly transplanted paddy fields at Buani village have started drying up due to irregular power supply. Villagers have been suffering from the problem for long despite the feeder line working well from the substation.The power supply crosses various spots before it finally reaches Buani village, which is at the tail end. “We fail to understand the huge gap between the tall promises of the government and the ground reality. The Buani feeder from which the power fails each time has been the most problematic throughout as days pass and power is not restored,” rue the villagers.Surinder Singh, a resident of Buani village, complained, “No one is taking the responsibility of the lapse. From Buani feeder, the situation has been the same always and we have stopped expecting now. Farmers are bearing the brunt of irregular power supply. In early June, power was supplied to us for not over 5-7 hours and after June 10, it stopped completely. Supply was restored on June 16 after we raised our voice against PSPCL but unfortunately, that also laster for only two days.”“We are at the receiving end of the problem. The power is being supplied for only a few hours daily as a matter of routine. The irregular supply has made us upset beyond imagination. Our newly- transplanted paddy crop has started drying. When the power ditches the farmers at the time when it is required as an emergent condition, what is going to be his ultimate fate?,” the farmers complain.“It is the same story each day. The snapping of power is the most unpredictable thing in our village. As it gets snapped, we call at sub-division Doraha from where we get the same hackneyed response that the feeder is working from the station. Our second call is to the junior engineer who too replies the same, it shall be restored shortly. None is ready to check the gap between the two facts,” they further said.Daljeet Singh, XEN, PSPCL, Doraha, said, “I have taken the report from the sub-divisional officer and the supply is ok. There must be some individual problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/erratic-power-supply-spells-trouble-for-paddy-farmers-274289
26-06-2021||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana||AstroTurf laid at Namdhari headquarters Bhaini Sahib||A new six-a-side AstroTurf was laid down at the Namdhari headquarters, Bhaini Sahib, today. It was in the year 2004 that an AstroTurf was installed here for the first time which was later replaced as it got worn out.Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh had sent a grant of Rs50 lakh for the installation of a 30’x60” Astro Turf which was handed over to the authorities about eight months ago at Bhaini Sahib by Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs. It took six months time to lay down the turf.Major Amardeep Singh, political advisor to the CM, inaugurated the turf in the presence of Namdhari head, Satguru Udey Ji and others.Besides, a football ground, with grassy and synthetic surface is coming up there at Bhaini Sahib Sports Complex. In addition to this, there is an indoor badminton hall and an athletics track at which a large number of players use to practice daily.Altey Chahal along with former national hockey players Sher Singh and Gurcharan Singh and students were present at the inauguration function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/astroturf-laid-at-namdhari-headquarters-bhaini-sahib-274290
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Artistes protest dearth of work during lockdown||Artistes from the entertainment industry today held a protest at Jalandhar Bypass to protest against the indifferent attitude of the government towards them.The Covid-19 pandemic has been weighing heavy on artistes from the entertainment industry. It has been 18 months since restrictions have been imposed on social gatherings, with no lavish functions and parties taking place.Left with no other option, a few artists from the state have also died by suicide as they were unable to carry on with their lives without any source of income.Bunty Pardhan from Sangeet Parivar said it had been 18 months that artistes were without work and it had become difficult to meet ends. “Even the ration kits were given only once or twice to artistes. The government has not thought about us since then. One and a half year is a long time and the government has to think about our survival too. Everything is open now. Even liquor vends were never closed during the lockdown. Why are artists being made to suffer?” he said.“Around five to eight artistes from the state have died by suicide as they were unable to sustain their livelihood. The real number may be more as there are many small artists who were living in poverty during the lockdown,” he said.“Many artistes have taken up odd jobs and started working as daily workers and construction workers. They are not suitable for these jobs and facing problems there as well,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/artistes-protest-dearth-of-work-during-lockdown-274292
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Volunteers vow to fight drug menace||To win the war against drug abuse and illicit trafficking of drugs, a total of 29,021 volunteers have joined hands with the administration. The administration says the Drug Abuse Prevention Officer (DAPO) programme has proven to be a huge hit in curbing drug menace in the district.Giving details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said as many as 2,442 Nasha Roko Nigran Committees were already proving instrumental in wiping out drug abuse from the district at the grass-root level.A man (22) from Basti Jodhewal, sharing his journey of deaddiction, said everyone around him thought he would not survive long due to a fatal disease acquired from drug abuse menace.“Thanks to outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centre, I have not only shunned drugs but become an earning hand for my aged parents,” he said.Another man, residing in Islamganj, has been addicted to cannabis for the past 15 years. Owing to his addiction, his mother had to earn livelihood for the family by cooking mid-day meal in a local school.After OOAT centres were opened, his family took him to the local centre, where he was put on regular treatment. Now, he has been cured of his addiction and has been helping his family financially.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/volunteers-vow-to-fight-drug-menace-274294
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||BSNL unions hold protest||The All Unions and Associations of BSNL today organised a protest at its head office at Bharat Nagar Chowk over several issues, including launching of 4G services, pending payments from DoT, failure of cluster system, land monetisation, deterioration of backhaul, 2nd PRC pending issues and excess payment of pension contribution.Unions are also holding a meeting in Delhi on July 1 to further discuss their issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bsnl-unions-hold-protest-274295
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on cultivation of vegetables in monsoon||Head of the department Dr TS Dhillon said diversification was the need of the hour for conservation of natural resources and enhancing farmers’ income.Vegetable experts shared tips for successful cultivation of okra, bitter gourd, ‘petha kaddu’, ‘ram tori’ and brinjal. PAU expert Dr Salesh Jindal explained tomato cultivation with thrust on sowing time, seed treatment, irrigation and weed management. TNSLecture on famer-led extensionThe university organised an online guest lecture on “Farmer-led extension”, the keynote speaker for which was Dr NV Kumbhare, principal scientist (Agricultural Extension), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.Dr Kumbhare expressed concern over nutritional insecurity, high cost of inputs, increasing cost of cultivation, low productivity and sluggish agri-growth. “Farmer-led extension and market-led extension are peripheral issues in the extension scenario. The key role of farmers in farmer-led extension approach is technology dissemination by involving other farmers. Farmers invite experts to visit their farms and organise seminars and training programmes,” he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-cultivation-of-vegetables-in-monsoon-274296
26-06-2021||Ludhiana||19 held in clashes triggered by  jailed gangsters||In the recent clashes, which were triggered by jailed gangsters Shubham Arora and Puneet Bains, the Ludhiana police claimed to have arrested 19 gangsters so far.Apart from nabbing a few gangsters today, remaining gangsters were arrested by the police in the past two weeks.Pragya Jain, ADCP, said the arrested members of the Puneet Bains gang have been identified as Harjasmeet Singh, alias Real Pendu, Jatin Monga, alias Trendy, Navin Masih, Akhil Sabharwal, Anmol Singh Gill, Prince, Ranjit Kumar, Pankaj Kapoor, Neeraj Kumar, Piyush Kumar, Tarandeep Singh, alias Billa Borey, and Rohit Kumar.Shubham gang members are Jatin Kumar, alias Truck, Saksham, Lovish Verma, Jaspreet Singh Piddi, Vishal Gill, Deepak Dhaliwal and Nadim.Jain said 28 members of both the gang are yet to be arrested. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-held-in-clashes-triggered-by-jailed-gangsters-274297
