28-06-2021||Apart from affecting industrial production||Proactive steps needed for better preparedness||With the advent of summer season, power cuts, shortage of water and similar issues are commonly faced by the people. People have paid taxes with honesty, but in return they face problems such as power cuts, shortage of water etc. There is a need that the administration should provide proper electricity to people daily without any interruption and solve the problem of shortage of water faced by people. The administration should make proper planning so that people will not face any inconvenience during summer season.Adish SoodOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe sustained campaign against the drugs and illicit trade has been continuing since long but the menace is still far from being over. What should be done to free the society of the drugs? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comChalk out a concrete plan zone wiseWater is considered one of the basic needs of survival of human beings. So, the availability of water is a necessity. Every summer, barring a few areas, residents of each locality face water supply related problems. To overcome the shortage of water problem, municipal corporations must chalk out a concrete plan zone wise. In each zone, after every 1,000 households there must be a water tank or tube well. There must be rationing of water by restricting its supply from 5-10 am and then 1-3pm and then in the evening from 5-9 pm. There must be a fine on those who are wasting water without any purpose. There must be a ban on the washing of cars in the street during summer. Those areas where supply of water through water pipes is not available, local governments must manage the supply through water tanks. We all must support local government by not wasting water. It is priceless and we should put our efforts to make it available to those who have no direct approach to it.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiInstall solar panelsLike every year, this year too, the problems of poor electricity and water supply are haunting city residents. I feel that the government cannot help each and every one. Therefore, we have to make the arrangements on our own. For electricity, the well-to-do residents should go for solar electricity which can be set up on the roof tops. This way the load will decrease and there can be a smooth power supply for the remaining consumers. In the same way water supply can be tackled by installing our own small submersible pumps. But both these options are available only for the rich. Surely, it will reduce burden and help in smooth supply of electricity as well as water.Bir Devinder Singh BediAct proactively to deal with problem Different kinds of problems concerning human health arise with the onset of summer and rainy season. These must be proactively handled by the Municipal Corporation and other authorities. During summers, electricity shortage is the biggest problem that requires attention. The PSPCL must ensure that there is no stoppage of electricity supply or its breakdown during the summer season. The step will also ensure more income to the department as well. During the rains, waterlogging, especially in the low-lying areas, the accumulation of water resulting in mosquito breeding and thereby the spread of malaria and the start of a number of rainy season diseases pose the main threat. The Municipal Corporation must work towards stopping waterlogging in the city and clear the areas of water from rains immediately by installing more water pumps in these areas. All sewerage drains must be cleaned much before the rainy season begins. Also, the Health Department of the Municipal Corporation must be equipped to deal with all these diseases and for all this, the civil hospital and local dispensaries must be fully equipped with the required staff and medicines to treat the patients well in time. Attention for the complete cleanliness of all areas in the city must be on the priority list of the staff.Gautam DevRegular power, water supply must be ensuredPower and water shortage are the main problems which need to be addressed at the earliest. In summers, when people are in dire need of these necessities, the city is facing acute shortage. The government should address the problem at the earliest. If the government thinks that it is unable to solve the issue then it should appoint some private companies to look into this matter. The electricity supply should be in surplus. Power cuts should be avoided so that residents and industrialists should not suffer. Moreover, rates of power and water supply should not be too much. It should be the aim of the government to provide water and electricity in each and every nook and corner of the city. Corrupt practices of authorities must be strictly prohibited.Ritu PriyaAuthorities should opt for planned power cutsNow, the summer is at its peak and the residents are worried about the power cuts as well as scarcity of water in coming days. Authorities concerned should go only for planned power cuts and not do it at random so that people can do some alternative arrangements.Water is precious and we should stop wasting it.Dr Sunil ChopraBan installation of submersible pumpsWater is an essential necessity of life. During summers, there is an acute problem of potable water in the city. The local administration must look into it keeping in mind the following suggestions. Firstly, a team must be formed to check the leakage or wastage of water in each locality, institute and establishment. Second, there must be a ban on the installation of submersible pumps. Supply of water must be restricted during summer and whatever surplus water is there must be supplied to the inaccessible areas. Storage facilities must be restricted so that those who are rich and have the capacity may not store in excess particularly during summer. We all must avoid wastage of water not only in summer but it should be our habit.Farzana KhanCovid patients’ recovery hit by power outagesPower outages during summer could threaten the recovery process of Covid patients who require oxygen support at homes or hospitals, especially in rural India. Frequent power cut is also disrupting water supply in many parts of the district. Moreover, regular use of fuel-run generators at domestic, commercial and industrial establishments is creating noise and air pollution.Rishab Anand||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/proactive-steps-needed-for-better-preparedness-275212
28-06-2021||Ludhiana||Talk on drug menace held||Desh Bhagat UniversityTo spread awareness among students regarding drug abuse and illicit trafficking, the media club of Desh Bhagat University organised an event. The dramatics club of the college also performed one-act-play ‘Nasha Ik Bimaari’. Chancellor Dr Zora Singh applauded the performers for their efforts and stressed upon the importance shunning drugs in life. TNSWebinar on Master Tara Singh heldThe Centre for Punjab Studies, established by Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, organised a webinar on “Master Tara Singh: Life and Contribution” on his birth anniversary. Prof Prithipal Singh Kapoor, former pro-vice chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, delivered the inaugural address. Tarlochan Singh, former chairman, National Minority Commission, was the guest of honour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/talk-on-drug-menace-held-275211
28-06-2021||Manav Mander||Fight depression after Covid recovery with positivity: Docs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 27The past few months have witnessed a major surge in Covid cases and with restrictions on social gatherings and activities, many residents suffered bouts of anxiety depression, especially Covid patients who had to remain in isolation. Even after getting recovered from coronavirus, many said they felt anxious and confused.Aayush Chaku (46), who works in a private hospital, was tested Covid positive in the last week of April and was under home isolation for 10 days. After joining back his duties, he said he felt confused, anxious and fatigued.Another city resident, Vipin Saxena, also suffered many mental health issues after recovering from Covid-19.“During my course of treatment, I developed acute diarrhoea and after a few weeks, acute constipation. Even after being cured of Covid, my life is not coming back to normal. There is so much of anxiety and it makes it difficult to get back to normal routine.”Dr Vandana Middha, professor of medicine at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), says patients getting recovered from Covid usually came with such symptoms. “My advice to them is to always stay positive and bear with certain health issues which remain pertinent even after getting recovered from the virus. Some symptoms will remain after a few months of the recovery but there is nothing to worry about.”Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, professor of psychiatry at DMCH, advises recovered patients to not get disturbed by lockdown- or curfew-like situation.“Though the recovery hinders in undertaking normal activities but this situation is never under our control. One should try to live one day at a time and not think too much about long plans,” said Dr Chaudhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fight-depression-after-covid-recovery-with-positivity-docs-275210
28-06-2021||---||36,049 children get polio drops on Day 1||Ludhiana, June 27 The pulse polio drive was today initiated by the Civil Surgeon, Dr Kiran Gill, from the slums near Bus Stand by administering polio drops to kids belonging to 0-5 years age group. On the first day, 36,049 children were administered drops.  The District Immunisation Officer, Dr Puneet Juneja, said during this round 1,63,162 children between the age group of 0-5 years would be administered pulse polio drops. Children living in semi-urban areas, bus stands, railway stations, slums, under construction buildings, brick kilns will be administered drops in this round.  “The Health Department has constituted a total of 777 teams, including 405 in rural and 372 in urban areas. Teams would be headed by 194 supervisors and these would visit a total of 4,13,494 houses comprising 1,92,436 in rural and 2,21,058 in urban parts of the district,” said Dr Juneja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/36-049-children-get-polio-drops-on-day-1-275194
28-06-2021||---||Ludhiana cops run to raise drug awareness||Ludhiana, June 27 The city police today organised a marathon to raise drug awareness. Several police personnel took part in the event. Station House Officer (SHO), Police Division 6, Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar organised the event along with the Shimlapuri SHO and other police officials. “This marathon was part of the ongoing drive against drugs launched by the city police. A few days ago, we organised a cycle rally. In the coming days, other awareness programmes have also been planned” Brar said. The SHO said local residents also participated in the run with them. “We have also interacted with local residents, especially youngsters, and talked about the drug menace. The youth have also expressed to take part in the ongoing anti-drug drive,” Brar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-run-to-raise-drug-awareness-275189
28-06-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Six years on, Smart City projects move at a snail’s pace in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 27Six years down the line and even after expiry of the first phase of five-year duration of ‘Smart City mission’ (FY 2015-16 to 2019-20), the Ludhiana city as it stands at present does not have even a semblance of being anything like it was supposed to be, though it had the distinction of being selected among the first 20 cities to be developed as smart cities under the centrally-sponsored scheme.There is no full time Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up to execute 47 odd projects conceived under the Smart City Mission, and to make the matters worse the contract of consultants, which had expired in April this year, has not been renewed under a policy decision of the state government.With the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation having been given additional charge of the CEO of the LSCL and the work of supervision handed over to MC officials, most of the Smart City projects were, more or less, progressing at a snail’s pace and residents of the supposed ‘Smart City’ suffering due to temporary problems being created by ongoing works.While a senior MC official indicated that though the contract of the consultant company was not renewed, some experts had been retained by the LSCL to oversee and execute the Smart City projects. There was no denying the fact that with the additional charge, the CEO as well as the MC officials given dual charge would not be able to do justice to the challenging task.Even the data provided by the official website maintained by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development for the performance of Ludhiana as Smart City is not flattering. It says that of te 47 projects, only eight have been completed at a cost of Rs 76.29 crore whereas 39 others, involving an expenditure of Rs 1550.60 crore, are in various stages of execution. In most of these, only tenders have been invited and the actual work was yet to commence.Commenting on challenges and apparently less than desirable performance of Ludhiana in its transformation as a Smart City, Sanjay Goel, one of the directors of the LSCL, has said the first and foremost requirement to achieve desired results in this direction was professional planning and implementation by the SPV with the participation of expert professionals and aware citizens, NGOs and associations.“Further, there must be best possible and close coordination between Centre, state and the city concerned as the majority of urban problems are same such as traffic congestion, pollution, safe drinking water, assured electricity supply, sanitation, efficient mobility, good governance, healthcare and education,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-years-on-smart-city-projects-move-at-a-snails-pace-in-ludhiana-275190
28-06-2021||---||Four arrested with banned drugs, heroin||Ludhiana, June 27The Dakha police nabbed four smugglers and recovered banned drugs and heroin from their possession in separate incidents.Dakha SHO Inspector Prem Singh Bhangu in a statement issued said acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at a specific place where two persons were held with 1,500 banned tablets. They have been identified as Jaspal Kumar and Davinder Singh Rinku, residents of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar.The SHO said the police remand of the suspects would be sought to further interrogate them.In another case, the police nabbed Tarsem Singh of Sudhar and Paramvir Kumar of the Rahon Road area here and recovered 15 gm of heroin from their possession. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the duo.DRI arrests 2 with heroinMeanwhile, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Ludhiana, has nabbed two persons, Gurpreet Singh of Ferozepur and Simarjit Singh of Moga, with 150 gm of heroin which was concealed in their car. The duo was coming towards Ludhiana from Delhi. According to official sources, they were arrested under the NDPS Act and produced before the court of the Judicial Magistrate, which has sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-arrested-with-banned-drugs-heroin-275191
28-06-2021||Harshraj Singh||17K saplings to be planted alongside Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 27Thousands of saplings will be planted alongside highly polluted Buddha Nullah upstream and downstream outside the Municipal Corporation (MC) limits. The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has floated two tenders for the work while bids will be opened on July 2.‘Maintenance needed for at least 3 years’A member of Buddha Nullah Task Force, Col JS Gill, said tree plantation is much required and it is a welcome move for the betterment of the environment. However, maintenance of trees is needed for at least three years.The first project work at an estimated cost of Rs 1.23 crore includes plantation of saplings alongside the nullah (upstream) from Kum Kalan to the MC limits near Tajpur Road, Ludhiana, (17-km-long stretch) while another work to be done at a cost of Rs 1.23 crore includes plantation of trees alongside the drain (downstream) from the MC limits near Haibowal Dairy Complex to the Sutlej (17-km-long stretch). Notably, the drain meets the river near Walipur village in Ludhiana district.Approximately 17,000 saplings are said to be planted alongside the nullah, once known as Buddha Dariya. GLADA Horticulture wing executive engineer Navjot Singh said the saplings would be planted on around 34-km-longstretch (upstream and downstream) outside the MC limits. Two rows of the trees will be planted on both sides of the drain under the project.According to GLADA officials, the successful bidder will provide and fix tree guards and also ensure maintenance of trees for one year. The saplings will be supplied from GLADA nursery.The Irrigation Department will ensure demarcation of the land where the trees are to be planted. A member of Buddha Nullah Task Force, Col JS Gill, said tree plantation was much required and it was a welcome move for the betterment of the environment.Colonel Gill suggested plantation of vetiver on banks of the Buddha Nullah.He said: “If vetiver is planted on the banks of the drain, it will not only strengthen the banks but also help reduce the pollution. Vetiver was also planted on the banks of a highly polluted river, ‘Citarum’, in Indonesia.Huge solid waste collected and weed in the nullah are also crying for attention. Untreated waste from factories, dairies and MC’s sewage are being dumped in the drain for decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17k-saplings-to-be-planted-alongside-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-275192
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Water, Sewerage charges: Ludhiana MC to restore exemption of houses up to 125 sq yard||Ludhiana, June 27Providing a huge relief to economically weaker section in the city, the Municipal Corporation has decided to restore exemption of houses with an area of up to 125 sq yards from levy of user (water and sewerage) charges. It was announced by city Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu after a meeting of Congress councilllors at the camp office here today.Sandhu said the issue was discussed at length in the wake of a false propaganda by opposition parties for their political interests and a decision was taken to keep the decision of the MC General House to levy water and sewerage charges on all categories of houses (including those up to 125 sq yards) in abeyance for the time being.He said the exemption from user charges on houses up to 125 sq yds was withdrawn in keeping with the recommendations of an all-party subcommittee of the MC General House to avail a World Bank loan for the city for 24-hour canal-based water supply. The decision was also endorsed by the House where councilors of all opposition parties were also present.“However, for some time now an impression was being created as if the ruling party was anti-poor and the fact that all political parties were together in deciding upon the withdrawal of exemption of small houses from water and sewerage charges was being concealed by opposition parties to show the Congress in a poor light,” the Mayor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/water-sewerage-charges-ludhiana-mc-to-restore-exemption-of-houses-up-to-125-sq-yard-275193
28-06-2021||---||Tutor, parents booked for abducting two kids from Ludhiana's Bihari Colony||Ludhiana, June 27A tuition teacher and her parents allegedly kidnapped two minor boys from Bihari Colony in the Focal Point area.The Focal Point police have registered an FIR against the teacher, identified as Anjali, and her parents.Complainant Ram Bahadar of the Bihari Colony told the police that he, along with his family, was staying at a migrants’ vehra (a common place where migrants stay). A few days ago, the suspects taken a room on rent in the vehra.Police verification of suspects not doneFocal Point SHO Davinder Sharma said a case of kidnapping was registered against the suspects and teams were dispatched to their suspected whereabouts in Bihar and UP. The owner of a migrants’ vehra in which they were staying had failed to take any ID proof of the suspects and even their police verification was not done.“Since Anjali was giving tuitions to children, I also started sending my son to her for the same. On June 25, my six-year-old son Ravi Kumar went to her for study but did not return. When I went to her house to enquire about the matter, I was shocked to see that Anjali and her parents were not there and their room was also locked,” he alleged.Later, he came to know that even a neighbour’s son, Prince, over two years old, was also missing.“We suspect that Anjali and her parents had kidnapped both children and fled the spot,” he said.Focal Point SHO Davinder Sharma said a case of kidnapping was registered against the suspects and teams were dispatched to their suspected whereabouts in Bihar and UP.The SHO said the owner of the vehra had failed to take any ID proof of the suspects and even their police verification was also not done.A CCTV camera footage of the suspects was recovered by the police in which they were allgedly seen carrying the children with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tutor-parents-booked-for-abducting-two-kids-from-ludhianas-bihari-colony-275185
28-06-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj 
||Celebrities join Ludhiana police campaign against drugs||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 27 Prominent singers and actors in a large number are joining the ongoing campaign of the Ludhiana police against drugs. They are being roped in by the police to encourage drug addicts and even drug smugglers to save the youth of the state from the deadly menace. The campaign is the initiative of ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran. Punjabi singers Gippy Grewal, Kamal Khan, Shivjot, Kulwinder Billa, Khan Saab, Jasvir Jassi, Manni Aujla, Gurlez Akhtar, Tanishq Kaur, Amar Sehmbi, Dilpreet Dhillon, Tejwant Bittu and many more have been roped in for the campaign. Other Punjabi film and music industry personalities who are also joining the campaign are prominent actor Guggu Gill, actor-comedian Gurpreet Ghuggi, Nirmal Rishi, Neeru Bajwa and Preet Brown, Mukesh Rishi, Jimmy Sharma, Jaggi Kharoud, Jassimran Keer Karamjit Anmol and Arjun Awardee Kartar Singh. Sran, who is leading from the front to rope in singers and other prominent personalities of the Punjabi film industry, in the campaign against drugs, told The Tribune that: “The only idea of roping in singers and other prominent faces of the Punjabi film industry is to inspire and build confidence among youths who have fallen prey to the drug menace. The youth consider these faces as their icon and they will take their advices seriously.” The ADCP said so far, over 24 such personalities had been roped in and in the days to come, several other budding singers and sportspersons would also join the drive. “Nowadays, some girls are also addicted to drugs, hence, we roped in girls’ icons Neeru Bajwa and other women personalities to inspire them to shun drugs and become part of the Punjab’s progress,” the ADCP said. “Drug addiction is a disease, we need to make the youth aware to shun the peril. Let’s unite to win this battle,” says Neeru Bajwa. Actress Preeti Sapru says: “Addicts must think that they are the future of Punjab and support of their parents. Let’s us all make Punjab a drug-free state and fulfill the dream of our parents.” Indian wrestler Padma Shri Kartar Singh says: “Drugs are the cause of major crimes in Punjab, youth commit crimes to buy drugs. I congratulate Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and ADCP Rupinder Kaur for their initiative to make Punjab a drug-free state.” Gurpreet Guggi says ,”There was a time when Punjab’s youth were known for their fitness but nowadays, our youth is being eaten by drugs. I vow to support this campaign.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/celebrities-join-ludhiana-police-campaign-against-drugs-275187
28-06-2021||---||32 fresh infections in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, June 27 Thirtytwo persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. Recovery rate of Covid patients has reached 97.15 per cent. At present, there are 397 active patients in the district and a total of 35 patients (32 new patients from Ludhiana district and three from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 86,888 while 11,483 patients belong to other districts and states and the total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,081 persons from Ludhiana and 1,038 from other districts. Till date, a total of 16,85,184 samples have been taken, of which reports of 16,85,133 have been received. Of these, 15,86,762 samples were tested negative while reports of 51 samples were pending. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said whenever the district administration and the Health Department, Ludhiana, find out about any positive or suspected Covid person, their samples were sent for testing. As many as 11,583 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly. He also appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government to save themselves from the deadly virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/32-fresh-infections-in-ludhiana-district-275188
