02-05-2021||Gurugram||Son of RSS leader, friend killed in Gurugram car accident||The younger son of RSS leader Pawan Jindal was among two killed in a car accident in Gurgaon on Sunday, police said.Gaurav Jindal (35), the son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader from Haryana Pawan Jindal, and his friend Sawan (37) were travelling in a BMW when the accident occurred in the early hours, said Praveen, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police, DLF Phase-2 police station, Gurgaon."Gaurav Jindal and Sawan were the only occupants in the car. We are investigating how the accident took place, but the car rolled over multiple times after hitting a pillar and got badly damaged," she said over the phone.She said the accident took place at the Metro underpass of DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro Station on the Golf Course road.Police and fire department personnel reached the site immediately after the accident."While Gaurav Jindal died on the spot, Sawan was taken to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead," the police official said.The bodies were handed over to the relatives after autopsy, she said.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar took to Twitter to condole the death of RSS leader Pawan Jindal's son in the car accident, saying he was deeply saddened to hear the news.State's Home Minister Anil Vij also condoled the demise of Gaurav Jindal and his friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/son-of-rss-leader-friend-killed-in-gurugram-car-accident-101619975212191.html
02-05-2021||Gurugram||Wanted gangster Sube Singh arrested at IGI Airport||The Haryana Police Special Task Force (STF) on Saturday said they arrested wanted gangster Sube Singh Gujjar, 32, from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, Delhi. Gujjar allegedly used to be the right-hand man of another gangster Kaushal. However, after a financial dispute, they parted ways and Gujjar allegedly started targeting Kaushal’s extortion racket. He allegedly took over Kaushal’s gang after he was arrested. Gujjar was wanted in more than 100 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Gurugram, Delhi and Rewari. The police had declared a reward of ₹7.60 lakh for information that led to Singh’s arrest. STF deputy inspector-general Satheesh Balan said Gujjar was arrested after he exited the airport.“We had been monitoring him for the last many months. He was shifting his hideouts from one place to another-- in Chennai, Alwar in Rajasthan, Patna in Bihar and Visakhapatnam. Whe had been close to arresting him too but he evaded us. We got to know Gujjar would be arriving from Goa and a team was sent to arrest him outside the airport,” said Balan. STF inspector Varun Dhaiya said that Gujjar had changed his look and lost weight making it difficult to identify him. “It was a big challenge to get a hold of him. We managed to follow him outside the airport and caught hold of him before he could board a cab. He was alone and had ₹3,000 on him,” he said. Sube was declared a proclaimed offender by a district court in April 2018. Singh’s properties comprise two plots, one of 1.3 acres in Bar Gujjar village near Manesar and another of 0.8 acres in Manesar industrial area, both properties were auctioned but police could not find any buyers.In 2019 and 2021, the district administration tried to auction the properties twice. Officials said Gujjar lived in Nepal for over 18 months after he went absconding from Gurugram in 2016 and was running operations from there. He is involved in more than 100 cases of extortions, kidnapping, murder and attempt to murder and is mostly involved in collecting money from traders, jewelers, sweet shop owners, bakery owners and prominent transporters and industrialists, who are scared of complaining to the police. The police added that this month, Gujjar was planning to shift to another place in Rajasthan but he was arrested. Dahiya said Gujjar had shifted eight locations in Goa in the last five months since December 2021 and he never lived in any hotel as he was finding it difficult to make ends meet. “He was initially living in an apartment near north goa, where he lived for nearly two months. Later, he shifted to South Goa and Panjim. His wife also stayed him for a few months but we are yet to verify her whereabouts,” he said. The police said Gujjar did not even trust his friends with his location and never disclosed it to anyone except two of his associates who lived with him in Goa. He had last changed his location on Thursday to come to Delhi to collect money from his associates. According to the police, there are numerous cases of murder, extortion, blackmail and threat calls, made through international numbers, against Gujjar; he has more than 200 cases registered against him in Haryana. Police said Gujjar used internet-based calling to ensure his whereabouts could not be traced. He used voice over internet protocol (VoIP) to make extortion and threatening calls. He was using virtual numbers, i.e., a number without a directly associated line, to make the businessmen feel that they are getting calls from outside India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wanted-gangster-sube-singh-arrested-at-igi-airport-101619927696322.html
02-05-2021||Gurugram||Eight patients die in a private hospital due to oxygen shortage||Eight critical Covid-19 patients died at a private hospital in Sector 56 on Friday after the hospital ran out of oxygen. Relatives of the dead assaulted doctors and hospital staff alleging negligence. Doctors at Kirti Hospital, which has 50 beds for Covid patients, said those who died there were between 40 and 75 years of age. On Saturday, the hospital asked families of all patients to take them elsewhere as it struggled to find oxygen. By evening, the hospital shut its operations. Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar) Aman Yadav said the violence in the hospital occurred at around 11 pm following which a team was dispatched to control the situation. He said that the people had vandalised the hospital. “We organised three oxygen cylinders with the help of Red Cross and the municipal commissioner to save lives of the patients there,” he said adding that 18 more were arranged soon. Although doctors and hospital staff suffered injuries during the attack, no case was registered against anyone, said police. “The doctors failed to provide proper treatment to my brother-in-law and he died due to shortage of oxygen supply,” said a Delhi resident who requested anonymity. The hospital said they had made many attempts at procuring oxygen. “Since (Friday) morning I was informing the municipal corporation of Gurugram [MCG] commissioner (about the oxygen situation), but he ignored my messages and did not respond to my calls either. I had even informed the deputy commissioner but to no avail. I was begging and pleading before all officials to help but no one landed a helping hand and we lost eight patients,” said Dr Swati Rathore, director of Kriti Hospital. Rathore said she had requested families to shift their patients on Friday itself after they failed to get the oxygen but there were no beds available anywhere. “Their oxygen saturation level had reached 65 [safe limit is >95%] and there was no other way to save them except by giving oxygen. We had sent our vehicles to get oxygen refilled but despite waiting for more than 12 hours we did not get a single cylinder. We need at least 60 oxygen cylinders per day but we are hardly getting 10,” she said. “My patients died and the administration should be held responsible as they did not support us.”Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram denied the Rathore’s allegations. “I was not aware of the oxygen status of the hospital nor did the concerned doctors inform me. I received a message at 3 am on Saturday following which I had sent 20 oxygen cylinders,” he said. Garg said he will get an inquiry initiated into the incident. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh did not respond to the calls and messages. Nandkishore Deoli, whose brother-in-law was admitted in the hospital, said that they were on their way to Dehradun to admit him in a private hospital there. “For the past four days we were in panic as everyday was a challenge to get oxygen. We survived because we had an oxygen cylinder and refilled it on our own. There is no infrastructure and facilities for the patient, we could not leave him there to die,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/eight-patients-die-in-a-private-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619927456292.html
