03-05-2021||Gurugram||25 docs come forward to help in Covid care after Gurugram admin’s appeal||A week after the Gurugram administration appealed to private medical staff for help, some 25 doctors and other healthcare staff have come forward to help in Covid-19 management, according to officials on Monday.Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “We have received inputs from 25 health professionals, who want to help in managing the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. We are screening their profiles, to decide where they can be deployed — tele-consultation, online consultation, or in the additional bed facilities that are being added.”Panwar, the nodal officer in the project, said that all 25 healthcare professionals will provide services, depending on their time and availability. “As the number of health professionals are still low, they will be judiciously deployed for different services so that everyone is helped. We hope that more doctors will come forward in the future.” he added.Last week, the district administration had appealed to private doctors, retired medical professionals, and students to come forward and help in managing Covid-19 cases. The district administration, through social media, had put out an appeal, stating, “The Gurugram administration requests for volunteer doctors, nurses and MBBS students who are fit and willing to provide their services in public health facilities. We appeal to such professionals to come forward at this hour of need… We would be immensely grateful for your support, to help us treat our residents.”Meanwhile, doctors from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Gurugram chapter, said that they are ready to help the government with additional doctors, but are unable to help due to lack of oxygen supply.Dr Sarika Verma, secretary, IMA, Haryana chapter, said, “All private doctors are ready to come forward and help the health department in managing the rising Covid-19 cases, but our hands are tied. Most patients in hospitals need oxygen, which is not always available. Even if there are additional beds and private doctors, we would not be able to do much unless there is enough oxygen available... Gurugram has approximately 4,000 private doctors at various hospitals, and it can be doubled, but first, the existing beds should have sufficient oxygen supply.”At present, Gurugram has an allocation of 35 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen.Commenting on the concerns, Panwar said, “We are continuously working to increase the oxygen quota of the district. We have an additional capacity of 5 MT of oxygen (over already allotted 35 MT), and more will be supplied by the oxygen express. The situation should improve in the next two to three days, but meanwhile, I appeal to the doctors to come forward and help…”Meanwhile, Gurugram reported 3,037 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Monday. The active cases in the district now stands at over 37,000. The recovery rate is at 71.69%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25-docs-come-forward-to-help-in-covid-care-after-gurugram-admin-s-appeal-101620065357659.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Remdesivir records in hospitals to be checked to prevent black marketing||A day after three people, including two staff members of private hospitals, were arrested for black marketing remdesivir injections, the district drug controller said they will start verifying stocks of the antiviral drug in all city hospitals from Tuesday. Amandeep Chauhan, the district drug controller, said they will count the empty vials and cross-check them with the batch numbers. “The nursing staff of many hospitals have been found involved in illegal activities and black marketing antiviral drugs. Hospitals need to keep a close watch on them and ensure the injections issued for patients are used in the presence of duty doctors,” he said. At least 43 hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients in the district. With a massive surge in the number of Covid-19 patients and deaths, the healthcare system is under stress. Medicines, oxygen and hospitals beds are in short supply, taking advantage of which many are engaging in illegal sale to make a quick buck. At least six people have been arrested in five cases of black marketing Covid-19 drugs so far, said police. The police said that in many instances, it was noticed that suspects were replacing new stocks of remdesivir with empty vials. Any hospital found involved in any illegal activity related to Covid vaccination and antiviral drugs will face strict action, including termination of licences, said officials.Concerning the arrest of a staffer of Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase-3, Chauhan said, “Nitin Jose, who worked as a nursing staff supervisor at Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3, was involved in selling injection for ₹55,000. After he sold the first injection we activated the teams and verified the injection was original and checked its batch numbers so that we could track where was it supplied,” he said. Commander (retd) Navneet Bali, regional director, northern region of Narayana Health, said, “We would like to confirm that the remdesivir injections of the batch numbers mentioned in the notice shared by police department were not supplied to or received by Narayana Superspeciality Hospital. The hospital is maintaining the internal records about remdesivir stocks and will extend full cooperation with the authorities on this matter,” he said. The police said they arrested Jose when he was supplying remdesivir to a decoy customer they sent. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said that three of the suspects they arrested so far worked as a gang and shared their numbers with the families of patients. “Chetan Kapoor, a resident of Punjab, working as a senior security assistant at Max Hospital, Gurugram, was the agent who used to deal with families and used to send his wife for the deliveries,” he said.An official spokesperson for Max Hospital said, “We are following all government orders and ensuring our stocks are checked daily and audited regularly.”Another official from the investigating team probing the case said that many gangs are selling fake remdesivir vials in the city. “We are looking into details on who has bought them through them and how many deaths were reported from them. We are suspecting more staff members of these hospitals are involved and were helping them but the probe is underway,” said Yadav. The suspects were produced before the district court on Monday and taken on two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/remdesivir-records-in-hospitals-to-be-checked-to-prevent-black-marketing-101620065356951.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Veggies, fruit prices go through the roof and out of stock in Gurugram||Gurugram residents complained that vegetable and fruit prices shot up on Monday as Haryana went into a seven-day lockdown in an effort to curb Covid-19. Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB) officials said they suspected that the prices were being artificially inflated. But vegetable vendors said that the price rise was due to the increased demand as people scrambled to stock up for the week.Gurugram was locked down since Friday night when the state government announced a weekend curfew in nine districts. On Sunday, the government announced a lockdown till May 10 in the entire state. Even as the residents alleged prices were higher in the retail market, HSAMB officials did not share the information on prices.“I purchased onions at ₹60 per kilogram from my local vegetable seller, more than double the market price. The vendor informed me that the his stock was fast running out and hence, he was selling all the vegetables at inflated prices. I am now exploring ways to procure frozen vegetables, packaged potatoes, and dehydrated onions via online shopping until the lockdown is over as they will be much cheaper,” said Tanuja Kumar, a resident of sector 53.Mihir Kohli, a resident of DLF 5, said that a wholesale vegetable seller near his house ran out of stock by noon, while stocks of fruits and vegetables were also over around the same time on several e-commerce apps.“The wholesale seller delivers to homes and is an ideal option for hundreds of residents during the lockdown. However, such was the demand that his stock finished by noon. I then tried to purchase them through e-commerce website but their stock too was over. I finally asked the vegetable seller inside the condominium for a few vegetables and purchased it at three times the price,” said Kohli.Anaita Kaul, a resident of DLF Phase 4, said that she had been relying on e-commerce stores for her fruits and vegetables till now but they were now running out early in the day.“The app I used had a midnight deadline for items. A week ago, they moved it up by an hour citing high demand. While the deadline remains the same, fruits and vegetables since Saturday have been running out of stock by around 1 PM. On the app, the company has put a notice stating that they have run out of capacity and cannot take any more orders,” said Kaul.Low wholesale, high retailMandi sellers said that without their daily customers, and only catering to vendors, have forced them to sell their goods at 10-15% lower than market price.“We have too much stock and hardly any buyers. Only small time vendors are visiting the mandi to purchase items. Without any daily customers, we are selling our goods at lower prices to ensure vendors pick up more of our stock which would otherwise go to waste,” said Rajesh Yadav, a vegetable vendor in Sadar Bazar mandi. Local vegetable vendors said that in the last two days, they have ran out of stock by afternoon, and they increased prices due to demand.“Earlier, my one-time purchase from the mandi (market) would last me for a minimum of two days. However, such is the demand now that the stock is over in less than half a day. Realising the demand, I have increased my prices to increase my profits and I am also in the process of procuring more stock from wholesale markets and local mandis due to the surging demand,” said Ashok Yadav, a vegetable vendor in sector 50.Will act: agriculture boardVinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB, said that the board has taken cognisance of the issues and will curb it.“The board has received complaints from many residents about the inflated prices of fruits and vegetables throughout the city. We will take two main steps to keep a check on this. On Tuesday, we will be releasing both the retail and wholesale market prices of vegetables and fruits via a public notice as well as circulating the same on various RWA groups to ensure people are informed about the correct prices and can report instances of inflated prices back to us so that our teams can penalise such violators,” said Yadav.Yadav also said that the HSAMB will be constituting teams on Wednesday who will be visiting various retail markets, roadside vendors, and residential shops at random to check for inflated pricing and penalise offenders while they will also pay a visit to other such establishment based on a tip-off from residents or RWAs.HSAMB officials, as well as vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, and sellers at markets maintained that there is no issue in regards to supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/veggies-fruit-prices-go-through-the-roof-and-out-of-stock-in-gurugram-101620065349653.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||RWAs say they can’t set up Covid centres without admin’s help with essentials||Two days after Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg empowered resident welfare associations (RWAs) to set up their own Covid-19 care facilities (CCFs), RWAs said that the plan might fail without help from the administration to procure medicines, machines, oxygen cylinders.Garg’s plan was to reduce the burden on existing facilities, including big and small hospitals, that are reeling under the heavy case load in April. The city had suffered over 59,000 cases in that month alone.Garg’s order issued on Saturday stated that RWAs can set up the facility at community centres, clubhouses, or empty flats using their own resources. It said that the facilities were approved following requests from the RWAs.“The deputy commissioner’s order does not mention any financial assistance or supply of resources from the administration,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC) an umbrella body of RWAs in the city. “RWAs simply do not have the capital or the resources to themselves set up a fully functional CCF. We will be reaching out to the DC for more assistance in the matter.”On Monday, the district administration also issued a set of guidelines for setting up these facilities.The CCF, it said, will not be for critical patients, senior citizens, children below 10 years of age, pregnant or lactating women, people with comorbidities, or those whose immunity was compromised. They, the guidelines said, should be admitted to proper hospitals. Those admitted in a CCF must be attended by a doctor residing in the complex who should undergo training organised by the chief medical officer.This point has come in for criticism.Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco Apartments RWA, a condominium in Nirvana Country, said, “The order is impractical and not feasible. The whole idea of setting up a CCF was to ensure patients that cannot find hospital beds can use this facility instead. Asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients are anyway isolating at home, we wanted to set up a facility where severe patients can get admission along with the correct line of treatment.”Tandon said that the aim of setting up a CCF was to use the assistance of the administration and the health department to treat patients rather than the other way as it is now. “Also doctors are likely to be overburdened at this point where the cases of Covid-19 are surging day-by-day,” he said.Garg could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwas-say-they-can-t-set-up-covid-centres-without-admin-s-help-with-essentials-101620065290864.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Death toll crosses 500, over 35% of state’s active cases in Gurugram||The Covid-19 death toll on Monday reached 511, with 14 deaths confirmed by private hospitals and the district health department. The steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the last one month and escalated death count, especially in Gurugram and Faridabad, have put Haryana among the 10 most affected states having a high fatality rate. “Since Haryana is among the affected states showing a rapid surge in cases, it is likely that fatality will also rise. It can reach up to 2%,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Currently, the fatality rate in the state is 0.88%, which is lower than the national fatality rate of 1.1%. In the last seven days, the district recorded 65 Covid-19 deaths, according to the district health bulletin. The situation, however, on the ground, has been different as many Covid-19 deaths at the cremation ground are going unreported. According to the union ministry of health and family welfare data issued on Monday, due to a powerful resurgence in coronavirus cases, the state on Sunday recorded 145 new deaths and 13, 322 new infections. Over 104,722 cases are currently active in the state, out of which Gurugram has 35.5% of the infection load. On Monday, at least 3,037 new cases were confirmed in the district, which took the active case count to 37,244. The average number of coronavirus cases reported every day is now at the highest since the outbreak of the epidemic. According to officials and experts, poor respiratory hygiene, lax social distancing and influence of the new variant have led to a spike in new cases. On average, the district reported about 3,834 new cases per day in the past seven days. It has increased from 3,329 cases confirmed in the previous week, with the number of active cases soaring from 10,691 on April 17 to more than 37,000 at present, in just a fortnight.Currently, the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of total samples tested, has also increased to 33%, compared to the 10% reported in the second week of April, when the daily case count began escalating. The positivity rate of the state has also increased to 7%. “Testing has been increased in at least 170 large outbreak regions (LORs). On Monday, about 16,000 tests were done in affected areas. The health department has recommended the district administration to extend LORs to roughly about 200,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district Covid-19 surveillance officer. The health department along with private labs has been conducting 12,000 tests per day, on average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/death-toll-crosses-500-over-35-of-state-s-active-cases-in-gurugram-101620065290171.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen supply increased on CM’s intervention||The district received 43 metric tonnes of oxygen on Monday from plants in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and neighbouring Panipat, besides a share from the oxygen express from Rourkela, on its way to Faridabad. Officials said that the supply was eight metric tonnes (MT) more than the supply on Sunday and also three more than the allotted quota of 40 MT. Officials said that the increased supply of oxygen over the past two days has helped in reducing the number of distress calls from hospitals and they are working towards streamlining the distribution of oxygen.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the district has over 37,000 active Covid-19 cases and needs resources on a large scale to manage the situation. “We have started receiving more oxygen within a day after the chief minister took over monitoring and the quota has also increased. We got 35 MT on Sunday and on Monday, 43 MT was given. This has reduced the number of distress calls coming from hospitals and things will improve further. The CM will be assessing and monitoring the situation daily, which will help in faster decision making,” said Garg. Senior administration officials, however, said that the distribution of oxygen to private individuals and small nursing homes was still a cause for concern. In another important development, the health department said it has allocated 500 remdesivir injections to 42 hospitals that are registered with the government for treating Covid-19 patients. Also, the health department has allocated 10 doses of tocilizumab injections to patients after a requirement was raised by hospital authorities concerned. Officials privy to the matter said that an increase in allocation of oxygen quota for Gurugram district, and the decision to distribute remdesivir and tocilizumab was done on the intervention of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who, on Saturday, took direct charge of managing and coordinating the Covid-19 measures in the city. The decision came after an unabated increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in Gurugram over the past one and half months.Garg said that the prices of ambulances were also capped on Monday after the matter was discussed in the review meeting chaired by Khattar. “The distribution of life-saving drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab has also started,” said Garg.An official privy to the matter said that the issue of oxygen supply from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan to large hospitals in Gurugram, which had been initially stopped by the Rajasthan government, was also resolved on Khattar’s intervention. “The situation is serious in the city and his presence will also push government officials to work with more alacrity,” he said.Intervention by the chief minister, said officials, also helped them work out the modalities of airlifting oxygen trucks with the help of the Indian Airforce to Rourkela, as currently oxygen is being ferried through the rail network. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, regional transport authority, Gurugram, said “We have airlifted four empty oxygen tankers to Angul in Odisha, which will carry nearly 70 metric tonnes of oxygen. Five tankers have been sent to Rourkela in Odisha, from where an additional 50 metric tonnes of oxygen will be procured.”Yadav said the tankers were sent to Rourkela by train from the Faridabad railway station and will return late Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-supply-increased-on-cm-s-intervention-101620065289545.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Limited jabs affect Covid vaccination drive||Amid the limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines, many private hospitals in Gurugram did not conduct a vaccination drive as they failed to procure vials from the manufacturers. Only 1,898 people above 18 years took their first jab on Monday, at 20 government sites and only two private hospitals.“There is no clarity on the vaccination drive now. Our hospital has to close its vaccination centre as there is no stock . We have also approached the Serum Institute of India (SII) for procurement of Covishield, but the private hospitals have to wait for at least three to four months,” said Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director, Artemis Hospital, adding that the limited availability of vaccines has impacted the second dose inoculation too. “Since there is no vaccine available, people who require a second dose will have to go to government facilities,” Chakravarty added.Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital, confirmed that the vaccination centre was shut. “The hospital has approached Bharat Biotech for the procurement of Covaxin. But we didn’t yet get a response from the vaccine manufacturer. Many corporates have been approaching us to set up vaccination booths, but there is no clarity when the hospitals are likely to get the vaccines.” Earlier this week, the state government had directed private hospitals to directly procure vials from the vaccine manufacturers. Currently, only two private hospitals, Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI) and Max Super Speciality Hospital (MSSH), have been giving the jab to those above 18 years. These facilities vaccinated only 514 people above 18 years on Monday, while at least 1,384 took the jab at government sites.Arpita Mukherjee, vice president operations and head, MSSH, Gurugram, said, “The hospital administered the jab to 500 people from across the district and nearby areas by 6 pm on Monday.”“The health department no longer provides vaccines to private hospitals. They have to directly coordinate with the manufacturers,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO). Yadav, however, said that the department has roughly about 18,000 doses for the population above 18 years. “It is expected that the state government will allocate more vaccines,” he added.Data shows that at least 1,502 took the second shot on Monday, of which private hospitals covered only 52 people above 45 years of age.Even the Gurugram health department has limited the number of doses. “At present, the department has 2,000 doses for second shots. Over 13,000 additional doses were to come on Monday night. Vaccination for 18+ people will be now held at 20 vaccination centres. For people aged 45, who require the second dose, vaccination will take place at 37 sites,” said Dr Amandeep, urban nodal officer, refusing to comment on the vaccine stock for inoculation of the 18+ population.Amandeep also said that the health department will continue giving jabs at the 20 vaccination centres for the time being. These centres will be reflected on the CoWin portal during the self-registration process, which is mandatory for people in the age group of 18-44 years, to receive the shot. The list includes Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) Tigra, Nathupur, Mullahera, Rajiv Nagar, Firoj Gandhi, Fazilpur, Gandhi Nagar and Patel Nagar. In rural areas, the listed centres are Community Health Centres (CHCs) Farrukhnagar, Pataudi, Ghanghola, and health centres at Daulatabad, Bhondsi, Bhangrola, Garhi, Mandpura and Bhora Kalan, among others. The other sites are government polyclinic in Sector 31, Civil Hospital in Sector 10, and sub-divisional hospital in Sohna.In the previous vaccination drive, the Gurugram health department and private hospitals in the district had jointly covered more than 30,000 people a day. Now, the health department is likely to utilise the limited doses gradually, due to the constrained supply of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/limited-jabs-affect-covid-vaccination-drive-101620065229569.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance rates for Covid patients fixed, violation will lead to loss of licence: RTA||The regional transport authority (RTA) on Monday imposed a limit on the charge private ambulances could levy to ferry a Covid-19 patient.An advance life support ambulances (ALS) can be hired at a maximum of ₹15 per kilometre, while a basic life support ambulance at ₹7 per kilometre. The patient need to show a Covid-19 positive certificate or prescription for admission from a doctor.The surge in cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming at exorbitant fares.On Monday, HT had reported on how private ambulances demanded ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to a private hospital within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the rates went up to ₹1.5 lakh. At present, there are not rate cards for any type of ambulance service.National health mission director (Panchkula) on Monday fixed the rates and directed all transport commissioners to impose it.RTA secretary (Gurugram) Dhaarna Yadav said, “We were not dealing with ambulances earlier and were involved only with the requisition, but now onwards we will ensure no one is fleeced by the ambulance drivers and providers.”Yadav said anyone facing issues with ambulances could send a complaint to rta.grg@hry.nic.in.“The complaints should include the registration number of ambulances, name of the driver and location from where they booked to destination. If they can collect any evidence or recording that will help us in investigation and making a strong case against the driver and service provider,” she said.Yadav said if any driver is found overcharging their driving license will be cancelled. “Also the registration certificate of the ambulance will be cancelled, vehicle will be impounded and a fine of ₹50,000 will be imposed in case of noncompliance,” she said.The officials also instructed the drivers to keep masks, gloves and PPE kits for attendants in case of emergency.Jalandhar administration has fixed price of ₹1,200 for the first 15 km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional distance in BLS ambulance up to 2,000 cc with basic life support. As per the Maharashtra government’s order, private ambulances are not allowed to charge more than ₹1,190 for 0-25 kms or for two hours. And beyond 25 kms, the rate can’t be more than ₹25/km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-rates-for-covid-patients-fixed-violation-will-lead-to-loss-of-licencerta-101620065230254.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram lockdown off to a rocky start||On the first day of the week-long lockdown, markets, shops and shopping malls remained shut but moderate traffic was witnessed during the rush hour as office-goers and industry workers flocked to their workplaces. Residents said that the main issue was a lack of clarity regarding the movement of domestic workers, including drivers and helpers, as a detailed order was issued late Sunday. While the administration clarified that domestic helps will not be stopped, the police said that they will ensure strict enforcement of lockdown, particularly in the large outbreak regions, where entry and exit are banned unless for emergency reasons.A spokesperson for the district administration said, “The movement of domestic workers is allowed.”Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said that their focus is to prevent non-essential movement, particularly in large outbreak regions. “Police presence at borders to Delhi, Sohna, Nuh and Pataudi has been increased. We have set up 40 police pickets, adding to the 35 which were set up outside containment zones where a total of 1,600 personnel are deployed,” said Rao, adding that non-essential entry of people from other states is also not being allowed. The movement of people in residential areas is also being curtailed if they are moving around for non-essential reasons, he said. Many colonies in the city also closed their gates to ensure that the non-essential movement of people is controlled. Gates of both sides in sectors 4 and 5 were closed on Monday afternoon and vehicles were not allowed to enter. In Palam Vihar, entry and exit were regulated through a single gate by security guards. Unlike last year, when the lockdown had to be enforced by the police and many violations were noticed, the markets and shops across the city on Monday afternoon were found to be closed. Barring shops selling essential goods, major markets in sectors 4, 7, 14, 22, 23 and 31, Palam Vihar, Old Railway Road, Sadar Bazar, New Railway Road and MG Road wore deserted looks. Shops in irregular colonies such as Ashok Vihar, Sheetla Colony, New Palam Vihar and adjoining areas also remained shut. However, residents alleged that the lockdown was flouted in areas along the Dwarka Expressway, Southern Peripheral Road and Golf Course road. “At present, the people are staying indoors themselves but there are large-scale violations. There is no screening or checking of people entering or exiting the large outbreak regions. If the enforcement is strict, cases will go down in a week. Else, it would take longer,” said Pravin Malik, a resident of Sare Homes in Sector 92. Malik also said that there was confusion about whether domestic workers are allowed. “There should be clarity on this matter as several families are unwell due to Covid-19 and need help,” he said. Manish Wazirabad, a resident of Ardee City, said, “In Sector 56 market and Wazirabad, several shops were open. The police must enforce lockdown strictly.”The district administration, however, said that adequate police personnel were deployed to enforce the lockdown. “The lockdown is being enforced, but we also appeal to the people to follow guidelines strictly,” said the spokesperson for the district administration cited above. Residents and members of trade associations said that rapid surge in infections, lack of hospital beds, shortage of oxygen and rising number of deaths has forced residents into adhering to norms. “A large number of people are infected and several deaths have been reported. With health infrastructure already creaking, no one wants to visit a hospital. We can earn later, but it is necessary to break the chain of infection,” said Vinod Sharma, a resident of Rajendra Park. After the extension of the lockdown, the police also changed the locations of police posts and pickets across the city. The Gurugram police has a total of 6,500 personnel and around 2,500 home guards and special officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-lockdown-off-to-a-rocky-start-101620065169541.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen Express train with 85MT of medical oxygen to arrive in Gurugram on May 4||An 'Oxygen Express' train carrying 85.23 tons of liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa near Jamnagar in Gujarat for Gurugram in Haryana on Monday, said Western Railway officials.The LMO is to be supplied to hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas, all battling a severe surge in coronavirus cases and a resultant spike in demand for the vital gas."A Ro-Ro (roll on roll off) service carrying four tankers loaded with liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa in Gujarat at 6:37am on May 3 and will reach Gurugram in Haryana in the morning of May 4. The Oxygen Express, carrying 85.23 tonnes of LMO in four tankers, will traverse 1,088 kilometres to reach its destination," a WR release informed."These oxygen tankers will be used in COVID hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas. This is the second Oxygen Express train of WR. The LMO has been supplied by Reliance Industries in Jamnagar," the release added.On April 25, a WR service left from Hapa to Kalamboli in Maharashtra with 44 tons of LMO.The release said, till May 2, Railways had delivered over 1,094 metric tonnes (MT) LMO to Maharashtra (174 MT), Uttar Pradesh (430.51 MT), Madhya Pradesh (156.96 MT), Delhi (190 MT), Haryana (79 MT) and Telangana (63.6 MT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-express-train-with-85mt-of-medical-oxygen-to-arrive-in-gurugram-on-may-4-101620063920318.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||RWAs get nod to set up Covid care centres||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the district, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg has granted resident welfare associations (RWAs) across the city to set up their own Covid-19 care facilities (CCF).In his order issued late on Saturday night, Garg stated that RWAs can set up the facility using their own resources.Garg said the Haryana government has also issued directions to increase the number of quarantine and isolation facilities.“Requests were received from gated housing societies to set up small Covid-19 care facilities run by Resident Welfare Associations (RWA), housing societies and NGOs using their own resources. This will help reduce the burden on existing facilities for managing pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic, and very mild cases of Covid-19 residing in that particular society. Such orders are extremely crucial at this juncture to check the exponential increase in the number of cases and to contain the pandemic,” read the order.Setting guidelines for CCFs, the order said it is not meant for critical patients, senior citizens, children below 10 years of age, pregnant or lactating women, people with comorbidities or immuno-compromised -- all of whom should be admitted to proper hospitals.Confirmed and suspected cases need to be kept in separate partitioned areas and there should also be separate toilets for both categories.Garg’s order further states that CCF can be set up in a community hall, common utility area located within the residential complex, or in empty flats.The facility should have a separate entry and exit point while beds need to be placed at a minimum distance of three feet from each other. CFCs should also be adequately ventilated and a doctor residing within the residential complex or provided by an NGO should facilitate daily medical examination of the admitted patients.The doctor and a caregiver will have to undergo a training on Covid-19 management and infection, prevention, and control practices, organised by the chief medical officer.The CCF will also need to be either monitored by CCTV cameras or guards should be placed at the entry and exit points to ensure patients don’t leave the premises or their relatives, friends, or acquaintances don’t visit them.“The DC’s order only allows RWAs to convert their community center, empty flats into a CCF. It does not provide any financial assistance or supply of resources to the RWA. Without any monetary aid or supply of oxygen cylinders, concentrators, Covid-19 related medicines, and machinery, RWAs simply do not have the capital or the resources to themselves set up a fully functional CCF. We will be reaching out to the DC for more assistance in the matter,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC) an umbrella body of RWAs in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rwas-get-nod-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-101620038164856.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Families fume as private ambulances charge a bomb||The surge in Covid cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming as they find themselves paying exorbitant fares to operators to transport their loved ones. The families have and asked the district administration to cap the fares.According to relatives, private ambulance drivers are allegedly demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to a private hospital within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the drivers are allegedly demanding up to ₹1.5 lakh.With shortage of oxygen reported across the city on Saturday and Sunday, several families have taken steps to move patients to hospitals in their home towns.Nandkishore Deoli, whose brother-in-law was admitted in a Sector 56 hospital, said he decided to shift him to Dehradun but the ambulance driver asked him for ₹70,000. When they finally agreed to the demand, the driver raised the fee to ₹1.50 lakh, reasoning that he will have to return with an empty ambulance. “We ended up taking my brother-in-law in our private car,” he said.Amit Kumar, brother of a critical patient who was shifted to Jaipur on Sunday, alleged that they paid ₹80,000 to the ambulance driver. “We contacted six ambulances and their prices were almost the same. We had no choice... There was no oxygen and by paying this amount, at least we have saved his life,” he said.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they operate 35 ambulances. “We are providing these ambulances free of cost, but other private ambulances do not fall in our jurisdiction... Families should contact us on 18001801817 or 1950 helpline numbers,” he said.On the other hand, the regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram, said that they have provided 20 ambulances to MCG, capping the charges at ₹15/km. “We can only cap those whose requisitions are done through us. There are more than 200 private ambulances and we do not maintain their records and movements. We can only provide their registration details,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram.Yadav said they have not received any complaints so far. “People should share videos, pictures, and details of the ambulance or drivers. We will take action as soon as we receive a complaint,” she said.Meanwhile, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said, “Rates of private ambulances will be notified in a day or two. We don’t want patients to suffer due to overcharging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/families-fume-as-private-ambulances-charge-a-bomb-101620023134237.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||Few private hospitals shut down, cite oxygen shortage||A day after eight people died in a private hospital due to shortage of oxygen, some smaller, private hospitals in the district have discharged all patients and shut their operations, claiming that the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is not paying heed to their repeated requests for help.Swati Rathore, director of Kriti hospital in Sector 56, said that they discharged 18 patients after they were not supplied oxygen on Saturday. “People easily blame hospital administration and doctors for their negligent approach but how can we run operations without oxygen,” she said. The MCG commissioner and his team are responsible for management of oxygen supply in the city.Asha Devi, director of Mamta Hospital, said they have stopped fresh admissions as they have not received a singly oxygen cylinder for the last four days. In the absence of continuous oxygen supply, many doctors said they had to turn away patients and ask families of existing patients to arrange for oxygen cylinders to continue treatment.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said, “Since Thursday, I’ve been requesting officials to provide me oxygen for my patients but we have not got a single cylinder yet,” he said.Around 10.13 am on Sunday, Park group of hospitals said the liquid oxygen allocated to the hospital in Gurugram was hijacked by some other hospital. “More than 140 patients lives are in danger,” it tweeted. At 10.43 am, the hospital tweeted saying that they have received about less than one ton of oxygen.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said they have ensured all hospitals received their share of oxygen on Sunday. “We received 14 MT from Panipat and 20 MT from Bhiwadi on Sunday and more is expected by tonight...,” he said. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner, said a counter was placed at the refilling stations in Manesar for refilling oxygen cylinders. “Covid-positive patients, carrying test reports, will be given oxygen cylinders,” Singh said. Meanwhile, some hospitals have demanded extra security for staff, doctors.On Sunday, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said he held a meeting with the DC and the MCG commissioner on assuring smooth oxygen supply to all the hospitals. “Oxygen allocation will be made strictly for institutions that have submitted Google forms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/few-private-hospitals-shut-down-cite-oxygen-shortage-101620023002953.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||2 killed as BMW rams into underpass wall||Two persons died after a speeding BMW car allegedly lost control and rammed into the underpass wall before crashing into a pillar near the underpass of DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro Station on Golf Course Road, early on Sunday morning.Police identified the deceased as Gaurav Jindal (37) and Sawan Khanna (35), both residents of Sector 15. Jindal, who was behind the wheels, is the younger son of RSS leader Pawan Jindal. The incident occurred around 2.30 am and photos of the damaged car were widely circulated online.The vehicle was speeding, police said, adding that one of the passengers was thrown out of the vehicle because of the impact.Saurav Jindal told police that his younger brother Gaurav and his friend Sawan had gone to meet a friend in DLF Phase 1 around 12.30 am. “We received a call following which we rushed to the spot and took both of them to a private hospital in Sector 38 where doctors declared them dead on arrival,” he said. The families said they did not suspect any foul play.Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said that the cause of death was severe head injuries. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that no case was registered.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and home minister Anil Vij took to social media to mourn the demise. MP Sanjay Bhatia, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar and Haryana minister Dr Banwari Lal reached their residence on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-killed-as-bmw-rams-into-underpass-wall-101620022868813.html
03-05-2021||Gurugram||3 arrested for illegal sales of remdesivir vials, hospital booked||Three people, including two hospital staff, were arrested for allegedly black marketing remdesivir for ₹45,000 per vial. Five vials of remdesivir were recovered from the suspects, said police.A case has also been registered against Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3 for cheating and negligence after the suspects revealed they used to steal injection and sold them at premium rates, said police.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, CID, said families were paying for the injection, which the suspects never injected. A Max Healthcare spokesperson said, “We have checked our stock of remdesivir and have not found anything amiss. We are supporting the investigation.” Narayana hospital did not respond to messages and calls seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3-arrested-for-illegal-sales-of-remdesivir-vials-hospital-booked-101620021689418.html
