04-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents, RWAs pool resources to overcome shortage of beds, medicines, O2||Residents and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) in Gurugram are assembling resources to help Covid-19 patients amid an acute shortage of beds, medicines, and oxygen supply among others. As per the district administration data, the city recorded 63,720 fresh Covid-19 cases between April 1 and May 1 — more than what was recorded in 12 months of the pandemic put together.The first Covid-19 case in Gurugram was reported on March 17, 2020, and the city cumulatively recorded 63,313 cases till March 31 this year. The surge in the cases has been leading to an acute shortage of beds for Covid-positive patients since mid-April. Of the city’s 1,522 oxygen beds, 550 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 198 ventilator beds in 43 Covid-19 hospitals, there were no oxygen, ICU or ventilator beds as of Tuesday night, according to the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) — a real-time portal managed by the district administration.Availability of vaporisers, oximeters, multivitamins, and selected cough and cold medicines have also taken a hit due to panic-bulk buying, and a general rise in demand. Shortage of oxygen has also been a major crisis, with at least 15 deaths due to non-availability of oxygen in the city last week, according to the private hospitals.Now, to mitigate the situation in Carlton Estate 1, a condominium in DLF 5, residents and the RWA have formed a Covid-19 medicine bank where medicines from recovered Covid-19 patients within the condominium are being collected and donated to other Covid-positive residents struggling to procure medicines. The RWA has also procured an oxygen concentrator for residents to be used during emergencies, which they said will be functional within a few days. “Our condominium has reported more than 70 Covid-19 cases since April, and a significant number of residents have recovered from the infection. At present, there are 42 apartments with active Covid-19 cases, and many patients reported difficulties in procuring the related medicines. So, to aid them, the RWA and residents came together and urged recovered Covid-19 patients to donate medicines that are being collected and stored within the condominium and are distributed among those in need,” said Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA).After struggling to secure a hospital bed and essential medicines for his Covid-19 positive father, Vishal Singh — a resident of Sahara Grace Condominium in Sector 28 — set up a temporary Covid-19 facility at a vacant space in the clubhouse last week. The facility has five beds, two nurses, amenities like 12 oxygen cylinders, oximeters, oxygen concentrators, and food supply for in-house residents. “My father had tested Covid positive in Allahabad last month, and being here, I could not do anything to help him to secure basic amenities like hospital beds and medicines. The anxiety kept my whole family awake for days, till his condition was stable. I realised I had to do something to help people in whatever possible ways, and I decided to approach my housing complex to start the five-bed oxygen supported Covid-19 care facility,” said Singh, adding that the housing society reported around 75 fresh Covid-19 cases during the second wave.Last week, the RWA of Fresco Apartments also procured an oxygen concentrator for its residents during emergencies. “On an average, the oxygen concentrator is used by two to three residents daily. It has helped them in breathing. Recently, a senior citizen in our housing society could not find a hospital bed for nearly two days, she used the device during the interim to control her dipping oxygen level. The device has proved to be lifesaver, especially for residents who have been waiting for ambulances or getting a bed in Covid-19 hospitals,” said Nilesh Tandon, president, Fresco Apartments RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-rwas-pool-resources-to-overcome-shortage-of-beds-medicines-o2-101620152058230.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals out of vaccines, delays in second jabs a concern||Timely inoculation of vaccine beneficiaries has become a challenge as private hospitals continued to shut their vaccination centres due to the unavailability of doses. While residents are concerned about getting their second vaccine dose, hospital managements said that vaccine manufacturers have put them on a long wait list and it may take around three to four months to get the required dosages.“Currently, hospitals are not getting any vaccine stock from manufacturers as they are obliged to provide doses to central and state governments. In all likelihood, vaccination for those between 18 to 44 years will be mostly carried out at government facilities. Private hospitals will come into the picture after three to four months. Besides, there has been no clarity on second dose inoculation of beneficiaries,” said Dr Nikhil Mishra, chief medical superintendent, Columbia Asia Hospital. A senior health official, requesting anonymity, said, “Clearly, people who require second shot have been facing problems as private hospitals have run out of vaccine stock and are facing difficulties in direct procurement of doses from manufacturers.”According to the district health department data, until May 3, over 178,219 people aged 45 to 59 years took their first dose, but only 13,843 of them have received the second shot. As many as 149,183 people above the age of 60 years have got their first shot, while 36,998 of them received the second shot.Due to the limited supply of vaccine, session sites have decreased to 59 from 89 in the district. Until the first week of April, vaccination took place at 37 government health centres and 52 private hospitals. As reported by HT on Monday, many big hospitals, including Artemis and W Pratiksha, shut their vaccination centres after failing to get a positive response from the manufacturers. Residents who visit the hospitals were directed to visit the government session sites to get their second doses.Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director, Artemis Hospital, said, “The hospital inoculated 500 to 900 people every day. But due to unavailability of stock, second dose beneficiaries who have been directly reaching hospital every day are asked to go back.” Earlier, private hospitals directly procured vaccines from the district health department, but with the start of inoculations for people aged 18 to 44, private facilities were directed to get the vaccines from manufacturers. Even the district health department has limited doses, with 13,000 doses currently in stock for second jab beneficiaries. Of these, nearly 4,110 doses were utilised on Tuesday at 30 government sites. Vaccine beneficiaries are worried about the delays in taking the second dose.Vineeta Mathur (60), a resident of Ridgewood Estate, said she has not been able to get the second shot of Covishield vaccine despite visiting many private and government health facilities over the last three days. “There are no slots available for the second shot at any private hospital in the city. Even after directly walking into a few big private hospitals, the staff clearly said they don’t have vaccine stock. At government facilities, only 100-150 tokens are being distributed in a day. The token distribution gets over before 9am.” She said that the government vaccination centre at the Sector 31 polyclinic and other Urban Primary Health Centres have long queues, with no social distancing norms being followed. “At a time when the pandemic is at its peak, the vaccination process could have been streamlined, especially for the elderly. Visiting hospitals or standing in queues for hours makes us vulnerable to contract the coronavirus infection,” said Mathur.Atul Gupta, a resident of Sector 43, who took the first dose of the vaccine along with his wife almost five weeks ago at W Pratiksha Hospital, is facing a similar dilemma. “The vaccination centre of the hospital was closed. We are not able to find any centre to get the second jab of Covaxin in Gurugram. Despite all efforts, there is no clarity on the vaccination process. Therefore, to avoid any further delay we have registered for a slot in one of the vaccination centres in South Delhi,” said Gupta. Residents also complained of issues with booking slots on the Co-WIN platform. Hemant Kumar, a citizen, tweeted: “As a senior citizen the second shot has been cancelled thrice by CoWin without assigning any reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-out-of-vaccines-delays-in-second-jabs-a-concern-101620151880077.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily spike nears 5,000, zero ICU beds available||The district on Tuesday reported 4,475 new Covid-19 cases, taking active case count to 37,708. The death toll stood at 522, at least 11 deaths on Tuesday. At present, Covid-19 cases have been doubling every 34 days, according to government data. “Cases will continue to spike, which directly impacts the doubling rate of cases. With increased testing, we are trying to identify new cases and control the surge,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The rapid surge in Covid-19 is also overwhelming the health infrastructure, with no beds with oxygen support, ventilators and intensive care available, according to the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) portal. At present, 2,447 people are undergoing treatment at 43 Covid-19 hospitals in the district. “The consequence of high testing numbers is that Gurugram’s positivity rate has been high, compared to other districts,” Yadav said. As per the health department data, the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of total samples tested, has also increased to 33%, compared to the 10% reported in the second week of April, when the daily case count began escalating. The positivity rate of the state remains at 7%. To augment the health infrastructure, private companies will set up 700 beds, as reported by HT earlier. A city-based firm, Mankind Pharma Limited, on Tuesday, set up a 70-bed temporary Covid isolation ward with oxygen support at Civil Lines. Besides hospitalised patients, at least 192 mild to moderately ill patients are in isolation at district Covid care centres, while 35, 069 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-spike-nears-5-000-zero-icu-beds-available-101620151879423.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Govt health centres limit inoculations due to low vaccine availability||Even as private hospitals shut vaccination centres due to lack of vaccines, the government health centres are inoculating only a limited number of people due to the low availability of vaccines.At nearly 30 primary health centres (PHCs) in urban and rural areas, many people were asked to return on Tuesday and book fresh slots. The district administration also issued a statement that government health facilities will not conduct vaccinations at private workplaces or residential areas.“For the second dose inoculations, the department received 13,000 doses on Monday night. It will be distributed to 30 vaccination centres in the district,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Puneet Goyal, a resident of Sector 69, said that he had booked a vaccination slot at Mullahera PHC for Tuesday between 9am and 11am. “I reached the site at 8.45am and the centre was filled with residents by 9.30am. However, there was no sight of any PHC staff, not even a single person to ensure social distancing was being followed. The staff started arriving after 10.15am and announced they will vaccinate only 45 people who are due to get their second dose. It was a surprise for 99% of the people who had come for their first shot,” said Goyal. He said that more than 100 people returned without getting their jabs, including some who had to take their second dose. Another resident, Rajesh Kumar who waited for more than two hours, left the site without getting vaccinated. “The vaccine stock was over, and we were told to book an appointment for another day. We had to return without vaccination after wasting three hours and exposing ourselves to the Covid-19 risk. The state of PHC is not in a good state. The staff is not well trained and is short-tempered. No one was ready to provide the right information despite repeated attempts,” said Kumar. Many people who visited the Sector 31 polyclinic alleged similar concerns and said they returned due to large crowds and low vaccine availability. Currently, the health department is focussing on inoculating beneficiaries who have to take the second jab, with almost 12,000 vaccine doses in stock. At 30 sites, roughly about 100 inoculations each take place. Since many private hospitals ceased the vaccination drive due to the unavailability of vaccine dosages, people are turning up at government health centres to take their second dose. Gurpreet Singh, president, Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Ridgewood Estate, said, “Getting the prioritised population group, those above 45 years, vaccinated has become a challenge. Over 30 elderly people could manage to get their second dose at the nearby urban primary health centre. Earlier, many residents of the society received their first dose during a vaccination drive held within the condominium premises. Ideally, the drive for the second shot should have also been held within the society, especially when the coronavirus infection is widely spread. We have approached authorities to hold a vaccination camp but there has been no response.” Vaccination drives have been restricted by government PHCs at present. To hold such vaccination camps, RWAs and private companies will have to approach private hospitals, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-health-centres-limit-inoculations-due-to-low-vaccine-availability-101620151878866.html
04-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance operators threaten to shut services due to price cap||A day after the regional transport authority (RTA) imposed a cap on the private ambulance charges for ferrying Covid-19 patients and victims, ambulance operators in the city said they will not run their ambulances on Wednesday unless the cap is removed or at least increased. Operators also submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner in this regard on Tuesday.Rajesh Yadav, president, Private Ambulance Association (PAA), said that the price fixed by the transport department is inadequate to run their services. “We will not run our ambulances with the prices imposed on Monday. We are ready to donate these ambulances to the district administration as we will suffer huge losses and will not be able to make our ends meet. Our drivers are risking their lives and handling Covid-19 patients and their bodies. The fixed amount is the same as it was 20 years ago. There has been inflation on all products and services, but the transport department wants us to operate at the same charge,” Yadav said, adding that they are ready to sell their ambulances and the drivers will look for other jobs if the prices are not revised. He said that according to the new policy, they will hardly get ₹150 for a trip.As per the two-page memorandum sent by 10 members of the PAA to Dr Yash Garg, a copy of which was seen by HT, operators said they have been providing ambulances to the health department officials and other senior officers for free, but now, they are facing harassment. “Last year, we had provided ambulances to the civil surgeon for two months, seven ambulances to a subdivisional magistrate, and a bill of ₹13 lakh is still pending. We have been running from pillar to post to get our dues, but no one is responding. We want to help the authorities and continue our operations, but who will think of us, and how can we run the operations after suffering a huge loss?” the memorandum stated.However, RTA officials said that the operators are taking advantage of the situation and threatening to stop operations, and that the authority will not revise the prices.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, said they are not aware of any strike, and the fare has been fixed considering the situation of the people, as the ambulance drivers and operators were fleecing them. “We have fixed the fare per kilometre to ensure that the people are not extorted, and the prices be transparent. They were charging ₹10,000 for five kilometres, and the people had no other option than to pay them. This was a much-needed step, and we will ensure that there is smooth functioning of ambulances across the city,” she said.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said the authority will look into the matter. “We will resolve this issue at the earliest,” Garg said.Salina Macknight, the vice-president, PAA, said that drivers are taking a huge risk as relatives of Covid-19 victims request the drivers to complete the formalities. “All the private ambulances were parked on Tuesday, and we are not taking any more bookings. Our drivers have tested Covid-positive, their treatment and hospital expenses are borne by us. We are paying for their food and lodging and are ensuring, after each patient is shifted, that the ambulances are cleaned and sanitised properly,” Macknight said.There are 39 private ambulance operators and nearly 250 ambulances in the city.Members of the PAA members said they invested more than ₹30 lakh to get advanced life support (ALS) ambulances and nearly ₹12 lakh for basic life support (BLS) ambulances, and are still paying the monthly instalments. Along with a minimum salary of ₹20,000 to each driver and incentives to transport patients and dead bodies, PAA members said they are facing a huge problem.On Monday, HT reported that ambulances were demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to transport patients to private hospitals within a five-kilometre radius, while for outstation transport, the rates went up to ₹1.5 lakh. As per the caps imposed on Monday, an ALS ambulance can be hired at a maximum of ₹15 per kilometre, and a BLS ambulance for ₹7 per kilometre.Vipin Kumar, former president, PAA, said amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the drivers have been working for over 14 hours a day. “We have ferried hundreds of Covid-19 patients since April, keeping our fears of contagion aside. A 12-hour shift has turned into a 16-hour shift. Our men are continuously working for shifting bodies. With this amount, we can’t even fill petrol in the vehicles,” Kumar said.The PAA members also alleged that the fare imposed by the transport department was based on vehicles bought by the government, and for which maintenance and instalment costs are not considered.Private ambulance operators also alleged that they were buying oxygen cylinders in black as they were not being allowed to get them refilled at the designated stations for the past eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-operators-threaten-to-shut-services-due-to-price-cap-101620151878292.html
