05-05-2021||Gurugram||4,740 new cases reported, state positivity rate at 37%||The district reported 4,740 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Wednesday, as it continues to struggle with the second wave of infection that has overwhelmed its healthcare system.With regard to the sheer surge in case numbers, Gurugram is fifth among 30 districts across the country that are reporting a constant increase in cases over the last two weeks, as per the union ministry of health and family welfare data. Haryana, meanwhile, has the second-highest positivity rate in the country, of 37%, which is more than Delhi’s positivity rate of 32%, and behind only Goa, which has a positivity rate of almost 48%.“Several measures are being adopted to control the surge, such as imposing lockdown and increase in testing. It will take some time to see the impact of lockdown in regulating the spike. Until then, we are continuing with high testing and strengthening hospital infrastructure. Other hospitals that are not yet registered to provide beds for Covid-19 patients have been asked to come forward,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer.According to the health department data, from April 13 to 19, the district reported 12,261 new cases. The following week (April 20-26), this number increased 23,305 and the surge continued, with 26,840 new cases being reported between April 27 and May 3.Gurugram is currently fifth among 30 districts showing a rapid growth in daily cases. Other most affected cities are Bengaluru, Chennai, Kozhikode and Ernakulam that are showing a higher growth rate than Gurugram. According to senior health officials, the peak of the Covid-19 second wave is expected to arrive by May 15. Until then, cases are likely to grow with a test positivity rate of 25% - 30%.As of Wednesday, the active case count in the district was 38,901, which accounts for at least 34% of the overall active cases in the state. With more than 100,000 active cases, Haryana is currently among the 12 worst-affected Covid-19 states. The state announced 15,416 new infections over the past 24 hours.At least 2,451 patients have been undergoing treatment in hospitals, but many more are being denied treatment due to a dearth of oxygen supply, ventilators and medicines. As the crises continue, the death toll also reached 537, with 15 deaths confirmed by hospitals and the district health department. At the state level, at least 153 succumbed to the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/4740-new-cases-reported-state-positivity-rate-at-37-101620237700101.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents ferry patients, bodies in private vehicles as ambulances go off roads||Covid-19 patients and relatives of Covid-19 victims are staring at a major crisis as around 250 private ambulances went off the roads, in a protest against the administration’s decision to cap ambulance charges. Residents were left to fend for themselves, with many ferrying infected patients and bodies of victims in private vehicles, even as doctors warned that this could lead to a further spike in Covid-19 infections.Members of the Private Ambulance Association (PAA), which represents 39 operators, on Wednesday met senior officials in Chandigarh and were assured that the charges would be revised within two days. The association members said they will continue to strike if the demands not met.Rajesh Yadav, president of PAA, Gurugram, said that they will only call off the strike when the prices are revised by the transport department. “A meeting was held with the transport department in Chandigarh, but the decision is pending. The notification is of 2009, when petrol cost ₹40 per litre. At present, fuel costs ₹80 per litre, so they will have to revise the fares,” he said.Prashant Singh, the mission director of National Health Mission issued an order on Wednesday, directing that a uniform policy for hiring of private ambulance be adopted. He directed deputy commissioners to hold a meeting with the operators and decide rates. “It is decided by higher authorities that rates decided by the deputy commissioners will prevail,” he said. At present, there are only 55 ambulances in total in the district, 35 of which are run by the municipal corporation and 20 by private hospitals.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said that they are transporting bodies to crematoriums free of charge. “These ambulances are working round-the-clock and are enough for the city. We have not faced any issues until now and are responding to all calls. The only challenge is that it takes one hour to respond to a call as the ambulances on back-to-back duties,” he said.Doctors warned that residents transporting Covid-infected patients and bodies of the victims could have serious consequences. They said that if the current situation persisted, the number of Covid-19 cases will increase manifold, as private vehicles do not have emergency and safety facilities for carrying a patient without coming into contact. Dr Neeraj Thakur, director, Ayushman Hospital, said that the chance of infections increasing is high due to increased contact with Covid-19 patients. “There are no ambulances available since Monday and we are struggling to find any. Taking a patient on their own can risk their lives, as they are not medically trained and cannot handle a patient in case of an emergency,” she said.Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy Hospital, said that two patients died due to the non-availability of ambulances on Tuesday. “There are majorly two issues due to the ambulance strike. First, critical patients are not getting timely help as ambulances have big oxygen cylinders and operators know how to use them as they are well trained. Second, it is risky for the family members also to ferry patients. Two patients were brought dead as families could not transport them to the hospital on time,” he said.More than 100 families shifted their patients and bodies of victims in the last two days, and were facing a tough time managing them.Sumit Agarwal, a resident of Sector 56, said that he had to shift his brother to a private hospital after his vital signs dipped, but despite trying for two hours, he couldn’t find any. “I drove him to the hospital along with my 10-year-old as it was difficult to manage it by myself. Even the hospitals had no ambulance available and most of the numbers shared by people on groups and social media were switched off,” he said.A resident of Sector 10A said that he lost his father to Covid-19 and could not find an ambulance to transport his body to the crematorium. “We waited for more than six hours and contacted more than 15 drivers but they refused and said there is a strike of ambulances. I took my father’s body to the crematorium and arranged for a stretcher too. Later, I was told by the staff that the MCG is providing ambulances,” he said.Ambulance operators said that they asked the drivers to switch off their phones as they were getting continuous calls for help.Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, we received around 70 bodies that were brought by families at both the crematoriums (including one in Madanpuri). All the pressure has come on MCG ambulances and they are working for more than 18 hours to transport bodies from homes. The situation has worsened due to the strike,” he said. Private hospitals said they were helpless as they did not have enough ambulances or vehicles to shift patients and that ambulances are currently shuttling between the hospital and oxygen centres. They also expressed concerns over relatives of Covid-19 victims ferrying them to their premises without wearing personal protective equipment (PPE).Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that they have only one ambulance which is entirely on oxygen duty. “The ambulances get oxygen on priority, so we send our ambulance to refill oxygen. The hospital has received over 200 calls for providing ambulance as residents are not able to find any, but even our vendors are on strike,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-ferry-patients-bodies-in-private-vehicles-as-ambulances-go-off-roads-101620237698760.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents struggle to get second vaccine dosage||Even as the district health department is prioritising Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries who are awaiting their second jabs, many of them have been continuously struggling to book a slot on the Co-WIN portal or getting inoculated through a direct walk-in. Health officials said that 30 vaccination centres have been administering only 100 doses in a day, each, due to the limited supply of the vaccines.“The state has allocated additional 13,000 doses on Wednesday to inoculate prioritised population group above 45 years with the second dose. They are on priority, but every vaccination centre gets only 100 doses for inoculation, so only limited people receive doses every day,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.On Wednesday, at least 3,250 people aged 45 years and above took the jab, including over 2,963 people who took their second shot, at government health centres, while 154 received their jabs at private hospitals. Owing to the restricted stock, only 88 managed to get their first dose, said officials.The vaccination has declined dramatically since the inoculation of the population aged 18-44 started. Private hospitals have run out of stock after state administrations, complying with the vaccine policy, directed hospitals to procure vaccine doses from manufacturers.Citizens who have taken their first shot in private facilities are now visiting multiple centres to get their last dose at the scheduled time.Atul Sarin (50), a resident of DLF-Phase 1, visited four health facilities on Wednesday but failed to get the shot. “It has been almost eight weeks since I took the first dose. To avoid further delay, I tried booking a slot on the CoWIN portal, but it showed no slots were available. I personally visited four private hospitals and government health centres on Wednesday, but everyone cited the same problem, of unavailability of vaccine stock,” said Sarin.Relating a similar experience, 60-year-old Naveen Rangera faced troubles in finding centres where Covaxin is administered. “Covaxin is not easily available. Wherever it is available, a huge crowd is seen, which is dangerous to encounter during this time, when infections are being rapidly transmitted. Since health centres in the city are crowded, we thought of getting the shot in rural centres through a direct walk-in. But they too had no vaccine doses,” said Rangera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-struggle-to-get-second-vaccine-dosage-101620237699320.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Limited antigen kits hold up Gurugram efforts to increase testing||A day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory to ramp up testing through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), the Gurugram health department on Wednesday said they had limited stock available.“Currently, there are about 2,000 antigen testing kits with the health department. The state has allocated almost 10,000 kits, which are likely to arrive by Wednesday night. We have been conducting over 4,000 antigen tests every day in large outbreak areas (LORs, where there are 15 or more cases) for timely detection and isolation of cases. the measures required to increase RAT can only be followed based on the sufficient allocation of kits by the state health department,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The district does not get daily stock of testing kits. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday advised setting up of dedicated round-the-clock RAT booths and drive-through booths at multiple locations in cities, towns and villages. Yadav said this could be done at the polyclinic in Sector 31 provided they get the additional testing kits. “But there is no clarity on when it is likely to start. For setting multiple booths, department needs health staff along with sufficient kits,” he said. The ICMR had earlier emphasised on at least 70% of testing in any region to be using RT-PCR kits, which is more accurate but slower than RAT that gives a result within 20 minutes. Experts said the new measure is to break the chain of transmission through early diagnosis. Since the beginning of the week, the health department has increased antigen tests. Over 8,700 antigen tests were done over the last two days. On Wednesday, however, only 2,392 antigen tests were administered. The seven-day average of antigen tests in the last week of April shows at least 1,679 RAT were administered every day. Like other cities, Gurugram has been reeling under pressure to give timely RT-PCR results within 36 hours due to intense case load. But people have been getting test results within three to four days, which has been a hurdle in breaking the transmission chain. The new ICMR testing strategy said round-the-clock booths were to improve access and availability of vaccines. Even drive-through for RAT testing facilities has to be created. To reduce the existing burden on the laboratory, ICMR has suggested that RT-PCR test results should be removed for interstate domestic travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/limited-antigen-kits-hold-up-gurugram-efforts-to-increase-testing-101620237697588.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen shortage continues due to spike in serious Covid-19 cases||The increase in the number of critically ill patients at large private hospitals continues to put pressure on the oxygen distribution system in the district, despite Gurugram receiving additional oxygen stock over the past few days.Against an allocated quota of 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, the district on Wednesday received around 48 MT. However, officials familiar with the development said that there is demand for 60 MT of oxygen and that the shortage of oxygen is also hampering the treatment of patients in smaller hospitals and owners of some of them said they have stopped taking new patients.“The demand is rising exponentially as the number of serious patients is rising. We are distributing as per the demand and also to ensure there is no distress situation at any hospital. We don’t want a situation where there is an emergency,” said Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram.On Wednesday, the city received oxygen from one tanker from Faridabad, one from Bhiwadi and two from the oxygen express train between Faridabad and Rourkela, while the city will receive two tankers from Panipat on Thursday morning, said officials. On Tuesday, the city had received 43 MT oxygen against a demand of 55 MT.Last week, the Haryana government directed that hospitals with fewer than 15 beds should not admit Covid-19 patients as they did not have adequate oxygen infrastructure. However, larger hospitals are also struggling to cope with the shortage.The management of Artemis Hospital in the city on Wednesday stopped new admissions, citing oxygen shortage, and that the policy will continue till the situation improves. “We have suspended admissions because of extremely limited oxygen supply. We will not be able to create any extra space for Covid-19 patients, even in the emergency (ward),” said an official spokesperson for Artemis Hospitals.While larger hospitals struggled to increase the facilities of critical patients, smaller private hospitals and nursing homes called for streamlining oxygen distribution and checking overcharging.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said that they have not received oxygen supply despite a quota being fixed. “The refilling station is demanding ₹40,000 in cash apart from the payment in cheques. They are charging ₹450 per oxygen cylinders, instead of ₹250. How we will run operations if all the agencies involved demand cash? Our patients will die, but we are not responsible as we are unable to provide them with oxygen,” he said and wanted the authorities to intervene.Even as hospitals and residents complained over malpractice at refilling facilities, the Haryana government on Wednesday ordered all district deputy commissioners to constitute a committee to oversee oxygen refillers.M Shayin, additional chief secretary of Haryana health and family welfare department, said that they have come to know that the oxygen being delivered to refillers was often not being optimally utilised. “The committee will include an executive magistrate and police personnel,” said Shayin in the order.The order also asked deputy commissioners to prepare a list of chronic oxygen-dependent patients and designate at least one refiller in the district to fill their cylinders. Deputy commissioners and civil surgeons were directed to assess the utilisation of oxygen at hospitals. Drug control officers will have the overall responsibility to enforce the penal provisions applicable for oxygen as a medical drug and to ensure its non-diversion, the order statedOwners of smaller hospitals also demanded an increase in the allocation of oxygen.Dr Swati Rathore, director, Kriti hospital in Sector 56, said that eight people had died on April 30 in her hospital due to lack of oxygen and the situation is the same at present. “I have six critical patients and one on a ventilator. We can’t keep them without oxygen but we have not received a single cylinder in the last two days. The officers from the district administration and municipal corporation are not responding to our calls and messages and we are helpless,” she said.Administration officials said that they are doing their best to ensure supply, despite a shortage.Garg said, “We received 48 MT on Wednesday while the demand is almost 60 MT. We are trying hard to meet the demand somehow and the distress calls have reduced in the past two to three days.”He said that wherever the hospitals have flagged emergencies, oxygen was supplied.He said that to resolve the problem faced by smaller hospitals, a fixed quota has been set for 72 hospitals. “I have also allocated gas to Star Gases in Manesar for issuing the same to individuals who are isolated at home,” Garg said, adding that he had not received any complaint regarding overcharging.A few private hospitals said that the situation improved after the district administration allocated a fixed supply for smaller hospitals. “We have been allotted 10 cylinders daily by the administration and we are getting the same. The authorities have finally woken to the problems faced by nursing homes that form the backbone of the city’s healthcare system,” said Dr Shyam Lal Kohli, managing director, Chirag Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-shortage-continues-due-to-spike-in-serious-covid-19-cases-101620237698172.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Health officials to check oxygen use at hospitals||The district administration is planning to deploy health officials at private hospitals for conducting checks to ensure that medical oxygen is being used judiciously.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller officer, who is part of the oxygen management team, said, “We are focusing on proper management of oxygen and ensuring that it does not go to waste. We are planning to deploy our existing health officials at private hospitals, who would be conducting regular checks to ensure that there is no misuse, leakage or black marketing being done.”He said that the team has not received any complaint so far about black marketing of oxygen at private hospitals, but officials are being extra cautious due to the high demand.“We are trying to ensure that all hospitals get the required amount of oxygen, with no hospital getting extra or less than the requirement. We are calculating the requirement of different hospitals based on the number of oxygen and intensive care unit (ICU) beds available at each facility,” Chauhan said.Meanwhile, officials of the health department said that many hospitals are not taking proper measures for distributing oxygen to patients and placing excessive demands, whereas the condition of the patient can be managed by either giving steroids or other medicines.“We understand that the demand for oxygen is high and patients need it, but there are known medical procedures or medicines that can be given to patients to stabilise their condition without giving them oxygen. If hospitals follow these medical procedures correctly, then oxygen supply can be diverted to patients who actually need it; there are many patients in home isolation who also need oxygen but are not able to get it,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.The official cited above said that the health officials deployed at private hospitals will also be able to keep a check on whether apt medical procedures are being followed and families do not have to run from pillar to post for procuring oxygen for the patients.At present, Gurugram is allotted 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen but is currently in possession of additional stock due to increased supply over the past few days. The district received 43 MT of oxygen on Monday from plants in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and neighbouring Panipat, besides a consignment from the oxygen express train on its route from Rourkela to neighbouring Faridabad. The supply was eight metric tonnes more than the supply on Sunday, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-officials-to-check-oxygen-use-at-hospitals-101620237639944.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||‘Haryana will see Covid-19 second wave peak by May 15’||Haryana is already among the 10 worst-affected Covid-19 states across the country, but it is yet to witness its peak, says Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and home affairs department, Haryana government. Arora spoke to Archana Mishra about the projections, mutant strains of SARS-CoV-2 virus prevalent in the state and oxygen supply disruptions in the district.Gurugram has been witnessing a powerful resurgence in coronavirus infections. How do you assess the situation and what are the projections?The projections made by the central government on the current growth rate of the infection shows that Haryana will see the Covid-19 second wave peak by May 15. Currently, there are 108, 830 active cases in the state. It is expected that by May 15, it will reach about 140,000. Thereafter, the curve of the active case will begin to plateau. The surge will not be from Gurugram alone, which has been reporting maximum coronavirus case every day, but from other districts too. In the case of Gurugram, the average test positivity rate has been around 25% in the last few days, which was earlier around 29 to 33%. This test positivity rate of Gurugram will remain for some time, as, in all likelihood, the decline will be seen first in the northern belt of Panchkula, Ambala and Kurukshetra.The district is already grappling with a lack of oxygen and beds for critically ill Covid-19 patients. How is the state planning to address the situation when the cases increase further?Haryana’s oxygen production has been high. But, as per the allocations made by the Government of India, we are providing it to other states like Delhi and Punjab. There are diversions in the oxygen supply even after the allocation. Certainly, there are logistical issues, but the state has already detailed the oxygen demand of every district. In the last seven to 10 days, there have been dramatic changes in the oxygen plant contract policy, which has also affected the certainty of oxygen supply and the existing mechanism between oxygen plants and hospitals in Gurugram. It was not expected that oxygen demand would shoot up within a week. To timely address the shortfall in oxygen supply, we are airlifting cryogenic oxygen containers from Rourkela. For Covid-19 bed management, deputy commissioners have already been assigned the task of arranging facilities.How many mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus are currently prevalent in Haryana?Based on the genomic sequencing of 922 samples collected across the state, at least 555 showed no mutation while 367 showed mutant strains. Of these, 310 samples were of the UK variant. Results provided by a Delhi-based lab mentions that 45% of samples had “variant of concern” and 3% with “variant not of concern”.Covid-19 vaccination has also become a big challenge in the district, especially for those who need to take the second shot within the allotted time frame. How is the state planning to address the problem?Undoubtedly, the process has been disrupted. The vaccine stock which was to be used only for the prioritised population groups has been now divided into two categories, 18 to 44 years and citizens aged over 45 years. Since the state is no longer linked with private hospitals to provide the vaccine, people who require the second dose can get the inoculation at government facilities. We have already allocated 13,000 additional doses to Gurugram to streamline the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-will-see-covid-19-second-wave-peak-by-may-15-101620237639227.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Police, drug controller bust oxygen cylinder smuggling racket||In the largest haul yet in Gurugram, police recovered 260 oxygen cylinders from three person who were caught selling them at exorbitant rates on Wednesday in Sector 68. Police said this was part of a 500-cylinder consignment that they had brought from Maharashtra to sell in the Covid-hit city.Police said the suspects, Vikas Kumar (32) and Shiv Kumar (33) from Karnal and Prabhat Kumar (31) of Uttar Pradesh, sold 150 type-D cylinders (46.7 litres) for over ₹34,000 each in the last two days. The market price of the cylinder is around ₹7,000.According to the police, the Gurugram drug controller received a tip on the operation on Tuesday. A joint team of the drug controller and police a raided Aklimpur village in Sector 68. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “They sold the cylinder from their canter. They had brought 500 oxygen cylinders on Wednesday, out of which 20 were filled and sold the same day along with 150 empty cylinders. The suspects sold 70 empty cylinders on Tuesday.” Rao said Prabhat had arranged the cylinders after the demand for it increased in the city amid the coronavirus crisis. “We are were carrying out drives against black marketeers across the district and more than 10 people have already been arrested,” he said.Amandeep Chauhan, district drug controller, said that they have activated their sources across the city to share the leads of people involved in black marketing Covid medicines and oxygen cylinders. “We are yet to verify the vendor from whom they had bought these cylinders. We will coordinate with Mumbai Police and will share information regarding the gang smuggling oxygen cylinders,” he said. Police said the suspects were produced before the court on Wednesday and were taken on a three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-drug-controller-bust-oxygen-cylinder-smuggling-racket-101620237638623.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Covid helpline numbers set up||Gurugram launched a Covid-19 relief WhatsApp chatbot (+91 96432 77788) on Wednesday to help patients isolating at home. The administration stated in a press release that the chatbot will help patients get free home consultation from doctors, information about nearby RT-PCR test centres and camps, and other queries regarding Covid-19. The chatbot was developed in partnership with at least eight private companies, it said. A Covid-19 helpline number, 1800-1800-147, was also released by Shri Vishwakarma Skill University set up by Haryana government on Wednesday. It will give information about beds, oxygen cylinders, blood plasma donors, ambulance facility and Covid-19 testing and vaccination spots in districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-helpline-numbers-set-up-101620237638007.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||35-year-old shot dead in PG in argument with two others||A 35-year-old man was shot dead inside a paying guest (PG) house in Ishlampur village of Sector 38 on Tuesday night by two armed persons, the police said. The victim was killed over personal rivalry, the police said. According to police, the victim, identified as Sandeep of Sampla village in Rohtak, was residing in a PG in Ishlampur village for the last two months along with the suspects, identified as Manish and Jonty. It is suspected that the trio had an argument over an issue, following which one of them opened fire. The police said the victim was hit with four rounds and he died on the spot. The suspects fled the spot and the hospital Sandeep was taken to declared that he was brought dead,A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant section of the Arms Act was registered at Sadar police station. No arrest has been made so far. “The murder seems to be the fallout of an old enmity. The accused has been identified and exact cause of the murder could be known only after the arrest of the accused,” said KK Rao, the police commissioner, adding that teams are conducting raids to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35yearold-shot-dead-in-pg-in-argument-with-two-others-101620237577528.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Committee to oversee oxygen refillers in city||Haryana government on Wednesday ordered all district deputy commissioners to constitute a committee to oversee oxygen refillers.M. Shayin, additional chief secretary of Haryana health and family welfare department said that they have come to know that the oxygen being delivered to refillers was often not being optimally utilised. “The committee will include an executive magistrate and police personnel,” said Shayin in the order. In case of any discrepancy, there will be legal action against the refiller, it said. The order also asked deputy commissioners to prepare a list of chronic oxygen-dependent patients and designate at least one refiller in the district to will fill their cylinders. Deputy commissioners and civil surgeons were directed to assess the utilization of oxygen at hospitals. Drug control officers will have the overall responsibility to enforce the penal provisions applicable for oxygen as a medical drug and to ensure its non-diversion, the order stated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/committee-to-oversee-oxygen-refillers-in-city-101620237578049.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram residents allege long wait time on helplines||Amid the shortage of beds and increasing SOS calls on social media, many Gurugram residents have alleged that various helpline numbers issued by the district administration are not useful and have long waiting lists. The complaints were made for different portals like checking Covid test reports, bed trackers and allotments, and general helplines among others.Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 39, said, “We are five in a family, including myself. We had developed Covid-19 symptoms and got our tests done four days later, on May 1. We are still waiting for our reports. We had tried reaching the persons concerned on the link: https://onemapggm.gmda.gov.in and were told that we can download a copy of the report, but I didn’t even get the OTP. I tried the helpline number as well, but either it was busy or the executives there guided us back to the portal with very less information.”Another resident, requesting anonymity, said, “I had registered for a bed at the district administration’s portal on April 26 for my uncle, whose oxygen level had been dropping continuously. We tried everywhere but were unable to find a bed for four days, even after registering on the portal. I just received a call, informing me that I will be directed to a hospital, but I did not get any response after that... My uncle died on Monday.”Vinay Singh, who was looking for an oxygen bed for a relative on Tuesday evening, said, “I have been trying to contact all possible helpline numbers since the morning, but did not get any help. Either some of the numbers were switched off or busy or the executives said they will get back to me. We don’t have time, so now we are trying to get a bed through social media.”Out of 43 hospitals in the district, no oxygen, ventilator or ICU beds were available in Gurugram as of Tuesday night, as per the district portal.Meanwhile, Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said despite shortage of beds, the bed management team in the district has been continuously monitoring the situation, and directing patients to the hospitals. “We understand there is a shortage of beds and delay in response, but all requests on different portals are being directed to the respective teams, especially for bed management. We have also requested patients’ families not to wait to find beds till the situation gets critical, and they must directly approach hospitals. Our bed management team is also continuously monitoring patients,” Panwar said.Munish Sharma, nodal officer for bed management, Gurugram, said, “We were able to update the portal real time even a week ago, but now, with the rise in the cases, patients are seen waiting outside hospitals as beds are being occupied immediately. We have asked hospitals to check which patients actually need hospitalisation. It is not that we cannot increase the bed supply, but everything is dependent on the oxygen supply, which is also being increased gradually.”Gurugram reported 4,475 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Tuesday. There are 37,708 active cases in the district, and the recovery rate is 72.33%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-allege-long-wait-time-on-helplines-101620152178296.html
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Vegetable prices to be shared with residents to curb overcharging in Gurugram||Following complaints of vegetables and fruits being sold at inflated prices since a lockdown was imposed, the Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB) has set a price list and will provide residents with a platform to report overcharging. Officials said that a wholesale and retail price list will be released on Wednesday morning and the same will be shared with RWA groups and on social media platforms.HSAMB officials dismissed concerns over low stocks and said that vendors are hiking prices to make a quick buck amid the lockdown. Officials said they received several complaints and teams were sent to Basai Road and Sector 4 to check for instances of overpricing. “Teams for inspection have been constituted by HSAMB and they visited few retailers, local vendors, and shopkeepers in a few parts of the city today for taking a stock of the on-ground situation. On Wednesday, the teams will be initiating enforcement measures across the city through random checks as well as checking tip-offs from residents and RWAs about vegetables and fruits being sold at inflated rates,” said Vinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB.Officials said that the price list will have the maximum and minimum prices of at least 25 common fruits and vegetables per kilogram. It will also mention contact details for residents to lodge complaints of overcharging by vendors, local shopkeepers or other retailers.The district administration also issued a release late Tuesday, stating that action will be taken against violators , under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, if food and essential items are sold at a price higher prices. Officials said that a hyper mart in Sector 48 was penalised on Tuesday.HSAMB comes under the ambit of the district administration in Gurugram.“The lockdown has been imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The public will not be disturbed by the availability of essential commodities in any way. There is complete monitoring of black marketing by the district administration, while essential items such as packed company items cannot be sold at rates higher than maxium retail price (MRP). The district administration will deal strictly with those who do so. Buyers should also take care and complain about the rates charged above MRP on 9999097004,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.The city has been under a lockdown since Friday night. Initially, the state government announced a weekend curfew in nine districts of Haryana that had the highest number of Covid-19 cases, including Gurugram. On Sunday, the government announced a lockdown for the entire state till May 10 morning.Due to the lockdown and their inability to venture outdoors, many residents are relying on local vendors and shopkeepers for fruits and vegetables.Tanuja Kumar, a resident of Sector 53, said that she purchased onions from her local vegetable seller at ₹60 per kilogram, more than double the market rates. As per the price list of HSAMB, a copy of which is with HT, the maximum retail price for onions is ₹17-22.“Even though my local vegetable seller is selling items at steep prices, the fact that I cannot venture outdoors due to the lockdown leaves me with little choice but to rely on him for daily fruits and vegetables. It has started affecting my family’s daily expenses. If the state government decides to extend the lockdown, I will have to look for alternatives,” said Kumar.Yadav said that the rationale behind issuing a price list and circulating it among residents is to inform them about the actual prices of vegetables and fruits and to determine whether they are being sold at the correct prices or inflated rates. “Although we are yet to receive any formal complaint in writing, we have been verbally informed by a few residents, RWAs, and officials of the inflated rates at which fruits and vegetables are being sold in different parts of the city. Our teams will be initially concentrating on such locations and then act on any new complaints received from residents,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/veggie-prices-to-be-shared-with-residents-to-curb-overcharging-101620152118328.html
