06-05-2021||Gurugram||Fire at supermarket in DLF Phase-4||A fire broke out at a supermarket in DLF Phase-4 on Thursday afternoon. No injury or casualty was reported, said officials. IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire officer, said, “Around 3.50pm, we received a call regarding a fire at supermarket named Supermart 1 in a six-storey building in DLF Phase-4. Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the fire, which was controlled after two hours.” He said that no casualty was reported from the building as due to the lockdown, there was no one present in offices in the building. “Prima facie, it seems that the fire started due to a short circuit in the supermarket, but the detailed reason will be known later once a report is filed,” the official said. In the past month, around four different incidents of fire have been reported from different parts of the district. In April, fire outbreaks were reported from Sadar Bazaar and Nathupur in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-at-supermarket-in-dlf-phase4-101620325555611.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Ambulance strike called off, but operators remain unhappy with hiked rates||Ambulance operators in the city called off their strike on Thursday after the district administration hiked the fares for private ambulances, officials said. However, the administration did not hike the fares as demanded by the operators, due to which they have threatened to go on strike from Friday if the rates are not revised again.The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said that as per the hiked rates, fixed charges of ₹500, ₹750 and ₹1,000 have been set for distances up to three kilometres, between three and seven kilometres, and farther than seven kilometres, respectively. An additional charge of ₹25 per kilometre may be levied if the distance increases, he said.Officials clarified that the distance is calculated at the time of booking and that charges cannot be levied as per the next higher slab.According to Garg, now that the charges have been fixed, operators and drivers found demanding more will face strict action, with the cancellation of their registration as well as licences on the cards.However, as per the rate list submitted by the Private Ambulance Association (PAA) to the district administration, a copy of which is with HT, the operators are demanding ₹3,500 for small vehicles for a distance up to 15 kilometres, with ₹16 per additional kilometre, while for larger vehicles, they are demanding ₹5,000 and ₹35, respectively. For advanced cardiac life support ambulances (ACLS), the association is demanding ₹5,500 for distances up to 15 kilometres, with ₹50 per additional kilometre, besides the charges for doctors and staff.Vipin Kumar, the former president of the PAA, said, “If the district administration agrees to our rates, then we will ply ambulances. Else, we will protest and sit on strike from Friday. We will not agree to run on losses. Why should we?”The association comprises 39 operators, who have 250 ambulances in the district.Salina Macknight, the vice-president of PAA, said that the kilometres should be calculated from point to point and waiting charges for freezer ambulances should be set at ₹500 per hour. “For ACLS ambulances, the waiting charges should be ₹1,000 per hour. Oxygen charges would be extra and if anyone wants a doctor, then their charges would also be additional,” she said.The association had been on a strike since Tuesday evening and on Wednesday, met officials in Chandigarh, who agreed to revise the fares, following which Prabhjot Singh, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Haryana, in an order, stated that it is necessary to fix the rate of hiring charges of ambulances to be used by people for transporting the patients and directed the deputy commissioner to act on it. “All deputy commissioners are to call a meeting with owners of private ambulances and union to decide rates. It is decided by higher authorities that rates decided by deputy commissioners will prevail,” he had said.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said that they had received the order and that the final rate list was sent. “We are trying to resolve the issue so that people do not suffer and can get timely help,” he said.The district administration, in its order on Thursday, noted that private ambulance drivers/service providers are charging exorbitant rates from the citizens for transporting the patients within or outside the state. Due to this, an additional financial burden is being borne by citizens during the crisis of Covid-19, which is a matter of serious concern, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambulance-strike-called-off-but-operators-remain-unhappy-with-hiked-rates-101620325554968.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Khattar directs admin to ramp up Covid measures||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday directed the district administration to ramp up Covid-19 management preparation with the cases expected to spike over the next few days, as the state has predicted that the peak of the current wave might occur by May 15. In Gurugram alone, the active case count is likely to touch 40,000, the highest in the state. “Regular auditing of oxygen, availability of beds and medicines in the hospitals should be done so that the future and present strategies regarding demand and supply can be made in advance. A district level monitoring team for monitoring oxygen supply and demand in every hospital across the state should be constituted at the earliest,” said Khattar in a statement issued by the state administration. On Thursday, Khattar held a review meeting on Covid-19 preparedness with districts on strategies to control the transmission. “CM has assured that oxygen supply will be resolved, and uninterrupted supply will be ensured,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner. According to the CM, the state’s oxygen quota is 257 metric tonnes (MT), and a request has been made to the central government to further enhance this quota to 300 MT. He directed deputy commissioners to ensure that the unloading of the tankers should be done within the shortest time so that the oxygen supply chain in the hospitals remains intact. Khattar also directed to shift the step-down patients to Covid care centres to provide timely treatment to critical patients. Special screening camps have to be held in rural areas following the prevalence of infection in villages. Currently, the state’s positivity rate of 37% is the second-highest in the country. Even the weekly average positivity rate of Gurugram is around 28%, which makes it the fifth worst-hit district in the country. On Thursday, the district reported at least 3737 cases, taking the active case count to 39,682. The death tally reached 550 with the confirmation of 13 deaths. At the state level, at least 14,840 new cases and 117 deaths were reported. The active case count stands at 115,842 and it is likely to reach up to 140,000 as per the projections made by the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khattar-directs-admin-to-ramp-up-covid-measures-101620325553372.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||142 cops tested positive over past week||As many as 142 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week while on duty, officials said on Thursday, taking the total number of affected police personnel to 500 in the last month and a half.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the personnel deployed in Covid-19 duties are not going home to ensure their families are protected. “The families that have been infected are being taken care of and all facilities have been provided in the isolation centre, which is in Police Lines in the city and Manesar,” he said.Officials said that of the 142 who tested positive — that includes two assistant commissioners of police — only 10 have recovered. Most of the personnel who tested positive were deployed at markets, oxygen refilling stations and on patrol duty. Rao said, “The officials who required immediate medical help were admitted (to hospitals) and others are isolated at homes and isolation centres. We have already converted two barracks into a quarantine ward for the police personnel.”There are nearly 6,500 police personnel in the city, most of whom are deployed in containment zones. Personnel have been directed to immediately report any symptoms to ensure they are tested and isolated, said officials. So far over 1,200 police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus disease since the outbreak in March 2020.Rao on Thursday conducted a ground inspection at 70 checkpoints and arranged food and beverages for the personnel. He also directed that tents be set up for officials to rest, amid soaring temperatures and the threat of Covid-19. “I interacted with the teams and have asked them to inform me if anything is needed. Our prime concern is their health as they have exposure to the public and require regular monitoring,” said Rao.Each team has been given a thermometer to regularly check their temperature and doctors on call are booked for consultations. Rao said that all family members of police personnel have been asked to contact the department for their needs. “The lockdown poses great burdens on front-line police personnel, given capacity constraints and the social context of enforcement. To ensure social distancing and to keep oneself safe is very difficult,” he said.Rao said that the police have received 1,052 calls on their Covid-19 helpline and have helped save the lives of 20 Covid-19 patients. Also, 164,734 people have been penalised since April 1 for not wearing face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/142-cops-tested-positive-over-past-week-101620325495775.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||350 beds to be ready by next week, more may be added when oxygen supply increases: Admin||Officials of the district administration said that 350 beds to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients, equipped with ventilator support, will be made operations in a week and that more such beds may be set up once the oxygen supply to the district increases.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner for Gurugram district, said, “There are three facilities, which will be almost up and running within a week. First, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar, in collaboration with Indian Air Force, is working to convert 150 rooms into a hospital, the second is a 100-bed facility that is being built at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, and the third is another 100-bed facility that is being built by Hero in Sector 27. All these three will be functional within a week.”As of 8pm on Thursday, eight oxygen beds were available in one of 43 hospitals, as per the district’s Covid-19 web portal. No intensive care unit (ICU) beds or ventilator beds were available, as per the portal. The city has 1,522 oxygen beds, 550 ICU beds and 198 ventilator beds. On Thursday, Gurugram reported 3,737 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 39,682. Deaths of 13 positive patients were also reported from the district. Of the total active cases, 2,452 patients are hospitalised and 172 are at district Covid care centres. Over 37,000 positive patients are in home isolation in the district.For the past few weeks, Gurugram has been reporting over 3,000 cases daily. Officials said that of these cases, around 10% require hospitalisation.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer for Gurugram, said, “The trend that we have witnessed since the start of the pandemic is that 90% patients recover in home isolation itself and only 10% require hospitalisation, but still, work is being done to ensure enough beds are available for patients in case of another wave.”Besides the three facilities proposed to start operations in the next week, more beds are being set up at a women’s college in Sector 14. However, this would be pressed into service later after sufficient infrastructure is made available, said officials.The deputy commissioner said that the primary constraint in increasing the number of beds is the low supply of medical oxygen. At present, Gurugram is allotted a quota of 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen supply per day, whereas the demand is for 60 MT of oxygen per day.“If the oxygen supply improves faster, then within the next seven days, we should be able to start the function of these 350 beds. Most of these will be for moderate cases, as severe cases will require proper hospitalisation. Our oxygen supply is increasing gradually since the chief minister himself took charge of the district. We should be getting more supply from the state over the next four days, after which the functioning of these extra beds should be even more smooth,” Garg said.To address the shortfall in oxygen supply, the state is airlifting cryogenic oxygen containers to Rourkela, which will help increase the supply to the district as well.Meanwhile, with projections being made that Haryana will see the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 by May 15, the district administration has also started preparing for the spike. The deputy commissioner said that various measures, including setting up of Covid care facilities by resident welfare associations (RWAs) and starting helplines for patients, among others, are being done.“Within two days, we will be launching a portal from which patients in home isolation can apply for direct delivery of oxygen. We have also empowered the RWAs to set up small isolation centres within their communities for which we are procuring oxygen concentrators and cylinders. We are also trying to establish a treatment protocol for home isolation patients to ensure that their condition does not escalate, and they do not have to go to the hospitals. Some cases will be reported, but the maximum can be controlled,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/350-beds-to-be-ready-by-next-week-more-may-be-added-when-oxygen-supply-increases-admin-101620325494566.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Admin to provide oxygen cylinders to RWAs for setting up Covid care centres||To offset the pressure on hospitals that are burdened with the rising number of seriously ill Covid-19 patients, the district administration has decided to provide oxygen cylinders and concentrators to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) that are setting up Covid care centres within their condominiums.Officials said that they are reaching out to various stakeholders so that oxygen cylinders and concentrators can be made available to city residents through the RWAs. The city is getting around 45 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen at present, against a demand of 60 MT, said officials.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that while they have streamlined the oxygen supply to hospitals to a great extent, the next step was to reduce pressure on the hospital system and this would be done by helping the RWAs set up small Covid care centres. “We will rationalise the oxygen supply and around 150 cylinders will be given to RWAs daily, which are taking care of Covid-19 patients. We are also looking to source oxygen concentrators soon, which shall be given to these RWAs so that the patients can be treated at home or Covid care centres locally. This will reduce pressure on hospitals,” said Garg.Dharmender Jha, president, Rosewood City RWA, Block D, said, “The decision of the district administration to help the RWAs by providing concentrators and oxygen cylinders would help the patients isolated at home. We would set up a small Covid care facility that can cater to patients who need oxygen support.” The district administration also launched a token system on Thursday for the distribution of oxygen to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, said Garg. Earlier in the day, the state government on Thursday also asked the deputy commissioners to create a system for providing oxygen supply to all Covid-19 patients and especially those with co-morbidities, who need oxygen at home.In a related development, the district administration on Thursday also notified rates for essential items, particularly edibles, to ensure there is no black marketing of daily use items. On Wednesday, the Faridabad administration had also notified rates of essential commodities to prevent hoarding.Deputy commissioner Garg said that directions have been issued to shopkeepers that they should not sell essential commodities more than the maximum retail price. He also directed wholesalers and retailers to display the rate list prominently. “If any shopkeeper is overcharging, then the customers can lodge a complaint and action would be initiated,” he said.Earlier on Wednesday, Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, had notified the rates of edibles and essential commodities. “We will not tolerate any hoarding or overcharging of food and other essential items. Action would be taken against such violators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/admin-to-provide-oxygen-cylinders-to-rwas-for-setting-up-covid-care-centres-101620325494014.html
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Tokens to help those in home isolation get oxygen refill||In a major relief to Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation and need oxygen support, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday launched a token system to help individuals get oxygen easily, without standing in long queues. The corporation set up three counters for this purpose at the MCG office in Sector 34, the old MCG office near Sadar Bazar and Sector 42, where residents can avail of tokens.Gurugram on Thursday received 45 metric tonnes of medical oxygen from the plants in Panipat, Bhiwadi and Faridabad, said officials.Officials said they decided to set up the token system and fix oxygen allocation for hospitals after complaints of irregularities in the system. Haryana chief minister on Sunday had also directed the administration to streamline the oxygen distribution system.Jitender Yadav, administrator, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Gurugram, who took over the additional charge of MCG on Thursday, said that 90 tokens have been demarcated to be issued to city residents for getting their oxygen cylinders refilled from Star Gas in Manesar. “Initially, these centres will issue 30 tokens each, but the number would be increased depending on the availability of oxygen. We will also make this facility available online, but the number of tokens will depend on the availability of gas,” said Yadav.To get a token, people will have to submit an RT-PCR test report, Aadhaar card details, address proof and a doctor’s prescription. “The token system will ensure that people will not have to stand in long queues,” said Yadav.Another step taken by the MCG to streamline oxygen distribution on Thursday was to rationalise the distribution of oxygen to large hospitals and assign distributors to two major oxygen refilling plants. “We have a list of 80 hospitals, out of which around 40 have been asked to get oxygen from their previous distributors through Kalinga and SR oxygen filling plants. Twenty hospitals have been asked to send their vehicles to the Max Air plant. This alignment of hospitals had a positive impact on Thursday and things will improve further,” said Yadav.The job of filling gas for individual cylinders and smaller hospitals has been assigned to Star Special Gases at Sector 7 in Manesar, said officials.In another move to resolve the problems being faced by city residents due to the spread of Covid-19, the corporation also set up a control room that will operate round the clock. This call centre will work in three shifts of eight hours each, with three employees managing the work during each shift. The corporation can be contacted at 9821395170 and 9821395171.“This call centre will hear the issues being raised by city residents as well as elected representatives and raise it with the departments concerned to get it resolved,” said Yadav, who was given the additional charge of MCG on Thursday after the Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tokens-to-help-those-in-home-isolation-get-oxygen-refill-101620325493340.html
