09-05-2021||Gurugram||City-based automobile companies extend shutdown of factories||City-based two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp on Sunday decided to extend the shutdown at its manufacturing facilities in Gurugram and Dharuhera, besides other parts of the country, till May 16 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. The shutdown will also extend to its global parts center (GPC) in Neemrana and its R&D facility in Jaipur, the company said on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, car maker Maruti Suzuki had also decided to extend the shutdown of its plants till May 16.A spokesperson for Hero MotoCorp said that the company is continuously monitoring the situation and is ready with its business continuity plans to be able to quickly resume and scale up operations as and when the situation improves. “Hero Motocorp had proactively halted the plant operations temporarily in a staggered manner for four days from April 22-May 1, which was then extended till May 9,” a statement released by the company said, adding that all corporate offices of the company have already been in work from home (WFH) mode.Earlier on Saturday, car maker Maruti Suzuki in a letter said that the maintenance shutdown, which was scheduled till May 9, has been extended till May 16. In a statement released on April 28 prior to the first shutdown, Maruti Suzuki said that it uses a small amount of oxygen in its factories while relatively much larger quantities are used by the manufacturers of components. Accordingly, Maruti Suzuki decided to advance its maintenance shutdown, originally scheduled for June 1. Production in all factories will close for maintenance during this period, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/citybased-automobile-companies-extend-shutdown-of-factories-101620582255389.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily case count falls below 3,000 first time since April 20||The district on Sunday reported 2,842 new Covid-19 cases, the first time it has reported fewer than 3,000 new cases per day since April 20, when the Gurugram recorded 2,344 cases, according to the health department data. Ten deaths were also reported on the day, taking the toll to 587 in the district, while the active case count is at 37,423, as per the data.Appealing to residents to take all precautions, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Residents should try and stay indoors and follow all possible precautions. Unless it is very important, do not leave the house and use a face mask covering your mouth and nose while going out. People should also ensure that they follow social distancing norms when they go out.” The deputy commissioner further said that residents can dial the round-the-clock Covid-19 helpline number, 1950, for any information. “Apart from this, the district administration has also arranged to provide information through WhatsApp chat bot on 9643277788 mobile number,” he said. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day, the number of recoveries was higher than the new cases. A total of 3739 positive patients recovered on Sunday, as per the health bulletin. On the testing front, the health department collected 11,064 samples and reported that the results of 2,252 patients were awaited. According to records of the district health department, of the total active cases, 34,888 patients are in home isolation, 153 are in district Covid-19 care centres and 2,382 are currently hospitalised. Meanwhile, on Sunday, a total of 12,526 citizens were vaccinated in Gurugram, with the first dose being given to 8,756 residents and the second dose to 3,770 residents at 76 session sites, a total of 535,518 residents have been vaccinated in the district till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-case-count-falls-below-3-000-first-time-since-april-20-101620582254819.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Private hospitals face staff crunch amid spike in cases||Private hospitals in the city are facing a staff crunch in Covid-19 wards as many are quitting their jobs fearing for their lives or due to better offers due to increased demand, officials of hospitals said.Hospital representatives said that with the sharp increase in the number of cases and subsequently, the number of beds, their staff are facing heavy pressure. Many workers also tested positive in the last 20 days and although their symptoms are mild to moderate, the managements are also offering existing staff higher salaries to prevent a crisis.Dr Subhash Khanna, of Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14, said that they are facing a challenge to hire staff for the Covid-19 ward. “We have 30 Covid beds and the existing staff is working hard round-the-clock, but the agencies providing nursing staff has given up as the staff are demanding high salaries for the job. People are taking advantage of the situation and demanding a multifold hike in salary,” he said.Hospitals managements said that besides increasing salaries, they are also offering incentives to retain the staff.Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that they are running short of nursing staff for the last two months. “The nursing staff is the backbone of the hospitals and without sufficient staff, they cannot increase the number of beds. All the agencies and job portals are unable to provide any as the demand has increased and they are demanding exorbitant salaries, which is not feasible. On average, we used to interview two people a day, but nowadays, we are hardly getting one new member in a month,” he said.Representatives of few other hospitals said that the staff is demanding at least a 40% hike in salaries to continue their work and are presenting offer letters from other hospitals, where they are being offered double their current pay.JP Singh, a representative of Samvit hospital on Sohna Road, said that retaining the nursing staff at this time is one of the biggest challenges. “All the staff is working round the clock and risking their lives. They are in demand now and hospitals are forced to accept their demands as there is no other option left. Otherwise, patients admitted to Covid-19 wards will have to be either shifted or will be left unattended,” he said.The hospitals’ recruitment teams are also working more than 12 hours a day to hire nursing staff. They said that even freshers are getting paid more than experienced workers due to the increased demand.Appeals from the administration for volunteers has also largely gone unanswered and the number of beds and Covid care centres has increased across the city, but unable to get nursing staff as per the number of patients.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The district administration has already provided staff to a few big private hospitals of the city in April when Covid-19 cases were gradually increasing. It included students from nursing colleges. In the government set-ups, we have sufficient staff, but for the new facility being set up at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, the department has asked for doctors, nurses and other people required to handle Covid-19 patients. The district administration has appealed medical students, nurses and retired doctors to come forward as volunteers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospitals-face-staff-crunch-amid-spike-in-cases-101620582254246.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Health dept increases focus on rural pockets||With cases increasing in rural areas, the district administration has deployed 138 health teams to focus on testing, contact tracing and treatment. The district administration started intensive monitoring of rural areas from Saturday, said officials. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said, “As cases are increasing in rural areas also, we are monitoring the situation closely. A total of 138 teams have been constituted for monitoring rural areas in the district. These teams will be focusing on areas falling under seven primary health centres. The teams would visit all the houses and conduct rapid antigen tests of symptomatic patients and also focus on contact tracing.” The rural areas covered by the teams include; Bhondsi, Badashahpur, Palra, Kasan, Bhangrola, Bhora Kalan and Farrukhnagar. The Haryana government on Saturday announced that around 8,000 multidisciplinary teams would be deputed to launch a door-to-door Covid-19 screening drive in rural areas, amid reports of low testing and underreporting of the infections. The teams, led by trainee doctors and health department officials, will have ASHA and anganwadi workers and each team will cover approximately 500 households. In the past two days, the district health department conducted over 1,660 tests with over 25 people testing positive. “We were already conducting tests in rural areas, but with cases rapidly increasing in urban areas, cases are increasing in rural areas also due to movement of locals. Now, even if a person tests negative in a rapid test, the teams will constantly monitor their health, and take samples for RT-PCR testing after a gap of three to four days,” said Sharma. Last week, health department officials had said that Covid-19 cases are controlled in rural areas when compared to urban areas of the district because of lower population density. Residents, however, said that cases are increasing in rural areas, with almost no facilities available. “Locals in villages do not even have access to basic medicines like paracetamol, at times. They are relying on immunity boosting drinks (kadha). It is also not possible to practice home isolation in rural areas as large families live together, due to which most family members end up testing positive,” said a resident of Sohna, requesting anonymity. Gurugram on Sunday reported 2,842 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 37,423. On Sunday, deaths of 10 positive patients were also reported from the district. With this, a total of 587 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district so far. The recovery rate in the district stands at 75.71%, while the fatality rate is 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-increases-focus-on-rural-pockets-101620582194321.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Beneficiaries allege mismanagement of vaccination process||Many vaccine beneficiaries who had registered slots for vaccination at the government-run session sites on Sunday returned without taking their shots as they were unaware of a token system for vaccinations at the primary health centres (PHCs), amid limited availability of vaccines.Officials of the health department, however, said that the problem is mainly among those aged 18-44 who are walking in without registration, as the number of vaccines in their stock is limited.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “It is mandatory for people above 45 years, front-line workers and healthcare workers to get themselves registered on Co-WIN , while people who need second dose can directly walk in as they are already registered. Nearly 70% of the allocated stock is for second dose and 30% for first shot. In case of beneficiaries under 18-44 years, online registration along with appointment is a priority.”At the government vaccination centres, people who have got themselves registered are given a token based on which they are vaccinated. At some primary health centres, the registration did not reflect on the computer system, leaving people in a panic. Officials said that people who are walking in are first registered on the database and are only then assigned a token.Residents alleged that the problem has been compounded as private hospitals have not started the vaccine drive.Anand Chawla, a resident of Sushant Lok-1, said that he had a harrowing experience at Tigra PHC on Sunday. “The doctor deployed there denied vaccination even after reaching on time, taking token and waiting in queue for 45 minutes. They said the quota for the day was over and asked me to come on another day. It is already painful to get an appointment for the 18-44 age group, and then this happens. They called the police to send people back home after their quota was over,” he said.Chawla took to the internet to post his experience, following which many residents were critical of the exercise.Ajay Sharma, resident of Tulip Ivory in Sector 70, said, “Logging and getting the appointment is a huge task. For us, it was manageable, but the rural population was facing a tough time and were in panic. Vaccination should be automated and message should be sent to people stating their vaccination date and time.”As per Sunday’s daily bulletin of the district, 8,756 people got their first vaccine dose and 3,770 got their second jab, taking the total vaccination count to 535,518.Health department officials and doctors at PHCs said that many people are coming for vaccination without getting registered and they create a ruckus, forcing officials to vaccinate them.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The department received over 25,000 doses of Covishield and 6,000 doses of Covaxin on Saturday night. These doses will be given to vaccine beneficiaries above 45 years, who are scheduled for their second dose. Additional 7,500 doses have been allocated for those aged between 18 and 44. Vaccination centres can inoculate between 100 and 300 people every day. At various health centres, footfall has been high, but we can only appeal to people to maintain social distancing as they wait in queues.”Residents said that more people want to get vaccinated due to the recent spike in cases and limited vaccine availability is a concern, due to which arguments also break out at the vaccination sites.Vinod Tayal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, said that he had booked an appointment for taking the second dose of vaccine on May 6 between 10am and noon slot at Sukhrali UPHC-2. “When I went there and showed my booking details to the staff concerned, they refused to accept my booking slot details and asked me whether I had a token issued by them in the morning. Then, a friend informed me that I can go to Nathupur UPHC and get the second dose without a prior booking. I went there with my wife and we got the same. It is totally mismanaged and people are really suffering,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/beneficiaries-allege-mismanagement-of-vaccination-process-101620582136118.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Committees to assign remdesivir, ensure oxygen to patients in home isolation||The district administration formed separate committees on Sunday to allocate remdesivir injections to critically ill Covid-19 patients and ensure oxygen availability for patients in home isolation.The order issued by the district administration stated that a four-member committee, headed by additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar, will scrutinise the applications for remdesivir twice a day and ensure that the medicine is issued to both private and government hospitals in a transparent manner.As per the directions, hospitals that require this injection can send an email to the committee at remidesivir.gurugram@gmail.com or submit a pro forma in physical form at the office of the civil surgeon.Two officials at the civil surgeon’s office, Surender Singh and Anil Parmar, will ensure communications between committee members for the meeting and also communicate with the hospitals through email and phone, the order issued by deputy commissioner Yash Garg stated.The district administration on Sunday also constituted a three-member committee headed by Rajnarayan Kaushik, an IAS officer, to ensure oxygen cylinders are made available to patients in home isolation. For this purpose, private firms, NGOs and the district Red Cross will work jointly and ensure that cylinders are made available, said officials. It shall also fix the rate at which oxygen cylinders shall be made available to patients, said the order issued by Garg.Apart from delivering oxygen, the Gurugram administration will also distribute Covid-19 kits, containing 15 items such as an oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, ayurvedic medicines, masks and information booklet, free of cost as a part of the statewide exercise. This is expected to cost around ₹80 lakh, said officials.At present, there are over 37,000 Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation in the district. The kits will also include allopathic medicines such as azithromycin, paracetamol, and vitamins, said officials. A fund of ₹2.46 crore has been earmarked for distribution of these kits across the state and the order issued by the additional chief secretary, health, Haryana has also directed the deputy commissioners to procure these kits at the earliest.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Workers of health department will ensure that these kits reach patients in home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/committees-to-assign-remdesivir-ensure-oxygen-to-patients-in-home-isolation-101620582135526.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Cases per week dip for first time in four weeks||For the first time in over a month, the number of new Covid-19 cases per week decreased, with the district recording 25,860 new cases between May 3 and 9, lower than the 27,358 new cases recorded over the previous week, between April 26 and May 2.Since April 4, there has been a continuous increase in the number of cases per week, with cases increasing by 2% around March-end to around 27% in early May (see box). The last time cases per week dipped was on April 4, when 1,098 cases were recorded between March 29 and April 4, lower than the 1,589 cases recorded between March 21 and 28, according to the health department data.Officials attributed the dip in cases per week to the implementation of a lockdown in Gurugram. On May 1 and 2, Gurugram was among the nine worst-affected districts in the state, due to which the Haryana government initially enforced a weekend lockdown in the nine districts, following which a week-long lockdown was enforced on May 3 across the state.“A combination of lockdown by the Haryana government and the efforts of the district administration and various government bodies in the city are likely to have been a major contributor to this drop in Covid-19 growth along with the support of residents (who are) opting to stay indoors. While this drop is encouraging, we know that the Covid-19 situation is still not completely under control, and continuous efforts are being executed to limits its spread and prevent people from contracting it,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.According to the data, since April 4-11, the weekly percentage increase in cases has consistently remained higher than the preceding week. Between April 26 and May 2, the city saw an increase of 26.48% in cases compared to the preceding week. But this week, between May 3 and May 9, the increase in cases was 19.79%.Data from the daily health bulletin of the district administration also lends support to this recent downward trend.On April 29, the district recorded its highest single-day spike in cases, at 5,042 new cases, but since then, the district recorded more than 4,000 cases in a single day on only four more instances. On Sunday, the city recorded 2,842 cases, the lowest single-day spike in cases since April 20, when the city recorded 2,344 cases.Although the spike in cases has taken a dip, various studies and experts have pegged the second wave of Covid-19 to peak in mid-May or next month.As per both a State Bank of India (SBI) research report and the three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, the second wave is expected to peak in mid-May. However, a report by CLSA, a foreign capital market firm, pegs the spike in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cases-per-week-dip-for-first-time-in-four-weeks-101620582134893.html
09-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown extended till May 17||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown in the state for another week, until May 17, to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, with officials concentrating on Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts, which account for almost half of the total number of Covid-19 infections in the state.As per the directions issued by state government officials, only 11 persons will be allowed to attend gatherings, including weddings and funerals. Wedding functions are only allowed at residences and courts with not more than 20 people, while baraat processions were disallowed. Health minister Anil Vij on Sunday evening announced the lockdown through a tweet, stating that the stringent enforcement will continue. Previously, the state government imposed a week-long lockdown in the state from May 3, following a weekend curfew in nine worst-affected districts. Vij, while announcing the extension of the curbs, however, indicated that the nomenclature of the lockdown would be changed and it would now be called a “mahamari alert” or a “Surakshit Haryana”. He also said that a detailed order in this regard will be issued soon. Vij in his tweet at 8.49pm on Sunday wrote, “Mahamari Alert / Surkshit Haryana announced from 10 May to 17 May. Stringent measures will be taken to contain spread of Corona in Haryana. Detailed order to be issued soon.” The tweet by Vij, who also holds the charge of home ministry in the state cabinet, also cleared the confusion regarding the extension of the lockdown as it was set to end at 10am on Monday. A senior district administration official, when asked about the matter, said that they are still awaiting the order. As per the previous lockdown order, the district administration stated that all educational institutes, malls, theatres, restaurants and similar places will remain closed, but industry outside municipal area, those producing essential goods and several others would be allowed to operate. Under the current lockdown, all social gatherings, parties, meetings are disallowed, unless specifically allowed by deputy commissioners. All religious places are closed and religious congregations are not allowed. Hotels, restaurants, food joints, including those in malls, are allowed to operate till 10.30pm only for takeaways. Roadside dhabas and food stalls, and fruit vendors were also allowed to operate but only for takeaways. Most activities are not allowed in the containment zones or large outbreak regions, with only home delivery of food permitted in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-till-may-17-101620582134311.html
