10-05-2021||Gurugram||RWAs complain over biomedical waste pile-up, raise health concerns||At least 52 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) submitted a joint complaint to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the district administration on Sunday over the poor collection of waste from Covid-affected households in their respective areas over the past few weeks and also raised health concerns due to piled up biomedical waste.The RWAs, under a collective front called RWAs United, also alerted the MCG and the administration via social media on the matter. They complained that the workers of Ecogreen, the civic body’s agency for door-to-door collection of waste, visit their areas infrequently and when they do visit, collect only 20-30% of the accumulated biomedical waste due to the limited capacity of their vehicles.Officials of Ecogreen said that they have recently increased the total number of biomedical waste collection vehicles from eight to 12 to handle higher capacities.“Dedicated Ecogreen vehicles are going to different corners of the city on a daily basis for collecting biomedical waste from Covid-19 houses. They are often making multiple trips to one location. Numbers of Ecogreen supervisors have been shared by the MCG so that residents can reach out to our staff and accordingly waste is being collected from such places on a priority basis,” said Sanjeev Sharma, the official spokesperson for Ecogreen.In the letter to MCG and administration, the RWAs of Vatika City, Orchid Petals, Tatvam Villas, Princeton Estate, Unitech Harmony, Ridgewood, Central Park 2, Uniworld Garden, Vipul Greens, Omaxe Nile and Malibu Condominium, alleged that their areas were the worst affected.“Until last month, Ecogreen vehicles were coming to the society twice a week. But over the last four weeks, they came once every 10-15 days and as a result, there was a huge pile of biomedical garbage accumulating inside the society. Even when the vehicles arrived, of the nine 900-litre dustbins reserved for biomedical waste, they were only able to empty three or four dustbins at a go as their vehicles ran out of space,” said Jyoti Ahuja, joint secretary, Vatika City RWA.Ahuja said that following their complaint, the MCG reached out to them and sent a waste collection truck to clear out the waste on Monday.However, representatives of RWAs United said on Monday that of the 11 residential areas where the situation of biomedical waste is severe, waste had only been cleared from Vatika City.“The remaining RWAs are still waiting for Ecogreen vehicles to arrive. The situation of biomedical waste has been severe over the past four to five weeks, Ecogreen vehicles are collecting waste once every seven to 10 days, and when they come they are only able to lift 20-30% of the total biomedical waste load. In the interim, balconies of Covid-19 houses are getting filled with biomedical waste and people are running out of space to store them,” said DIG (retd) of the Indian Coast Guard Siddharth S Sood, president, Harmony Apartment Owners Welfare Association (HOWA).In residential societies and condominiums, two in-house staff collect biomedical waste from each floor. One person is responsible for collecting it while the other person has to ensure that the area is immediately sanitised. Subsequently, the collected waste is either directly dumped in the Ecogreen vehicles or dropped at a designated area. In June last year, the MCG had issued a public release stating that to reduce the risk of transmission of Covid-19 and cope with logistical difficulties, Ecogreen vehicles will lift biomedical waste from each of its 35 wards on two fixed days in a week.On April 21, amid complaints from residents, the MCG issued a public release reiterating that Ecogreen has eight dedicated vehicles for this task, two for each of its four zones. The MCG had also given the mobile numbers of supervisors of these vehicles so that residents could contact them directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwas-complain-over-biomedical-waste-pile-up-raise-health-concerns-101620670160574.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||100-bed facility at Tau Devi Lal stadium to start in a week, aid in treating cases from rural areas||A 100-bed makeshift Covid-19 facility being set up at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium is likely to be operational within a week, which will aid in handling patients from rural areas that are witnessing a gradual surge in infections, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner said on Monday.“The construction of the facility has been going on at a fast pace and will be ready within six to seven days. Medical supplies have already been procured and health staff is also being arranged to run the facility. It will ease the Covid-19 burden and mitigate the current crisis, especially emerging in rural areas that lack proper healthcare infrastructure,” said Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner.In rural areas falling under Pataudi, Farrukhnagar and Sohna, the test positivity rate (the proportion of positives out of the sample tested) has gone up to 21%. Subdivisional hospitals in these blocks lack the infrastructure to handle moderate to severely ill Covid-19 cases. Even the existing healthcare infrastructure in the city is under immense pressure in catering to patients from urban areas. Until Monday, at least 2,402 critically ill patients were admitted to the Covid-19 hospitals in the city.According to Garg, since many people from villages cannot afford treatment in private hospitals, the new facility will help in providing timely treatment to patients from rural areas and will also cater to the urban population. The facility will be run and managed by the district administration.The facility will have at least 10 ventilator beds and 10 beds in a high dependency unit, along with 80 beds with oxygen support systems. “The administration has been working on setting up an oxygen plant at the facility so that we are prepared for the next wave,” said Garg.The district health department has sent a request for hiring at least 84 health workers, comprising 60 staff nurses, 16 medical officers, three physicians and five anaesthetists to run the facility. “The list has already been shared with the deputy commissioner,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The facility was earlier planned to come up in Sector 27 but faced resistance from residents of the area, following which the district administration shifted it to Tau Devi Lal stadium.On Monday, more than 80 workers were involved in setting up the makeshift facility. The construction in-charge, who requested not to be named, said, “Within a week of the announcement, the basic infrastructure has been set up. Now, electricity, air conditioning and water support systems are being arranged. In all likelihood, it will be ready in seven to 10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/100bed-facility-at-tau-devi-lal-stadium-to-start-in-a-week-aid-in-treating-cases-from-rural-areas-101620670159478.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||RTI activist, sons arrested for duping banks of ₹15 crore||A Gurugram-based RTI activist and his family members were booked on Monday for allegedly duping two banks of ₹15 crore by taking multiple loans against a property by transferring it among the family members, the police said.Right to Information (RTI) activist Harinder Dhingra and his two sons were arrested on Monday, while his wife, daughter-in-law and grandson were issued a notice asking them to join the investigation, the police said.According to the police, the family members attached the house, constructed over 500 square yards in DLF Phase-1, in 2003 for a business loan of around ₹3 crore. When the bank issued a notice over the non-payment of the loan and filed for the attachment of property, he allegedly transferred the property to his elder son, Prashant, and took another loan for ₹8 crore, by mortgaging the property with another bank. He, however, allegedly failed to repay the second loan as well.The police said when the second bank filed for attachment of the property, Dhingra’s younger son, Tarun, filed a case claiming a stake in the property. The family is accused of cheating the banks and keeping courts in the dark about the pending loans while seeking a transfer of property through court.The police received a complaint from a resident of Malibu Town on April 16 against the family and after investigation, registered a case under the Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471 and 120B (criminal conspiracy) on Monday. However, the police did not disclose how the complainant was affected.Dhingra and his two sons, Prashant and Tarun, were arrested while the rest of the family members were issued notices.Dhingra and his wife, Poonam, purchased the 500 square yard property in DLF Phase-1 in 2001. In 2003, Poonam and Prashant allegedly took a loan for their export firm from a bank against the property. In 2004, the loan of around ₹3 crore was declared a non-performing asset (NPA) by the bank, which filed a case before the debt recovery tribunal (DRT) in New Delhi for attachment of the property in lieu of the pending loan amount.Karan Goel, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), said to save the property from being attached, Prashant approached a district court seeking a claim in the property. “In November 2006, they reached a compromise at the Lok Adalat and transferred the property to Prashant Dhingra. The bank could not attach the property as its ownership changed. The family members had conspired to dupe banks and did not disclose the facts before the court,” he said.In 2007, Prashant mortgaged the property with another bank for a loan of ₹8 crore for his export firm and this loan was also declared an NPA in 2008. The bank issued a notice for recovery of ₹10 crore (including interest) and approached the DRT Chandigarh seeking attachment of the property.To allegedly avoid attachment of the property, Tarun filed a case before a Gurugram court challenging the order of the Lok Adalat decision of 2006 and staked a claim in the property. The court stayed the 2006 order of Lok Adalat, following which it was challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court in February 2016, and the order of the Lok Adalat was overturned. The property was transferred back to Harinder Dhingra and Poonam.Goel said as a case for attachment of property was pending before the court, Dhingra forged papers and transferred the property to Tarun Dhingra and his grandson Garv, who is Prashant’s son, in December 2016. “All of them live in the same house and kept transferring property among themselves after taking loans from banks,” he said.“During the investigation, it was found that Dhingra and his family duped the bank as per plan and they took loans that were never repaid and kept on transferring the property to avoid attachment,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rti-activist-sons-arrested-for-duping-banks-of-15-crore-101620670160056.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||Street vendors seek financial aid from government||With the lockdown affecting the day-to-day earnings of street vendors and other daily wage workers in the city, the street vendors’ committee wrote to the chief minister, seeking financial aid or relaxations in curbs. Under the banner of Dron Rehdi Patri Feri committee of Gurugram, street vendors submitted a copy of the letter to the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, seeking financial aid of ₹7,500 per month.Yogesh Kumar, the president of the committee, said, “The government has allowed even small restaurants to operate for deliveries, but no provisions have been made for the street vendors who depend on daily earnings. At present, we are able to manage food, using the ration we had purchased for our stalls, but there is no option available to us for medical expenses or paying the school fee of our children.”“We are requesting the government to allow us to function so that at least packed food can be delivered from our stalls, which will help us in earning some money. If the government does not allow us to start our shops, then we request them to pay ₹7,500 to each street vendor in the district,” added Kumar.At present, there are around 50,000 street vendors associated with the committee of which “around 40% have gone back to their villages as it is difficult to manage major expenses like rent, without daily earnings.”Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that as the matter was under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, the letter was forwarded to them.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said, “Last year, after the lockdown, the government had started a scheme where street vendors could take loans of ₹10,000 on low interest rates from banks to set up their work again and the same scheme is continuing. We will be looking into this matter again and see that all possible help is given to them.”Rajendra Singh Saroha, the general secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “Since the lockdown was imposed, I have been getting calls daily from street vendors and daily wage earners seeking help as they are not able to manage daily expenses. Keeping the situation in mind, we have written to the chief minister seeking financial assistance so that the street vendors can sustain themselves.”Ashok Kumar, who worked as a helper at a food stall in Sector 40 market, said, “The lockdown was imposed at the starting of the month, so the owner did not pay me last month’s salary as he himself did not have money. Now, with the lockdown being extended, there is no clarity on when I would get paid and without money, it is difficult to stay here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/street-vendors-seek-financial-aid-from-government-101620669563306.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG fixes fee of ₹5,500 per cremation, including Covid-19 deaths||Amid complaints of overcharging, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) fixed a rate of ₹5,500 for cremating bodies, including that of Covid-19 patients, according to a release issued by the civic body on Monday.The amount includes the expenses of wood, fees for the priest and a cleaning fee. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh drafted an order in this regard on April 29, a copy of which is with HT, before he was diagnosed with Covid-19. Singh’s order was circulated by the MCG internally on Monday and subsequently, made public. He stated in the order that the civic body had been receiving complaints from the public that caretakers of the cremation grounds in MCG limits are overcharging different amounts for cremation within MCG limits. “Therefore, to bring uniformity in the fee/charges for cremation of a human corpse at different cremation grounds..... I do hereby prohibit the charging of a fee beyond a sum of ₹5,500 per cremation, including the charges for wood, the fee of a priest, and sanitation charges,” the order stated.Singh further directed the in-charges of cremation grounds to submit a daily report to the MCG office about information, including the amount charged for each cremation. The order was issued under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, and further stated that any person found violating these orders will be prosecuted under the relevant provisions of the act. “At certain places, we received complaints that the in-charges were asking over ₹15,000-20,000 for doing one cremation. Hence, a standard fee has been introduced and the rates will be displayed across all the four major crematoriums as well,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The four major crematoriums falling under the MCG area at Madanpuri, near Pataudi Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Sector 32 near Medanta Hospital, and at Carterpuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-fixes-fee-of-5-500-per-cremation-including-covid-19-deaths-101620669561683.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||Rural areas hit by Covid-19, positivity rate remained over 21% in April||The second wave of Covid-19 has hit rural areas too, officials of the district health department said, with the test positivity rate (proportion of positives out of the samples tested) reaching 21.8% in April, as per the department’s data. Seven high-risk areas have also been identified, where mass surveillance by conducting door-to-door rapid antigen tests started from May 8.“The second Covid-19 wave has penetrated rural areas of the district. Through aggressive and timely testing, we are trying to control the transmission. At least 138 teams have been formed who will do antigen testing in seven rural areas where test positivity rate has been high,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.The worst-affected rural blocks of the district are under Sohna and Pataudi, said officials, pointing to an increase in cases in Bhondsi, Palra, Kasan, Bhangrola, Bhangrola, Badshahpur and Farrukhnagar.The health department data shows that in April, the test positivity rate was 16.6% in Bhorakalan, 19.3% in Bhondsi, 17.7% in Farrukhnagar and 14% in Mandpura. Kasan primary health centre (PHC) in Pataudi and Palra PHC in Sohna showed the highest positivity rate, of almost 21%, officials said.These high-risk areas are inching closer to a positivity rate of almost 26% that is reported in large outbreak regions of the city. Gauging the seriousness of the matter, antigen testing started in rural areas on May 8.Of 2,194 rapid antigen tests administered on May 8, at least 33 tested positive while on May 9, at least 25 people were confirmed positive for Covid-19 out of the 1,169 who were tested. Antigen test delivers results within 15-20 minutes but has lower specificity to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus despite people exhibiting symptomsAccording to health officials, people in rural areas do not come forward for testing compared to those in urban areas. “Therefore, antigen testing is one of the ways to control the spread before it creates a crisis-like situation in the coming time. Most of these areas have a mix of urban and rural populations, leading to faster transmission of coronavirus. Many people commute every day to the city for work or other tasks. All these factors have led to the Covid-19 spike in rural areas,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer.In May, at least 1,392 new infections have been confirmed in Badshahpur, 1,552 in Bhangrola, 305 in Kasan, 374 in Farrukhnagar and 281 in Bhorakalan. On the other hand, over 5,521 cases have been reported from urban areas of the new Gurugram under Tigra urban primary health centre until May 9. Likewise, in areas under Chanderlok UPHC, which covers Sushant Lok and adjoining societies, about 4,832 cases have been reported this month, whereas 2,970 cases have been reported in Wazirabad and Sector 56 in nine days of the month, said officials.On Monday, 2,794 cases were reported in the district, taking the total count of active cases to 33,185. As many as 12 deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 599.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rural-areas-hit-by-covid-19-positivity-rate-remained-over-21-in-april-101620669559441.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||Cap on gatherings reduced to 11 as extended lockdown comes into effect||After the state government extended the lockdown in Haryana till May 17 late Sunday, the district administration on Monday issued orders capping the number of persons allowed for weddings and funerals at 11. Officials said that wedding processions, including baraat, are banned and ceremonies should be held only at homes or in courts.Besides the additional restrictions, the state administration, this time, has allowed tree cutting operations of the forest department and Haryana Forest Development Corporation during the lockdown for meeting fuelwood requirement of the municipal corporations and district administrations.“The extended lockdown period will be observed as Mahamari Alert- Surakshit Haryana in compliance with the state government’s directive. Covid-19 cases in the district will start plateauing after May 13 as the impact of lockdown could be seen in Delhi-NCR now,” said Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram.With Gurugram likely to reach its second Covid-19 wave peak before May 15, Garg said that the ongoing lockdown from May 3 has already started showing its impact.On May 9, Haryana chief secretary Vijay Vardhan issued an order on the extension of restrictions, which was imposed from May 3 till May 10, after the state home minister Anil Vij had tweeted: “Mahamari Alert / Surkshit Haryana announced from 10 May to 17 May. Stringent measures will be taken to contain the spread of Corona in Haryana”.Under the previous lockdown, wedding functions could be conducted with a ceiling of 30 persons in indoor spaces and 50 persons in open spaces, if granted permissions by the district administration. Even for funerals and cremation, at least 20 people were allowed. However, officials said that the cap was decreased for stricter enforcement of safety protocols.As per the current lockdown regulations, all educational, training and coaching institutions, cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gyms and religious places will continue to remain shut.No restriction has been imposed on the movement of domestic helps, cooks, drivers, nurses, medical attendees and caregivers to senior citizens and specially-abled persons.Hotels and restaurants including those within malls will remain open only for home deliveries and takeaways until 10m. Roadside dhabas and food stalls have been allowed to provide parcels for takeaway and delivery services.Movement of private vehicles will be allowed only for emergency services vaccinations, hospital visits, veterinary care and getting essential commodities.Passengers returning from airports, and railway and bus stations are also allowed to move. All private transport services, such as taxis and autos are allowed to ply. Metro rail service will also function with restrictions, besides bus services with 50% passenger capacity, according to the orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cap-on-gatherings-reduced-to-11-as-extended-lockdown-comes-into-effect-101620669501852.html
10-05-2021||Gurugram||Ventilator beds increased in city hospitals||Officials said that the number of ventilator beds in private hospitals has increased after pending orders were supplied this month. At least 20 of the 43 Covid-19 hospitals HT spoke to on Monday confirmed that they have increased the number of ventilators beds, by 280 in total at the 20 facilities.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that private hospitals are increasing ventilator beds as the number of patients has increased following the Covid-19 surge. “Critical patients need immediate medical support systems to prevent fatalities. This is a medical emergency and private hospitals should increase the capacity of ICU or ventilator beds,” he said.Garg said that nine new ventilators and life support systems were installed in government hospitals, including four ventilators at Civil Hospital in Sector 10.Garg said that at least 10% of all hospital beds must be equipped with ventilators. “The demand is increasing with the number of cases and the situation will improve within a week as more and more hospitals are procuring ventilators,” he said.At present, only 2% of the total beds have ventilator facilities, officials of the health department said. At present, there are around 350 ventilator beds in the district.A ventilator is a life-support apparatus that breathes for a patient who is physically unable to breathe or is breathing insufficiently. Private hospitals charge ₹20,000 to ₹40,000 per day for a ventilator.Anil Khatana, the head of operations at W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said they only had one ventilator bed for Covid patients earlier, which has been increased to five at present, with four more in the pipeline. “The price of a ventilator has increased from ₹4.5 lakh to ₹9 lakh in the last two months. The number of patients is increasing and ventilators are required,” he said.“We have already increased our ICU bed capacity, added more ventilators and are trying to procure more. We see admissions are predominantly for ICU beds now,” said Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent of Artemis Hospitals.Dr Subhash Khanna of Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14 said that they are increasing ventilator beds as critical patients are not finding beds in other hospitals. “Many families have to shift them to Delhi or nearby districts risking their lives without a life support system. We are increasing five more ventilator beds, but are waiting for the nursing staff. The hospitals have to increase the numbers of ventilators for serious patients to save their lives,” he said.Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy Hospital, said that at their two hospitals, the number of ventilators has been increased from 15 to 55 over 10 days. “We have demanded 20 more as the number of critical care patients is increasing and shifting a patient from one hospital to another is risking their lives. Many patients have died in this process, so we decided to increase the number of ventilators,” he said.Amit Bhura, the facility director of Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, said that to help save more lives and be able to better serve the patients, they have added six more ventilators. “Now, we have 16 ventilators in total to treat patients from Delhi-NCR,” he said.Many people lost their relatives and loved ones due to the non-availability of ventilators. Families find it difficult to even shift patients in critical condition.Kriti Parmar, a resident of Sector 31, said she lost her mother last week as she could not get a ventilator bed in any of the hospitals. “We were told that demands have been sent, but they were awaiting the consignment for ventilators. We tried in six hospitals but could not get a bed anywhere. Doctors said she could survive only on ventilator support but unfortunately, we didn’t get any,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ventilator-beds-increased-in-city-hospitals-101620669501242.html
