11-05-2021||Gurugram||Work on oxygen plants in Gurugram yet to start, district not on priority lists, say officials||Work on the construction of six new oxygen plants in Gurugram is likely to be delayed as the district does not figure on the two priority lists announced by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday.On Tuesday, Gurugram received around 37 metric tonnes of oxygen from plants in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan, Panipat and Faridabad, officials said. However, the district has a requirement of around 55 metric tonnes of oxygen per day, shortage of which caused a multitude of issues over the past few weeks.NHAI officials said that site inspections have been conducted, but the work will commence only when the district is named on the priority list.“We have conducted site inspections and the planning is being done but the work will only when Gurugram figures in the priority list. We are expecting this to happen very soon. The civil and electrical infrastructure set up will be completed in 15 days,” said Suresh Kumar, project director, NHAI.Rao Inderjit Singh, the Lok Sabha member from Gurugram and union minister of state, said that he has already taken up this issue with the health ministry to ensure that Gurugram hospitals are included in the next priority list.“I have taken up this issue with the union health ministry. Not only these oxygen plants, but I have also asked the state government to ensure that large private hospitals also install their own plants as there is a strong possibility of a third wave. We must also increase the number of oxygen beds and ventilators in city hospitals and across Haryana,” said Singh, adding that the issues were also taken up with the chief minister in a virtual meeting on Tuesday.The task of creating civil and electrical infrastructure for setting up 581 pressure swing absorption plants near hospitals across the country has been given to the highways authority. Out of these 581 plants, district administration officials said that 50 will come up in Haryana and six of them in Gurugram.According to the NHAI officials, six hospitals in Haryana have been included in the two priority lists released by the authority. In the first list, civil hospitals in Charki Dadri, Bhiwani and Narayangarh (in Ambala district) were prioritised for oxygen plants. In the second list, three hospitals in Kaithal, Ambala and Bhiwani were included.NHAI officials in Gurugram said that they have inspected the sites at Civil Hospital, subdivisional hospitals in Pataudi, Sohna and one at Mandikhera in Nuh district. “We are ready to work on the design based on steel fabrication for these plants and work will be completed in 15 days. As soon as the oxygen plant is delivered, it would be ready for installation and made operational at the earliest,” said Kumar.The NHAI would be spending around ₹15 lakh for constructing each plant, said officials.The Gururgam district administration last week had said that the plant at Civil hospital will have a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, while those at Sohna and Pataudi will have capacities of 200 litres per minute, each. The plant at Mandikhera in Nuh will have a production capacity of 500 litres per minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/work-on-oxygen-plants-in-gurugram-yet-to-start-district-not-on-priority-lists-say-officials-101620757348710.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||48 RWAs express interest to set up Covid care facilities||In 10 days since the district administration allowed residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to set up Covid-19 care facilities using their own resources in their societies, as many as 48 RWAs have expressed an interest in setting up facilities, according to a release issued by the administration on Tuesday.In a Covid care facility (CCF), presymptomatic, asymptomatic and suspected patients can be kept in isolation with basic medical care. “Around 48 ​​residential societies have expressed their desire to open a CCF. As per the guidelines, senior citizens, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, and those with comorbidities cannot avail of CCF facilities, as such patients are required to be admitted to hospitals or other care facilities,” a spokesperson for the administration said.Administration officials said that such facilities will be linked with the health department’s surveillance teams, and ambulances and important telephone numbers of the RWA, NGOs, doctors, caregivers and ambulance service providers will be shared with all stakeholders as well as pasted inside each facility. The CCFs will be inspected daily by the rapid response teams, said officials.Administration officials reiterated that the facility can be set up only inside community centres, clubhouses, or vacant flats, provided they are located in a secluded area. The administration’s release did not, however, share the names of the 48 RWAs.On May 1, deputy commissioner Yash Garg had issued an order permitting RWAs to set up CCFs using their own resources. Two days later, the administration had issued guidelines for the same.Many RWAs, however, were dissatisfied with both the guidelines and Garg’s order, with their three main contentions being that they want moderately ill Covid-19 patients to be allowed treatment at the facilities, permit multiple RWAs to set up one CCF as several condominiums and societies did not have a community centre or clubhouse, and support from the administration in the procurement of Covid-19 medicines, machines, oxygen cylinders, and medical staff to monitor the health of those admitted to the facilities.“We are in constant touch with the administration regarding the setting up of CCFs. The administration has given assurance in provision of oxygen cylinders to RWAs and remaining concerns, such as the need for establishing the facility in a secluded place, among others, are also being taken up and deliberated upon,” said Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA), one of the members of RWAs United, an umbrella body representing 53 RWAs from across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/48-rwas-express-interest-to-set-up-covid-care-facilities-101620757347513.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Six booked for attempt to murder after tussle over parking escalates||Six persons were booked in Farrukhnagar on Tuesday in connection with a firing incident, in which the husband of village sarpanch Mukesh Devi had a narrow escape, said the police. The incident took place after the victim, identified as Satbir Dhankhar, had resolved a parking issue between the suspects and a local family.Dhankhar, a resident of Patli village in Farrukhnagar, said, “Two families had got into an argument over parking on Monday evening. Following this, some of the villagers urged a group of men — one of the parties concerned — to apologise to the other family for abusing and threatening to kill them for parking a vehicle outside their house. They also urged the former family to keep a check on their son who was allegedly involved in illegal activities and often fought with the villagers on different issues,” Dhankhar said.The locals had been complaining about the group of men for allegedly extorting money from shopkeepers, and often fighting with the ones who intervened.Dhankhar had resolved the matter, according to the police.Later, around 5 am on Tuesday, when Dhankhar had gone for a morning walk near a field close to Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, a person opened fire at him from inside a car. Fortunately, he did not suffer any injury in the firing.“The window glasses of the Swift Dzire were tinted, and I couldn’t see anyone inside the car. Somebody opened fire at me, and immediately fled the spot... I had noted the registration number. The car belonged to one of the men who was involved in the spar on Monday,” he said.An “attempt to murder” case has been registered against the six men — who are on the run — at the Farrukhnagar police station.Assistant commissioner of police (crime), Dharamvir Singh, said the suspects had also gone to Dhankhar’s chemist shop in Farrukhnagar around 11.45 am on Tuesday, and threatened to kill his nephew. “We have recovered CCTV footage from the shop, and are conducting raids to arrest the suspects,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-after-tussle-over-parking-escalates-101620757348109.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations will be held at govt schools to tackle crowds: Health department||To tackle the heavy footfall for Covid-19 vaccination at various government health centres across the district, the health department has decided to hold vaccinations at government schools and community health centres in areas witnessing high footfalls. Officials said that elderly citizens scheduled to receive their second dose have been facing trouble due to poor social distancing norms in place.“Medical officers of 37 urban primary health centres (UPHC) have been directed to hold vaccination drives in government buildings having open areas, if they are facing difficulties in handling a large number of people at health centres. Vaccination camps cannot be set up at private facilities,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.From May 1, as private hospitals stopped inoculation due to a shortage of vaccines, a large percentage of vaccine beneficiaries who have been waiting for the second dose inoculation are reaching out to government health centres. Some of the major centres, at Tigra, Chauma and Laxman Vihar, among others, witnessed heavy footfall and subsequently, clashes due to low vaccine stock.As reported by HT earlier this week, many people above the age of 60 years refrained from standing in long queues, fearing that they might get infected due to the large crowds. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in a review meeting last week, directed that vaccinations must be held in open spaces.On Tuesday, in some of the densely populated areas, including Gurugram village, Sukhrali and Gandhi Nagar, the vaccination drive took place at government schools. According to medical officers, multiple session sites are being conducted for different age groups, which lead to long queues.“The rush has increased. Everyone who directly walks in wants to get inoculated, but we can inoculate only a limited number of people in a day. Crowd management or even ensuring social distancing becomes difficult as people are often agitated and refuse to follow rules,” a medical officer said, requesting anonymity.The district health department has also requested the police department to deploy its staff for crowd management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-will-be-held-at-govt-schools-to-tackle-crowds-health-department-101620757288783.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana temporarily stops interstate buses amid Covid crisis||The Haryana transport department has stopped interstate buses temporarily to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the district, according to the officials on Tuesday.Buses from Haryana to Jaipur, Agra, and Katra have been stopped temporarily, but buses travelling within Haryana are operational, they said.Kulbir Singh Dhaka, general manager, Gurugram bus depot, said, “We have stopped interstate buses from Haryana to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand temporarily due to the rise in the cases. Also, we have been getting fewer passengers as other state governments, too, ask for negative Covid-19 reports for the purpose of travelling. We were facing heavy losses due to this... On an average, we earn a profit of ₹35 per kilometre, but now, it has come to almost ₹20 per kilometre. So, it is not feasible to continue the bus services.”The number of coronavirus cases in Gurugram are still on the rise. As of Tuesday, there were 2,659 fresh cases, and 34,117 active cases in the district. The recovery rate in Gurugram stands at 78.55%, and the fatality rate at 0.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-temporarily-stops-interstate-buses-amid-covid-crisis-101620757287480.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG starts using dung cakes for cremations to reduce tree felling||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started using cow dung cakes for cremations to reduce the use of wood. Officials said that 20 tonnes of cow dung cakes have been procured for use.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer of MCG, said, “We started using cow dung cakes as an alternative to wood on Monday and have procured around 20 tonnes from our gaushalas. This is being done to reduce the pressure on fuelwood so that more trees are not cut. We are still figuring out details of how much is needed for one cremation process, but an alternative is being used.”At present, the cow dung cakes are being procured from MCG’s cowshed in Carterpuri.The number of deaths of Covid-19 positive patients has been increasing in the district putting pressure on crematoriums and leading to long waiting hours for performing the last rites. According to the records of the health department, a total of 612 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district till now with 13 deaths reported on Tuesday.Puran Yadav, the president of the Carterpuri cowshed, said, “We have deployed two machines at the cowshed for faster production so that these can be used at crematoriums in case of shortage of wood.”The decision to use cow dung cakes was taken on Monday, after a city-based environmentalist raised the issue of reducing the use of fuelwood after the amendment norms for the lockdown released by the state government on Sunday mentioned that felling of trees will be allowed.The guidelines mentioned, “Tree felling operations of forest department and Haryana Forest Development Corporation shall remain operational subject to the condition that they will be allowed only to the extent required for meeting fuelwood requirements of municipal corporations and district administrations.”Meanwhile, officials of the district forest department said they submitted a list of trees that can be used as fuelwood at cremation sites to the forest development corporation last week.Rajeev Tejyan, divisional forest officer for Gurugram, said, “We have submitted a list of old and dry trees available with the department to the forest development corporation, which is further shared with the district administration. We have a stock of around 100-150 trees available at different forest ranges that can be used. So far, no new trees have been felled in the division and we have not received any requests too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-starts-using-dung-cakes-for-cremations-to-reduce-tree-felling-101620757107469.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Health dept to use only Covaxin to inoculate 18-44 age group||The district health department said on Tuesday that it was holding back Covishield doses for people in the 18-44 age group due to limited allocation of the vaccine by the state. Instead, roughly about 4,500 doses of Covaxin will be administered to those above 18 years at 37 government health centres on Wednesday.“Over 13,000 doses of Covishield were received by the state administration on Tuesday. These doses will be used for the second dose for people aged above 45 years at various vaccination centres. There has been no additional supply of Covishield doses for 18 to 44 years. The vaccination for those above 18 years will not halt, as over 4,500 doses of Covaxin have been allocated for them,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Fewer than 2,000 doses of Covishield are currently available for the 18-44 group, which, according to the district immunisation officer, Dr MP Singh, will be given at the Polyclinic in Sector 31 on Wednesday. “Only some doses of Covishield are left, therefore, it can be given to only one centre. It is likely to be utilised within a day. The remaining 36 centres will be given Covaxin for inoculation on Wednesday,” he said.The inoculation of residents aged above 18 years started on May 1. The vaccination pace, however, declined due to limited availability of the vaccine stock and shutting down of vaccination centres at most private hospitals, as they were unable to procure the stock from manufacturers.The vaccine stock that was to be used only for the prioritised population group has been now allocated in two categories, for the 18-44 year group and 45 years and above group. Many vaccine beneficiaries have also been facing difficulties getting their shot due to low stock.On Tuesday, the union ministry of health and family welfare in a meeting with the states stressed the urgent need to inoculate the large number of beneficiaries who are waiting for the second dose. States have been directed to reserve 70% of the allocated stock for second dose vaccinations and the remaining 30% for those taking the first dose.For the 45 and above group, the district has a stock of over 23,000 doses. On Tuesday, at least 11,049 people took the first vaccine shot, including 4,224 (3,597 in government health centres and 627 in private hospitals) in the 18-44 category. As many as 5,226 took their second vaccine shot at government sites and 152 at private facilities.The next allocation of the vaccine doses from the centre to states for May 15 to 31 is likely to be conveyed on May 14. Based on that, states will have to plan their vaccination sessions. “It is expected that Covishield inoculation for 18 and above will be on halt for some time now,” said Yadav.The vaccination process was drastically impacted after private hospitals were asked to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers from May 1. Many shut down their centres, while only two private hospitals, Fortis and Max, are inoculating those aged 18 to 44 years. The state has now been directed to coordinate with private hospitals to facilitate procurement directly from the manufacturers to accelerate the vaccination process.Time slot for booking appointments on Co-WINAddressing the problem faced by vaccine beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group to book online appointments for their shots, the district health department has fixed 6pm to 7pm as the time slot for residents to book their slots on the Co-WIN platform.“Only people above 45 years scheduled for the second dose can directly walk in, for they are already registered on Co-WIN. Even those above 45 years, who are yet to take their first shot, have to register on Co-WIN and book the slot,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-to-use-only-covaxin-to-inoculate-18-44-age-group-101620756867451.html
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily Covid-19 spike, positivity rate at lowest since mid-April||The district on Tuesday reported 2,659 new cases of coronavirus infection, the lowest since April 21, and a positivity rate of 23%, the lowest since April 18, with officials and experts citing the imposition of a lockdown as the key reason for arresting the outbreak to an extent in Gurugram, despite persisting variations in overall testing over the past three days.“The numbers are now stabilising across the state due to the multiple measures adopted, including lockdown,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary of the health department.As per the projections, the state, including Gurugram, from where the maximum number of cases were reported in the state, the second wave of Covid-19 was expected to peak on or before May 15.At 5,024, the district reported the highest number of cases on April 29, after which the ongoing night curfew was extended to a lockdown. Currently, the lockdown, which is labelled a Mahamari Alert, Surakhshit Haryana by the state government, is going to last at least till May 17 to control the transmission of infection.However, Haryana still has more than 100,000 active cases, while the active case count in Gurugram declined to 37,143 on Tuesday from a high of 39,256 reported on May 2.Even as the district’s test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the samples tested, declined over the past three days from 29.4% (on May 8) to 23.4% (on May 11), it is still higher than Delhi’s positivity rate, which has dipped below 20%.At the state level, Haryana’s positivity is currently 34.3%, which is the fourth highest across the country. Until last week, the state reported a positivity rate of almost 38%. Accord to the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, an epidemic is considered to be under control only if the positivity rate is below 5%.There has been a variation in testing too, which is also stabilising the positivity rate. “Currently, on average, 4,000 antigen tests and 7,000 to 8,000 Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests are administered. Following the government’s directive, antigen tests have been increased in the city. Even the overall positivity rate through RT-PCR has also come down, which could be due to the lockdown,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Although the number of cases is declining, there has been no major dip in hospitalisation numbers. Until Tuesday, at least 2,374 people were admitted to hospitals, which has remained roughly around 2,400 since April 30. Deaths have also increased, with at least 124 reported in the past 11 days, while 111 deaths were reported in the whole of April.Health experts said that the declining phase might be prolonged compared to the intensity at which cases peaked. “Effective lockdown restrictions in worst-affected states, such as Maharashtra and Delhi, are now showing their impacts. The shifts happening in the testing can play a certain degree of role in declining positivity rate, but a reasonable lockdown is more impactful,” said Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre for Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi.“Since it is a respiratory (disease), it is likely the infection curve might flatten at a slower rate compared to the intensity at which cases surged in April,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-covid-19-spike-positivity-rate-at-lowest-since-midapril-101620756807511.html
