12-05-2021||Gurugram||Home delivery of oxygen cylinders to cost ₹180 to ₹350||The district administration on Wednesday fixed the charges for different types of oxygen cylinders that will be delivered to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. Officials said that only nominal charges will be taken for these cylinders to ensure that there is no financial burden on patients in isolation. As per the directions of the district administration, the rate of a small B-type cylinder has been fixed at ₹80, while the rate of the bigger D-type cylinder has been fixed at ₹250, with a standard delivery charge of ₹100 per cylinder. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that with the fixing of rates, the home delivery system has been fine-tuned to ensure people don’t have to stand in long queues at filling plants to get a refill. “Our teams will ensure that patients in home isolation get cylinders timely and at a nominal cost,” said Garg. A spokesperson for the district administration said that the charges were fixed by a three-member committee headed by Rajnarayan Kaushik, an IAS officer. “If a person wants a small cylinder, they will have to pay ₹180, while for the large cylinder, payment would be ₹350,” the spokesperson said. The district administration and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are working in tandem to ensure that patients in home isolation are given oxygen cylinders at their residence. For this purpose, the residents have to register on a dedicated portal (oxygenhry.in) and apply with documents, after which oxygen is made available.Meanwhile, to curb the spread of infection in rural areas, the Haryana government on Wednesday also decided to set up 50 isolation centres with adequate healthcare equipment. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the village isolation centres should have well-equipped beds and beddings, triple-layered masks, hand sanitisers with bottle dispensers, steamers, catering for the patients from the community or on a hire basis, and regular cleanliness and sanitation drives of premises and toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-to-cost-180-to-350-101620842746432.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Odd, even numbered shops to open on alternative days in Khandsa market||To ensure that social distancing norms are strictly enforced in Khandsa wholesale vegetable market, the authorities have decided to allow odd and even-numbered shops to open on alternative days, starting Thursday. The move comes in the wake of large crowds being witnessed in the market over the past few days.Officials of the Agriculture Marketing Board, which manages the Khandsa market, said that entry of private vehicles is banned, while the retail sale of vegetables and fruits to individual buyers was already disallowed.Vinay Yadav, executive officer cum secretary of the market, said that the move will ensure adequate space for social distancing. “We will ensure that despite the closure of shops, there is no shortage of fruits and vegetables in the city,” said Yadav.Only wholesale buyers, who supply stocks to city markets, residential colonies and villages will be allowed to enter the market. As per the decision, shops with odd numbers will remain open on the odd days of the month and those with even numbers will be allowed to remain open on even-numbered days. Khandsa vegetable market is the largest wholesale market of vegetables and fruits in the city, with around 120 large shops and over 50 small shops.Yadav said that they have decided to restrict the number of carts in the market so that there is no overcrowding. “We have a large vacant area in the market and it will be used now. Some of the shops would be shifted there. We have also issued directions to all commission agents and shopkeepers regarding the odd-even formula,” he said.On Wednesday, the board officials penalised 13 persons for violating Covid-19 safety rules and collected ₹26,000 in penalties. The marketing board also plans to install barriers and take police help to enforce safeguards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/odd-even-numbered-shops-to-open-on-alternative-days-in-khandsa-market-101620842745795.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Residents raise concerns over increasing deaths in rural areas||Rural areas of the district have started to bear the brunt of the second wave of Covid-19, with several villages reporting deaths either due to suspected influenza-like illnesses or confirmed Covid-19 cases. Locals said that almost every third household in villages of Sultanpur, Darbaripur, Badshahpur, Sikanderpur Barha and Baspadmaka in Pataudi are exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19.The situation has been compounded because a majority of villagers are thronging to chemist shops and relying on local medical practitioners or indulging in self-treatment, which has delayed hospitalisations and led to several deaths, according to locals.Naveen Kumar, a resident of Baspadmaka village in Pataudi on Tuesday, took to Twitter on Tuesday seeking the intervention of authorities over rising Covid-19 infections and deaths in his village. “Around 10 people have died in the last 10 days in my village and all these are Covid-19 cases. Almost half of the families in the village have people suffering from cold, fever and other symptoms. I want the authorities to increase testing, create local medical facilities and also enforce lockdown strictly,” said Kumar.Most of the village heads as well as residents said that people were scared of getting tested as they did not want to get quarantined. Besides, people do not have access to testing facilities in the vicinity, they said.Pravesh Chouhan, a resident of Sultanpur village said that his brother’s business partner contracted Covid-19 and relied on medication from an acquainted chemist for a couple of days, and did not go for a Covid-19 test. “His condition deteriorated suddenly and he was admitted to a hospital in Farrukhnagar, where the test confirmed Covid-19. He could survive only a single day in the hospital,” said Chouhan, whose younger brother is also under treatment for Covid-19.In Sultanpur, locals said that around seven to eight people have died due to Covid-19, with three of the deceased in their thirties.Despite the frequent deaths and rising Covid-19 cases, villagers allege that there have been little efforts from the administration to increase testing, sanitise the rural areas or enforce Covid-19 safeguards. “We have multiple people within same families who have serious Covid-19 symptoms. The administration needs to extend the outreach to villages and help them,” said Ram Bir Sarpanch, a resident of Darbaripur.In Bajghera village, locals said that around seven to eight senior citizens have died in the last 10 days due to influenza-like symptoms. “I have myself spent half a month in a hospital due to infection. Although the situation is not bad in our village, things need to be brought under control,” said Virender Singh, who is popularly known as Biru Sarpanch.Sunder Yadav, sarpanch of Sikanderpur Barha village, said that he has started taking rounds of the streets and prevents any gathering over hukka or card games. “The cases are increasing every day. We need to enforce masks and also isolate contaminated zones,” said Yadav, whose entire family tested positive for Covid-19 positive over the past week.In response to the pleas for intervention and help from locals in rural areas, the Gururgam district administration on Wednesday said that it has decided to introduce thikri pehra (village patrols) to check the movement of people in the rural areas.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that directions have been issued in this regard and patrols will be done with the help of respective panchayats.Officials of the health department, meanwhile, said that testing has been increased to identify new cases.Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “In seven high-risk rural areas, at least 17 deaths have been reported till now. Until April, the positivity rate was almost 21%, which we trying to control through aggressive testing.”Although many patients are under home isolation, critically ill patients are referred to Civil Hospital in Sector 10.Dr Manmeet Nehra, medical officer, Bhora Kalan primary health centre, said, “Critical cases are referred to Civil Hospital in sector 10 or subdivisional hospital in Pataudi, where 25 beds with oxygen concentrators have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. Only a few critical cases have been reported till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-raise-concerns-over-increasing-deaths-in-rural-areas-101620842745133.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Five minibuses converted into ambulances||Amid increasing demand for ambulances, the transport department has converted five minibuses at the Gurugram bus depot into ambulances, with each having a capacity to ferry four patients.According to a release issued by the district administration on Wednesday, the buses have provisions for beds, oxygen cylinders and fans, and will be handed over to the health department this week.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram district, said, “Implementing the guidelines issued by the state government, it has been decided to convert the five minibuses into ambulances. There are four beds installed in each ambulance. Apart from this, they have been designed in such a way that the patient can be given necessary facilities like oxygen. Along with this, arrangements have been made to keep the medical box, oxygen cylinder stand, PPE kit and a sanitiser, among other necessities.”A senior official from the Gurugram bus depot, requesting anonymity, said, “Along with converting minibuses into ambulances, we are also converting 10 old buses into makeshift hospital beds, which will be used as additional facilities to treat patients at the district government hospital. Each bus will have six beds and we will hand over these also to the health department this week.”The deputy commissioner appealed to the residents to stringently follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and getting vaccinated. He said that all departments are collaborating round-the-clock to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the district.“Every effort is being made to provide better health facilities to Covid-19 infected patients and to prevent further spread of the infection, with volunteers from Red Cross society, defence services and various social organisations working in solidarity, supporting the district administration in this crisis hour,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-minibuses-converted-into-ambulances-101620842688384.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations for 18+ may stop due to shortage of doses||Left with only 800 doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the 18-44 age group that will be administered on Thursday, the district health department said it is on the verge of stopping inoculation for the general population. Health officials said they are likely to suspend vaccinations for the 18-44 age group from Friday if the district does not get additional doses. “Vaccination for 18 plus could have stopped from Thursday onwards. But we managed to collect a few unused vials of Covishield from different health centres. After collating it, we distributed 100 doses each to eight centres. Vaccination for 18 plus might stop as the department has already run out of stock. Second dose inoculation for those above 45 will continue at 37 vaccination centres,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. On Wednesday, nearly 77% of the 4,500 Covaxin doses allocated for the 18-44 age group was used. According to the data, at least 3,456 people took their jabs at government vaccination centres. Only 590 people took their first dose in two private hospitals. “At least 20% of vaccines are reserved as per the state government protocol. The district administration will suggest its usage. The state health department has also been apprised about the current situation as we have asked for doses to continue with vaccination drives,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. According to Singh, there are roughly about 15,000 doses for people above 45 years who are to take their second dose. More than 4,500 people took their second dose at 37 health centres on Wednesday. Long queues were seen at urban primary health centres catering to newer areas of Gurugram. At some locations, only those who took their first shot in March were getting inoculated with the second dose. “Co-WIN portal is accepting details of people who took their first jab after March 30. It is confirming only those registrations which have completed six to eight weeks of their first dose. Until Tuesday, there was no such problem in the portal. Therefore, many people who took the shot in the first week of April were asked to leave,” said a medical officer, requesting anonymity. Many people above 45 years who had walked in without registration to receive their first dose were also asked to leave due to vaccine shortage, which has been persisting over the last 12 days. Until now, 569,461 doses have been administered in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-for-18-may-stop-due-to-shortage-of-doses-101620842687736.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Mucormycosis cases on the rise in the city||Private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients are reporting a surge in mucormycosis (black fungus infections) cases, with five hospitals reporting at least six cases each over the past week. The health department does not have a record of these cases at present.Mucormycosis arises due to indiscriminate consumption of steroids during treatment. Excessive use of steroids during the Covid-19 treatment escalates blood sugar in the body and weakens the immune system, according to doctors.“The trend of black fungus cases is on an upward trajectory. It is a serious concern because those who have recovered from Covid-19 and have co-morbidities, diabetes, in particular, are at risk. They already have a weakened immunity as they have been treated with steroids,” said Dr Atul Mittal, director, otorhinolaryngology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, who has come across at least six cases in the last three days, including one in an active Covid-19 patient. The hospital has opened a dedicated mucormycosis clinic to handle cases.Due to many Covid-19 patients, who are mild to moderately ill, consuming steroids for treatment without any consultation with the doctors, doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences –Rohtak (PGIMS) on May 6 revised their treatment protocol by limiting steroid consumption during the early phase of infection.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid-19 cases, who is a respiratory and lung disease specialist at PGIMS-Rohtak, said, “Excessive use of steroids use without consultation can be harmful. People, however, take steroids based on the recommendation from family members or a recovered patient. It not only leads to diabetes but other infections, too, like mucormycosis. Therefore, in the treatment protocol, we have introduced steroid administration only after the fifth or seventh day, based on symptoms.”If left untreated, mucormycosis can spread to the bloodstream, reach the brain and heart, eat the tissue, and spread to the blood vessels. “As a result, the blood supply is cut off and the tissue is deprived of oxygen. It also invades the nerves and arteries causing progressive necrosis of tissue which turns it dead and black. It makes the disease life-threatening,” said Mittal.Common symptoms associated with the black fungus disease are headache, facial pain, nasal congestion, loss of vision or eye pain, swelling of the cheeks and eyes, and black crust in the nose. The disease has to be treated surgically, for the removal of dead and infected tissues, following which anti-fungal therapy has to be undertaken.Dr Amitabh Malik, chief, ENT department, Paras Hospital, Gurugram, said at least nine cases were reported to him in the last three days. He operated on two non-diabetic patients in their 30s who developed the black fungus infection.Dr Manjeeta Nath Das, consultant- internal medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Palam Vihar, said that over six cases have been reported at their facility.Dr Sameer Kaushal, head of ophthalmology, Artemis Hospital, who is currently treating at least four cases, said, “Last year, only a few cases were reported. During the peak, not more than four cases were reported. But this time, the magnitude of Covid-19 surge has increased as a result of which black fungus infection is also on the rise. Even the medicine which is used to treat the illness is in short supply,” said Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mucormycosis-cases-on-the-rise-in-the-city-101620842687081.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Over 100 beds available for first time in three weeks||After a gap of nearly three weeks, the availability of oxygen beds for Covid-19 patients crossed the three-digit mark, with around 127 oxygen beds available across 14 Covid-19 hospitals in the district on Wednesday afternoon, as per the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) real-time portal managed by the district administrationOfficials attributed the improvement in bed availability to the recent reduction in cases, increase in recovery and the simultaneous increase in infrastructure. As per a release by the administration, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 was more than the new cases for the sixth consecutive day. There were 3,960 recoveries in Gurugram on Wednesday, while 2,747 new cases were registered, the release stated.“The recent trend has been encouraging. We have had a lower number of Covid-19 cases, higher rates of recovery that have reduced the burden on existing infrastructure. Over the last three weeks, we have also ramped up the infrastructure and added more than 1,000 Covid-19 beds across the city. While the signs are positive, until the Covid-19 situation is fully under control, we will continue to take both preventive and preparatory measures,” said Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram.He said that the administration will further augment the strength of Covid-19 beds, by adding at least 400 more within the next seven days.As per the daily health bulletin, the number of new Covid-19 cases per week decreased for the first time in a month, with the district recording 25,860 new cases between May 3 and 9, lower than the 27,358 new cases recorded over the previous week between April 26 and May 2.There has also been a rise in the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients recently. Between April 26 and May 2, the total number of recoveries was 13,120, which nearly doubled between May 3 and 9 to 27,603, indicating that recoveries were higher than new cases by a margin of 1,743.Increased recoveries and discharge of Covid-19 patients from hospitals has also increased the availability, said administration officials. As recently as last Tuesday, May 4, all of the city’s Covid-19 beds were occupied, but since Saturday, the availability of oxygen beds has been consistently improving.According to the coronaharya.in portal, the district currently has 3,083 Covid-19 beds, of which 1,795 are oxygen beds, 552 are general beds, 736 are ICU beds, and 244 are ventilator beds, a significant increase from the 1,948 Covid-19 beds reported on April 20, of which 466 were ICU beds and 226 were ventilator beds.On April 20, the last time more than 100 oxygen beds were available, the district had 129 non-occupied Covid-19 oxygen beds, four ICU beds, and a solitary ventilator bed. The portal, at the time, did not display the total number of oxygen beds or general beds in the city.“The situation of oxygen beds has improved, especially over the last three days. Earlier, we were having around 30-40 extra Covid-19 patients looking for beds on a daily basis. Now, there are only five to 10 such patients. The pattern of patients has also changed. The five to 10 people are patients, coming from districts near Gurugram, usually looking for ICU or ventilator beds, as their respective districts have limited availability. Now. we frequently have oxygen beds available,” said Dr PN Kakar, the chief executive officer of Park Hospital.Kakar said that until early this month, a sense of panic prevailed that also added to the demand for oxygen beds. “Now, such patients prefer to isolate at home and realise that they don’t necessarily need treatment inside a hospital. Virtual consultations for such patients have also increased, which, along with the recent decline in Covid-19 cases and higher recovery rates, have mitigated the beds situation,” said Kakar.While the situation of Covid-19 oxygen beds has improved, the same cannot be said for the ICU and ventilator beds situation. As per the GC3 app, throughout Wednesday, the city had less than a dozen ventilator or ICU beds, each, and by night, only a solitary ICU bed was available and all ventilator beds were occupied.Although there has been a recent decline in Covid-19 cases, studies and experts have pegged the second wave of Covid-19 to peak around mid-May or next month.According to the three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, the second wave is expected to peak around mid-May, as does a State Bank of India (SBI) research report. A report by CLSA, a foreign capital market firm, pegs the spike to peak in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-100-beds-available-for-first-time-in-three-weeks-101620842686454.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Labs overcharging for Covid-19 test despite price caps, allege residents||Residents alleged that private laboratories and hospitals are overcharging them for Covid-19 tests, despite the government on Tuesday capping the price for a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test at ₹450 and an additional ₹200 for home collection.According to residents, private labs are citing a shortage of staff and a need to pay additional incentives for sample testing for charging them more than the specified prices.Tanisha Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 1, said that she contacted two private labs to get samples collected for all her family members after they started exhibiting symptoms on Monday. “The lab technician charged ₹1,250 per sample and said the prices are fixed as they do not go on home visits for lower than that. On Wednesday, I called another private lab as I was doubtful of my result and they charged me ₹750 for the same test,” she said. Sohna Road resident Arun Sarwan, who got three of his family members tested, said he paid ₹1,000 per sample on Wednesday. “When I asked the lab why they are charging extra, they said all the technicians are overworked and they are paying them an extra incentive for home collection. They said they are working more than 14 hours a day and have to travel to different parts of the city, risking their lives,” he said. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they will take action against labs that are violating the orders and issue notices. “We haven’t received a complaint against any lab. We will take prompt action if anyone comes forward (with a complaint),” he said.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Action will be taken against labs if the department will receive any complaint against them.” Even as officials warned of action, representatives of private labs said the price cap for RT-PCR test is not viable and it will eventually, lead to a dip in testing.“The situation is challenging for us as the prices fixed are too less and our staff has to travel across the city. With the fixed price, it will be difficult to run the operations. A delegation of lab representatives is planning to meet the deputy commissioner this week to request an increase in the price,” an executive of a private lab said, requesting anonymity. Representatives of private labs said that residents are ready to pay additional charges for home testing as they want to avoid exposure by visiting hospitals. Dr Santosh Kumar, the managing director of Times PathLabs Private Limited in Sector 14, said, “Many people are ready to pay more for the test because they want samples to be collected from home. Since labs have been overburdened with samples and their staff was tested positive, home collection has got affected.” Many labs also reported a shortage of RT-PCR kits and stopped home collection of samples on Wednesday. It is for the seventh time that the state health department on Tuesday revised the test cost and fixed separate rates for samples given directly at the lab and those collected from residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/labs-overcharging-for-covid-19-test-despite-price-caps-allege-residents-101620842685856.html
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Drive-through vaccination to be held on Friday||Despite the limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the district, the health department has planned to hold a drive-through vaccination at DLF City Centre, MG Road, on May 14 for people above the age of 45 who are waiting for their second shot. Only 200 doses will be administered during the drive, said officials. “People will be vaccinated in their cars. After the vaccination, they will have to wait in the parking lot for 30 minutes under the observation period. If they face any difficulty, they can flash their car lights. Our team will address those who will report any side effect. The drive through is only for those above 45 years, who are scheduled for their second dose,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to Yadav, the lift lobby in the building will be used as an Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) room for people who require medical assistance. It is for the first time since March 31 that the health department will be holding vaccination drive in a private building. The district on Wednesday reported 2,747 new cases, taking the total count of active cases to 32,895. The death toll stood at 621, with nine deaths confirmed on Wednesday. Out of the total active case, 30, 452 are in home isolation, while 2,347 are admitted to private hospitals. Only 96 patients were isolated at Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/drivethrough-vaccination-to-be-held-on-friday-101620842685099.html
