15-05-2021||Gurugram||Caught in lockdown, thousands of workers in Gurugram have nowhere to go||With Haryana’s Covid-induced lockdown crippling industries and construction projects, thousands of migrant workers in Gurugram and Manesar are under financial stress. Not being able to make rent, buy groceries or return home, they say they are living on a thin line of hope that the lockdown would be lifted soon. As per local trade unions and industrial associations, the lockdown imposed from May 3 had affected over 100,000 daily wagers. They warn that if corrective measures were not taken up, they may choose to walk back to their home states, hundreds of kilometers away, like last year. Daily wagers worst-hitIn Gurugram, the worst affected were daily wagers at small construction sites, while in Manesar and Udyog Vihar it is the the employees of small auto companies and garment export units. Naveen Kumar, 38, had to vacate his rented room in a Manesar villageon May 3 after he failed to pay rent. Although getting new work was unlikely in the lockdown, he decided that heading back home in Bihar would not solve his problem as his family had no money there either. Kumar said that he used to unload consignments but for the last one month there has been no work. “We are left with no money to even return home. We get free food from the police and sleep on the pavement waiting for the lockdown to get over,” he said. Arvind Kumar, 33, said that it’d been eight years since came to Manesar as a daily wager. “All these years were smooth and I used to save ₹5,000 a month. But since last year (when the first lockdown was announced in March and lasted 68 days) it is becoming tough to make ends meet. There are no jobs and factories have reduced manpower. Many companies have shut their operations permanently. I sleep under a tree and roam around in search of a free meal,” he said. The suspension of operations of big companies such as Hero MotoCorp and Maruti Suzuki has also forced smaller vendors to stop production. Hero MotoCorp on Friday said that it was moving towards a gradual resumption of operations by starting single shift production at three of its plants – Gurugram and Dharuhera in Haryana and at Haridwar from Monday. “Strict safety and hygiene protocols are in place at all plant locations and offices in preparation for the gradual resumption of operations,” the company spokesperson said. Maruti Suzuki did not respond to request for comment. Anil Kumar, general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Gurugram, said, “The major problem is of pay -- daily wagers don’t get it if they don’t work and even regular and contractual employees of mid-size units don’t get it for lockdown days when work came to a complete stop. This happened last year as well.”Rajender Saroha, general secretary of the Bhawan Nirman Kaamgar Union, said, “Around 50,000 daily wage earners reside in Sheetla Colony, Surat Nagar, Tekchand Nagar, Lakshman Vihar, Manesar and other areas. They have no money to pay rent, buy ration and also no resources to return home.”Industries help outManmohan Gaind, general secretary of the Manesar Industries Welfare Association acknowledged the workers’ issues. “We have decided to provide dry ration to around 500 families daily for a month. We will increase the supply as we don’t want our workers to suffer hunger, which will force them to rush back to their villages,” he said. Factory owners based in Udyog Vihar said that most of the small units owners have accommodated workers on their premises. “The real extent of this problem will be revealed on pay-day in June. Many business are not able to execute orders due to shortage of labour and other issues,” said Ashok Kohli, president, chamber of industries of Udyog Vihar. Shalini Sood, director of a packaging factory in IMT Manesar, said that their staff strength had gone down from 180 to 60 since last year. “Employees left early as they feared a lockdown. Many fear getting infected and prefer working from home,” she said.Police pitch inAs reported on Friday, police in Manesar have been providing free meals to the jobless and homeless at four designated spots. Yashwant Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, who estimated that there would be at least 600 workers at these four locations, said that they have started receiving groceries and dry ration from 15 private companies and eight residential societies. “We will also start distributing medical kits to the workers, ” he said. KK Rao, commissioner of police said that anyone in need of shelter and food can call the police control room number-100 - for help. All police stations were directed to feed those in need. “Free medical facility will be provided those in need and our vehicles will shift patients, and in case someone cannot make it to the free meal sites, it will be delivered to them,” he said. Government relief awaitedThe Supreme Court on Thursday had directed the governments of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to provide meals, dry ration and transportation to migrant workers in the National Capital Region.But the Haryana government is yet to announce a major relief package for migrant workers. Trade Unions had demanded the government pay ₹7,500 per worker and implement the directions of the Supreme Court. Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana chief minister, said that all efforts would be made to provide help to workers. “Last year also the government, industry and civil society had joined hands to help the workers. Likewise, we will provide food, meals and transport to workers this year as well,” he said. Arya, however, added that the problem was less acute this year as industries and factories were allowed to work even during the lockdown. A Gurugram district spokesperson said that directions have been issued to officials in the field to provide help to workers facing any problem. “If any workers is facing problem, they can call the helpline at 1950 for assistance,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/caught-in-lockdown-thousands-of-workers-in-gurugram-have-nowhere-to-go-101621078504052.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Senior citizens in Gurugram with Covid-19 to get oxygen cylinder for free at their doorstep||From Saturday, Haryana will provide free doorstep delivery of oxygen cylinders to senior citizens and people from economically weaker sections.Adviser to the chief minister Anil Rao said on Friday that these people need only to contact their nearest police station to avail the service.Rao said senior citizens living alone found it difficult to get a cylinder.“Many of them didn’t have their children nearby due to the lockdown in various part of the country, including Haryana. It was difficult for them to seek assistance from the administration and had no support to get oxygen refilled from stations. Many people died this way,” he said. “Similarly, people from economically weaker sections who were not technology savvy could not request for support.”Those who would like to avail the service need to provide either doctor’s prescription for oxygen or show their oxygen saturation (SPO2) level on their oximeter. An SPO2 of 95% and above is considered safe.“All police officials have been informed to check their records and proactively contact senior citizens in their jurisdiction and the 20 police control room vans converted into ambulances will be ready to assist them. Also, all the resident welfare associations have been asked to ensure they allow domestic helps and medical assistance for them even during the lockdown,” said Rao.Since the second wave of Covid-19 gripped the country in April, Haryana soon turned into one of the worst affected states. Like neighbouring Delhi, Gurugram too suffered shortage of oxygen and hospital beds.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that there was no oxygen shortage. “We are getting nearly 50 metric tonnes of oxygen and the hospitals have increased Covid beds following which there is no shortage of beds either. The demand is increasing but we are balancing it,” he said. Last Sunday, the Gurugram district administration had started doorstep delivery of oxygen to those who needed. The rate of a B-type cylinder of capacity 10 litres was fixed at ₹80, while for D-type cylinder of 46 litres, the cap was at ₹250, with a standard delivery charge of ₹100 per cylinder.On Friday, Rao and district officials visited two oxygen refilling plants in Manesar to assess the situation and prevent any disruption.“The district administration and police will regularly monitor the capacity and situation at the refilling stations were directed to help anyone coming with an emergency,” said Rao.The officials said that they have identified nitrogen and argon gas manufacturing plants that could be converted to manufacture medical oxygen plants, if required. The regional transport authority (RTA) had earlier converted 12 nitrogen and argon tankers into oxygen tankers to transport gas from a plant in Rourkela and Angul of Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/senior-citizens-in-gurugram-with-covid-19-to-get-oxygen-cylinder-for-free-at-their-doorstep-101621078503339.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 in Gurugram: Positivity rate dips below 20% after five-week surge||The district on Thursday reported 2,159 new Covid-19 cases that took the test positivity rate (proportion of positives out of the sample tested) below 20% after almost a month in the district, according to the health department data.Even as the active case count continues to remain below 3,000 over the past few days, the health department and hospitals confirmed 17 Covid-19 deaths, the highest toll in a day at the district level that took the total toll to 638.The dip comes at a time when the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT–PCR) test has declined in the last two days, compared to the number of tests administered on April 16, when the positivity rate was almost 19%. Officials and experts claimed that the lockdown has led to the declining positivity rate.Also Read| Vaccinations for 18-44 suspended, 8K doses left for 45+ in GurugramAccording to the district health bulletin, in the last two days, over 6,000 RT-PCR tests were administered along with 4,500 rapid antigen tests and on Thursday, the positivity rate reached nearly 19.5%. At the state level too, the positivity rate decreased to 32.5%, which is still the fifth-highest in the country.At the district level, the total tally of active cases reached 30,352, of whom 2,292 are currently admitted to hospitals, while 27,981 are in home isolation.According to health department officials, the impact of the surge is seen on deaths, which, they said often increase a few days after the peak. “The surge in deaths is expected as the district has seen a spike in new infections in the last few weeks. Although cases are stabilised now, the impact of surge can be seen on deaths. It fluctuates between one and two per cent of the currently active cases,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.At 5,024, the district reported the highest number of cases on April 29, after which an ongoing night curfew was extended to a total lockdown. Currently, the lockdown, which is labelled a Mahamari Alert, Surakhshit Haryana by the state government, is going to last at least till May 17 to control the transmission of infection.Containment zonesTo control the surge, at least 165 containment zones under 27 urban primary health centres have also been formed. It has declined from 176 zones created in the last week of April, as cases have dipped. Currently, the maximum number of containment zones are under the Tigra urban primary health centre (UPHC), which covers sectors 42 to 57, including Golf Course Road.Also Read| Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deathsAccording to the containment zone order issued by the district administration, there are at least 19 containment zones under Chanderlok UPHC, covering Sushant Lok, 15 under Patel Nagar, 14 in Nathupur, which covers DLF Phase-3, and nine each in Badhshahpur and Chauma.In densely populated areas of Firoj Gandhi Colony, Kasan and Wazirabad have seven containment zones each, while there are six zones each in Rajiv Nagar, Bhangrola and Fazilpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/positivity-rate-dips-below-20-after-five-week-surge-101620927232766.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown in Gurugram: Infrastructure projects hit due to reduced workforce||Labour workforce for different infrastructure projects in the city has reduced by up to 20% due to the lockdown, said officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday. Due to this, three major projects of Dwarka Expressway, Delhi-Mumbai highway and Gurugram-Sohna flyover have been affected, said officials.“Labour force has reduced in the past few weeks, even before the lockdown was announced in Gurugram. We have tried to assure them that all Covid-19 related safety measures are being taken at project sites, but still, labourers are continuing to go back to their villages due to various reasons. So far, 20% of the workforce has reduced in the city,” said an NHAI official, requesting anonymity.The official cited above said that delay in completion dates of the projects cannot be estimated at present as Covid-19 cases are still increasing, but work is being managed with the available workforce.Meanwhile, infrastructure projects of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) — including the four key road development projects underway at Huda City Centre, Mahavir Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk and Umang Bharadwaj Chowk — that are scheduled to be completed and inaugurated by August this year, are now likely to get delayed.Sunil Kundu, the superintending engineer of the Infrastructure-I division of GMDA, said, “Our main projects like the underpass at Huda City Centre and new flyovers that were being constructed in the city have been affected due to the lockdown and lack of labour. But we are managing with in-house workforce available with us. The projects that were scheduled to get completed by mid-2021 will get extended by another few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/infra-projects-hit-due-to-reduced-workforce-101620927172069.html
