30-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 89 Covid-19 deaths, 1,452 fresh cases||Haryana on Sunday reported 89 coronavirus deaths as 1,452 fresh infections pushed the state’s case count to 7,55,389, according to a Health Department bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 8,221 people in the state.Ten deaths were reported from Hisar, eight each from Gurgaon and Panipat, and seven each from Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Hisar reported the maximum 140 cases, Sirsa 117 while 110 infections surfaced in Gurgaon.Currently, the state has 21,087 active cases.So far, 7,26,081 people have recovered from the infection in the state with the recovery rate hovering around 96.12 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.41 per cent, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said nearly 58 lakh anti-Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far.“We plan to increase vaccinations to 2 lakh per day from present 50,000 to 55,000,” he said at a press conference here.Police vehicles and state roadways buses, which are being used as ambulances amid the pandemic, will be used to bring the elderly to the vaccination sites and later drop them back home, he said.He said recruitment of doctors, nurses and technicians will be carried out shortly to further strengthen the health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-89-covid-19-deaths-1-452-fresh-cases-101622395279072.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Hry govt adopts 16-yr-old specially abled boy who lost parents to Covid, others alike||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on Sunday that the state government has adopted a 16-year-old specially abled boy in Gurugram who lost his parents to Covid-19.During a surprise visit to a child shelter home, Deep Ashram, in Gurugram on Sunday, CM Khattar was apprised that earlier the boy was adopted by a Faridabad-based couple when he was a child, but his parents died of Covid-19 recently. The boy’s father died of Covid-19 on May 14, while his mother died of the virus on May 21.After learning about the boy’s condition, the CM decided to adopt him.“I learnt about this boy through party workers, that he lost both this parents to Covid-19 recently. He was adopted by them when he was a child. He has been orphaned once again... Now, the Haryana government will take care of his upbringing, and others who lost their parents to Covid-19 and are living at Deep Ashram shelter home. All of them have lost their parents to Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also planned to take care of such children till the age of 23 years, through PM Cares Fund,” said Khattar.Upasana Sachdeva, a member of child welfare committee (CWC) in Gurugram, said that both the CWC and the district administration have launched helpline numbers to gather information such children. On Friday, the district administration issued helpline numbers: 0124-2328288, 9717846669, and 8700454307 where people can share information about such children. The administration will provide lodging facilities to such children at Children’s Home in Sector 15, till further arrangements are being made.“At present, we have five children who lost their parents to Covid-19 in the past two months,and are staying at three shelter homes in the district, who have lost their parents to Covid-19 in the past few months. We have released helpline numbers where either neighbours or guardians of such children are informing us, if they are not able to take care of them. Firstly, we take these children to shelter homes where they are kept for a minimum of three months, after which the next course of action is being decided,” said Sachdeva.She added that Gurugram, at present, can provide shelter to 100 such orphans for which staff recruitments are also being done, so that the children are taken care off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hry-govt-adopts-16-yr-old-specially-abled-boy-who-lost-parents-to-covid-others-alike-101622395246071.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Palwal is only Haryana district to fully screen population||Strapped without modern health facilities, Palwal managed to become the only district in Haryana to screen all its people in both rural and urban areas for Covid-19, according to district officials.The district has just over a million people and had reported 10,047 cases and 133 deaths, including three on Sunday. According to covid19india.org data till May 29, the case fatality rate (CFR, number of deaths per 100 cases) of the district was 1.26%, higher than the national average of 1.17% and the state average of 1.07%.The higher-than-average CFR could be attributed to Palwal, around 54 kilometres from Gurugram, not having large private or public hospitals.“The district is not equipped with modern ultra-modern facilities. The health infrastructure right now is one government hospital, two sub-divisional level hospitals, three community health centres and nearly 15 private hospitals,” said Palwal deputy commissioner Naresh Narwal. The district had only 350 oxygen beds.This meant that Palwal had to act early.The strategy was to contain the spread with a proactive approach of the minimum crowd with maximum utilization of mask and sanitization in April when the second wave hit.Rural areas were divided into different segments and incident commanders were deputed to have first-hand information. A weekly survey was conducted parallelly through patwaris and village secretaries of villages twice a week—Tuesday and Friday—with details of symptomatic persons under the supervision of concerned sub-divisional magistrates. The youth committees kept tab on all villages on daily basis.Narwal said a caseload of 50 was enough to place a village under strict lockdown.“A meeting of all market associations was convened, and all were persuaded to close the market on Sunday to avoid overcrowding and get the area sanitized, this worked well and all three cities Palwal, Hathin, and Hodal agreed to the proposal,” he said.On Friday, they commenced a door-to-door screening drive.“We covered 183,166 households with 920 dedicated teams and 3,000 youth committees constituted from various departments and volunteers,” said Narwal. The survey helped in shifting people to hospitals before their condition worsened.The screening involved deploying rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests and those who tested positive were immediately home isolated. Ayurvedic medicines were distributed and Ayush doctors provided counselling.Narwal said the supplies were ensured in the village itself and complete barricading with police deployment was ensured. Similarly, five macro-containment zones were declared in urban areas, where the surge was observed. The positivity rate, which was observed as 40% in some villages and urban colonies at the beginning started reducing with the macros containment strategy. “The tele-counselling and telemedicine dedicated four phone lines with 24X 7 service pressed into service with the deployment of MBBS doctors at Civil Hospital. The cases started reducing after May 20,” he said.The rural health survey (HVGHCS) which started on May 15 with 920 dedicated teams has covered the entire population and the district was the first to be screened across the state.The district has redressed 15781 people through Arogya Setu App and 150056 people were provided with psychological services through helplines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/palwal-is-only-haryana-district-to-fully-screen-population-101622395243058.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Daily spike at 110, lowest since March||The district on Sunday reported 110 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest single-day spike since March, officials of the health department said on Sunday.According to the district health department data, the number of active cases in Gurugram was 1,727 as of Sunday evening, of whom 244 patients are hospitalised, 1,478 are in home isolation and five are admitted to district Covid care centres. On Sunday, 346 patients also recovered in the district. However, Covid-19 related deaths continued to be reported, with nine reported on Sunday. The total toll due to the pandemic in the district reached 810, as per the health department data. On the testing front, the health department collected 5,446 samples on Sunday, with the results of 2,498 patients still awaited. Even as the number of cases continued to decline, the district administration urged citizens to continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols. The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said, “We have been able to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the district with the help of residents. The only mantra to defeat Covid-19 is to always wear a mask, covering one’s nose and mouth, while leaving the house. Along with that, people must ensure that social distancing norms are followed, along with regular washing or sanitisation of hands.” Meanwhile, 5,265 people were vaccinated on Sunday with 4,814 receiving the first dose of vaccine and 451 receiving the second dose. So far, over 675,000 people have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-spike-at-110-lowest-since-march-101622395241722.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Slum residents find it hard to get vaccinated due to lack of smartphones, digital illiteracy||Lack of digital literacy and unavailability of smartphones are proving major obstacles for slum residents, mostly domestic workers and daily wagers, to get vaccinated.The district health department earlier held walk-in vaccination camps in slums but suspended the process due to a shortage of vaccines and asked residents to register on the Co-WIN app to book vaccination slots. However, many said that they do not know how to access the portals and complained that the process is complicated.Hasina Bibi, who lives in Tigra village and works as a domestic help, said that until she gets the jab, she will not be allowed to enter the residential societies where she works. This, she said, has made her family’s survival in the city difficult.Bibi visited three primary health centres in the last 15 days but could not get vaccinated. “The officers at the primary health centre (PHC) asked me to register online, but I don’t have valid documents to upload. I will lose my job if I didn’t get my first vaccine dose as the resident welfare associations have strictly passed orders to produce vaccination certificate for entering the premises,” she said.Many of the slum residents who are migrants and are working in the city, said they do not have Aadhaar cards and that their ration cards were issued in other states, due to which they were facing problems.Regina Mandal, who lives in Badshahpur and works as a domestic help, said she was not able to get vaccinated despite making efforts on multiple occasions and is planning to return to her home town of Bagdogra in Siliguri of West Bengal to get vaccinated. “Firstly, the registration process is difficult and secondly, only limited people get vaccinated. Each time, they ask us to come back again, so we have dropped the plan,” she said.Officials of the administration and health department said they are working on a plan to inoculate slum residents.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The government has been formulating guidelines for covering domestic helps and those who have no access to mobile and internet. It is likely that by the next week, guidelines will be issued.”Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, said that the access issues as well as vaccine shortage were raised with the state government and are likely to be resolved soon. “Due to shortage of vaccines, many people are unable to get vaccinated. The issues are not only at the state level but at the central level too and all are aware of the situation. We can’t make changes on the portal but can try to resolve the issue at the earliest,” he said.However, in some slum clusters in Wazirabad, Bajghera, Chauma and Mullahera, the initial hurdle of vaccine hesitancy has not been overcome yet. “Most people here are not willing to get vaccinated because they have heard that there are side effects from the vaccines. My neighbour was vaccinated but still died due to Covid-19. Two more people who got their first dose were unwell for almost a week. We cannot take chances as all our family members are back in the village and we can’t risk our lives here,” said Bhure Lal, a Wazirabad resident who works at a construction site.Domestic workers and support staff also sought help from their employers but to no avail as camps are yet to resume in residential areas. “It is important to get domestic helps, car cleaners and security guards vaccinated at the earliest as they could also be carriers and cause the transmission to residents or other staff in the area. We are trying to tie up with private hospitals to organise a camp for domestic helps and support staff,” said Rajeev Asthana, general secretary, Orchid Petals residents’ welfare association.Amit Jind, the president of Vipul Greens RWA on Sohna Road, said that their security guards, domestic helps and ground staff is yet not vaccinated. “We have registered them on Co-WIN but they are yet to get a slot due to shortage of vaccines. We have restricted entries of help, drivers and other support staff in our society. The guards are delivering groceries which are brought by delivery boys to ensure minimum contact with outsiders,” he said, adding that the society is now Covid-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/slum-residents-find-it-hard-to-get-vaccinated-due-to-lack-of-smartphones-digital-illiteracy-101622395181716.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||In vaccine outreach, Nuh finds a community radio to drive message home||Gurugram Faced with increasing resistance from villagers to its Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Nuh district administration has turned to a community radio programme -- Alfaz-e-Mewat -- to fight the myths and drive their message home. The radio, which reaches 225 villages regularly, relays information about vaccinations from the district administration, chief medical officer and other influencers. Officials claim the initiative, which started 15 days ago, has helped increase the number of villagers reaching the vaccination centres in the district. Officials said that the villagers were reluctant to take the vaccine due to several rumours that it is poisonous and may lead to impotency. “When health workers visited some villages to appeal to the locals to take the vaccine, the villagers emerged with sticks, threatening to attack them. Some even assaulted them and pushed them out of the village, alleging that the vaccine is poisonous,” said a senior official on the condition of anonymity. Only 75,225 people of the 14 lakh population of Nuh have been vaccinated till now, said officials on Friday.Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata admitted that they have been facing stiff resistance from a few villages in the districts. “Many villagers had stopped coming out of their houses and had locked themselves inside after health workers insisted that they take the jabs,” he said. Khadgata said to tackle the reluctance, the administration roped in influencers, political leaders and village sarpanchs to spread awareness. “Our idea was to reach out to maximum villagers and to bust the myths so that more and more people get vaccinated. Radio broadcasting has helped us in a big way and the numbers are increasing. This initiative will play a pro-active role in creating awareness about the pandemic and why vaccination is important,” he said. An official said that in 224 villages, which had seen zero vaccinations till at least two weeks ago, at least 50 people each had turned up for the jabs after the radio outreach commenced.In addition to vaccine awareness, Alfaz-e-Mewat is also keeping its listeners informed about the total number of Covid cases, how the pandemic is shaping, and also local events in the district related to vaccination and testing. Pooja O Murada, principal lead, Alfaz-e-Mewat, said that they have a team of three regular staff and seven broadcasting programmers, in addition to local advisers. “We have faced a challenge in terms of vaccination drives and awareness programmes as people have different myths and were not ready to listen. We started connecting to more and more people and found ‘village heroes’, who introduced themselves on the show and narrated the story of how they were misled and what their experience of vaccination was,” she said. Murada said they invited over a dozen doctors who talked about the myths surrounding the vaccinations. Sanjay Singla, sarpanch of Pinangwan, said that of the nearly 20,000 population in his village, 4,000 have been vaccinated. “The radio has helped us in spreading awareness and motivating people to get vaccinated. It has also helped bust several myths... There are nearly 9,000 people above 45 years and 50% have been covered. The drive is in process and now villagers are coming up to get vaccinated and approaching me. Earlier they had refused and did not even open the doors for us and health workers,” he said, adding that they were against him for joining the drive with administration. Rajender Kumar, sarpanch of Rehpua village, said they had launched regular awareness campaigns with the assistance of district administration to motivate the villagers to take the jabs. “Now the villagers are still listening and getting vaccinated but earlier they used to threaten people and take out weapons if anyone forced them,” he said. Khadgata said the villagers should not believe in misleading information about the vaccine. “We are announcing through loudspeakers that the vaccine is safe and has no side-effects. The vaccine will protect them from coronavirus infection. Also, we are announcing that villagers should follow the Covid protocol even after getting vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-vaccine-outreach-nuh-finds-a-community-radio-to-drive-message-home-101622383662050.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||58 more recover from black fungus in Haryana||Haryana has reported complete recovery of 58 patients from mucormycosis (black fungus infection). The state has so far reported 756 cases of mucormycosis, out of which, 648 are under treatment.An official spokesperson said the technical committee appointed to approve and distribute Amphotericin injections to treat black fungus on Saturday approved 975 injections for 515 patients. The spokesperson said that out of 577 patients (442 males and 135 females) whose clinical data has been analysed, 508 were found to be diabetic. It was also found that about 86% had a proven history of infection with Covid-19 virus.The spokesperson said that 498 patients had tested positive for Covid-19, while 79 had no history of Covid infection. There were 462 patients who were administered steroids, 254 had been given oxygen therapy and 61 patients had other immuno-compromised conditions.The spokesperson said that Gurugram has 216 black fungus cases followed by Hisar which has reported 179 cases and Rohtak which has reported 145 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/58-more-recover-from-black-fungus-in-haryana-101622349790523.html
30-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana’s positivity rate dips to 3.88%||The Covid infection rate in Haryana came down further on Saturday with the state reporting 1,868 new cases and 3,752 recoveries. The number of active infections stood at 23,094.Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said the seven days moving average of daily new infections during surge was around 14,000 which has come down to around 3,000 cases per day in last week of May. The daily positivity rate had increased to about 25-30% during the peak of second wave which has now declined to 3.88 %, the ACS said.The state on Saturday reported 97 deaths. At 15, Hisar had the highest number of fatalities. The district also has the highest cumulative count of deaths at 850 followed by Gurugram (796) and Faridabad (705). Hisar also continued to have the highest number of active cases at 2,249 followed by Rewari (2,117), Sirsa (2,055), Gurugram (1,976), Karnal (1,610) and Faridabad (1,317).The ACS said the seven-day moving average of the number of Covid-19 deaths has also declined from 160 deaths per day to around 100 deaths a day. Arora said they now have 11,690 isolation beds with oxygen support, 3, 172 intensive care beds with oxygen facility and 1,563 intensive care beds with ventilator facility.“The government has bought 106 ventilators in addition to 430 received from central government under PM Cares Fund,” the ACS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryanas-positivity-rate-dips-to-388-101622349607985.html
