31-05-2021||Gurugram||Malls reopen after five weeks, see few customers||Malls in the city reopened on Monday after nearly five weeks with few customers patronising their outlets due to apprehensions over Covid-19 spread. On Sunday, the district administration issued an order permitting the reopening of malls between 10am and 6pm, on the condition that they develop an app to regulate the footfall and ensure that occupancy did not exceed one person per 25 square feet. The district administration had ordered the closure of malls on April 24 due to a rapid surge in cases.The footfall cap, however, did not have an impact on malls on the first day. The associations of both South Point Mall and Metropolitan Mall said that they had fewer than 50 visitors, each, throughout the day.“We had around 30 visitors to the malls on the first day. Several shops closed a few hours after opening, citing a lack of customers. After the second coronavirus wave, we are anticipating that people will take a few weeks to regain confidence and put trust in safety norms being adopted outdoors,” said Shobha Sengupta, the president of South Point Condominium Association, which oversees all maintenance and day-to-day functioning at South Point Mall on Golf Course Road.Sengupta said that as per the administration’s order of ensuring one person per 25 square feet, nearly 11,000 people can be accommodated inside the mall at a given time.“The administration’s order allows us to have a large number of visitors, but we are not anticipating such a high magnitude of footfall in June. Regardless, we are in the process of developing an app as mandated by the administration to regulate footfall and a meeting in this regard took place on Monday evening,” said Sengupta.Aman Bajaj, a member of MGF Metropolitan Mall Association, said that the mall on Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road received fewer than 50 visitors on the first day.“Last year, when we reopened in July after a gap of three months, we virtually had no business for the first 10-14 days. We are anticipating it will be a similar scenario this time around as well. Most people are still unaware that the malls in Gurugram have reopened. Once it becomes common knowledge, customers will start visiting malls and businesses will pick up,” said Bajaj.Bajaj said that to ensure safety regulations are adopted, the association has closed all entry and exit points in the mall, barring one, to keep track of the total number of visitors entering and exiting.“We have taken this step to keep a record on the total number of visitors inside the mall at any given time. As mandated by the administration, the mall management is in the process of developing an app to regulate visitors. In the interim, we will continue to have only one entry and exit point to ensure norms are being followed,” said Bajaj.Both association members said that the idea of developing an internal app is unfamiliar to them and they are trying to work out the best way ahead.“Our representatives spoke to officials of the district administration regarding the app and they have given our management ample time to develop it, and in the interim, ensure there is no crowding and social distancing is maintained. Developing an app is a completely unfamiliar territory and it will take us time to figure the best way to achieve it,” said Bajaj.While the malls on Golf Course Road and MG Road appeared deserted, the same was not the case in Ambience Mall, which received a higher footfall of visitors on Monday.“Most shops reopened in the mall on Monday. Only a few did not open as they are in the process of upgrading their safety measures, which is likely to be completed by the end of this week,” an official representative of Ambience Private Limited said.The representative further said that Ambience Mall had developed an app last year for the possibility of using it to regulate the entry of visitors.“We already have an in-built app which can be used for regulating visitors, as mandated by the administration. We have been informing visitors about its existence and giving them a week to get themselves accustomed to this guideline. From next week onwards we will make it mandatory that a person can only enter the mall premises provided they have downloaded the app,” said the representative, adding that the app will work similarly to the central government’s Aarogya Setu App, which allows entry to various public places, only if the app is downloaded. The representative said that the app will also help the mall management keep a real-time update on the number of people inside the mall at any given time and ensure there is no crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/malls-reopen-after-five-weeks-see-few-customers-101622483151315.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Over 8,000 in 18-45 age group walk in for vaccinations||In the first vaccination drive held at government session sites since May 27, 8,217 people aged 18-45 years took their first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, with the district health department allowing direct walk-in on the day. However, vaccinations for the age group will be suspended on Tuesday, as the health department has once again run out of vaccine stock. This was the highest single-day vaccination for the 18-45 age group, said officials of the health department, even as large crowds were witnessed at government vaccination facilities on Monday.“The Covid-19 vaccination opened for 18-45 years of people from May 2. It is for the first time the coverage in the 18-above category has been the highest in a single day as no slots were required to be booked on Co-WIN. Based on the availability of vaccines, vaccination for 18 and above will resume. The drive has been suspended for Tuesday,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation. officer. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The vaccination for people aged 18-45 years took place at all health centres, with each centre getting 200 doses. For the first time, people above 18 years were allowed to directly walk in without booking a slot on the Co-WIN. Since we expected a heavy footfall, centres were directed to issue tokens to manage the crowd. Also, police personnel and a volunteer from civil defence organisation were deployed to ensure social distancing.”Until now, 120,000 doses have been administered to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group, said officials.At the Wazirabad urban primary health centre, heavy footfall was seen since early morning. “The entire road (leading to the centre) was blocked as people turned up in large numbers. Police helped us in managing the crowd. To avoid chaos at the site, we collected the names and phone numbers of the 200 vaccine beneficiaries at the time of token distribution. Based on the list, people were called one by one for vaccination,” said Dr Anjum, medical officer, Wazirabad urban primary health centre. The centre achieved its target before 1pm. Many people, who were unaware of the token system and turned up in the afternoon to take their shot, were asked to leave. Randheer Kumar, a security guard, who waited at the Sector 31 polyclinic to get the shot, said, “Booking an appointment on Co-WIN was difficult. So, when we were told about getting direct vaccination without registration, we rushed to the vaccination centre. But by the time we reached, tokens were over.” Dr Neena Ghatwal, the medical officer at Sector 31 polyclinic, said, “More than 300 people gathered by 8am to collect tokens for vaccination. Only 200 people were given tokens on a first-come-first-served basis, while others were asked to leave.” Due to the expected rush, vaccinations were not held for those aged 45 and above at government facilities. The department, though, has demarcated 20,000 doses for them, which will be administered from Tuesday at 37 centres, including four centres for Covaxin. Private hospitals administered 423 doses of Covishield and Covaxin as the first dose and 156 as the second dose to those above 45 years, while over 7,334 doses were administered to people in the 18-45 age bracket. Also, 14 healthcare workers and 10 front-line workers took the vaccine jabs at government and private set-ups on the day. Overall, more than 16,154 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the overall count to 691,640 does. The vaccination for the 18-45 age group has been suspended multiple times in the last month, with the latest gap from May 27 to Sunday being the longest. Two drive-through facilities with 500 slots, each, for the inoculation of 18-45 years of people were held during these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-8-000-in-18-45-age-group-walk-in-for-vaccinations-101622483149972.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad residents want district declared dark zone for water extraction||Around 150 residents of Faridabad, demanding that the district be declared as a dark zone for water extraction, wrote to the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) - Jal Shakti Ministry, district administration and state government.The letter, a copy of which was accessed by HT, states, “This (excessive extraction of groundwater) is going to create an uncontrollable crisis situation in Faridabad as the amount of groundwater being extracted in a day is approximately 300,000-litre groundwater per day from the boundary areas of the NIT only.”The letter was sent under the banner of Save Aravalli Trust, an NGO.At present, areas under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporations of Faridabad and Ballabgarh are notified for regulation of groundwater development by the CGWB.A dark zone refers to an area where the groundwater level has dipped beyond the acceptable parameter in a block. A block is first identified as critical before it is declared a dark zone. At present, areas under the municipal corporation are categorised as “critical.”The residents alleged that the underground water is being extracted illegally from areas outside the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction. According to the records of the agriculture department, Faridabad has been over-withdrawing water by almost 70% for the past few years.Minakshi Sharma, a resident of Faridabad Sector 49, said, “We have requested the authorities to declare the entire district as a dark zone as the groundwater levels have fallen drastically in the past few years — falling by one foot every year. Water is being extracted illegally in large quantities from rural areas like Pali, Ankhir; which do not fall under the already declared dark zone. Only the urban areas fall under that category. Due to this, the groundwater is being extracted and used for commercial purposes, which in turn results in further depletion of the water table.”Sukhbir Bhadana, a member of the gram panchayat in Pali, said, “Water is being extracted illegally through tube wells in and around our village. At least 5,000 litres of water are being extracted to fill one tanker, and more than 10 tankers are filled in a day. We have to buy water from these tanker operators as the pumps installed in our houses can’t be used.”Jeetendra Bhadana, a Pali resident, who compiled the letter, said, “We have been trying to conserve water by restoring ponds across the district or ensuring that rainwater harvesting structures are functional, but this will all be a waste if the illegal extraction of water continues like this. At least 20 tankers are filled per day from the outskirts of the district. There is no water left for agriculture or for wildlife, which will further affect biodiversity. We request the authorities to consider our demands and conduct ground inspections at the earliest. We have received a positive response from the Faridabad deputy commissioner, but the situation is alarming.”Faridabad deputy commissioner (DC) Yashpal Yadav could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-residents-want-district-declared-dark-zone-for-water-extraction-101622483149403.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Unscheduled power cuts disrupt online classes, work from home||Unscheduled power cuts of six to eight hours every day over the last two months are causing an array of problems, said residents, with students unable to attend online classes and working professionals facing difficulties in completing their tasks or attending meetings. Residents alleged that the problem is further compounded by expensive power backup solutions, which cost them ₹17 per unit, more than double the cost of ₹8 per unit for the government supply. Residents have threatened to strike at the power distribution’s officer later this week if the issue remains unresolved.Rajkumar Yadav, the president of Sector 46 RWA, said that they have complained to all officials concerned, including the chief engineer of the DHBVN, but to no avail. “We have attended several meetings with the power minister and district-level officers to present the electricity issues in our sector. Despite six months elapsing since the last meeting, they have not been able to come up with a solution. If the situation does not improve, we will not pay DHBVN bills and will protest for the privatisation of the department. We will hold a dharna pradarshan against the department at the DHBVN office,” he said.The problem is especially acute in DLF Phases 1 and 2, sectors 46, 57, 48 and 22, Palam Vihar, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road. Residents alleged that despite multiple calls to the staff of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), the distribution company, they have failed to get relief. PK Chauhan, the superintending engineer of DHBVN, who took charge on Monday, said that they have worked out multiple plans to ensure an uninterrupted power supply. “Regular power supply is our prime concern and the department is working towards it. There was an issue for three hours on Sunday due to storm and rainfall but was resolved by night. All linemen have been asked to be on alert and to reach the spot from where they receive complaints,” he said, adding that inspection will be carried out and issues will be resolved. Officials said that the peak demand in the city is around 2,000 megawatts (MW), of which 1,700 MW is consumed by urban parts. The average daily demand of the city is 1,125 MW. DHBVN officials also said that once the Smart Grid project is completed, expected by 2022, it will fully resolve all power supply issues. However, despite officials’ assurances, residents said that the power cuts are a recurring problem every summer but are hitting them hard this year due to the ongoing pandemic. They said that the electricity department regularly cites failure in feeder lines, infrastructure improvement and failure from substation time and again as the main reasons for outages. They alleged that the smart meters, installed over the last 15-18 months, are not working correctly which is leading to inflated bills. “Not a day passes without unexplained electricity cuts resulting in loss of working hours for professionals and study hours for children. The state of infrastructure has seen negligible improvement over the last decade and despite the electricity department imposing cuts in the name of improvement, the situation has only deteriorated,” said Sunil Goswami, a resident of DLF Phase-1. During the recent wave of the spike in Covid-19 cases, there were many instances where persons in home isolation were on oxygen concentrators and the unscheduled power cuts threatened their lives, said residents. “Every day, we are suffering between four and six hours of cuts and then fluctuations during the other times. Sunday was an exception as there was a dust storm and heavy rainfall, but this is happening continuously over the last few months. We have a Covid-19 patient in home isolation and on an oxygen concentrator, for whom it is important to have an uninterrupted power supply. Major infrastructure change is required and proactive maintenance is completely missing here,” said Sudhir Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 56. Amit Jindal, the president of Vipul Greens residents’ welfare association (RWA) on Sohna Road, said that regular electricity cuts directly impact the residents’ energy bill as it increases their diesel generator (DG) consumption. “DG unit rate is almost more than double the cost of DHBVN unit rate, leading to extra burden when there is a salary deduction in most of the private sectors. Since most of the people are working from home, frequent power cuts are disrupting meetings. Online classes for children are also being disrupted with unit tests starting in 15 days. The department should urgently install infrastructure that can withstand the squalls and rain during which they necessarily shut off the electricity supply,” he said. Residents also alleged that frequent voltage fluctuations are affecting the operation of household appliances and motor pumps, which causes water shortage. They said that additional transformers must be installed at the earliest to ensure smooth supply. Vinod Tayal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, said that frequent breakdown of electricity infrastructure indicates the substandard quality of transformers, jumpers and cables. “There is an urgent need to increase the budget for maintenance of electricity infrastructure since the demand for electricity consumption has grown exponentially in the last few years, whereas the budgets allocated for upgrade and maintenance has not. The cuts also make it difficult for the residents to switch on their water pumps, leading to water shortage. The government must look into this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/unscheduled-power-cuts-disrupt-online-classes-work-from-home-101622483090674.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG councillor succumbs to Covid-19||RS Rathee, Ward 34 councillor of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), succumbed to Covid-19 late Sunday night, officials said on Monday. The 56-year-old councillor, who had contracted the infection in early April, was admitted to a private hospital for the past four weeks. Despite showing signs of improvement, his health deteriorated over the last three days, and he died around 9.45pm on Sunday due to multiple organ failure.“Our local councillor was responding to the treatment, and his health had started improving. However, his condition deteriorated all of a sudden, and he was put on ventilator support on Friday,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson of DLF Qutab Enclave Residents Welfare Association (QWERA) and Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC). Rathee had founded these two RWA groups — QWERA and GCC — in 1987 and 2005, respectively.The MCG councillor had lost both his parents to Covid-19 just two weeks ago. He is survived by his wife Rama Rani Rathee, a former MCG councillor, a daughter, and a son.A Good SamaritanRathee played an active role in providing food, medicines, and oxygen cylinders to other relief operations for Gurugram residents amidst the pandemic.He was also instrumental in leading a nearly two-year-long MCG investigation, which highlighted various discrepancies in the process of allotment, hiring, credentials of MCG workers, and also brought focus on the possibility of ghost workers. His investigation had prompted the MCG to initiate its own probe, and over 600 workers were terminated in this connection.“He was the most proactive member of the MCG, and always brought up important citizen-centric agendas during the official meetings. He was perhaps the most informed councillor, and knew all intricacies of the MCG’s operations and shortcomings. Even though he was a member of the Opposition, he always lent support for any initiative that aided in Gurugram’s development,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.Rathee had won the 2017 MCG elections as an independent candidate. He had contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. During his tenure as an MCG councillor, he played a key role in the ongoing maintenance transferring process of DLF Phases 1, 2, and 3 from DLF to the MCG, highlighting discrepancies in the MCG budget and fighting against the allotment of forest land for a petrol pump, among other such issues.Before becoming a councillor, he was the president of QWERA, which covered DLF Phases 1 and 2, and the GCC which dealt with the problems of RWAs and residents across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-councillor-succumbs-to-covid19-101622483091279.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 1,246 new Covid-19 cases, 82 more deaths||Haryana on Monday reported 82 coronavirus-related deaths, bringing the toll to 8,303, while 1,246 fresh infections pushed the infection count to 7,56,635, according to a bulletin.The health department's daily bulletin said 10 of the new fatalities were from Hisar, nine from Gurugram and seven from Bhiwani district.Hisar reported 100 new Covid-19 cases, Sirsa 118 while 112 fresh infections were registered in Gurugram.The active case count stands at 18,580, while the number of recoveries has reached 7,29,752 in the state.Haryana has a Covid recovery rate of 96.45 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.39 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-1-246-new-covid-19-cases-82-more-deaths-101622481571785.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Strong winds uproot trees; turbulent weather conditions predicted for 2 days||Strong winds, accompanied by a drizzle, on Sunday evening uprooted trees and damaged electricity poles in a few areas of the city. Weather officials said that thunderstorm, accompanied by squall, lightning and spells of rain was observed in many parts of south Haryana on Sunday evening due to a western disturbance.Experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Gurugram is likely to witness light rain over the next two days. As per the forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is expected between May 31 and June 1. Further, there is a possibility of rain or thundershowers later in the week too.As per the weekly forecast of the IMD, the maximum temperature over the next three days is expected to be around 37-40 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature, around 26-28 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 38.7 ° C, three degrees below the normal, and a minimum temperature of 25.7°C, which was one degree below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said, “Gurugram will witness light rainfall over the next two days due to western disturbance in the hills. Rainfall will be isolated in Faridabad and Gurugram but will be accompanied by high-speed winds. This is likely to bring the temperature down by one or two degrees over the next few days.”On Sunday evening, the meteorological centre (MC) of Chandigarh had also issued an alert. “Thunderstorm accompanied with squall (speed 50-60 kmph), lightning and intense spell of rain is very likely over parts of Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Palwal, Mewat, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Bhiwani and adjoining areas in the next 2-3 hours,” the alert stated.In the evening, MC, Chandigarh, also warned that thunderstorm and lightning with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) are likely at isolated places in Gurugram and Faridabad district on Monday and Tuesday.The city’s air quality has remained in the satisfactory zone for the past two days. On Sunday, the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin recorded a value of 81, up from the AQI of 77 recorded on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/strong-winds-uproot-trees-poles-turbulent-weather-conditions-predicted-for-two-days-101622395243769.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||200 transgenders, sex workers vaccinated at special camp in Gurugram||Around 200 persons were inoculated at a special camp set up for transgenders and commercial sex workers at a government school in Dundahera on Sunday.Transgenders from across the district, such as Dundahera and Sirhaul among other areas got the jab at the camp from 10am to 4pm, said the district health department officials on Sunday.“We have vaccinated 190 transgenders community during the vaccination camp, and the response was very good. We are making all efforts to reach out to marginal sections of the population so that they are not left out,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav. He had inaugurated the vaccination camp on Sunday morning.Around 750 transgenders had registered themselves for the jab, as per the district data.Yadav said that they held a meeting with the representatives of the transgender community, and the NGO working with them on Saturday, and a detailed plan was made so that the maximum number of people go the jab during the drive. “Earlier, we carried out a drive for people with special needs. It was successful. We will conduct more such drives for those with special needs,” he said.The health department also said that a camp for such individuals will be held at a subdivisional hospital in Pataudi on Monday. “Beneficiaries who need a pick and drop facility would be given this facility. We appeal to the people in Pataudi that they should get vaccinated in this camp,” said Yadav.Srikant Kumar, programme manager, NGO Sauswa, who works with transgenders, said that this was a great initiative, and the entire community is “thankful to the authorities and the health department for the inclusive step”. “The transgenders community appreciated this move,” he said.Details on others who got vaccinated at the camp on Sunday were not immediately available.Walk-in vaccination at 37 sitesMeanwhile, in a related development, the health department said that it would avail vaccination at 37 session sites across the district on Monday, for the 18-45 category. Nearly 200 jabs per site will be administered on a first-come-first-serve basis. The beneficiaries would be allowed to walk-in, and they can get vaccinated without prior registration or slot booking.CMO Yadav said that the beneficiaries do not need to get themselves registered, and they would be served on first-come-first-serve basis. “Those who haven’t got the first dose should come at the session sites and get the vaccines,” said Yadav, adding that this was done for a day, and they would repeat this exercise if the response was good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/200-transgenders-sex-workers-vaccinated-at-special-camp-in-ggm-101622395242435.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown in Haryana extended till June 7, shops allowed to reopen||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the state till June 7, but announced relaxations in shop timings and mall operations, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced during a virtual press conference on Sunday morning.As per the directives, shops in markets are allowed to open from 9am to 3pm on alternative days, based on an odd-even formula. Shops with odd numbers will be allowed to open on odd dates while those with even numbers will open on even dates.Also, shopping malls are allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, albeit with a limited number of people, depending on the size of the mall. An order issued by the Haryana government stipulated that malls will have to ensure that one person per 25 square feet space is allowed inside such places. Visitors inside the malls would be allowed only for a limited time and fresh entries would depend on the number of people inside the mall at a particular time.A spokesperson for the Gurugram district administration said that while malls will be allowed to open, they must observe strict Covid-19 protocols. A detailed order will be issued on Monday, the spokesperson said.“Joint commissioners of the respective zones of the municipal corporations and secretaries of the respective municipal committees shall be responsible for enforcement of these instructions in true letter and sprit and they shall be assisted by the executive magistrates and SHOs of the concerned area,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, who issued directions on Sunday evening.Officials said that the night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 5am.Khattar said that although the Covid-19 situation was improving, the lockdown was extended to prevent any spread of the infection. He said that schools and colleges in the state would remain closed till June 15, while anganwaris would remain closed till June 30.The order issued by Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan also allowed hotels to open for room occupancy, but barred conference rooms, banquet halls, restaurants and bars in hotels from reopening.Officials said that stand-alone shops can remain open throughout the day.Earlier in the morning, Khattar said that they received representations from several market associations, demanding relaxations in the opening of shops, due to which they decided to allow reopening.The Haryana government had imposed a weekend lockdown in the state from April 30 to May 3 in nine districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad. However, due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the state government imposed a statewide lockdown for a week from May 3 and has been extending it weekly. Last week, the government announced relaxations in curbs, which were further extended on Sunday.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that shops in markets where numbers are marked would follow the odd-even formula while shops on roadsides, which are not marked, will open on alternate days on the left and right side of the road, as is being followed at present. “The shop owners and malls that are allowed to open must ensure that social distancing norms are followed strictly,” he saidYadav, however, said that cinema halls, bars and restaurants would not be allowed to open inside the malls, but they can continue serving takeaway food orders, as is the practice at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-till-june-7-shops-allowed-to-reopen-101622395182321.html
