02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day industrial shutdown: PSPCL unable to pull the plug on power cut||Despite the Punjab government imposing a two-day shutdown on industrial consumers, residents continued to swelter within the confines of their homes as unscheduled power outages continued across the district. The total power demand in Ludhiana central zone is 6,400 MW, of which 2,800MW is utilised by the industry. Last year, the power consumption was 6,000 MW. “The increased power consumption in summer is causing the transformers to overload, resulting in unscheduled blackouts in certain areas,” a PSPCL official said.“We have had to replace transformers in some areas, which is a time-consuming process,” the official said, adding that a downpour would reduce the use of air conditioners and reduce the load on transformers. 10 to 12-hour power cuts After three transformers catering to Anand Nagar, Chander Nagar, Joshi Nagar, Pritam Nagar were damaged last night, residents had to manage without electricity for around 10 to 12 hours. Irked they lodged around 3,500 complaints on the helpline number (1912), but to no avail. An irate resident, who did not wish to be named, said, “Authorities must intimate the public about power cuts in advance so that we can plan our ‘work at home’, accordingly.” Residents of BRS Nagar also reported a three-hour power outage from 12.30pm to 3.30pm due to maintenance work. Mohit Sharma of Pritam Nagar, said, “It is difficult to stay without electricity for long periods. There was a power outage in our area last night. However, despite lodging several complaints power was resumed only after 4pm. The long power cut has affected all the eatables stored in the refrigerator.” Another resident from Chander Nagar, Kimti Rawal, said, “Power supply was disrupted in our area around 7pm yesterday and was resumed in the evening. Water supply was also affected due to the power outage.” “Besides, it is difficult to do without air conditioners in this heat. Authorities should have made contingency plans to prevent overloading of transformers before the summer season began,” Rawal added. PSPCL chief engineer, distribution (central), Bhupinder Singh Khosla, said, “Power consumption has increased by 400 MW this year. In the areas where transformers get damaged, workers swiftly make the repairs and resume power. All tubewells in the district have been provided an eight-hour power supply so farmers can irrigate their fields.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twoday-industrial-shutdown-pspcl-unable-to-pull-the-plug-on-power-cut-101625250411113.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||JNPT denies non-compliance with Bombay HC order for transfer of mangroves to state||In a fresh affidavit filed before the Bombay high court (HC) on June 30, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) has denied allegations of non-compliance regarding the transfer of mangrove lands at the port authority’s property in Uran, Raigad to the forest department. On the heels of a 2004 petition filed by the Bombay Environment Action Group (BEAG), the HC, in September 2018, ordered that mangroves on all government land be transferred to the forest department within three months.As per an assessment by the forest department, there are around 1,194 hectares (ha) of mangroves in Uran that need to be handed over to the state for protection and to be notified as reserve forest under the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Until February this year, JNPT’s website contained a declaration that it has 913.6 ha of mangroves on its land in Uran. This section has now been removed, as HT first reported on June 14. Till date, there has been no handover of mangroves from JNPT to the forest department.Given the long-standing delay, city-based NGO Vanashakti in December 2020 served a contempt notice to JNPT. Subsequently, in January this year, Vanashakti filed a fresh public interest litigation (PIL) to expedite HC’s final judgement from September 2018 which concerns protection for over 3,000 ha of mangroves across the state. The PIL also alleges that there has been wilful destruction and reclamation of mangroves by various authorities, including JNPT, in violation of environmental safeguards.In response to the petition, a JNPT representative has denied allegations that they “have violated or committed wilful disobedience of the (HC’s) final order and judgement”. This is on the grounds that JNPT were not a party to the original PIL filed by BEAG in 2006. Experts, however, contested this claim, saying HC’s directions are applicable to all government authorities, including JNPT. They also pointed out that JNPT has been previously penalised by HC-appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee for destroying at least 4,500 mangroves to make way for its container terminal-4 port expansion project.In their affidavit, JNPT also submitted that the state has not directly approached them seeking transfer of mangrove land. On the contrary, after receiving Vanashakti’s contempt notice in December, JNPT itself wrote to the mangrove cell in January, asking for “details about JNPT’s mangrove vegetation land out of 1194 hectares of Raigad district”. The forest department, on its part, has maintained that they do not have any idea about the extent of mangroves under JNPT’s jurisdiction, bringing the matter to a deadlock which, experts say, has only prolonged the final goal of bringing Uran’s mangroves under legal protection. The forest department subsequently wrote to JNPT administration in February and May this year, with the subject ‘Transferring Mangrove Forest to Mangrove Cell”. On February 12, Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell), had asked the port authority to notify mangrove area under its control under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act “at the earliest”.Stalin D, director of Vanashakti, criticised both JNPT and the forest department for the long-standing delay in bringing Uran’s mangroves under the purview of the Indian Forest Act. “The forest department is equally responsible for this lapse. While it is incorrect of JNPT to say they have not been approached, it is as much the responsibility of the forest department to have written to them earlier. Both parties have started passing the buck to each other only after contempt notices were sent out.”HT had reported on June 14 that JNPT has approached the Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC) for demarcation of its mangrove area. “Following demarcation of mangrove area of JNPT through MRSAC after approval, the port trust may handover mangroves land to forest department,” a senior JNPT official had said to HT.Debi Goenka, a life member of BEAG and second petitioner in the initial PIL which led to the HC’s final judgement, also criticised both JNPT and the state government over inaction. “It seems neither the mangrove cell nor JNPT is interested in implementing the orders of the HC. It is shocking that both do not know what the area of mangroves within JNPT’s jurisdiction is. JNPT is also clearly aware of the proceedings, as they themselves had filed an application in the HC for permission to destroy 14 ha of mangroves for expansion of the port. Unfortunately, this permission was given to them even though the CRZ clearance obtained by JNPT specifically prohibited the destruction of mangroves. In this era of climate change, it is unfortunate that government agencies are wilfully disobeying the Bombay HC,” Goenka said.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, which has been campaigning to save Uran’s mangroves, said, “JNPT is sitting on roughly 9 lakh mangroves, by the thumb rule of a 1,000 trees per hectare. That is the size of roughly 90 Azad Maidans. Given that they have been fined previously for destruction of mangroves, their dillydallying is extremely concerning. The fear is also that their excuse will also pave the way for other agencies to hold on to their mangrove, which rightfully should be transferred to the forest department immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jnpt-denies-non-compliance-with-bombay-hc-order-for-transfer-of-mangroves-to-state-101625250350494.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Yellow, amber, orange, red: Coloured action plan for Delhi’s Covid-19 response||An expert committee set up by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to guide the state government’s Covid-19 preparations is drafting a colour-coded action plan aimed to help the government put in place a string of measures, ranging from lockdown-like curbs to reserving hospital beds, to tackling an outbreak, a senior government official said on Friday.The committee has decided on four colour-coded alerts in increasing order of severity — yellow, amber, orange, and red. The alerts are similar to the plan the state puts in place as it tackles air pollution in the city in the winter, said the official.Under the Graded Response Action Plan, air quality scale is divided into several levels — moderate, poor, very poor, severe, and severe-plus or emergency. When the city’s air quality reaches a particular level, government and air quality monitoring and enforcement agencies are dictated to follow a list of dos and don’ts that need to be implemented.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Every alert will come with its own set of preventive and mitigatory measures,” said the official.“The aim is to avoid unnecessary delays. It is expected to give a better and more uniform sense of what nature and scale of restrictions are required to be implemented at what stage as new cases and other parameters such as positivity rate witness spike.”The eight-member expert committee, comprising doctors, heads of hospitals, and bureaucrats, is in the final stages of drafting the graded action plan. On May 27, Kejriwal set up the preparation committee along with another 13-member committee, which is focused on the medical and technical aspects of Covid-19 preparation, including medical oxygen, drugs, paediatrics, and so on. The eight-member committee has been tasked with drawing up guidelines on the announcement of a lockdown and the degrees of curbs that various Covid-19 scenario require, the number of tests that should be conducted in a day, containment policy, contact tracing targets, the reservation of hospital beds, and other such issues.“The committee is expected to prepare multiple action plans based on various combinations of factors such as new cases, test positivity rate, deaths, case fatality rate and active cases on a stage-by-stage basis,” said the senior government official.A colour-coded alert will be issued if a host of Covid-19 metrics meet a preset target, said the official. For instance, a particular alert will be issued — as part of the state’s daily health bulletin — if the test positivity rate remains a certain number for a fixed number of days, and the number of new cases cross a certain benchmark, on a certain number of occasions in that period.“The plan should be prepared in such a manner that each stage of the plan can be activated within a short time,” the official added.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Such a strategy can be very useful in sending the right message to the masses. Currently, the government shares only numbers. Numbers that appear as a threat to me can seem relatively safe to another person. A colour-coded system can help bring in more objectivity and people can better assess what level of precautions to take at what stage. A graded action plan will also ensure better allocation of resources, protect the contact tracing and home isolation models and make triage easy for the surveillance teams.”Triage is the process of determining the priority of patients’ treatments by the severity of their condition or likelihood of recovery with and without treatment.Delhi witnessed its fourth and worst Covid-19 surge in April and May. At its peak, the city recorded more than 28,300 cases in a day on April 20 and a positivity rate higher than 30% in mid-April. A severe shortage of medical oxygen in the city during the wave – which also witnessed hospitals running out of beds, ICUs, ventilators and life-saving drugs – further contributed to the high number of deaths.On Friday, Delhi recorded 93 new cases and a positivity rate of 0.13%, the government’s health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yellow-amber-orange-red-coloured-action-plan-to-guide-delhi-s-covid-19-response-101625250172805.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Put barricades on Mumbai-Goa Highway, avoid accidents: HC to state, NHAI||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the public works department (PWD) of the state government to submit a report on the Mumbai-Goa Highway widening project after a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed claiming that the delay in completing the project was resulting in loss of lives due to accidents, which were occurring due to improper barricading of work areas. The HC also directed the authorities to ensure filling up of potholes that had developed due to monsoon to ensure safety of vehicular traffic. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Owais Pechkar, a resident of Chiplun in Konkan, was informed that he was a regular commuter on the Mumbai-Goa Highway and sought directions to the authorities to resolve the delay in the road-widening project as well as other issues faced by daily commuters of NH-66 who were at a risk of accidents due to potholes. Referring to an earlier PIL filed by him in 2018, Pechkar submitted that though the HC had directed NHAI and state to ensure that the highway was rid of potholes, nothing had been done so far, hence he was forced to file another PIL highlighting the same issues and others. In its 2018 order, the HC had suggested that the state rope in experts to suggest technologies to address the pothole problem over a longer period of time, but, Pechkar said, nothing had been done in that regard. After hearing the submissions, the bench concurred and asked NHAI and PWD to look into the issues including potholes as monsoon is underway and safety measures needed to be taken to avoid accidents and save lives. The court also said that it was the responsibility of the authorities to place warning signages and barricades where road-widening work was going on. It also sought a progress report of the highway widening work and asked the authorities to inform by when it would be completed. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state assured the court that the court’s observations would be conveyed to the officers concerned and who would respond in the next hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/put-barricades-on-mumbai-goa-highway-avoid-accidents-hc-to-state-nhai-101625250003110.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC allows Haryana to promote 663 lecturers to principal’s post||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday allowed the Haryana government to promote 663 lecturers to the post of principal.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia modified HC’s 2019 order whereby the state was told not to make any promotions. The 2019 order had come on a clutch of petitions disputing seniority list finalised by the state education department.The order was passed in an application seeking early hearing of the seniority dispute. It had come before the court that not only the petitioners are facing difficulties apart from private-respondents but even the department is having administrative difficulties on account of the stay orders and it would not be feasible if the stay orders continue. It was submitted that on account of the litigation, promotions are being held up to the post of principals. There are 679 vacancies of principals for which postgraduate teachers (PGT) cadre or lecturers, which can be considered, subject to the final outcome of dispute on seniority of 663 PGTs, who were eligible for promotion.In view of this, the high court has now allowed the state to promote lecturers with the condition that any promotion made will be subject to final outcome of the seniority dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-allows-haryana-to-promote-663-lecturers-to-principal-s-post-101625250002052.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, farmers slam Punjab govt over power crisis in Ludhiana||With both domestic power consumers and industrialists disgruntled over the choppy power supply at the height of the heatwave, members of the Bhartiya Janata Party staged a protest against the Congress-led Punjab government and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited outside the chief engineer’s office on Ferozepur Road on Friday. Heavy police force was deputed to ensure law and order. The BJP workers alleged that it was the state government’s mismanagement, which had led to the power crisis in the state.“On one hand the government has hiked the power tariff in the state, while on the other, they have failed to provide uninterrupted power supply to the farmers and industry,” they said. Slamming the PSPCL officials, the saffron party workers alleged that residents had been forced to bear the sweltering heat during prolonged power outages, while the PSPCL officials were themselves sitting in air conditioned rooms. Ludhiana BJP president Pushpinder Singal said, “The industry is already reeling under losses due to the ongoing pandemic and the unscheduled power cuts have added to their woes. Farmers are not getting power supply to water the paddy crop. All this due to the state government’s failure to meet the power supply demand sin the state.” BJP leaders threatened to agitate outside the subdivisional offices of the PSPCL, if the government failed to resolve the problem.Paddy crop getting damaged: BKU Lambasting the union government over rising fuel prices and the state government over its failure to provide uninterrupted power supply, which was damaging the paddy crop,the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta (Ugrahan) staged a protest outside the mini secretariat. Protesting farmers submitted memorandums with the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office, the one on fuel prices was addressed to the Prime Minister and the one on power supply to the chief minister. They said the state government had promised to provide eight hours of uninterrupted power supply during paddy season, but power was only being supplied for around 5 hours. “As we have to use diesel generators to operate the tubewells in absence of electricity, the rising prices of fuel have taken a toll on us,” they said. District general secretary, Sudagar Singh said,”Rather than providing relief to the residents, both the state and Union governments are filling their coffers. Fuel should be brought under GST and tax should not be more than 5%. To compensate for the damage already caused to the paddy crop, the state government should provide electricity for 12 hours now.”Farmers stage counter protest against BJPWhile the BJP leaders were staging a protest against the state government, a small group of farmers staged a counter protest against the saffron party for passing the contentious farm laws. However, they were pacified by the farmers deputed at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-farmers-slam-state-govt-over-power-crisis-in-ludhiana-101625249992169.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Sugar mills sold after HC order, no irregularities in procedure: Ajit Pawar||After the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached the properties of Jarandeshwar Sahakari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) on Thursday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar claimed there were no irregularities in the selling procedure of the mill in 2010.Speaking in Pune on Friday, Pawar asserted that the board of directors of Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank did not sell the sugar mills directly and it was done as per the orders given by the Bombay high court (HC). He also said the directors of Jarandeshwar SSK mill would appeal in court against this action.“While selling Jarandeshwar sugar mill, MSCB followed all the due procedures. Around 12-15 companies had applied in the tendering process. The highest bid was offered by Guru Commodity situated in Mumbai for ₹65.75 crore and the mill was sold at this price. Other mills were also purchased by various companies. Many owners of the mills appealed against this in courts but the results were not in their favour,” said Pawar.ED on Thursday said it had attached assets worth ₹65.75 crore belonging to Jarandeshwar SSK situated at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara in connection with the money laundering case involving MSC Bank, while adding that a firm linked to the deputy CM and his wife Sunetra was involved in the case.However, Pawar categorically denied any wrongdoing in this matter. He claimed that multiple investigations have already been done by several other agencies but nothing has come out of it. “An agency has a total right to do the inquiry. During the tenure of the last government, the criminal investigation department (CID) had done an inquiry after it received complaints, but nothing came out of it. After that, the anti-corruption bureau started an inquiry but nothing came out of that as well. Many PILs have been heard in the high court regarding this matter. A committee of retired judges had also done an inquiry in the selling of these mills. The allegations of me snatching the sugar mills have been made earlier as well. But the sugar mill was not sold by the board of directors; it was done after the order of Bombay high court,” said Pawar.He added that the current directors of Jarandeshwar SSK would appeal in the courts against the action taken by the agency. “There are no irregularities in the operations of Jarandeshwar SSK. When the directors of this mill were called by ED for inquiry, they showed all the records to them. So why has ED started this action now is beyond me. The directors of Jarandeshwar SSK will appeal in court for justice. Thousands of farmers and workers are dependent on this mill for their livelihoods,” said Pawar.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Chandrakant Patil alleged that the wrongdoings related to Jarandeshwar SSK is just the tip of the iceberg of fraudulent selling of 24 cooperative sugar factories, and all such transactions are now on ED’s radar. “The action on the Jarandeshwar SSK is just the beginning. Sugar mills and cotton mills acquired for meagre amounts through MSCB are now under ED’s radar. The fraudulent pattern to take over sugar mills has been unveiled. After ED’s action on Jarandeshwar SSK, the transaction paperwork has come into public domain,” said Patil.He also refuted allegation that the action taken by the central agency was to create political pressure. “Those who complain about the action first should accept that there has been a fraud. Those who have done wrong will have to pay for it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sugar-mills-sold-after-hc-order-no-irregularities-in-procedure-ajit-pawar-101625249931472.html
02-07-2021||Other||Delayed monsoon: Farmers demand 12-hour power supply to feeders||Delayed monsoon and extended dry spell has left paddy growers high and dry as they are finding it difficult to keep their crop alive.Since most paddy-sowing areas in Haryana did not receive any rainfall since the sowing of paddy began on June 15 and there seems to be no relief in sight for farmers as the meteorological department has predicted no rain in most areas in the next couple of days.As per the daily report of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), heat wave to severe heat wave conditions were observed in isolated pockets of Haryana and maximum temperature of more than 40°C was recorded in most parts of Haryana and Punjab.The extended dry spell has put an extra burden on the groundwater. The farmers are now demanding that power supply to agriculture feeders should be extended to 12 hours from the current eight hours a day.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) state president Ratan Mann has demanded the government to extend immediate relief to the farmers.“Most farmers could not even complete the sowing in lack of rain. The government should not only increase electricity supply but should also provide subsidised diesel to farmers so that they could prepare the fields for transplantation and nurture their crop,” he added.Yamunanagar farm leader Satpal Kaushik said that he has written to Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala and requested him to increase power supply to 12 hours immediately.He said that not only the paddy growers but sugarcane and vegetable farmers are also finding it difficult to irrigate their crop as eight-hour power supply is not sufficient.“It is a tough time for farmers. We cannot see our crop dying due to lack of water. As the current power supply is insufficient, we are spending ₹300-400 per hour on the diesel pumps to get extra water,” said farmer Manveer Singh, of Gharauda in Karnal.Dr Narender Goyal, of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra Damla, advised farmers to avoid using fertilisers during the heat wave and maintain the required moisture in their fields to cut the impact of dry spell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delayed-monsoon-farmers-demand-12-hour-power-supply-to-feeders-101625249931028.html
02-07-2021||Other||Students from rural Haryana face internet connectivity issues while taking exams||The Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak authorities opted only for an online platform to conduct the first semester exams of postgraduate students and pre-PhD students, but the digital medium has emerged as a big problem for students living in remote areas as they face connectivity and slow internet issues.Over 18,000 students are appearing for the postgraduation first semester exam. The PG exams for distance mode students will start from July 3.MA (English) pass out Monika Kumari, who hails from a Bhiwani village, had to shift to Rohtak to appear for the first semester exam to improve her scorecard.“I shifted to Rohtak as my village falls on the Rajasthan border, where internet connectivity is a major issue. During my first exam, I had requested my friend to give her phone for four hours. To take the online exam, two phones are required. The first phone is used to switch on the camera and join the meeting to write the paper,” she said.“The second one is used to click photos of the answer sheet and send the same via email in PDF format. If we click the answer sheets with the help of the first phone, we will have to leave the meeting, and if we do so, the invigilator will find us guilty of indulging in malpractice. Now, I have spend ₹14,000 to buy another phone so that I can take the exam without any hurdle,” she added.Another student Jyoti, of Jhajjar village, said she has been visiting a private library in Rohtak to appear for the online exam.“There is slow and poor internet connectivity in my village. I got compartment last time and have now paid ₹1,200 for the library to use their internet to write the paper. It is difficult to remain active in the online meeting for four hours and I have to keep my phone on charge during the entire time. I have been uploading the PDFs with the help of my friends,” she added.A PhD scholar, pleading anonymity, said he could submit his answer sheet in PDF format just four minutes before the allotted time due to poor connectivity.“Students staying in urban areas take just 10-15 minutes to upload the PDFs while I have to struggle for 50-55 minutes in submitting the PDF due to poor connectivity. Many of us don’t have Wi-Fi connection and are appearing in the exam via phones. If anyone calls on our number, till we disconnect the call, our video switches off. Then we struggle to convince the invigilator that the video was switched off due to a phone call,” the scholar added.MDU controller of examination BS Sindu said some students have faced problems in online exams but most students have smartphones. “In the next semester exams, we will provide both online and offline options to students,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-from-rural-haryana-face-internet-connectivity-issues-while-taking-exams-101625249751216.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Delta Plus variant: Over 4K people with travel history to vulnerable states under surveillance||Over 4000 people in the state capital, who have recently travelled to states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka that are vulnerable to Delta Plus variant of Covid 19, have been put under surveillance, said an official. Officials with the district administration said the surveillance team was in regular touch with these people and would keep a watch on them for ten days. “We are extra cautious this time as we don’t want to take any chances. Hence we have strengthened our surveillance. As of now, there are around 4600 people who are under scanner. Our team is in touch with these people and enquiring about their health regularly,” said Dr MK Singh, additional chief medical officer\district immunisation officer (DIO) who is handling the surveillance team. Singh said the administration has put checks at all exit and entry points of the city, including highways, airport, railway stations, bus stations and toll plazas, to keep a tab on people arriving from these states. “In the days to come we would also be setting up Covid testing camps at offices, banks and all public congregation points in order to ensure safety of people. Also, it has been made mandatory for inbound tourists to mention 7 day long history of their travel to any vulnerable states,” he added. On Thursday, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash had held a meeting to assess the preventive measures being taken in wake of possible third Covid-19 wave. The DM had also directed officials to carry out a study on the reasons that led to the infection in the hotspot areas that were identified in 1st and 2nd waves. Not only this, the DM also directed that those going for Covid test at testing labs will have to register last 7-day travel history. The DM also directed targeted testing in public-frequented establishments, including banks, offices, central institutes, hostels, colleges, universities and weekly market etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delta-plus-variant-over-4k-people-with-travel-history-to-vulnerable-states-under-surveillance-101625249634595.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to provide platform for volunteers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the state government will provide a platform to people willing to serve the public voluntarily.Recognising the work of volunteers during the Covid-19 pandemic and to boost their morale, Khattar directed the officials to provide a platform to volunteers ready to serve the society.Presiding over a review meeting, the CM said that there are many people who wish to work for the society and do not expect anything in return.“The officers concerned should complete all necessary formalities required to provide a platform at the earliest,” Khattar said. He said that there are retired people who want to do something for the society and “preparing an action plan to utilise their experiences is imperative”.“This will not only benefit the society but also give self-satisfaction to these people,” he added.Citing Jerusalem (Israel) as an example, Khattar said over 5,000 people associated with the Ambu Bike Service there are always ready to provide emergency services.“As soon as the alarm rings in their mobile, they immediately reach the accident site to provide immediate help to the injured. From giving first aid to taking the injured to the hospital, these volunteers work round-the-clock to help the injured,” he said.The CM directed officials to prepare a blueprint in this regard. He said Durga Shakti app and Dial 112 facilities are also there for providing assistance in emergency situations, but there is a large section of the society willing to serve people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-provide-platform-for-volunteers-101625249571852.html
02-07-2021||Other||4 yrs on, Karnal Smart City remains a distant dream||Making Karnal a smart city still remains a distant dream as works on most big ticket projects approved under this scheme have not been started yet.In June 2017, Karnal, the constituency of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, was included in the Centre’s Smart City Project with promise to improve quality of life, smooth traffic movement, sanitation, security and safety and better health facilities but in the past four years, no major changes have occurred.As per officials monitoring the project, in the beginning, the blueprint of Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) had 57 projects – including 40 projects of ₹1,022.08 crore kept under area-based development on 720 acres and 17 projects of ₹149.75 crore were under PAN City Solutions. But now, the project is not limited to just 720 acre but will cover the entire city. Total 24 projects approved earlier have been dropped and 23 new projects were added taking the number of total projects to 56.As per the status report, of the 56 projects planned, only 13 small projects of ₹10.27 crore – including city bus service, installation of musical fountains have been completed in the past four years.Work on 20 projects of ₹182 crore, including a city surveillance system of ₹152 crore, is under construction. But work on 33 major projects of around ₹474 crore is yet to start.Several projects including open-air gyms, smart utilities, earmarked cycle track, rejuvenation of Atal Park, city surveillance, redevelopment of old bus stand, etc are under-construction for over two years.Ramanjeet Kuar, councilor from ward 11 of the Karnal MC, and her husband Gurinder Singh are not satisfied with the slow progress of works. They said, “There is nothing on the name of smart city yet. We don’t think anything has been done to improve quality of life in city. Building entry gates will not help until we provide basic facilities to people.”However, the officials also blame the Covid-19 pandemic for delay in execution of under-construction projects.Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO of KSCL and Karnal deputy commissioner, said work on many projects was delayed due to the pandemic but efforts are being made to speed up completion of the projects. Over the delay in disbursement of funds, he said that allocation of funds is based on expenditure done.“As the area under the smart city project has been extended, I am hopeful that Karnal will be a smart city in the next three years,” said the CEO.However, Karnal MC mayor Renu Bala Gupta said the project is being monitored by the CEO and the MC does not have any major role to play, but some projects were delayed as they caused inconvenience to some residents.Karnal was included in the smart cities’ list by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on June 23, 2017. It took one-and-a-half-years to appoint a consultant for the project and now the DPR of two major projects, including construction of 2.1km flyover along the railway road and redevelopment of a 1km stretch between Namaste Chowk to Meera Ghati Chowk, has been proposed but residents of these areas are opposing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-yrs-on-karnal-smart-city-remains-a-distant-dream-101625249453245.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Javed Akhtar moves HC against misleading statement by Kangana Ranaut for renewing passport||Writer, poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar has moved an intervention application before the Bombay high court (HC) in the petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut, alleging that the actor deliberately misled the court and got an assurance from the Passport Authority of India for expediting her passport renewal application. Akhtar stated that though the HC had asked Ranaut if any criminal proceedings were pending against her before any court, the actor said there were no pending criminal proceedings against her pertaining to the two cases filed against her in the sedition and copyright violation case but did not mention the defamation case filed by him against the actor which is pending before the magistrate court. The application is expected to come up for hearing next week. The intervention application filed by Akhtar on July 1 through advocate Jay Bharadwaj stated that a defamation case against the actor was filed by Akhtar in November 2020 for making malicious, false and defamatory remarks against him in a television interview after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and the magistrate had directed the police to investigate the complaint by Akhtar. It further states that the magistrate had issued a bailable warrant against the actor on March 1, wherein she got bail on March 25 but the case is still pending. Referring to the hearing of Ranaut’s plea for renewal of her passport in HC on June 28, Akhtar’s application stated that the actor when asked a specific question on pendency of any criminal case pending against her in any court, Ranaut had deliberately not divulged the pendency of the case titled Javed Akhtar vs Kangana Ranaut in the magistrate court. On June 28, when the Ranaut’s interim application for renewal of her passport was heard by the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Revati Mohite-Dere, the Passport Authority had said that if Ranaut made a statement that there was no pending criminal proceeding against her, it would expedite her application. Advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, representing the actor, had given a statement that no criminal proceedings were pending in any court against Ranaut in the two cases filed against her in the Bandra and Khar police stations. Ranaut had moved the interim application in her petitions challenging the two first information reports (FIR), claiming that renewal of her passport which was due to expire in September was being delayed due to police complaints against her. Following this statement, her passport was renewed the next. Akhtar said Ranaut’s counsel had limited the statement to the criminal proceedings arising out of two FIRs and did not mention about pending criminal defamation case against her, and therefore his petition was required to be heard by the HC. Earlier in February, Dindoshi sessions court had dismissed Ranaut’s appeal against the order by the magistrate court which had issued process against her based on Akhtar’s defamation complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/javed-akhtar-moves-hc-against-misleading-statement-by-kangana-ranaut-for-renewing-passport-101625249451455.html
02-07-2021||Other||Kerala court initiates animal rights PIL after dog killed by 3, names it after ‘Bruno’||Thiruvananthapuram: A widely-circulated video of a labrador brutally beaten with sticks and then hung by a fishing hook moved two Kerala high court judges to initiate a suo moto public interest litigation for the protection of animal rights and issue a string of instructions.The judges also named the case after the dog, Bruno.“We feel this will be a fitting tribute to the hapless dog that succumbed to the acts of human cruelty and disturbed by which we had initiated these proceedings,” a division bench of justices Jayasankaran Nambiar and P Gopinath said about its direction to the court’s registrar to rename the petition as “In Re: Bruno (Suo moto proceedings initiated by the high court in the matter of executive and legislative inaction of the state government in the matter of protection of animal rights)”.Bruno was killed on Adimalathura beach on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram by three men who pounced on the labrador resting by the boat owned by Sunil, one of the three and started thrashing it. They hit the dog with a thick stick, then hung it on the boat with a fishing hook and continued raining blows till it seemed dead.Police said the accused has had spats with the dog owner Christuraj in the past, at least on one occasion over the dog urinating near their vessel. It is not clear where Christuraj was when the dog was being beaten.A person who captured the incident on his mobile phone later shared the clip with Christuraj who put it out on social media. Local reports said the police did not initially act on his complaint. Later the Thiruvananthapuram chapter of People for Animals intervened and a FIR was registered.The video touched off massive outrage.Upset at Bruno’s inhuman treatment, Justice Jayasankaran Nambiar on Thursday wrote a letter to Chief Justice S Manikumar. This letter was later treated as a suo moto petition.In Friday’s order, the judges said instances of cruelty to animals reported in the media had become “frighteningly frequent” in the last couple of years and “we believe that the State must now resort to affirmative action to alleviate their misery”.The bench, which will hear the case next on 13 July, ordered the police to report the action taken in the case relating to Bruno’s death and requested Kerala’s director of prosecution to give “personal attention” so that the wheels of justice are set in motion.“We feel immediate steps are required to initiate a change in the attitude of our citizenry to the welfare of animals so that gruesome incidents, such as those reported in the media, do not recur in future,” the division bench said.The judges noted that Kerala’s animal welfare board was last constituted in 2008 on a three-year-term and faced problems in its functioning and directed the state government to report back within a month with the corrective steps that it has taken.The bench also nudged the government to spend more on veterinary hospitals that desperately need an upgrade, explore the option of holding animal adoption camps at least thrice a year and giving district authorities the power to investigate complaints of infringement of animal rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-court-initiates-animal-rights-pil-after-dog-killed-by-3-names-it-after-bruno-101625249271611.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Begin process to restore Maratha quota, remove 50% cap: Outfits to Centre, state||A day after the Supreme Court (SC) dismissed the review petition filed by the Central government challenging its decision over 102nd Constitutional amendment, the Maharashtra government and Maratha outfits have demanded steps by the Centre to restore the Maratha reservation. The outfits have demanded that the Centre as well as the state begin constitutional procedures to restore the reservation.The SC verdict could be a favourable development from the viewpoint of the state government as the order has made it clear that the power to give the reservation to any community lies with the Centre. While quashing the reservation given to the Maratha community in education and jobs through the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018, the SC had, on May 5, said that state’s powers of giving reservation have been done away by the 102nd Constitutional amendment in August 2018. The review petition filed by the Centre challenging the Apex court’s verdict was dismissed by the SC on Thursday. The Maharashtra government, reacting to it, has demanded a Constitutional amendment to restore the reservation.State public works minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan said the SC, through Thursday’s verdict, has reiterated that the power to give reservation lies with the Centre. “The Central government now needs to amend the Constitution to restore state’s power and to do away with the 50% cap on reservation. The Centre should take a call on it in the ensuing monsoon session of the parliament,” he said. Meanwhile, the SC verdict has led to blame game between the ruling and opposition parties in the state. While the Congress has blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “misguiding” the community during its rule in the state, BJP leaders said that the ruling parties should stop blaming the Centre for everything. “The latest SC verdict has established that only the Centre is empowered to give reservation. The BJP misled the Maratha community by enacting the law in 2018 when the state had no right to do so,” said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar said the process for inclusion of any caste in the list of backward classed needs to be initiated by the state. He added that once the Centre approves the backwardness of the community, enactment of the law is also the responsibility of the state government. BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and demanded that the state immediately begin the process of survey by the state backward classes commission. He said that the inclusion is done by the Centre on the basis of the report submitted by the state government.Virendra Pawar, one of the coordinators of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said Maratha outfits would have to simultaneously fight its battle with the state as well as the Centre. “Our fight now starts from the scratch after the review petition was dismissed by the Apex court. The state government will have to recommend the inclusion of any community backward classes to the Centre, for which new survey is necessary. Maratha outfits are all set to take this battle forward by chalking out new strategy,” he said.According to insiders in the state government, the verdict has, in a way, put the onus on the Centre to take steps for the restoration of the reservation. “The Centre will now have to take constitutional step to establish its stand that the state’s power on reservation is intact. Even if the Centre does so, the state cannot cross the 50% limit as the SC had refused to review the cap while giving its May 5 ruling. Therefore, we have demanded constitutional amendment to remove that cap too,” said an official form the state government.The officer said that the state cannot ask the backward classes commission to conduct survey to prove the backwardness of Maratha community as it would be contradictory to the review petition filed the state. The state government has filed its review petition challenging the 50% cap and Apex court’s remarks questioning the standing of the Gaikwad commission report which was base for the Maratha reservation.The state government-appointed committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale had recommended fresh survey of the community to establish their backwardness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/begin-process-to-restore-maratha-quota-remove-50-cap-outfits-to-centre-state-101625249270448.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED grills Avinash Bhosale’s son for 6 hours in Pune land grab case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday questioned Amit Bhosale, son of Pune businessman Avinash Bhosale, for six hours in connection with the money laundering case linked to a Pune land grabbing case.The father-son duo was summoned by ED to remain present at its Mumbai office on Thursday and Friday. While Bhosale didn’t turn up at the ED office, Amit visited the agency’s office on Friday afternoon. After nearly six hours of questioning he was allowed to leave the ED office. His statement was recorded pertaining to various suspicious transactions and dealings linked to a Pune land. He has been summoned again on Saturday. His father likely to join the investigation by Monday, ED sources said. Sources added that Bhosale and his son are accused of allegedly developing a commercial building on the said land which was meant for bureaucrats and a cheating case was registered against Bhosale in Pune. Based on this case, ED registered a money laundering case and initiated investigation against Bhosale, who is known to have associations with many political heavyweights in the state.Last month, ED had seized assets worth ₹40.34 crore belonging to Bhosale and his family for alleged violations of provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema), 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ed-grills-avinash-bhosale-s-son-for-6-hours-in-pune-land-grab-case-101625249210900.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra asks backward classes commission to collect empirical data of OBCs||The Maharashtra government has issued a notification empowering the state commission for backward classes to collect data related to the backwardness of Other Backward Classes (OBC) for their reservation in local body elections. The collected data is expected to be submitted before the Supreme Court to restore the political reservation to the community which was struck down in March this year.The notification has stated that the commission for backward classes will conduct the rigorous iniquity into the nature and implications of backwardness within the local bodies on the basis of records, reports, survey and other available data. The commission is expected to gather the information through surveys and records available in government offices, educational institutions and organisations.The SC had struck down political reservation granted to OBCs in local body election for the want of empirical data on the backwardness of these communities, which led to debate and blame game between political parties. The reservation can be restored by submitting the report on the empirical data to the SC.“This should have been done long ago when the SC first enquired about it in its ruling in December 2019. Had it been done in time, the reservation could have been saved. Instead of taking the steps, the state government kept blaming the Centre for not producing the empirical data,” said Leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-asks-backward-classes-commission-to-collect-empirical-data-of-obcs-101625249210383.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi forest dept arrests man for smuggling leopard claws||The forest department, along with the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB), arrested one person for illegally smuggling and selling a bag of leopard claws and teeth at Delhi’s Kashmere inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) on Friday. Aditya Madanpotra, deputy conservator of forests (north division), said acting on a tip-off, the team--projecting themselves as prospective buyers--met the man at Kashmere Gate ISBT around am on Friday and caught him with a bag of leopard claws and teeth. “The seller has been arrested and the parts have been seized. We were hoping that the man would turn up with more items because we had received information that he was in possession of more such animal parts and that such items were being transported to other states from Delhi,” said Madanpotra. He said the department is not going to release the price of the animal parts in the illegal market, as the Wildlife (Protection) Act prohibits making such information public to ensure this trade is not encouraged in any way. The Indian leopard has been listed as a vulnerable species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)--an international organization working in the field of nature conservation and sustainable use of natural resources-- because of its depleting population. Poaching of the animal for the illegal trade of its skin and other body parts is strictly banned. Forest officials said such illegal trade and transit has increased over the last few years and teams are often on alert to track such criminals. The operation often involves coordination from forest and wildlife departments from other states as well. A senior forest department official explained that even though Delhi is not quite the hub for wildlife-related crimes, it is an important transit point from where poachers and middlemen transport animals, dead and alive, and their body parts. “After illegally poaching protected animals such as leopards, tigers, crocodiles, and even trading several protected species of birds from the jungles of Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal among other places, these illegal traders often use Delhi as a transit point to take these items further into north east India and then even across border to Nepal, Bhutan or China. The value of these items in the black market is quite high,” the official explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-forest-dept-arrests-man-for-smuggling-leopard-claws-101625249091450.html
02-07-2021||Other||Peak power demand in Delhi hits another high, crosses 7,300MW||New Delhi: The national capital recorded a peak power demand of 7,323 mega watts (MW) – the highest in two years -- on Friday, with officials saying that they managed to meet the demand “without any constraints”.“Despite sharp increase in electricity demand, Delhi has managed it well. No power cuts. Uninterrupted power supply,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet.Earlier in a tweet, Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain said, “Delhi successfully met ever-highest [highest in two years, as per government records] electricity peak demand of 7,323 today. Heartiest congratulations to (the) Delhi power sector for this achievement.”The highest peak power demand ever in the Capital was 7,409 MW, recorded on July 2, 2019. As the mercury soared, Delhi recorded peak power demands of 6,921 MW on Wednesday and 7,026 MW on Thursday. Thursday was also the second time in two years that Delhi crossed the 7,000-mark for peak power demand.Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand was recorded at 6,314 MW on June 29. In 2018, the peak demand was 7,016 MW, recorded on July 10, government records showed.The demand this year may further go up to 7,400 MW, if the ongoing heatwave in the city continues, said a senior power department official who did not wish to be identified.The BSES discoms -- BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) -- said they successfully met the peak power demands of 3,079 MW and 1,640 MW in their respective areas on Friday. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited, said in a statement, that they successfully met the peak power demand of 2,104 in their areas on Friday afternoon, “without any network constraint and power outage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/peak-power-demand-in-delhi-hits-another-high-crosses-7300mw-101625249090336.html
02-07-2021||Other||Adopt water-saving methods to tide over power crisis, PAU advises farmers||As the state reels under acute power crisis, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here has advised the farmers to adopt water-saving methods during paddy cultivation.The experts say there is no need to maintain standing water in the fields if two weeks have elapsed after transplantation of paddy. The water should be allowed to seep into the soil completely and the next irrigation should be done after two days. This way, farmers will need to consume less water, reducing the incidence of pests and diseases.Due to the current power crisis in the state, farmers are facing problems in operating tubewells for watering the paddy crop in absence of uninterrupted and required power supply.PAU head of agronomy department, Dr MS Bhullar, said, “In case of direct seeded rice, no attempt should be made to pond the water and the irrigation frequency should be five to seven days depending upon soil type. These techniques will also help taper down the electricity demand in the state and farmers to tide over the current crisis.”Rain deficit aggravated situationThe varsity experts stated that the water requirement of transplanted as well as direct sown rice reaches a high point in the fourth week of June.PAU’s head of climate change and agricultural meteorology department Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu revealed that the rainfall data available for around five decades shows that more than 45% of rainfall for June month is witnessed during its fourth week in the state. The rainfall pattern is prone to variations on account of climate perturbations which are on the rise.“The last week of June was drier than normal this year. The rainfall deficit for this week (June 24-30) in Punjab is more than 60% as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. This has aggravated the problems related to meeting the irrigation needs of the rice crop,” she said adding that the IMD has predicted subdued rainfall activity in the coming five to six days and heat wave conditions are likely to prevail over the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/adopt-water-saving-methods-to-tide-over-power-crisis-pau-advises-farmers-101625249031276.html
02-07-2021||Other||Truck driver crushed to death in freak mishap||In a freak accident, a speeding truck crushed to death the driver of another truck parked on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near Jagraon, police said on Friday.On the night intervening Thursday and Friday, the victim, identified as Satpal Singh of Bathinda, was checking the air pressure of his tyres on the roadside when the speeding truck hit him, crushing him between the two vehicles and killing him on the spot.Police said the accused truck driver, Jatinder Singh of Kothey Fatehdin village, Jagraon, also suffered injuries in the accident and has been hospitalised.An FIR has been lodged on the statement of Naib Singh of Bathinda, who was the victim’s assistant.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pritam Masih, who is investigating the case, said the accused driver has been booked under sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (reckless driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code.He will be arrested as soon as he is discharged from the hospital, the cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/truck-driver-crushed-to-death-in-freak-mishap-101625248973858.html
02-07-2021||Other||Skill varsity likely to begin online admissions from July 6||New Delhi: The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) is likely to begin admissions from next week for various courses which are designed by industry experts and involve mandatory entrepreneurship components, at least six-month internships, and paid apprenticeship programmes. At least two university officials HT spoke to said the varsity is likely to begin the process for online admission from July 6.The university will offer 12 job-oriented undergraduate courses, including BA prgrammes in Digital Media, Business Management, Data Analytics, and Aesthetics and Beauty, in addition to six B.Tech courses and 15 diploma courses. The university will initially admit 6,000 students of which 4,500 will be enrolled in diploma courses and 1,500 in degree courses.So far, 10 existing polytechnic institutes, six skill centres, two Delhi Institute of Tool Engineering, and one engineering college in Delhi have been integrated with the university.“The university is currently working with industry experts on upgrading the curriculum based on our present demands. We have formed a curriculum review committee which is taking a look at all courses and upgrading outdated content. All one-year courses at the [previous] centres have been scrapped,” said Vice-chancellor Neharika Vohra.The Delhi government had given the nod for a new skills and entrepreneurship industry In October 2019.Admissions to the diploma courses will be conducted through an online proctored common entrance test to be conducted in August, and candidates applying to degree courses will have a merit-based admission on the basis of their Class 12 scores, performance in vocational subjects, and extra-curricular activities. Vohra also said that the university would conduct an aptitude-based assessment to help students understand which course is suited for them.The university has also introduced mandatory training in “employability skills” for all students.“The workplace is changing rapidly and the focus of the component is to gain the agility to adapt to different circumstances. From digital literacy and English communication in the workplace to financial literacy, every semester will have a different module for students focusing on ethics and socio-emotional skills as well,” said Preyansi Mani, head of academics at DSEU.The state university has also adopted the Delhi government’s Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum which will feature as a component in all courses.“The weightage may differ from course to course. For instance, in beauty and fashion courses, the component may be higher than the course on banking. But every course will have a component to build entrepreneurial mindset among its students,” Vohra said.Former placement officer at Jamia Millia Islamia, Rihan Suri, who is now pro-vice-chancellor at DSEU, said that the skill university’s industry component is more intense than other Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc) courses.“We want to break the stigma around skill development and are converting conventional degree into professional courses. Those students who study vocational subjects for their Class 12 boards or score in the range of 55-70% can also enrol in the university and develop a career path. Students will also be given the flexibility to switch courses during their degree, based on credits scored by them and the criteria set for different courses,” he said.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that the university would have to focus on placements, high-profile internships, and industry connections to build on its reputation.“In addition to employability skills, the quality of placement and internships will be critical for the university in the coming years. Students will come only if they see good placement opportunities. In many countries, management is still considered a vocational course. But by adding academic and higher-order elements to it, IIMs secured prestigious placements and ensured excellent career tracks for the students taking the institute to its current status,” she said.The university is holding workshops with vocational teachers and representatives of government and private schools in the Capital to apprise the stakeholders of the courses offered by the university and their relevance to students interested in skill-based learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skill-varsity-likely-to-begin-online-admissions-from-july-6-101625248972634.html
02-07-2021||Other||AAP accuses EDMC of piling additional fee on doctors with own clinics||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led East Delhi Municipal Corporations (EDMC) of imposing an additional charge of ₹24,000 per year, towards garbage collection, on doctors who have their own clinics, and demanded its immediate rollback. BJP and EDMC officials, however, said the charges were imposed in line with a Delhi government notification.“The BJP-led MCD has given a shock on Doctor’s Day. Doctors will now have to pay an additional fee of ₹24,000 annually for the removal of garbage. Each doctor’s clinic will now have to pay ₹30,000 annually to the east MCD for garbage removal -- an additional fee of ₹24,000 introduced alongside the previous annual fee of ₹6,000, which was imposed for disposal of bio-medical waste,” said AAP MLA and party spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.“After looting traders with manifold taxes and license fees, doctors are on the MCD’s target. BJP’s MCD has also introduced a professional tax to be levied on professionals like CAs, architects, doctors, etc. It is ridiculous and condemnable that the MCD has stooped down to loot people with irrational taxes and fees. We demand immediate rollback of the additional fees imposed on doctors with their own clinics,” he said.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP general secretary Shri Harsh Malhotra said the additional charges were ordered by the Delhi government. “AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj’s statement on arbitary raising of waste removal charges from ₹6,000 to ₹30,000 annually is misleading. These charges have not been levied by East MCD but ordered by Delhi government on January 15, 2018. East MCD has been forced to implement under repeated reminders from Delhi government. The new charges will be levied as per medical unit, i.e. clinic, nursing home and hospital size and waste generated. Despite new provisions, no substantial rise will happen for normal next door physician clinics and small nursing homes too will be nominally affected. Only larger hospitals will have to pay in higher slab,” he said.East MCD mayor Shyam Sundar said, “The Delhi government should withdraw its gazette notification dated January 15, 2018, immediately to allow relief to medical fraternity and others affected”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-accuses-edmc-of-piling-additional-fee-on-doctors-with-own-clinics-101625248971357.html
02-07-2021||Other||2,719 candidates to appear in lecturer recruitment exam in Ludhiana||With many schools grappling with a shortage of lecturers, the state government has decided to conduct a recruitment examination for 569 posts.In Ludhiana district, as many as 1,739 aspirants will appear in commerce, English, biology, geography, physics, Punjabi, economics and chemistry lecturer exams on July 11, while 980 will take the maths, sociology and Hindi exams on July 12.The authorities have set up four examination centres in the district and invigilators, deputy superintendents and superintendents will be deployed by the education department.Around 500 applicants each will appear at Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Panjab Agricultural University; Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan and Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Jawahar Nagar; while 239 will take the exam at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Bharat Nagar.The exam will be conducted in two shifts — 9.30am to 12pm and 2.30pm to 5pm.As per Covid protocols, no more than 24 candidates will be accommodated in a room and social distancing will be observed. Arrangements will be made to sanitise the hands of staff and candidates at the examination centres.District education officer (secondary) Lakhvir Singh said, “School principals have been asked to depute Class-IV employees from their own schools for the examination. Superintendents, deputy superintendents and invigilators will be deputed by the department. Earlier, the exam was scheduled to be conducted on July 5 and 6, but due to technical and administrative reasons, the dates were revised to July 11 and 12.”Dearth of lecturers at schools with higher enrolment At Government Senior Secondary (Multi-purpose) School, out of the 12 sanctioned posts of commerce lecturers, 11 are lying vacant. The school has over 1,000 students who opted for this course in Class 11 and 12. The school has three sanctioned posts each of political science and physical education, out of which only one post in case of the latter is filled and the rest are vacant. A teacher at the school requesting anonymity, said, “There is a need to fill the vacant posts of the lecturers in government schools as the strength of the students is increasing and more teachers are required to take classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2719-candidates-to-appear-in-lecturer-recruitment-exam-in-ludhiana-101625248970899.html
02-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman, kin booked for shooting at sister over land dispute||A property dispute between two sisters took an ugly turn after one of the siblings opened fire at the other Hasanpur village here, police said on Friday.The accused woman, along with other members of the family, also damaged her sister’s vehicle when she was returning from the fields. Seeing the ruckus, people started gathering at the spot and the accused fled, abandoning their tractor there.The complainant, identified as Sukhjit Kaur Sandh, suffered injuries in the attack.The accused are complainant’s sister Sukhminder Kaur, her son Tajinder Singh of Rurka, her husband Bhagwant Singh, relatives Surinder Singh Chinda of Pamal, Satwant Singh of Sarabha and 10 others who are yet to be identified.Sukhjit stated in her police complaint that she owns 22 acres of land in Hassanpur village where she has sown paddy. She visits the fields frequently to look after the crop. On June 30 at around 9.30pm, she was returning from the farm in her SUV when the accused intercepted by parking their tractor before her car.She added that Tajinder fired shots at her which hit the windshield of her car. She tried to reverse her car, but the accused pushed it into the fields using the tractor. Tajinder again opened fire at her but missed the target. The accused then hurled glass bottles at her car and smashed it with other weapons as well. Soon, villagers started gathering at the spot. On this, the accused fled the spot leaving the tractor there.Sukhjit was rushed to the hospital. Based on her complaint, police have initiated investigation into the matter.Assistant sub-inspector Raj Dheem, who is investigating the case, said the vehicle was seized and a case under sections 336, 341, 427, 506, 148, 149 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Dakha police station.The police have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused and identify the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-kin-booked-for-shooting-at-sister-over-land-dispute-101625248910766.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patients left high and dry as doctors’ strike enters 2nd day in Ludhiana||Medical services, barring emergency and Covid-related services, remained suspended on Thursday for the second consecutive day after doctors in state-run hospitals continued their strike against the recommendation of the sixth pay commission to de-link non-practising allowance (NPA) from basic pay and the transfer of Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) Bathinda unit president Gurmail Ankhi amid statewide protests. The strike was observed under the banner of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee, which is led by PCMSA. Services such as outpatient departments (OPDs), inpatient departments (IPDs), unique IDs for persons with disabilities (UDID), Ayushman Bharat - Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) and elective surgeries among others remained suspended as around 400 doctors employed at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, and 10 community health centres suspended work. Protesters said NPA comprised 25% of their basic salary. However, the sixth pay commission, which aims to better doctors’ pay scale, had reduced the component to 20% of their basic salary and had de-linked NPA from basic pay, which will hit their salary and pension benefits. PCMSA member Dr Rohit Rampal said the strike on Friday was primarily against the transfer of Ankhi to Fazilka. “Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday assured a PCMSA delegation that both issues will be resolved, and the NPA issue could be resolved as early as Tuesday, after which we resumed work. However, doctors will continue wearing black batches until the demands are actually fulfilled.” Meanwhile, patients continued to be on the receiving end as they were denied treatment for the second consecutive day. Umesh of Dhandari Kalan, who had come to the civil hospital in Ludhiana for treatment, said, “I met with an accident a few days ago and suffered an injury on my left leg. I noticed that the area around the wound was infected and came to get it checked out but I was told to come another day due to the doctors’ strike. It is difficult for me to visit the hospital again and again with an injured leg.”A social worker at the hospital, Gurpreet Singh said the doctors’ strike at the civil hospital was only affecting the poor stratum of society, which could not afford to visit private practices at a time when the public is already bearing the brunt of the pandemic. Though Covid related services were not suspended, the visitors faced a lot of harassment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patients-left-high-and-dry-as-doctors-strike-enters-2nd-day-in-ludhiana-101625248790876.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||20,324 Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra in May, 7,332 in June||While the state saw 20,324 Covid deaths in May, the number declined to 7,332 in June. Adding to the high death rate in May was the reconciliation process where 15,000 backlog deaths were added to the cumulative fatality rate from May 1 onwards. The government authorities have called it a case of delayed reporting rather than underreporting or misreporting of facts.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, state government on Covid-19 management, attributed it to the decline in new cases. “The death rates correspond directly to the number of cases and since June had fewer cases, we saw a decline in deaths,” said Dr Salunkhe. “In May, the high number of cases resulted in shortage of hospital beds and oxygen supply. This also raised the number of deaths. However in June, the situation improved significantly,” he added.April-May was one of the toughest phases in the Covid battle for the state, as there was acute shortage of hospital beds, Remdesivir injections and chaos all around.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blamed the authorities for the spike in deaths. “When the cases started declining last September, the authorities should have beefed up the medical infrastructure in both rural and urban areas. The history of pandemics like cholera, influenza and measles has all shown multiple waves and they should have prepared themselves. These deaths have happened due to their short sightedness,” rued Shaikh.On Friday, the state saw 8,753 new Covid-19 cases, of which 673 were from Mumbai. A total of 221,289 tests were conducted across the state on Friday. The day also saw 8,385 recoveries. The death toll has now reached 122,353 with 156 patients succumbing to the virus on Friday. The total case count stands at 6,079,352.On Friday, there were 116,867 active cases in the state. Pune topped with 17,013 active cases, followed by Thane with 16,339 active cases. In terms of Covid fatalities, Pune leads with 16,823 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,499 deaths. On Saturday, 377,698 vaccine doses were administered to the citizens. Many parts of the state resumed their vaccination after three days.In view of the upcoming Bakri Eid on July 20, the state has come out with rules which banned all religious functions and asked people to offer namaz in homes and not in mosques. It also said sacrificial animals should be bought online or over the phone as markets dealing with them will be closed. It has also asked devotees to keep qurbani (sacrifice) symbolic. It asked people not to congregate in public places on the day of the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20324-covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-in-may-7-332-in-june-101625248610227.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress worker, 3 accomplices arrested for murder in Ludhiana||After 16 days of being on the run, the primary accused in the murder of a 45-year-old fugitive was arrested with three of his aides on Thursday. Those arrested are Nachattar Singh, a Congress worker, whose wife is a Zila Parishad member, and his aides Avtar Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Jagtar Singh.Four of their accomplices, Surjit Singh, Joginder Singh, Avtar Singh and Lakhdeep Singh, have already been arrested, while at least 15 others remain on the run.What had happened?On May 31, the victim, Mangat Ram, 45, of Salempur village had fought with one Jinder Singh over a passage. Later, Nachattar, who favoured Jinder, had lodged an attempt to murder case against Mangat and his son. On June 15, Mangat, who was on the run after being booked, asked his brother, Mewa Singh, the complainant, to meet him near the ‘akhara’ on Kalewal Road with some clothes. When Mewa reached there, he saw the accused arrive at the spot and attack Mangat with sharp-edged weapons. They also snatched Mewa’s mobile phone and threatened him with dire consequences if he told anybody about the incident. Later, Mangat succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. Allegations of political interferenceOn June 23, the victim’s kin had met commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal alleging that the police were deliberately not arresting the accused because he belongs to the ruling party. The commissioner of police had allayed their concerns. Sub-inspector Harshpal Singh said the arrests were made following a tipoff. “Two cars and two sticks, which were used to commit the crime have been recovered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-worker-3-accomplices-arrested-for-murder-in-ludhiana-101625248550813.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai vaccination scam: BMC seals Shivam Hospital, cancels license||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday sealed Shivam Hospital in the Charkop area after cancelling its license owing to its involvement in the alleged fake Covid vaccination scam in the city. According to BMC officials, they have taken the action in response to the report received from Mumbai Police. The hospital had no patients at the time of sealing.The hospital’s owners were allegedly involved in authorised vaccination camps from March 14 to April 30 at Shivam Hospital in collaboration with the BMC, where around 150,000 people were vaccinated. The hospital later allegedly retained the “unused” or “leftover” Covishield vaccine doses in empty bottles. The hospital allegedly supplied the leftover stock to their associates who held unauthorised vaccination camps at various places across Mumbai.Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s R South Ward said, “We have sealed the hospital and cancelled its license as per the provisions in the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949. The action was on the basis of a report received from Mumbai Police. At the time of sealing the hospital, there were no patients admitted at the hospital.”The hospital came under the scanner after residents of Hiranandani Heritage in Kandivli complained to the authorities about a suspicious vaccination drive. Around 390 residents who were vaccinated did not get any symptoms and they also received vaccination certificates from different hospitals.Meanwhile, on Friday 83,644 citizens were vaccinated as around 300 vaccination centres of BMC and state government were functional for around three hours only followed by 98 private vaccination centres. Till now, 5,551,449 citizens have been vaccinated since the start of the drive on January 16, 2021. On Saturday, vaccination will be conducted between 9 am to 5 pm at civic run and state government’s vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-scam-bmc-seals-shivam-hospital-cancels-license-101625248490248.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held for duping 2 by promising oxygen concentrators||The Pant Nagar police have arrested a 35-year-old man from Ulhasnagar for allegedly duping Covid patients and their relatives on the pretext of selling them oxygen concentrators.According to the police, the accused circulated his mobile number on social media. After people approached him for oxygen concentrators, he asked to pay an advance amount through an online mode and later did not deliver oxygen concentrators.A woman from Ghatkopar claimed that she was duped of ₹1.35 lakh, while another man from Gujarat claimed that the accused had taken ₹1 lakh from him.Police officers said the accused, Bunty Jarwal alias Rahul Desai, a resident of Ulhasnagar area, put up a furniture stall at exhibitions held across India, where he exchanged mobile numbers of the people who visited his stall and others, at the centres.During the lockdown, he faced a financial crisis. To make easy money, he circulated messages about supplying oxygen concentrators at a reasonable price, said senior inspector Suhas Kamble of the Pant Nagar police station. The police traced the accused in the Ulhasnagar area. He was arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-held-for-duping-2-by-promising-oxygen-concentrators-101625248430240.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||FDA rules violation: License of 1,642 suspended, 318 medical stores closed in Maharashtra||Amid the pandemic, the apex drug regulating body, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) received several complaints of overcharging and illegal sale of essential drugs for Covid-19 patients. Following this, the officers suspended the license of 1,642 medical stores and closed down 318 stores that were found violating rules, laid down by the FDA.With the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, demand for life-saving drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and oxygen among other medical equipment like oximeters, the thermometer has increased by 400%, as per chemists. Taking advantage of this, many medical stores started selling those medical essentials at a higher than the mentioned maximum retail price (MRP). Some even stocked medicines to increase the prices, which led to the harassment of the relatives of Covid-19 patients.Taking note of it, FDA undertook thousands of raids across the state and took stringent action. “Our inspectors visited the random medical stores as customers and red-handedly caught them violating the FDA rules. We have suspended the license of 1,642 medical stores. In some cases, we found repeated violations, that were earlier given a warning. A total of 318 stores that were repeat offenders have been ordered to close down,” said DR Gahane, joint commissioner of FDA Maharashtra.In the state, there are around 72,000 medical shops and 25,000 wholesalers. Over a thousand showcause notices have been issued to the shops that have been found not following the rules laid under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, during the pandemic.In the city, there are 6,496 medical shops and 4,500 medical wholesalers. During the inspection, 230 were found violating the rules laid by the act whose license has been suspended. Meanwhile, 33 medical stores have been closed down in the city.The highest number of complaints were recorded in April 2021 when the pandemic curve was at its peak and the state was recording the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases in the country.“Every year, we conduct the inspections. But this year, the number of violations was more due to the sudden rise in the demand of the medicines in the pandemic,” he said.However, health activists said the department is running on half of its manpower strength for years. Hence, the department failed to take action against the culprits on time.“Every time, we complained about the hoarding of essential medicines during the pandemic, the officers failed to take timely action. They told us that they didn’t have the manpower. I hope, the authorities learn some lessons and importance of the department and fill up the vacant posts at the earliest,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, from Doctors For You, an NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fda-rules-violation-license-of-1-642-suspended-318-medical-stores-closed-in-maharashtra-101625248370217.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai vax scam: 10th FIR filed; 1,055 of Andheri firm given fake vaccine; 13 booked||MIDC police station in Andheri has registered the 10th first information report (FIR) in connection with the vaccination scam. In the latest case, 1,055 people were allegedly given fake vaccines at an unauthorised vaccination camp.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday sealed Shivam Hospital at Charkop, Kandivli (East). The hospital is owned by Dr Shivraj Pataria and his wife Nita, who are accused of engineering the entire vaccination scam.The doctor couple and Dr Manish Tripathi, another medical practitioner arrested in the case, were on Friday produced before a metropolitan magistrate and remanded to police custody till July 9.The MIDC police have booked 13 persons including Dr Manish Tripathi, Dr Shivraj Pataria and his wife Nita, Arvind Jadhav, Pavan Singh, Dr Anurag, Mohamed Karim Ali, Neha Sharma, Roshni Patel and others after a complaint was received from Inter Gold (India) Private Limited, a firm based in Andheri (East).The complainant claimed that 1,055 vaccine doses were given by Pawan Singh in April and May, but only 48 people got vaccination certificates.A police officer said that BMC had not given any permission to organise the camp at Inter Gold (India).The Samta Nagar police have arrested one Dr Anurag, who is the 14th accused to be arrested in connection with an unauthorised vaccination camp at the Intercontinental Diamond store.The Kandivli police have on Thursday arrested absconding accused Rajesh Pandey from Baramati. Pandey, a key accused, had been misusing his identity as an employee of Andheri-based Kokilaben Ambani Hospital and defrauding people in the name of vaccination.The vaccination scam came to light after Hiranandani Heritage society in Kandivli approached the police complaining they were duped by Mahendra Singh and four others who administered fake vaccines to their society members on May 30. The society members claimed they received the vaccination certificates, but they had names of different hospitals and different dates, but when the residents checked the Co-WIN portal, their status was shown as “yet to receive the first dose.”Thereafter, eight more cases have been filed at Versova, Borivli, Bangur Nagar and Khar, Samta Nagar police stations against the same group. So far, police have arrested 14 accused and are on the lookout for two more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vax-scam-10th-fir-filed-1-055-of-andheri-firm-given-fake-vaccine-13-booked-101625248190230.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Treat family of pilot contracting, succumbing to Covid as a frontliner: Air India pilots to PM||Boeing pilots of Air India have sought an immediate and interim measure wherein the family of any pilot contracting Covid and succumbing to it, be treated as a frontline worker and be compensated as per the government policy in addition to any other personal or group insurance. In a letter written on Friday to the Prime Minister, finance and aviation minister, the Boeing pilots’ association said that one dependent member of such a pilot (spouse, child or sibling) should be provided suitable alternative employment by Air India. The association also pointed out that pilots becoming permanently medically unfit or temporarily medically unfit due to Covid or post Covid complications, must be provided annuity at four times of the normal coverage, due to the impending increased risk while undertaking such flights.The Boeing pilots’ Indian Pilots Guild Pilots (IPG) specified that the airline crew, while still unvaccinated, stood up to the call of duty even during the second wave in April 2021, putting the national interest before theirs and family members’ health and safety. “..success of Vande Bharat is a matter of pride for all aviation personnel who have played a role in this time of national crisis with Air India Ltd. being responsible for transporting at least 3.4 million people worldwide. In the process as many as 460 pilots got infected with Covid, over 30 pilots have needed to be hospitalised and five have succumbed to it, till the date of making this submission,” a senior pilot said.“In the current pandemic situation, the Government of India announced an ex-gratia cover of ₹50 lakh for any frontline worker who contracted Covid 19 and succumbed to it under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. However, none of the pilots’ families who have succumbed to Covid having contracted the same whilst operating the Vande Bharat or air bubble flights has been so compensated,” the pilot added. This letter comes after the widows of the deceased Air India pilots collectively wrote to Air India chairman and managing director- Rajiv Bansal, for providing appropriate compensation to them and also giving an alternate suitable job to the immediate family of the deceased pilots. The pilots’ letter read, “We are conscious that flying commercial jet aircraft, is fraught with risks and treat it as an occupational hazard. Such risks were recognised by an Award by (Retd.) Justice G.D. Khosla, Former Chief Justice of the Punjab High Court, back in 1966, which provided for a graded scheme of Annuity for pilots and other crew members who may become permanently or temporarily unfit to perform their duties. In the current scenario, the need to look afresh at the said provisions in the context of Covid is more pronounced.”IPG concluded by requesting that, pilots with family members who are at a greater risk of getting infected such as those residing with small children, aged parents/siblings or relatives with co-morbidities with them, should not be compelled to operate flights or face punitive action for refusal to operate Covid relief flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/treat-family-of-pilot-contracting-succumbing-to-covid-as-a-frontliner-air-india-pilots-to-pm-101625248130988.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Shamli link in LeT plan: Two more men held in Kairana||Two residents of UP’s Shamli were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) with the help of the Shamli police, on Friday, in connection with the parcel blast at Darbhanga Railway Station, in Bihar, said UP additional director general (ADG), law and order Prashant Kumar.The NIA officials stated that the duo is the part of a nexus linked to Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).In a press note shared by the UP police, the ADG stated that the two individuals, identified as Haji Saleem alias Saleem Ahmad and Kafeel Ahmad, both residents of Shamli’s Kairana, have been arrested by Shamli police and handed over to the NIA probing the parcel blast at platform number 1 of Darbhanga Railway Station on June 17.The press note read that two brothers, Imran Malik and Nasir Malik, both residents of Kairana, were arrested on Wednesday from their hideout in Hyderabad. The names Saleem Ahmad and Kafeel Ahmad surfaced during interrogation of the previously arrested two brothers.The ADG said the NIA has taken custody of Saleem and Kafeel for further legal proceedings.The NIA officials had earlier informed that the investigation into the Darbhanga parcel blast revealed a trans-national conspiracy hatched by top operatives of LeT to execute terror attacks across India and cause large scale damage to life and property.The NIA had taken over the parcel blast case on June 24.The officials said Imran and Nasir, who had shifted their base to Nampally, Hyderabad, were arrested after their link surfaced in the parcel booked from Secunderabad.The officials said the Indian based LeT operatives Imran and Nasir acting under directions of Pakistan-based handlers, fabricated an incendiary improvised explosive device (IED), packed it in a parcel of clothing and booked it in a long-distance train from Secunderabad to Darbhanga.They said it aimed at causing an explosion and fire in a running passenger train resulting in huge loss of life and property. They said Nasir had visited Pakistan in 2012 and had received training from LeT handlers in fabrication of IED from locally available chemicals. Along with his brother Imran, he was in touch with Pakistan-based handlers of LeT over encrypted communication platforms, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-shamli-link-in-let-plan-two-more-men-held-in-kairana-101625248130221.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Hot weather spell exposes chinks in power distribution network||The prevailing hot and humid long summer spell has exposed chinks in the state’s electricity distribution network yet again, causing power crisis in most cities including the state capital.As the load on the network increases especially during night with much use of air-conditioners and hooking of ‘katiyas’, the overloaded and overheated transformers explode and aerial bunch conductors of overhead lines frequently melt rendering people in the areas concerned ‘powerless’ for hours almost every day.“Our locality has been reeling under severe power crisis with frequent tripping and load shedding for last two weeks. We have to stay awake in the nigh till the supply is restored,” complained Ravi Gupta, a resident of sector 14, Indira Nagar.Vijay Lal, a private firm employee and resident of exhibition ground area, Aligarh, said frequent power cuts were intolerable these days because of intense heat even as the sub-station staff remained out of reach for most of the time when they tried to complain. “Frequent outages badly disrupt the internet connectivity as well as affect the office work I do from home these days,” he complained. This situation is despite the fact that there is demand-supply gap in the state and UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) claims that it is meeting all the power demand and providing electricity as per the roster without resorting to any emergency extra load shedding. “The demand has certainly increased very much due to heat and humidity but we are able to meet the demand as there is no shortage of electricity,” UPPCL director (distribution) AK Srivastav said.“The power crisis that people sometimes complain of is due to local breakdowns most of which are unavoidable but all attempts are made to rectify them and restore the supply in the minimum possible time,” he added.The power demand made a new record on Thursday when it was recorded to be 24,926 MW during the peak hours. Informing this through a tweet the same day, energy minister Shrikant Sharma said “The highest-ever power to the tune 24,926 MW was supplied in the state on June 30. Its credit goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s polices and chief minister Yogi Adityanath government’s successful execution and UPPCL personnel’s hard work,” he said. While enough electricity is available in the transmission and distribution sub-stations, the same often fails to reach consumers due to local breakdowns being caused by several reasons with overloading being the main one.Blaming overloading and purchase and use of substandard transformers, cables etc, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma said it was an irony that people were reeling under power crisis even in the state capital despite the UPPCL injecting record electricity into the sub-stations.“The issue is that electricity often does not reach end consumer because of distribution bottlenecks in between” he said. He also said 132 sub-stations in the state were overloaded by around 2 crore kw due to poor planning and rampant theft. Verma alleged that most of transformers exploded and cables melted not only because of overloading and overheating but also because of their poor quality. During his meetings with discoms, the energy minister invariably touches the issue of power supply these days. He has repeatedly expressed concern over the complaints he receives about the power supply and has asked engineers to ensure quick disposal of grievances apart from taking steps to eliminate overloading of transformers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hot-weather-spell-exposes-chinks-in-power-distribution-network-101625247890143.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Humid weather spell to continue in UP||The hot and humid weather conditions will continue to prevail across the state in the coming days. “There is very little possibility of rain in UP in the next 24 hours because of a high-pressure zone which has developed over the state. The monsoon rain will resume when pressure zone subsides by mid next week,” said director, state metrological department, JP Gupta.Humidity and rise in temperature caused by a halt in monsoon rain have made things unbearable across Uttar Pradesh. While the maximum temperature is hovering around 40 degrees mark, the relative humidity has been recorded over 60% in the last few days, say the data of the Indian metrological department.Night temperature has also recorded a rise in the last few days. Many parts of the state have recorded temperature over 30 degrees during night. The state capital on Friday recorded maximum temperature of 38 degrees, which was one degree above normal, while the minimum temperature was 29 degrees, two degrees above normal, accompanied by 60% relative humidity. The city will experience similar weather conditions on Saturday too, said MeT department.Meanwhile, advising people to stay hydrated, a city physician Dr Rishab Singh said, “People should keep a balanced liquid input to maintain proper hydration and should take light diet. One should also restrict going out in the sun, especially in the afternoon, if possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/humid-weather-spell-to-continue-in-up-101625247770867.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai organisation to fund education of 400 kids who lost parents to Covid-19||Education of over 400 children, who have lost both their parents to coronavirus across Maharashtra, will be funded by crowdsourcing the expenses from citizens, in an initiative taken up by Project Mumbai, a not for profit organisation, in coordination with the state government. A formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the state government and Project Mumbai on Tuesday.Project Mumbai will also give free of cost internet data To over 2.41 lakh children studying in Mumbai’s municipal schools, who have been attending online classes during the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic. The organisation has tied up with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), and school principals of all municipal schools have begun to send information about verified mobile numbers of their students, along with the service provider for each number.In the second case, families or relatives of such children can approach women and child development officer or district collector, who will prepare a social investigation report, verify the child’s status and details, and submit it to Project Mumbai. The organisation will reach out to the school and pay the fees directly.This project will take place in two phases. The first phase is for children who have lost both parents due to Covid-19, and the second phase is for children who have lost one parent to Covid-19.Shishir Joshi, from Project Mumbai, said, “We have come across a case that stands out. A child, who previously lost both the parents to Covid-19, has now lost the legal guardian, the grandmother. Project Mumbai will fund the education for this child as well. Our effort is to ensure no child is deprived of education and continuity of her/his schooling in the as-is form. Technology support and other facilities will be provided to these children on a case to case basis.” Money will not be handed to the children’s family, to ensure transparency.”Over 12,000 children have lost at least one parent to Covid-19 and over 400 have lost both parents to the infection across Maharashtra.The organisation is also setting up a toll-free number to counsel such children and their relatives and families (1800-102-4040) and will also have a segment to counsel cases of child abuse. In the case of their second initiative, over two lakh students will be provided with internet data.Joshi said, “Every child needs about 1.5 GB data per day. We are tying up with vendors of service providers to provide internet data packs for the next three months. Hopefully, after that, the situation may improve, or we will continue with the data packs.”In a letter written to principals of municipal schools on June 28, BMC’s education department directed them to compile details of all students, verify their phone number, and check if they need an internet data pack top up; and to submit a detailed list of these students and their phone numbers to the organisation.On June 8, BMC’s education department wrote to the organisation and tied up with them for providing internet data to municipal school students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-organisation-to-fund-education-of-400-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid19-101625247770270.html
02-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal Guv stopped from reading out assembly speech by agitating BJP MLAs||An agitation by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators at the state assembly on Friday afternoon stopped Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from reading out the speech prepared by the state government for the inauguration of the budget session. Dhankhar started his speech at 2 pm but had to stop after four minutes as the BJP legislators reached the well of the House and started shouting slogans against the government. They held posters and banners showing images of BJP supporters allegedly killed by Trinammol Congress (TMC) workers during post-poll violence. They objected to some lines in the speech which said some violence took place before the new government took charge and a “section of people” was carrying out a false campaign using fake photos and videos. Amid a ruckus, Dhankhar ended his speech by reading out a few lines from the last paragraphs and left the assembly house around 2.15 pm. Senior legislators said such an incident never took place in the past. “We staged the agitation because the speech prepared by the government did not mention post-poll violence although it is now a national issue. We were not protesting against the governor,” said BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition at the assembly. Suvendu Adhikari claimed that Dhankhar did not read the whole speech to express sympathy for the victims of violence but parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee dismissed the suggestion.“The governor was interrupted by the unruly BJP members but his speech was accepted and placed before the House. In the second half of the session, the speaker passed the motion of thanks as well. So, technically the governor delivered his speech. Those who are denying it do not know parliamentary rules,” said Chatterjee. Although the chief minister was defeated in the state polls by Adhikari she attended the House to maintain protocol, TMC leaders said. The TMC bagged 213 of the state’s 294 seats while the BJP could win only 77. However, two BJP legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha constituencies. For the first time since Independence, the Left and Congress could not win even a single seat. All this happened a day after ties between Raj Bhawan and the TMC worsened with the ruling party releasing two photographs to insinuate a link between the main accused in the fake Covid-19 vaccination racket and Dhankhar. The TMC also alleged that Dhankhar was accused in the Jain hawala case in the 1990s. Though Dhankhar did not react to the allegations, political observers felt his speech at the assembly might raise a storm. On June 28, chief minister Mamata alleged that Dhankhar was accused in the Jain hawala case and branded him “corrupt”. While rubbishing the allegation on that day, Dhankhar told the media that he was not bound to read out the speech prepared by the state government while inaugurating the budget session. “Am I supposed to read out everything that is written?” Dhankhar said on the evening of June 28. This triggered speculations because in February last year Dhankhar wanted to edit the speech prepared by the state for the budget session. The government rejected his suggestion. Dhankhar finally followed convention and read out the speech that was critical of the Citizenship Amendment Act. In January this year, Dhankhar criticised the government for not inviting him to the year’s first assembly session although the House conducted its business for only two days. On Wednesday, the Governor shot a letter to assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying he was “more saddened than anguished” at the allegation Banerjee made against him at the June 21 national speakers’ conference chaired by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. Banerjee complained to Om Birla that Dhankhar was interfering in the functioning of the assembly. Dhankhar also wrote to Banerjee that the allegation, that Raj Bhawan was not clearing some important bills passed by the assembly, is not true. On Friday, however, the acrimony was not visible at the assembly house. The chief minister and the speaker greeted Dhankhar at the gates when he arrived at 1.48 pm. They walked up to the statue of BR Ambedkar and places flowers together. Banerjee escorted Dhankhar to the House and also saw him off. The two were seen talking cordially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-guv-stopped-from-reading-out-assembly-speech-by-agitating-bjp-mlas-101625247712284.html
02-07-2021||Other||HC grants bail to three booked for sedition for burning UP CM’s effigy||The Allahabad high court has granted bail to three people who were charged for sedition under Section 124A of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly raising slogans against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and burning his effigy in March this year. The incident had taken place under Karvi police station in Chitrakoot district.While granting bail to Phoolchandra Yadav, Aashutosh Agrahari and Suraj Singh, Justice Suneet Kumar observed, “Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusation and the severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, reasonable apprehension of tampering of the witnesses and prima facie satisfaction of the Court in support of the charge, the applicants are entitled to be released on bail in this case”.The petitioners’ plea was that it was only a political protest and the ingredients of the offence under Section 124A Indian Penal Code, which describes the offence of sedition, were not made out. The FIR was lodged against the applicants under section 124A (sedition) and other sections of IPC at Karvi police station.As per prosecution case, 12 named and 10-12 unknown people had raised slogans against the chief minister and had burnt his effigy. The petitioners were named in the FIR. During the court proceedings, it was urged by the counsel for the applicants that six co-accused in the case had already been granted bail. However, the state counsel opposed the bail application, saying that a prima facie case was made out against the applicants. The court gave this decision on June 22.According to section 124A of the IPC, whoever, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India shall be punished with imprisonment for life to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-grants-bail-to-three-booked-for-sedition-for-burning-up-cm-s-effigy-101625247470152.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath reviews Ayodhya’s development, asks officials to speed up work||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to speed up the development of Ayodhya. He was chairing a review meeting where officials informed him about a plan to put in place sewage treatment facilities in two phases. In the first phase, the plan aims to connect 20,000 houses with a 150 km sewer network. The total cost of the development work is ₹280 crore. In the second phase, 191 km sewer lines would be laid for 20,316 houses at a cost of ₹320 crore. The officials also told the chief minister that 3.5 MLD nullah (drain) had been tapped. Another detailed project report (DPR) of ₹221.66 crore had been submitted for tapping 15 more nullahs, they said. A DPR was also being prepared for supplying piped water to 20,000 houses and this project involved an estimated cost of ₹105 crore, they added.The officials briefed the chief minister that five out of seven parks had been developed in Ayodhya. While 80% work on the Rajdwar park was complete, the Ashwinipuram Colony park was 60% complete, they said.The chief minister was briefed about the progress in the solid waste management work of Ayodhya and 10.05 hectare land had been marked for landfill site. He also briefed about the development of an integrated traffic management system (ITMS) at a cost of ₹49.74 crore. The state government has already released ₹12.42 crore for starting the work. The ITMS is expected to be operational in October this year.The Ayodhya Municipal Corporation is also developing a gaushala (cow shelter) at a cost of ₹8.52 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-reviews-ayodhya-s-development-asks-officials-to-speed-up-work-101625245730561.html
02-07-2021||Patna||Incorrect map row: Bihar BJP leader files complaint against Twitter||After Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, Twitter is likely to face trouble in Bihar as well for showing an incorrect map of India on its website earlier this week. Social activist and local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suresh Rungta filed a complaint against Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari in a court in Patna over the alleged "offence," according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan.Also Read: Trouble mounts for Twitter amid new FIRs over map rowSpeaking on the issue, Rungta said, “Twitter showed an incorrect map of India on November 12, 2020. Then, on June 28, 2021, it again showed a wrong map of India. Despite warnings from the central government, Twitter did not take the necessary action.” He added that a case has been filed against Maheshwari to “teach Twitter a lesson.”Also Read: UP Police book Twitter India chief for faulty J&K, Ladakh mapRungta has named fellow Bihar BJP leaders Prem Ranjan Patel, Siddharth Shambhu and Rajeev Ranjan as witnesses in the case. Among the four, Rungta is the in-charge of the BJP’s headquarters in Bihar, while Shambhu is a vice-president of the state unit. Patel and Ranjan, meanwhile, are state BJP spokesperson and former media in-charge, respectively.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh government to take action against Twitter over wrong map and comments against 'Bharat Mata'On Monday, there was huge uproar when it emerged that the social media giant showed the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate country on its website, while the Union territory of Ladakh was shown in China. The incorrect map was later taken down; however, this was for the second time when the San Francisco-headquartered showed Ladakh as being independent from India.Also Read: After uproar, Twitter drops map showing J&K, Ladakh outside IndiaThe map controversy came at a time when Twitter is already engaged in a faceoff with the government over the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Codes) Rules, 2021. The rules require Twitter and other social media platforms in the country to follow certain norms. In Uttar Pradesh, it is under the scanner also for a viral video of an alleged hate crime which, the police say, had no communal angle to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/incorrect-map-row-bihar-bjp-leader-files-complaint-against-twitter-101625244116237.html
02-07-2021||Other||Tiger kills 28-year-old in West Champaran forest||Sandeep Bhaskar In yet another incident of man-animal conflict, a 28-year-old man was allegedly killed by a tiger in Raghiya forest range of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district on Friday, officials said. Confirming the incident, HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of VTR said, “Prima facie, the circumstantial evidences suggest that the man was attacked by the tiger. The body has been sent for postmortem examination.”According to the bereaved family members, the victim was attacked while working in his field on the fringe of his native village in Ramnagar block’s Gudgudi panchayat, barely a metre away from his house. Police said victim’s body bore a deep mark around neck and teeth dug on his thigh.“My husband was working in the field along with two other village residents. While others managed to escape, the tiger attacked my husband. But, by the time he could be rescued, he was already lying in a pool of blood,” said the victim’s wife. Locals said the tiger was roaming in the area after venturing out from VTR forests. “The tiger also recently killed a goat on the fringe of the village,” said a local.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-kills-28-year-old-in-west-champaran-forest-101625243930387.html
02-07-2021||Ranchi||ACB to probe ‘irregularities’ in construction of Assembly, HC buildings||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has directed the state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) to probe into alleged “financial irregularities” in construction of the newly built Jharkhand assembly and high court (HC) buildings. “Chief minister Hemant Soren has directed to get investigation done into financial irregularities in construction of the newly constructed Jharkhand Assembly and high court by Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB),” a statement from the CM said on Thursday. Both projects were initiated during the previous BJP regime and are worth several hundred crores. While the Assembly building was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September 2019, ahead of the Assembly polls, the high court building is still under construction. While the assembly complex, spread over around 39 acres, has come up at a cost of ₹465 crore, the estimated cost of the upcoming HC building is reportedly ₹697 crore. Sources said there had been irregularities in the tendering process of both the projects, as the costs were decreased before being increased substantially after the project to the contractor. Both projects had been awarded to the same construction firm. The Assembly building has also been in the news for all the wrong reasons, as its false ceilings have caved in twice in different parts of the building due to water seepage, raising questions about quality of work. In case of the under construction HC building, a public interest litigation (PIL) has also been filed and being heard by the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/acb-to-probe-irregularities-in-construction-of-assembly-hc-buildings-101625243929905.html
02-07-2021||Patna||4th nationwide sero- survey: 3k samples sent for test from Bihar||Around 3,000 blood samples were collected and sent for test during Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s fourth nationwide serological survey in 70 districts, including six of Bihar. The survey, conducted in the state between June 20 and 25, will ascertain prevalence, called seroprevalence or seropositivity, of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, from a past infection in a given population. A seropositivity of over 70%-80% will help develop herd immunity, said scientists, as the government stepped up its vaccination drive beginning July 1. “The results are expected in August. We have sent the samples for analysis to National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, to test them for presence of antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus in an individual,” said Dr Krishna Pandey, director of ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Patna. This is the first time that children of six years and above have been included in the survey, along with adults, given the presumption of a third wave of the pandemic affecting children, Dr Pandey said. The first two surveys conducted in May and August last year were restricted to adults, while the third survey in December included persons aged 10 years and above, he said. For the recent, as many as 500 samples were taken from each of the six districts--Arwal, Buxar, Begusarai, Muzaffarpur, Purnia and Muzaffarpur. Of these, 400 samples in each district were of the general populace and 100 of health care workers. The selected district was divided into 10 clusters, each accounting for 40 samples from the general population. Four samples from every cluster were of children between six and nine years of age; 12 of children between 10 and 17 years, and remaining 24 of adults, said Dr (Major) Madhukar, nodal officer of Bihar for serological survey and Scientist B of RMRIMS. This meant that of the 400-target group from the general populace in each district, 40 were children between six and nine years, 120 between 10 and 17 years, and remaining 240 adults, he added. The samples and villages in districts were selected randomly. The last three serological surveys were also undertaken in the same six districts and clusters, but the recent survey has been undertaken in adjoining villages to those selected previously, said Dr Madhukar. PAST SERO SURVEYS IN BIHAR Muzaffarpur reported 0% seroprevalence during the first survey in May last year. Buxar reported 1.25%,, followed by 1% each in Arwal and Madhubani, Purnia 0.75% and Begusarai 0.25%. Arwal reported the highest seroprevalence of 26.20% during the third survey in December. Buxar was next with 26.07%, followed by Madhubani 24.5%, Muzaffarpur 21.70%, Purnia 21.01% and Begusarai 15.01%. “The cumulative seropositivity was 0.7% during the first survey undertaken between May 17 and 20 last year. This meant that only 17 out of 2,400 people surveyed developed antibodies (immunity) against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr Madhukar. The seropositivity rate in Bihar increased to 7% during the second survey between August 21 and 26 and went up to 22.41% against the national average of 24% during the third survey between December 20 and 25, he added. The recent survey assumes importance given the fact that this is the first such study since the commencement of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 this year. It is also the first serosurvey after the second wave of Covid-19 ravaged the country in April and May, besides being the first to include children up to six years of age, believed to be the vulnerable age group in this pandemic. The survey will give scientists a clue on the presence of antibodies among children as well as adults and health care givers. It will indicate the trend of spread and presence of the infection in the community and among health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4th-nationwide-sero-survey-3k-samples-sent-for-test-from-bihar-101625243875132.html
02-07-2021||Other||Edu dept stays transfer of 257 officials within 24 hrs||PATNAThe education department has stayed its June 30 order for transfer of 257 block education officers, official familiar with the matter said. The decision comes amid a row on Thursday, when social welfare minister Madan Sahni offered to resign, alleging he was overruled by his department’s top official in matters related to transfer and posting of officials in his own department.In the education department, headed by JD-U minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, the transfer orders were issued by the primary education directorate on June 30. On July 1, director Ranjit Kumar Singh issued another order staying the previous order. The communication was immediately sent to all the districts and authorities concerned.Department officials, however, attributed the stay on transfers to upcoming recruitment of teachers for primary and secondary schools through the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. “Besides, some officials were also upset that they had not been given the transfers as per their choice. But the overriding factor was the teachers’ recruitment, which will get underway soon and having new set of people at the block level would have caused problems in completing the exercise early. The department reviewed its decision and stayed the transfers,” an official said.However, the reshuffl at the higher level involving district education officers (DEOs), regional deputy director of education (RDDE), principals of district institute of educational training (DIRTs) and lecturers in training colleges carried out the same day have not been affected.June is considered the month of transfers and around 2000 officials were shifted this year..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/edu-dept-stays-transfer-of-257-officials-within-24-hrs-101625243874379.html
02-07-2021||Other||Bihar-UP road connectivity snapped as 15ft-long stretch caves in||About 15ft -long stretch of Gautam Buddha Setu Marg, that connects the state to Uttar Pradesh, in West Champaran’s Bagaha subdivision collapsed late on Thursday night following heavy rainfall, affecting vehicular movement in different parts of the district , officials said on Friday. Road construction department (RCD) division started repair work immediately, West Champaran district magistrate (DM) Kundan Kumar said, adding that efforts were on to restore transport services at the earliest.According to officials, the collapsed part of the road sank deep into the earth near Nainaha Dhala, between Ratwal in Madhubani block of West Champaran. As a result, movement of vehicles has been disrupted on the stretch that integrates UP’s Kushinagar and four blocks of West Champaran--Piprasi, Madhubani, Bhitaha and Thakaraha-- with district headquarters. “Heavy downpour and erosion appear to be the main reason behind the collapse,” Bagaha subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Shekhar Anand said.Built at a cost of nearly ₹ 500 crore, a road and Gautam Buddha bridge (1,848m ) over Gandak river were necessitated to reduce distance between the aforementioned four blocks of West Champaran to Bettiah and boost rural economy. The cutting short of 95km of distance from Dhanaha, a block in Bagaha subdivision, to Bettiah after opening of this bridge in 2013 saved at least two-and-a-half hour travel time between the two destinations, largely inhabited by farmers. The bridge-cum-road was inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar on November 26, 2013.Following the collapse, a large number of the vehicles, including one carrying a wedding party, remained stranded for hours. “When villagers got to know about them, they made arrangements and facilitated their journey to the destination,” said a local Vinod Kumar. Officials said the district administration has also identified as many as 51 locations in Bagaha subdivision alone, where hilly rivers have caused erosions, rain cuts in roads, embankments and other sites. “The concerned departments have started the repair work,” said the Bagaha SDM.Meanwhile, vehicular movement were also affected on Sukana - Jigana road, Gamahariya - Chakaratan road Narkatiaganj - Lauriya road, - Ramnagar road and Narkatiaganj - Gaunaha (in Narkatiaganj subdivision) among others following rainwater flowing over roads after West Champaran experienced 150.96mm rainfall in last 24 hours. At district headquarters, life was thrown out of gear after waterlogging took place at several localities, market areas and main thoroughfare of the town, besides court, conference hall in collectorate and on premises of sub-divisional office. Former Nagar Parishad president Garima Sikariya described the waterlogging problem as man-made. “A loot culture has gained frequency in one and a half dozen schemes worth about ₹87 lakh for smooth drainage. As a result entire town has turned into a pond twice,” said Sikariya.Several villages in Bettiah (Sadar), Narkatiganj and Bagaha subdivision also reeled under water inundation. “Water gushing into houses have not been reported from any part of the subdivision,” Vidhyanath Paswan, SDM, Bettiah, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biharup-road-connectivity-snapped-as-15ft-long-stretch-caves-in-101625243873676.html
02-07-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur villages flooded as swollen rivers drain out water in low-lying areas||After rendering thousands of people homeless due to floods in twin districts of East and West Champaran, swollen rivers of Gandak, Burhi Gandak and Bagmati are now posing serious threat of inundating a vast stretch of land in Muzaffarpur district, officials said on Friday.Muzaffarpur faced flood fury due to draining of the three rivers—Gandak, Burhi Gandak and Bagmati—in western, central and eastern parts of the district, director of Central Water Commission (CWC) Sharad Chandra said.Officials said hundreds of villages of four blocks of the districts have been hit by floods. Thousands of people, along with their cattle, have been forced to take temporary shelters on highways, as their homes got submerged under floodwaters from the three rivers. Heavy downpour in the catchment areas of different rivers in Nepal and in Bihar in the past 24 hours had led to considerable rise in water levels at different sections of their course. Many rivers originating from Himalayan regions, including Gandak, Lal Bakeya, Kamla, Adhwara and Khiroi, have jumped the danger levels (DL) and are exerting tremendous pressure on their embankments.Dozens of villages of three panchayats of West Champaran like Bagahi, Sakhuani and Manchnagwa, have been cut off from the rest of state after gushing currents of rain-fed rivers engulfed and damaged the roads network around.Situation in areas crisscrossed by Gandak and Kosi rivers might worsen in the next few days, as massive quantum of water was released from Nepal side through Valmikinagar and Birpur barrages in the past 12 hours, officials of water resources department (WRD) said. “About 2.15 lakh cusec water was being released in Gandak from Valmikinagar barrage around 4pm and 1.54 lakh cusec in Kosi from Birpur barrage, which is alarming in early July,” they said.“We are keeping close watch on all embankments with help of volunteers. All embankments are so far safe. However, dozens of villages in Panapur block of Saran got flooded on Friday after some miscreants cut open Rasauli zamindari bund on Dhanauti Nala, a tributary to Gandak, to fill up a nearby wetland with water,” said an executive engineer of WRD, adding that flood protection materials were being rushed to the site to plug the breach.River Ganga is, however, flowing below danger levels in its stretch throughout the state, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-villages-flooded-as-swollen-rivers-drain-out-water-in-low-lying-areas-101625243873083.html
02-07-2021||Other||₹25 lakh courier company loot case: 4 held||Purnia police on Friday claimed to have solved a ₹25 lakh loot case at a courier company office with the arrest of four of the eight alleged accused. Police have also recovered two pistols, five live cartridges, three mobile phones, and a bike allegedly used to commit the crime, besides over ₹1.50 lakh. However, police are yet to recover the looted money.Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar said “The arrested persons have confessed their crime. One of the former staff members of the courier company was behind the incident.”On June 13 this year, eight armed miscreants looted Insatakart courier service at Polytechnic Chowk under Maranga police station.The gang was also involved in a bank loot in Katihar, the SP said.Raids were being carried out to arrest the remaining members of the gang, said subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Anand Kumar Pandey .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-lakh-courier-company-loot-case-4-held-101625243872421.html
02-07-2021||Other||Darbhanga blast: NIA brings two suspects to Patna, gets 7-day custody||PATNAThe two suspects arrested in Hyderabad in connection with the June 17 blast at Darbhanga railway station were on Friday brought to Patna and produced before a special court, which remanded them to seven-day custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Mohammad Imran Malik and his brother Mohammad Nasir Malik, allegedly associated with terror outfit LeT, were arrested Wednesday night for their alleged involvement in the low-intensity parcel blast at Darbhanga railway station.There was no loss of life or property in the blast. The two have been charged with hatching a conspiracy to detonate an explosion or fire in on Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express, which carried the parcel to Darbhanga. Before their production in the court, both were questioned for nearly two-and-a-half hours by a joint team of NIA and Bihar’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in Patna. According to an NIA official, one of the suspects had visited Pakistan and received training. NIA sources said both hailed from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh and were currently residing in a rented house in Hyderabad. Nasir was into clothes business. Their father Mohammad Musa Khan is said to be an ex-serviceman and participated in Indo-China war in 1962. NIA officials said Nasir had visited Pakistan in 2012 and received training from LeT handlers led by one Iqbal Kana alias Asif in fabrication of IEDs from locally available chemicals. Kana, also a native of Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh and a wanted terrorist in India, is currently said to be in Pakistan. He was allegedly in touch with the Malik brothers, besides Haji Saleem and Kafeel Ahmad. Meanwhile, Saleem and Kafeel, who were already taken into custody by UP Special Task Force on June 23 in connection with the Darbhanga blast, were arrested by NIA on Friday in the same case. “The arrested accused met at the residence of Haji Saleem in February 2021 and finalized the plan of planting an IED in a moving train so casualties and extensive damage to property can be caused. Saleem is a close associate of Pakistan based LeT operative Iqbal Kana and was acting as a key intermediary between Iqbal Kana and the arrested accused. He was also involved in channelling funds sent by Iqbal kana that were used in executing the terror act,” NIA spokesperson Jaya Roy said in a statement.Malik brothers were in frequent touch with their handler and were using internet-based texting and WhatsApp and Telegram, NIA officials said. The Darbhanga station blast case was originally registered at Government Railway police station in Darbhanga while NIA registered a fresh case on June 24 and took up the investigation. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-blast-nia-brings-two-suspects-to-patna-gets-7-day-custody-101625243871815.html
02-07-2021||Patna||Weavers worried as stocks made for govt remain unsold||More than 5,000 weavers associated with Bihar State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Union Limited, a registered society also known as BISHCOTEX, are worried about fate of products they prepared on the state government’s request in 2019. More than 84,000 pieces of handloom curtains are lying dumped at the BISHCOTEX office in Patna for nearly two years now. The products are losing shine and colour, while some are also due to damp and humidity, officials said on Friday. These handloom curtains were prepared by BISHCOTEX weavers following the state government’s decision to use handloom curtains in all government offices, hospitals and prisons in a bid to provide employment to handloom weavers, besides promoting handloom products. However, no supply order has been placed so far for these products due to which payment against the order is pending from the government, said Md Naquib Ahmad, BISHCOTEX chairman. Ahmad said by May 2019, more than 60,000 pieces were ready for supply and were brought to BISHCOTEX office.”I had also written about it to the then industry department secretary, S Siddharth, in this regard and his response was quite encouraging, but soon he was shifted to another department.”The society officials also wrote to district magistrates concerned, but there has been no response, he added. When contacted, industry minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, however, said he was unaware of the matter. “I have no idea about the matter. This issue should have been brought under my notice,” he said, adding that he would like to meet the weavers’ union leaders and discuss the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/weavers-worried-as-stocks-made-for-govt-remain-unsold-101625243871185.html
02-07-2021||Other||Migrants didn’t cause spurt in Covid infections: Study||PATNADespite the massive inflow of migrants to Bihar from across the country during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown last year, which caught the global attention due to their agonising tales, there was no major spread of virus due to them in Patna, a study has found.The study, “Learning from Covid-19 cases — A sociological study of Patna district”, by K C Saha, former member, Lokayukta, and former chairman of the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC), during June 2020 and May 2021, has been published by the Centre of Health Policy, Asian Development Research Insitute (ADRI). The study by Saha, a retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, attempted to assess the scope and distribution of Covid-19, how infected persons and their families coped with it and measures taken by the government agencies and the community in controlling its spread. It involved over 23,000 positive cases, 200 interviews of families, interaction with officials and panchayati raj representatives. Patna was the worst hit in terms of infection and the executive officer of the Patna Municipal Corporation said all 75 wards of the city had reported cases. “The officials, however, mentioned an interesting phenomenon of Covid spread — none of the slums in their areas reported a single case of Covid, whereas many VIP areas of town reported a number of cases,” says the study. Another important finding shared by the PMC was that except for 3-4 persons, none of the 7,300 sanitary employees of the PMC, who mostly stay in slums or their family members, had been affected by Covid. It might be because all the sanitary staff had been vaccinated before the second wave. During the second wave, the study says, the migrant labourers did not return to Bihar in large numbers. “But many families returned during Holi. This festival was celebrated in Bihar from March 26-30, 2021, but it was a low-key affair. However, the arrival of a large number of persons during Holi could have contributed to its spread. Further, markets and offices remained open. Secondly, there was no restriction on the movement of people. Use of mask increased during the second wave, but still many people did not use masks,” it says, adding the lockdown from May 5-June 8 resulted in drop in positivity rate after a major jump before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrants-didn-t-cause-spurt-in-covid-infections-study-101625243870543.html
02-07-2021||Other||Five day monsoon session from July 16||PATNAThe state cabinet on Friday recommended the five-day monsoon session of the state legislature starting July 26.The session comes at a time when political atmosphere in the state is high and the opposition leaders are out to corner the government on a number of contentious issues, including alleged Covid mismanagement, burgeoning prices of essential commodities and, most importantly, the growing dissenting voices from within the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).In another important measure to check illegal sand mining, the cabinet approved up to 25 times penalty on the vehicles caught carrying sand without appropriate and authentic documents. Officials said penalty for carrying illegally mined sand starts from ₹3,000. Those indulging in illegal mining activities might have to face two-year jail term if found guilty.Officials said the mines department had to proposed hefty penalty as the government’s earning from the sand mining hardly went up despite substantial increase in the ghat (quarry) settlement charges.These were among the 10 decisions that the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar took in consultation with cabinet colleagues through a virtual meeting.The issues affecting construction of much-awaited Ganga pathway are set to be settled after the cabinet cleared a proposal to hand over nearly 40 acres of land, located in Sabalpur area under Sonepur circle of Saran district. The construction of the bridge, parallel to Ashok Rajpath on the southern bed of Ganga, has been suffering delays for want of adequate allocation of land at various spots.The cabinet also gave its nod for transfer of nearly 16 acres of gairmajarua malik land under Giriyak police station area in lieu of an equal size of forested land acquired for construction of the Ganga water lifting scheme in Nalanda district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-day-monsoon-session-from-july-16-101625243869849.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Zila Panchayat elections: 22 candidates elected unopposed, 53 seats head to polls on July 3||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday won 21 seats unopposed ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Zila Panchayat elections which are to be held on Saturday. One candidate of the Samajwadi Party (SP) was also elected unopposed. Out of the 75 posts only 53 posts will now go for the polls on July 3.The State Election Commission said that zila panchayat chiefs have been elected unopposed from Saharanpur, Bahraich, Itawa, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahar, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur. UP State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said that chairpersons of these zila panchayats have been elected unopposed.“The BJP won 21 posts of zila panchayat chairpersons who were elected unopposed,” BJP general secretary JPS Rathore was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. SP spokesperson Sunil Singh Sajan said that their candidate won from Etawah.Samajwadi Party (SP) on Saturday sacked the presidents of its 11 district units without giving any reason but people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that they were ousted as they did not turn up for filing their nomination papers for the post of zila panchayat chairman. The party chief, Akhilesh Yadav also alleged that Uttar Pradesh chief minister rigged the elections for district panchayat chairpersons. Bahujan Samajwadi Party chief Mayawati said the party is not contesting in order to better prepare for next year’s elections.The votes for the remaining 53 seats will be cast from 11am to 3pm. The counting of the votes will take place on the same day after 3pm. The panchayat polls or those for district panchayat chiefs are not held on the basis of political parties but the candidates enjoy the tacit support of various parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-zila-panchayat-elections-22-candidates-elected-unopposed-53-seats-head-to-polls-on-july-3-101625243483838.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Bakra Eid 2021: Maharashtra govt announces guidelines. All you need to know||The Maharashtra government on Friday issued guidelines for Eid-al-Adha celebrations, to be held between July 20 and July 21. The state government has asked people to celebrate the festival after adhering strictly to Covid-19 precautionary measures. The Maharashtra government last year had requested people to keep celebrations low-key for Eid-al-Adha, also known as Bakra Eid.These are the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government ahead of the festival -1. The Maharashtra government has asked people to offer prayers at home since religious places have been shut down owing to Covid-19 restrictions. Worshippers will not be allowed at mosques.2. Online purchase or shopping of meat over calls will be allowed as livestock markets are shut.3. Citizens have been asked to make symbolic sacrifices.4. The restrictions put in place will continue and no relaxation will be given due to Covid-19.5. Crowding at public places will not be allowed.6. Any other rule introduced keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation will have to be complied with. Rules introduced by local authorities will also have to be complied with.7. Citizens are urged to use hand sanitizer and masks in order to curb the chain of transmission||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bakra-eid-2021-maharashtra-govt-announces-guidelines-all-you-need-to-know-101625242566069.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Birthday boy, friend drown in Lonavla quarry during celebrations||Two friends, one of whom was celebrating his birthday died while they went for a swim in a quarry in Lonavala on Thursday. According to Lonavla police, five friends had gathered to celebrate the birthday of one of their friends identified as Akash Gurav (25) at Kusgaon. They ventured into the quarry water out of excitement without realizing that the water was deep. His friend Dhirendra Tripathi (23) too drowned and met with watery grave around 5.30 pm on Thursday. According to the Lonavla rural police, both of them entered the waters while three of them stayed on ground. The deceased are residents of Rupeenagar area in Nigadi. The incident was immediately reported to the Lonavla rural police. The Shivdurg rescue team helped to fish out their bodies. A case of accidental death has been lodged at Lonavla rural police station and investigation is on. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family members late in the evening after they were fished out by the social workers, locals and policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/birthday-boy-friend-drown-in-lonavla-quarry-during-celebrations-101625242969698.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Brother booked for attacking sister with axe||The Sinhagad road police have booked a man for attacking his elder sister with an axe on her head over a petty issue on Thursday morning. According to the police, the accused was angry over the attention being given to the sister by his parents. He took the extreme step in the house at 5am in Sainagar area of Hingane Khurd. The accused has been identified as Shankar Bhimrao Hatkar while his sister who is injured and recuperating in a private hospital has been identified as Manisha Hatkar. Rohan Pardhe (18) has lodged an FIR in this regard. According to the complaint, Rohan and his mother Manisha stayed at the residence of his grandfather and grandmother as they were old and needed care. The injured is a nurse and used to regularly take care of her parents and used to come to their house in the evening to take care of them. It was at 5 am when she was asleep that Shankar attacked her with an axe leading to a serious head injury. Rohan tried to intervene but was pushed and manhandled by his maternal uncle, the police complaint said. According to the investigators, his uncle was upset over treatment being meted out to him and the respect the sister got from the parents. Enraged over their behaviour, he attacked the sister, police said. ASI Balaji Salunke is investigating further in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/brother-booked-for-attacking-sister-with-axe-101625242909726.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Restaurant gutted in fire on Pune Satara road||A major fire broke out at hotel Sheetal restaurant and bar near hotel City Pride on Pune-Satara road on Friday morning. According to the central fire brigade, the fire broke about 8.45 am and gutted a major portion of the hotel. According to the fire brigade, it was an old structure and got burnt quickly. The fire was brought under control within 20 minutes. However, there was no loss of life as the hotel was shut. Pune Central Fire Brigade chief Prashant Ranpise said that two fire tenders and three water tankers were pressed into action to control the flames. There is a likelihood of short circuit behind the incident and investigation is on, he said. A large number of local residents had gathered at the spot following the outbreak of the incident. Thick dark smoke flames were billowing out of the burning structure as the firemen battled the flames. Meanwhile, the total damage to the structure and the cost involved will be done after the panchnama report is submitted to the fire brigade authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restaurant-gutted-in-fire-on-pune-satara-road-101625242849720.html
02-07-2021||Pune||State board declares evaluation process for Class 12||Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Friday issued a Government Resolution (GR) declaring the evaluation of Class 12 state board students. The board has followed the footsteps of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The evaluation criteria for Higher Secondary certificate (Class 12) are similar to that of the CBSE board. The class 12 examination by the state board was cancelled after other boards cancelled their exams due to rising cases across the state and country. The evaluation of the class 12 students will be done with 40 per cent internal evaluation from class 12 and 30 per cent each from class 11 and class 10 final results. Maharashtra education minister, Varsha Gaikwad in a tweet said that the evaluation pattern for class 12 is released after discussions with various stakeholders. She also said that given the pandemic situation, the board is permitted to pass all students. “The overall assessment will be the measure of a student’s performance in theory papers and orals/practical/internal assessments. Each school will have a result committee headed by the principal and six teachers. They will be responsible for the finalisation of results and the safekeeping of records,” said Gaikwad. For Class 10, the GR stated that the marks of the best three subjects will be considered. “Students who have scored maximum marks in any three subjects in class 10 will be considered for evaluation of Class 12. The oral or practical exam for class 12 subjects will not include marks from class 10 and class 11 subjects,” stated the GR. The GR further stated that for class 11 the final result will be considered. For class 12, the unit test and practice exams and other internal evaluations will be done by the respective schools and colleges. Gaikwad added that repeaters and students who are appearing for Class 12 from private institutes, will have a separate evaluation strategy. “Students who are applying from the ‘improvement scheme’, this cancelled board exam of 2021 will not be counted as a missed opportunity. Such students can avail their eligible number of attempts later,” said Gaikwad. The GR further states that the timetable for the result of Class 12 will be published soon by the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-board-declares-evaluation-process-for-class-12-101625242669698.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Two criminals booked under MPDA law||The crime branch has arrested two criminals under the MPDA (Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act) for involvement in criminal activities taking the total number of arrests under the law to 28. The two accused identified as Kiran Vinod Thorat ( 26), a resident of Market Yard and Sachin Parshuram Mane ( 22), a resident of Swargate have as many as 15 serious criminal offences lodged against them at Faraskhana and Kondhwa police stations. Market Yard police Station in charge Anagha Deshpande moved an application before Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta booking them under MPDA Act and externing them outside city limits. The duo has been charged for spreading fear and terror in the society. Pune police commissioner Gupta has been taking a series of steps of putting hardcore criminals behind bars and taking action as preventive measures. According to the police, as many as 28 dangerous criminals have been booked under MPDA during last nine months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-criminals-booked-under-mpda-law-101625242429687.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Display of high intensity beam lights banned within 15 kms of Lohegaon Airport||The joint commissioner of Pune police has banned the display of high intensity beam lights within 15-kilometre radius of Pune airport for two months from 6pm to 6am starting Friday. The order comes in the wake of air force authorities informing the police about sharp beam and laser light display in the peripheral public areas around the airport which witnesses air force sorties and domestic flight operations on a very large scale. Joint commissioner of police Dr Ravindra Shisve in an official order stated, “I am convinced that due to the display of beam lights, the pilot’s eyes might get distracted with the possibility of an accident.” The order states that no person must display beam light during the said period failing which action will be initiated under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The order further stated, “Citizens living around the Lohegaon Air Force base and civil airport in its jurisdiction surrounding 15 km (air field radius) under Pune police commissionerate shall be prohibited to use beam lights from 6 pm to 6 am. The prohibitory orders shall be in force from October 5, 2020 for the next two months. Failing to follow the orders, a person shall be liable for action under section 188 from IPC.” There are a number of residential colonies and marriage halls located around the airport. Use of such lights is common during marriages and other public programmes. Management companies, wedding halls, often use such high beam lights which often cause distraction to the pilots. Earlier, the Indian Air Force had said the use of such lights could lead to accidents, thus, endangering many innocent lives. The Lohegaon airport is busy during the day and night as the runway is used by fight jets and along with domestic and international flights. The lights may distract pilots leading to aviation disaster, the order explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/display-of-high-intensity-beam-lights-banned-within-15-kms-of-lohegaon-airport-101625242369639.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Three ambulances drivers in custody for bringing patients to Apexcare hospital||Three ambulance drivers were remanded to police custody on Thursday by the Sangli police in the case of causing death of 87 people in 42 days of the second wave at Apexcare hospital in Miraj. Meanwhile, the two doctor siblings - Dr Mahesh Jadhav, a plastic surgeon, the main accused in the case and his elder brother Dr Madan Jadhav, a neurosurgeon, were remanded to judicial custody. The police have also seized vehicles of these ambulance drivers as a local court remanded them to police custody till July 4. The three people newly arrested in the case were identified as Yunus Ilahi Mujawar (39), a resident of Ganeshnagar in Sangli; Sachin Arun Chandane (37), a resident of Old Medshingi road area of Sangola; and Viren Ulhas Awade (32), a resident of Bethlehem nagar in Miraj, according to the police. Sachin Chandane was cited by relatives of more than two victims of the hospital, to Hindustan Times, as the driver who took patients to Apexcare hospital voluntarily. Two patients who cited him as the person who suggested and took their relative to Apexcare were from Bhose village in Sangola area of Solapur. “We had found a diary in possession of one of the accused in which there were payment details and names of some drivers. Our suspicion is that the drivers got commission for each of the patient that they brought to the hospital,” said senior police inspector Shashikant Chavan of Gandhi Chowk police station where the case is registered. The police had called a group of ambulance drivers to the police station on Monday for questioning and recorded their names and numbers. Explaining the trick of the trade, __, said, “Whenever a new hospital is started, the PRO (public relations officer) of the hospital goes to groups of ambulance drivers and offers them perks in exchange of bringing patients to their hospital. For all we know, the names, in the diary that was found, would have just been noted down, without the drivers’ knowledge, for reference for such activities.” __ is an ambulance driver who was among the 15-20 drivers who were called for questioning. However, statements of multiple witnesses point towards clear involvement of ambulance drivers in the matter, to earn commission from the hospital. Senior PI Chavan reiterated his point, saying, “This could have been passed off as a case of medical negligence and registered as a case of causing death due to negligence (Section 304(a) of IPC) which is a bailable offence. But this is not such a case. There was no treatment given at all. They only wanted to make money.” So far, 13 people including the ambulance drivers, have been arrested in the case registered at Mahatma Gandhi police station in Miraj under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder); 420 (cheating); 406 (criminal breach of trust); 425, 427, 465, 470, 471 (using forged document as genuine); 201 (destruction of evidence); 380, 34 (common intention), and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 51(b) of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-ambulances-drivers-in-custody-for-bringing-patients-to-apexcare-hospital-101625242249664.html
02-07-2021||Bhopal||4 police personnel terminated for running extortion gang in Madhya Pradesh||Four police personnel have been terminated for allegedly running an extortion gang in Madhya Pradesh's Hoshangabad, said a police officer.Sub-inspector Jay Nalwaya, head constable Jyoti Manjhi, constables Manoj Verma and Tarachand Jatav of Hoshangabd were running an extortion racket with the help of a woman named Sunita Thakur. "The woman used to shoot obscene videos of people and later police personnel used to blackmail them," said Santosh Singh Gaur, superintendent of police, Hoshangabad.Police arrested the woman and soon the four police personnel will be arrested, said the SP.Last week, a victim filed a complaint at the SP office against Thakur and four other accomplices. “In the complaint, the man said a woman took her to a hotel and shot some obscene videos. Now, she is blackmailing him and four other people, who might be impersonating as police personnel, also mounting pressure on him to give ₹5 lakh,” said the SP.When a police team investigated the matter and arrested the woman, they came to know they were real police personnel, not impersonators and were part of the extortion gang. They were suspended on June 24 and terminated on Thursday.As of now, they were found involved in the extortion of eight people. Out of them, three people have lodged complaints with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/4-police-personnel-terminated-for-running-extortion-gang-in-madhya-pradesh-101625241134298.html
02-07-2021||Other||Probe against Sri Paras Hospital not over yet, says UP deputy CM||Agra Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister and minister of higher education, Dinesh Sharma assured on Friday that strict action would be taken against Sri Paras Hospital if it were found guilty in the final report. According to him, the FIR has been lodged against the owner doctor and license of the hospital has been suspended. To note, Sri Paras hospital hit the headlines recently after a video went viral, In which the owner doctor admitted to allegedly conducting a ‘mock drill’ on patients to check their oxygen dependence, after which 22 patients turned ‘blue’ and were ‘eliminated’. “The probe against the hospital has not ended and only a preliminary report has surfaced. Still, action has been taken against the hospital and it has been sealed. FIR has been lodged against the owner doctor and license of the hospital has been suspended. Further action will be taken if the hospital is found at fault in the final report,” Sharma said. On Sri Paras Hospital being given Covid hospital status in the second wave despite being sealed for anomalies in the first wave, the deputy chief minister said that as the second wave was more intense, the priority was to have more hospitals to save corona patients. Regarding vaccine shortage affecting pace of inoculation in the state, Sharma stated that sufficient number of vaccines were being made available. “Yet, in case there is some shortage, it would be fulfilled in a day or two wherever it occurs. For Agra district also, sufficient quota of vaccines has been sanctioned like other districts,” he said. “ Some political leaders made efforts to spread confusion about vaccines but fortunately the people of Uttar Pradesh did not fall for false propaganda and are now turning up for vaccination in smart numbers, even in rural areas,” he said. “Screening committees are moving in 97,000 revenue villages in the state and are even making medicines available to villagers at home. The emphasis on ‘’Triple T’ i.e. Tracing, Testing and Treatment continues and there is positive outcome in villages after these initiatives,” Sharma said. “In apprehension of a third wave, pediatric intensive care units (PICUs) are being prepared. Oxygen plants are coming up at community health centres and primary health centres are being strengthened by making medicines available for the common man,” he said. In reply to another question, the deputy CM said no groups or alliances had succeeded against the BJP and even in the past, such combinations failed to stop the party which had done a lot under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-against-sri-paras-hospital-not-over-yet-says-up-deputy-cm-101625241409558.html
02-07-2021||Other||Multiplexes, gyms & stadiums to open from July 5: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced that multiplexes, cinema halls, gyms, and sports stadiums in the state would open from July 5, as the Covid-19 situation appeared to be well under control. At the high-level Covid-19 review meeting, the CM said that these places would now open following Covid safety protocols. “Due to the pandemic, the cinema hall operators and their business had suffered a lot. Sympathetically think over their needs and problems”, he told the officers concerned. He said that the Covid pandemic in the state was now under control with the infection rate at the bare minimum. “In the past 24 hours, the state did 2.70 lakh tests of which only 133 cases were found Covid positive while 228 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. The state so far (since March 2020) did 5.83 crore Covid tests and 16.81 lakh Covid patients recovered,” he said. Yogi also said that soon the people of the state would get Purvanchal Expressway, the foundation stone for which was laid in July 2018. “The construction of the expressway is almost complete,” he said and asked the officers concerned to prepare a plan for developing industrial clusters along this expressway. ‘ESTABLISH HEALRH ATMs’’ Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the officers concerned to consider the idea of establishing ‘Health ATMs’ in rural areas, small towns and big cities as part of the state’s efforts to provide better health facilities to people. “With ultra-modern machines, help people check blood pressure, body mass index, metabolic age, body fat ratio, hydration level, pulse rate, muscle mass, weight and other health parameters quickly and at one spot and also train technicians to operate these health machines,” he said. He asked the officers to make a detailed work plan for the execution of the idea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/multiplexes-gyms-stadiums-to-open-from-july-5-yogi-101625241229577.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 8,753 single-day Covid-19 cases, Mumbai continues to log over 650 daily infections||With 8,753 new Covid-19 infections on Friday, Maharashtra witnessed its daily new cases fall below the 9,000-mark after a gap of two days. So far, 6,079,352 people have tested positive for the disease in the state, according to the latest data.The death toll in the state climbed to 122,353 on the day after 156 people succumbed to the illness in the previous 24 hours.The capital city of Mumbai, however, continued to report over 650 new cases (exactly 673 infections in the previous 24 hours) taking the city’s Covid-19 tally so far to 723,551. With 27 single-day fatalities, the death toll rose to 15,499, the latest data showed.Also read | Mumbai local: How to get QR code-based travel pass for train travel amid curbsMeanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 221,289 samples for the disease on the day as the number of samples tested so far reached 42,096,506. In Mumbai, 38,652 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, taking the overall count of tested samples to 7,219,827.The cumulative number of patients who recovered from the coronavirus disease in the state reached 5,836,920 after 8,385 more people were declared cured on Thursday. While Mumbai’s cumulative recovery count touched 697,140 after 546 patients recovered from the disease in the previous 24 hours, a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation showed.The active caseload increased slightly in the state and stood at 116,867, a spike of 200 cases since Thursday. Also, 100 more active cases were added to Mumbai’s tally in the past 24 hours, which currently stands at 8,598, the BMC bulletin showed.The BMC data also showed that the recovery rate in Mumbai district stood at 96% and 14 active containment zones were in effect in the city as of date. Also, the doubling rate of the disease in Mumbai was 744 days.On Thursday, Pune added 296 new cases, Navi Mumbai added 142 new cases and Nagpur added 44 new cases to the state’s tally.According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare 32,721,251 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in Maharashtra as of 7pm on Thursday. This included the 26,252,955 first doses and 6,468,296 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-8-753-single-day-covid-19-cases-mumbai-continues-to-log-over-650-daily-infections-101625240487614.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Phone became more handy than stetho as doctors attended distress calls in Uttar Pradesh||Many doctors had to pick up their cell phones even before taking their cup of morning tea all through the months when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. The callers were in panic and desperately seeking solace. In Lucknow, many doctors kept an extra battery pack to attend to such distress calls without a break. For instance, work began as early as 7am for Prof Kauser Usman, senior faculty member at King George’s Medical University (KGMU). “Quick response over the phone guided apt diagnosis for early impactful treatment. Secondly, speaking to a doctor made the patient confident, an important factor in fighting Covid,” said Prof Usman who guided over 500 patients over the phone. “The months of September-October 2020 and April-May 2021 were the toughest in Lucknow,” said Dr Samir Misra, senior faculty trauma surgery (KGMU) who had spoken to over 250 patients in distress. “Each caller had someone serious (to seek advice for) and wanted immediate relief,” he said. “The greatest challenge on telephonic guidance was to ensure the patient has understood everything correctly. Since they (patient) and their family members were in panic, it became my responsibility to cross-check what they have understood,” said Prof Suryakant, head of the department of respiratory medicine at KGMU who was in charge of IDH Covid ward in the second wave. The state capital has reported 2.38 lakh Covid-19 cases till now and over 50,000 people consulted doctors over the phone during this period. “The most difficult part was to remember the medical history as every patient called in distress, expecting me to remember their clinical history, which is basic for prescribing medicine,” said Prof Usman. Doctors across specialities took up the job and had their own challenges in dealing with different categories of panic-stricken patients belonging to various age groups. An expert in medicine, Prof Usman got calls from diabetics, too, as diabetes is a key comorbidity for Covid. “Being a joint replacement surgeon, I got calls mostly from my patients. Striking a balance between medicines for orthopaedics and Covid was a challenge that (one) could manage,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, joint replacement surgeon and director of Healthcity hospital in Lucknow. Dr Abhishek Shukla, an expert in geriatric medicine at Aastha Hospice, said, “First I had to be a patient listener and give more time to each call than what I give to one patient in the OPD. Elderly patients wanted to share a detailed explanation personally. My biggest challenge was to understand frail and needy voices over the cell phone. In fact, during the pandemic, we used cell phones to know many things that stethoscope or personal examination (otherwise) reveals.” “We thought one or two (phone numbers) cannot meet the growing need. Hence, in April we launched 10 mobile numbers of different doctors as a helpline for consultancy. About 2500 patients connected with the IMA helpline,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association-Lucknow. Doctors spoke, offered medical advice and words of comfort. In a pandemic scenario, patients were largely advised to take online consultations with doctors. The state government, too, launched the e-sanjeevani telemedicine service. Prayagraj’s Dr Debabrata Samanta, a well-known physician with over 28 years of private practice in the Sangam city, faced a unique challenge during the pandemic: His patients were contracting Covid-19 by the dozens, and he could not physically examine them. Reason: Having undergone a kidney transplant in August 2017, he was in the designated vulnerable category himself. So, he started offering tele-consultancy to his patients, attending 50 to 80 calls a day. “Many people called up multiple times as every dip in oxygen level, increase in body temperature or other parameters needed urgent attention,” said the 56-year-old pass out of Motilal Nehru Medical College, Prayagraj. In July 2020, he himself contracted the Covid-19 infection and had to be admitted at the Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon, where he battled the virus bravely for 40 days and beat it in a tough fight. During this period, his wife, Dr Nivedita Samanta, a gynecologist, and one son besides brother, sister-in-law and their two daughters also contracted the infection. Despite the challenges, Dr Samanta, who was quickly back from Medanta post-recovery, again got busy extending tele-consultancy to his patients. “I had to be back at work as patients needed me in these challenging times when general OPDs were just not running. During the peak of the second wave, I treated around 500 patients using the mobile phone and WhatsApp to prescribe medicines,” he said. Dr Sher Mohammad, the medical officer in-charge of the Badagaon primary health centre in Varanasi, gave advice to hundreds of patients, including Covid-19 patients on the phone. “While being in home isolation, as I tested Covid-19 positive in the first week of May, I continued to serve the patients. I gave advice to hundreds of patients on the mobile phone. The patients used to call me and seek advice. It was not an easy task because many patients panicked after testing positive. They used to ask on the phone if they would recover, how long it would take to get well and so on. I consoled them and asked them to follow the advice and guidelines. After recovering, several patients called me back and thanked me. Before testing positive, I attended the patients at the PHC.” Dr Vidit Dixit, assistant professor in the anatomy department, looked after the Covid hospital at LLRM Medical College in Meerut as coordinator. His main task was to convince attendants to keep their patients under treatment in home isolation after examining their condition. “I convinced many patients that they could be treated at home,” said Dr Dixit who thereafter followed up on the home isolated patients through regular phone calls or WhatsApp. “I used to speak to home isolated patients and their attendants in family to know their condition and guide them about medication,” he said. He also counselled many patients to boost their confidence. “It was a big challenge, but I remained composed while interacting with patients and their attendants,” said Dr Dixit, who added that a majority of patients in home isolation initially wanted to get admitted in a hospital to keep themselves under direct supervision of doctors. In Agra, the phone of Dr Ashish Gautam, associate professor at SN Medical College’s department of medicine, kept ringing all the time as he received panic calls during the second wave of Covid-19 in April and May. “A wave of fear and panic had gripped the common man during the second wave. In many cases, over-consumption of medicines was the issue. We had to pacify them and ensure correct precautionary measures,” stated Dr Gautam. “We had to understand the psyche of the caller as he was unable to meet the doctor in person. They were mostly in search of precautions and used to ask when they should get themselves or loved ones admitted in hospital. We used to illustrate the guidelines and parameters of different ailments,” said Dr Gautam. “We continue to be on the phone lines. Now, the queries are about vaccination and related issues. Our main task is to eliminate fear and build confidence,” he said. “They used to send their reports through WhatsApp, and we used to advise them. A man came from Mumbai to attend to his father and mother in Agra who had tested positive for Covid-19. He followed all our advice and got his parents well and himself too. Such cases gave us satisfaction in return,” said Dr Gautam who added that the maximum calls were received between April 10 and May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/phone-became-more-handy-than-stetho-as-doctors-attended-distress-calls-in-uttar-pradesh-101625239970218.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Third wave coming? Worry strikes, college students seek psychological help||Although the second wave has subsided, and the number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital has reduced, yet the news of an impending third wave seems to be creating havoc in the lives of college students. City-based psychologists share that every time there is news of a third wave coming, the number of calls from college students increases and so does their anxiety and stress level. “Anytime there is news of a third wave, I feel like I’ll never go back to college! We were sure by now that we would be back to offline campus, but that hasn’t happened yet. All this just adds to our isolation,” says Viveka Goswami, a student of Sri Venkateswara College, Delhi University, who is waiting for her final year classes to begin. She adds: “We thought once we are vaccinated, things will be better. Whenever we talk to our parents, or anyone for that matter, they always talk about how they did this or that in college. And we feel we are already missing out on so much, and then if a third wave has to come, then will we even see or be in college again?”“It is almost instant. Any time there is news of when the third wave will hit, or anything about it for that matter, I start getting so many calls from students; definitely more than what I get usually. They react to the fact that the pandemic seems to be a never-ending phenomenon,” says Anu Goel, a Delhi-based psychologist sharing how she often has been attending multiple calls from anxious students. “Last year in fact we weren’t getting that many calls from students. But this year, the number has certainly gone up,” says Delhi-based counselling psychologist Anvi Grover Jain, emphasising how the news of third wave is playing havoc with the mental health of youngsters. “One of my patients finished her graduation, and was so excited to do her masters in college. She even got through Jawaharlal Nehru University. But the fact that she can’t go physically to the college is making her so anxious. The youngsters feel that they are missing out on career opportunities because they can’t go to college,” adds Jain.Imran Noorani, associate professor and consultant chief psychologist at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, says that many of his young patients are also distressed because they took a gap year. He explains: “Some college students skipped college because they didn’t want to attend it online in the pandemic stricken world. And now, they are distressed because they feel that they won’t be able to join college anytime soon because of the third wave, and they have already lost one year.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/third-wave-coming-worry-strikes-college-students-seek-psychological-help-101625237095085.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Van Mahotsav: Unlock seed bombing, make the most of monsoon||While monsoon might have been playing hide-and-seek with Delhi-NCR, but that hasn’t deterred the conviction of environmentally conscious groups. Armed with face shields, masks, gloves and sanitisers, these eco warriors are elated to be out in the midst of Nature, at an opportune time, when monsoon plantations are the right thing to begin, and seed bombing is the activity that they vouch for! And that’s how they are kicking off celebrations for Van Mahotsav (July 1 to 7), which aims to spread awareness on forest conservation across the country. Participation limited, not plantation “The unlock period is the most opportune time for planting, since it is near the onset of monsoon,” feels Manish Khurana, founder of We Mean To Clean, a Delhi-NCR based volunteer group that conducts cleanliness drives, native tree plantation and awareness programs across the region. “We’re looking forward to conducting quite a few plantation drives this season. We’re following all Covid appropriate behaviour, considering the havoc that we witnessed during the second wave of the pandemic, and might be limiting participation in our plantation drives. We have started the drives in Janakpuri and Vikaspuri and also plan to conduct them at Subhash Nagar, Dwarka, and Rohini,” he says. The volunteers are looking at planting native trees such as Peepal, Neem, Amaltas, and Jamun among others. “We’ll also try to support them with shrubs such as Mehendi. We’ll be preparing the soil with some compost. We plant the saplings and then make sure they are taken care of regularly for at least two to three years until they all become self sustainable,” adds Khurana. Exploding in the soil, for Nature’s sake“It’s a fun activity which helps raise awareness towards the urgent need to protect our fast depleting forest cover,” says, environmentalist Alka Saran, from Let’s Walk Gurgaon, who is too looking forward to native seed bombing. “Monsoons are almost here and it’s time to increase our green cover by planting trees and seed bombing. Seed bomb is a bomb that explodes and plants shrubs and trees! It’s an ancient technique of making earth balls by mixing soil, manure and native seeds and embedding or throwing them in the ground. It is especially useful in hard to reach places like hills and forests. It is also known as aerial reforestation. Besides native tree seed bombs,we also carry Amaltas (Cassia fistula) seed pods which are used to dig and embed seed bombs and left as food for animals who in turn disperse these seeds through their droppings in the forest,” she says. Creating newer habitatsAnother NGO, IamGurgaon has been committed to plant local, native species as part of their mission of planting million trees in the city. Latika Thukral, founder, says, “We have planted around 2.5 lakh plants with 100% survival rate in the last 10 years. We maintain our plants for three years with watering through sewage treated water. Now we don’t even say planting trees but creating habitats. All our planting areas have become haven for birds, butterflies, insects. We will be planting in Sikanderpur forest, Badhshahpur forest corridor,” she says. Making space for medicinal plants Gurugrammer Nilay Agarwal, a social worker and founder of Vishalalakshi Foundation, has been planting trees such as Ashok, Neem, Bamboo, Peepal, Sehjan, and Kadam, across the city and aims to continue the drives in the months to come. “We have identified a slum in Gurugram’s Sector 48, which we cleaned using diggers and excavators and planted trees to make the area green. Often, once we clean an area, people let it stay clean for a while before littering again. But by converting those areas into greener spaces, we ensure they are treated with much more love and concern. We are focusing on the advantages of medicinal plants such as Giloy, Ashwagandha, Shatavari, Safed Musli, Ajwain, Elaichi, Sarphganda. We planted the same, and educated the people living in slums about the same.We ask our volunteers to follow all Covid protocols once they appear for the drive. Masks and gloves are provided at the site and volunteers are requested to bring their own sanitiser and water bottles to avoid unnecessary touch,” says Agarwal. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/van-mahotsav-unlock-seed-bombing-make-the-most-of-monsoon-101625234750890.html
02-07-2021||Patna||No demand for handloom curtains despite govt order, 5k Bihar weavers left in lurch||More than 5,000 weavers associated with the Bihar State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Union Limited (BISHCOTEX ), a registered society, are worried these days about the fate of the products they had made for various government departments, government hospitals, and prisons. Over 84,000 pieces of handloom curtains have been lying at the BISHCOTEX office in the state for nearly two years. Stacked at the BISHCOTEX store for the last several months, the products are losing their shine and colour, and some have also gotten damaged due to dampness and humidity. These handloom curtains were prepared by BISHCOTEX weavers following a government decision to use handloom curtains in all government offices, hospitals and prisons. It was intended to provide employment to the handloom weavers and to promote handloom products. However, there is no demand for the curtains, and hence the weavers have not been paid.Also Read | Maize trader shot at, ₹3.70 lakh looted in Bihar’s Purnia“I have no idea about the matter. The case that some handloom products are waiting to be purchased, should have been brought to my notice,” Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, industry minister, said. He said he would meet them and try to help them. Md Naquib Ahmad, chairman, BISHCOTEX, said, he had written about it to the then industry department secretary, S Siddharth, when the products were ready in 2019 and his response was quite encouraging, but soon he was shifted to another department. “We even wrote to the district magistrates about the handloom curtains and the government decision, but there has been no response,” he said. the chairman said that the government had announced the order in 2019. “Weavers were very excited, and they prepared handloom curtains in bulk. But there has been no order,” he said. By May 2019, more than 60,000 pieces were ready and were brought to the BISHCOTEX office, he added.“Weavers are now worried how to recover their investment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-demand-for-handloom-curtains-despite-govt-order-5k-bihar-weavers-left-in-lurch-101625234149600.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR hit by sudden dust storm and rains||Rainfall lashed parts of the national capital on Friday afternoon bringing Delhiites a much-needed reprieve from the scorching heat. Delhi has been reeling under extremely high temperatures of over 40°C; the mercury peaked on Thursday, as Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 43.1°C.Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC), New Delhi, said thunderstorms accompanied by moderate to heavy rainfall and gusty winds was witnessed in the regions of Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida) Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Hodal, Aurangabad, Palwal (Haryana) Baraut, Bagpat, Khekra, Modinagar, Hapur, Narora, Debai, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Shikarpur, Pahasu, Bulandshahar, Sikandrabad, Gulaoti.“Thundershower with moderate to heavy intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 40-60 Km/h would occur over and adjoining areas of most places of Delhi & NCR,” RWFC tweeted on Friday evening.The agency also predicted rainfall in Tundla, Hathras, Iglas, Aligarh, Khair, Gabhana, Atrauli, Jattari, Khurja of Uttar Pradesh in the next 2 hours.Delhi witnessed a heatwave on Wednesday as dry hot westerly winds from central Pakistan were blowing over the national capital and other parts of northwest India at the speed of 20 to 30 kilometres per hour.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that due to these winds heat wave conditions are most likely to prevail over some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, and West Uttar Pradesh till the end of the week. IMD has also predicted that the monsoon which usually sets in on June 27 will be delayed this year till July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-hit-by-sudden-dust-storm-and-rains-101625233327293.html
02-07-2021||Kolkata||Ruckus in West Bengal assembly as BJP protest against governor speech for not mentioning post-poll violence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Friday created a ruckus in the West Bengal legislative assembly, forcing governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to cut his inaugural address short. The leaders raised slogans and carried posters with pictures of alleged victims as the state governor was just minutes into his speech. Justifying the disruption of the assembly session, Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in West Bengal, said that they protested after finding "no mention" of post-poll violence in the speech."Incidents of (post-poll violence) in Bengal have been barbaric. BJP workers have been murdered; more than 300 women were molested; a few raped," said Adhikari later in the day. "Had no option but to stage a protest after finding no mention of post-poll violence in the governor's speech", he also said. The copies of speech were circulated among legislators before the official speech.Adhikari further alleged that the governor was "forced” to read out the speech prepared by the state government, led by the Trinamool Congress's Mamata Banerjee. "We don't blame the governor," Adhikari also said, adding that his party wants to hold day-long discussions in the House on post-poll violence and the recently held fake vaccination drive in the city.During the demonstration, some BJP leaders also came to the well of the assembly to stage a protest. Following the incident, Dhankhar tabled his speech in the House and left from the newly constituted state assembly.The governor was escorted by Speaker Biman Banerjee and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as he left the assembly premises.Meanwhile, reacting to BJP's protest, the TMC said the saffron party has set a new precedent in anarchy. "What they (BJP MLAs) did today is unprecedented and unacceptable in a parliamentary democracy," TMC chief whip Nirmal Ghosh pointed out.According to a news agency PTI, Dhankhar did seek an inclusion of the matter in the speech, however, the request was denied by the state government.Some incidents of violence were reported from different parts of West Bengal after the TMC chief Mamata Banerjee won a re-election and defeated the BJP, which was hoping to gain power in the state. Since then, the matter has become a flashpoint of the old-running rivalry between the BJP and TMC leaders.BJP has accused the TMC of targeting its party workers and alleged that it carried out atrocities after the violence incidents. Banerjee has maintained that workers from all parties have been killed in the incidents and assured that the government will take the due course of action.The business of the House, which began with the governor's address on Friday, will continue till July 8. The state budget for 2021-22 is likely to be placed in the House on July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ruckus-in-west-bengal-assembly-as-bjp-protest-against-governor-speech-for-not-mentioning-post-poll-violence-101625229733832.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Mumbai’s North-South Divide||As someone who lived the first 17 years of their life in north Mumbai’s Juhu and the rest in south Mumbai (give or take a handful of years spent away in Kolkata and Delhi), I feel I am among those uniquely placed to comment on the eternal north-south debate, that periodically rears its head, accompanied with much good humoured name-calling on both sides of the city’s axis. You know the drift: South Mumbai, which has recently adopted the acronym SoBo, perhaps in the hope that it alludes to “sophisticated”, has been traditionally viewed as the “heart” of the city, the citadel of its establishment and authority, with its world-famous heritage Victorian and art deco architecture. Until quite recently, we referred to this part of Mumbai as “town”. As teenaged Bandra school girls, the thrill of birthday celebrations was a day trip to town; we regarded it as the pinnacle of grown-up sophistication. In those days “town” was an awe-inspiring entity — it was here you could lunch in the air-conditioned plushness of a Nanking; then watch a Hollywood movie in a beautiful, art deco cinema; and later, drop by Colaba to buy your silver trinkets and Kolhapuri chappals. Town people, or “townies”, were regarded by us as altogether another species: Town girls with their short hairstyles and shorter skirts and their tennis rackets and exclusive clubs — we regarded them as more fashionable and confident than us, their poor cousins from the north. As for town boys, we were taught by our elders to be wary of them and give them a wide berth, as far as possible. Truly, in those days, town was what most of us aspired to and were equally intimidated by. ****************************A few years ago, while writing about my mother, the late Usha Khanna who had launched Café Samovar in the early Sixties in the heart of town while being a resident of what was, in those days, the far-flung sleepy hamlet of Juhu, I recall drawing attention to the remarkable daily commute it had called for — boarding a bus from a stand on a sandy lane across the beach, she used to then catch a train from Santacruz station to reach Churchgate, and from there, walk — past the sleek art deco precinct of the Oval Maidan, past the imposing Victorian Gothic fleet of the University of Mumbai, the High Court and Rajabai Clock Tower, until her footsteps brought her to the Indo-Saracenic splendour of the Prince of Wales Museum and its adjoining Jahangir Art Gallery. I like to think that with every step of her journey, my mother gathered the courage and strength that she required for her day ahead. Perhaps, many others among the millions of commuters, who make that daily journey, do so too. ****************************And what did townies make of us, suburbanites? Given that so many of its established families like the Tatas, Birlas and Ruias had weekend cottages in Juhu, Madh and Manori and that so many film folk resided in Pali Hill, Juhu, Bandra and later JVPD scheme, I imagine south Mumbai most likely regarded north Mumbai as the residence of their more colourful, artistic, counterparts and thought of its palm-fringed cottages and clean, inviting beach as an early Goa. Certainly, by the Seventies, the famous Juhu Gang — a rag tag bunch of bohemian filmmakers, writers, actors and star kids — was capturing public imagination. Not too long ago, I was delighted when the internationally celebrated architect Bijoy Jain shared with me that he attributed his world view and success to his childhood spent in Juhu and his proximity to the Juhu Gang. At that time, actor Shashi Kapoor had been one of the more high-profile travellers on this north-south axis. One of the few stars who chose to reside in south Mumbai, he would famously drive down every Sunday to Janki Kutir to have lunch with his father Prithviraj Kapoor and then spend the rest of the day at the Sun-n-Sand, swimming with his family. Interestingly, the other stars who lived in town in those days, such as Sharmila Tagore, Simi Garewal, and Zeenat Aman, could be counted on the fingers of one hand and had certainty seemed a class apart from their north Mumbai counterparts. The standing joke used to be that SoBo snobs were so insular and precious that they required a visa each time they crossed Haji Ali on their way to the the rest of the city. ****************************One of the first few people to breach this long-standing north-south divide had been the late Parmeshwar Godrej. Like everything else she did, Adi Godrej’s dynamic and glamorous wife had shaken things up and rearranged the rules. Until then, there had been little truck between Mumbai’s business elite and its film industry, as there had been between south and north Mumbai. Parmeshwar changed all that. For all practical purposes she and Adi divided their time between their smart apartment in the iconic Usha Kiran, one of the tallest buildings of its era (which also housed Dhirubhai Ambani and his family) and their fantastical, Spanish hacienda-like, sea-facing mansion in Juhu. Here, she proceeded to mix things up further by hosting much sought-after soirees, where the bold and beautiful from both halves of the city would hobnob. Here, Rahul Bajaj would rub shoulders with Amitabh Bachchan and Anand Mahindra with Dimple Kapadia. After this fortuitous fraternising, there had been no holding back. Karan Johar, brought up in Malabar Hill, moved his LV bag and baggage to Khar; AD Singh, a dyed-in-the-linen SoBo-ite, contributed to Bandra becoming the city’s F&B capital with his launch of Olive; and a few years later, the Sea Link more or less put paid to much of the north-south divide. ****************************Slowly, but surely south Mumbai began to lose its sheen and central position in the scheme of things, as the city metamorphosed and changed shape with the development of new areas such as Lower Parel and BKC. Gradually, with money shifting to new businesses and surnames, SoBo’s Old Rich found themselves becoming Mumbai’s New Poor; fashion and jewellery stores and restaurants and bars began reporting far better sales and footfalls in north Mumbai. These days, with so much mobility between north and south Mumbai, I regard all allusions to Mumbai’s north-south divide as an endearing but tired anachronism. Cities constantly move shape, and along with it, their neighbourhoods take on new meanings and attributes. Today, the north appears to have stolen a march over its twin — SoBo, as being a more attractive proposition in a host of ways. The changes are personal too. Even though north Mumbai and its suburbs remain an abiding love and my heart still soars each time I turn left at the Aeroplane Garden, now, having spent over 30 years living in SoBo, I have to admit that it has begun to feel like home. So where do I weigh in on the great north-south debate? All I am willing to say is this: The grass is always greener on the other side…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-mumbai-s-north-south-divide-101625229769585.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh allows reopening of multiplexes, cinema halls, gyms and stadiums with protocol||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday announced further relaxation in its measures as the state continues to ease its Covid-19 induced lockdown, which was lifted last month. As announced by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, cinema halls, multiplexes, gymnasiums and sports stadiums across Uttar Pradesh can reopen from July 5 with strict protocols in place."With the Covid-19 situation coming under control, multiplexes, cinema halls, sports stadiums and gymnasiums can open from Monday, July 5, in strict compliance with protocols. The pandemic has severely affected the business of cinema hall operators," the official Twitter handle of Chief Minister's Office (CMO) quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying.कोविड महामारी की नियंत्रित होती स्थिति के दृष्टिगत आगामी सोमवार, 05 जुलाई से मल्टीप्लेक्स सिनेमाहॉल, जिम और स्पोर्ट स्टेडियम को कोविड प्रोटोकॉल के अनुपालन के साथ संचालन की अनुमति दी जाए।कोविड के कारण सिनेमाहॉल संचालकों के व्यवसाय पर असर पड़ा है: #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जीThe decision, the CMO noted, was taken at a review meeting chaired by the chief minister with the heads of all Covid-19 related committees, in state capital Lucknow. It added that he also directed officials to provide better health facilities to the people.#UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जी ने आज लोक भवन, लखनऊ में कोविड-19 के संबंध में गठित समितियों के अध्यक्षों के साथ बैठक की। मुख्यमंत्री जी ने प्रदेशवासियों को बेहतर स्वास्थ्य सुविधाएं मुहैया कराने के लिए अधिकारियों को आवश्यक दिशा-निर्देश दिए।The new guidelines will come into effect from 7am on July 5 and, according to these, gymnasiums, cinema halls, multiplexes and sports stadiums can open from 7am to 9pm for five days a week at 50% capacity.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government gave permission to restaurants and malls to open at a capacity of 50% from June 21. The Yogi Adityanath-led government also allowed parks and street food stalls to open from the same day. It has also called for 100% attendance in government offices and issued strict directions that Covid-19 help desks be set up at all these places.In the previous 24 hours, 133 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttar Pradesh, while 228 patients were discharged after recovering from the viral disease. Also, in this duration, a total of 270,723 tests were conducted, taking the total number of tests conducted till now to more than 58 million. The latest test positivity rate stood at 0.05%.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-uttar-pradesh-allows-reopening-of-multiplexes-cinema-halls-gyms-and-stadiums-with-protocol-101625224050163.html
02-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC takes cognizance of NHRC report on post-poll violence, orders probe||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government suffered a setback on Friday when the Calcutta High Court took cognizance of the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) report on post-poll violence in Bengal which mentioned allegations of murder, rape and arson. HT has learnt.The court gave more time to the seven-member panel of the NHRC and asked it to visit the districts and meet more complainants and file the final report on July 13.The five-Judge bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar directed the state police to record statements based on the recommendations of the NHRC and asked the state government to provide medical treatment and ration to the affected families, said Priyanka Tibrewal, one of the lawyers for the petitioners and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.The bench ordered a fresh autopsy of the body of BJP supporter Abhijit Sarkar who was allegedly strangled to death by a mob in the Narkeldanga area of Kolkata on May 2, the day the assembly poll results were declared. The body is kept in a city morgue.The written order said,"Surprising fact available from the report is that state authorities, had been claiming throughout, that there were no complaints received by them but when the opportunity was given to the complainants to file complaints with the State Legal Services Authority or the NHRC, the authorities were flooded with complaints. People are afraid to even disclose their identity to apprehending threat to their life and property."The hearing was held virtually.The court said that the autopsy has to be done at the army's Command Hospital in Alipore. "The report shall specifically mention about the condition of the body as to whether it was properly preserved in the hospital where it was," said the order.During the hearing, advocate general Kishore Datta told the bench that the Supreme Court has taken cognizance of Abhijit Sarkar’s killing. The Bench said it was only ordering a second autopsy without giving any direction. The victim’s brother, Biswajit Sarkar, is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May seeking the formation of a special investigation team for probing allegations of violence by members of Trinamool Congress (TMC).The Bench on Friday also issued a show-cause to Rashid Munir Khan, the deputy commissioner of police of the south suburban division of Kolkata Police for failing to give protection to the NHRC team led by Atif Rasheed, vice-chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities on June 29. Rasheed, a member of the team constituted by the NHRC to look into complaints of post-poll violence, alleged that he was attacked while visiting the Jadavpur area. The alleged incident took place at Dompara where the crematorium and morgue workers live as a community.The bench asked why the police should not be held guilty of contempt of court as it was directed to provide protection to the NHRC teams.The bench said the government can submit its submission after the NHRC files its final report on July 13.Leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, welcomed it saying the state government made false statements in its affidavits filed at the Supreme Court. “The government said all the violence took place when the Election Commission was in control of the administration and nothing happened after the new government took charge. It was a lie,” said Adhikari.“The government will follow the court’s order. But our contention is that Mamata Banerjee controlled the situation after she was sworn in. The violence took place before that. Also, the allegation about the attack on the NHRC team at Jadavpur is not correct,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.The BJP staged an agitation at the state assembly on Friday afternoon, stopping governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from reading out his speech at the beginning of the budget session. Dhankhar had to stop his speech after four minutes and leave the assembly house.“We staged the agitation because the speech prepared by the government did not mention post-poll violence although it is now a national issue,” said Adhikari.The NHRC’s preliminary report was placed on record on June 30. It was filed in a sealed envelope. The court refused to disclose the contents although lawyers for the petitioners prayed for it.NHRC officials did not talk to the media but officials aware of the developments said the preliminary report said the seven members in the panel met more than 100 families and received complaints about 41 murders and 13 rapes. The preliminary report did not mention the role of the local police which is also being probed by the NHRC team. This will be mentioned in the final report, officials said.The NHRC panel includes a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority.Divided into two groups, the members have visited north and south Bengal districts. A camp was also held in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Monday where many people came to give their statements.On June 21, the Calcutta HC’s five-judge bench dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during alleged violence after the recent assembly polls. The High Court asked the NHRC to submit its report by June 30.Dismissing the state’s plea for recall, Justice Bindal remarked on June 21 that there are allegations that police are not taking action while more complaints are being filed. He observed that the conduct of the state does not inspire the confidence of the court.Justice Harish Tandon, another judge on the bench, said while 541 complaints had been received by the NHRC, not a single one was received by the West Bengal Human Rights Commission. More than 3400 complaints were received till June 21, Tibrewal told the court.The NHRC panel is led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as an NHRC member on June 2. The other members are National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee.On Tuesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said during the press conference that the BJP was making up the allegations. “One or two cases may be genuine but the rest are made up by the BJP. These are all fake allegations,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-takes-cognizance-of-nhrc-report-on-post-poll-violence-orders-probe-101625228690878.html
02-07-2021||Bhopal||Over 400 duped in the name of fish farming: MP’s EOW||Over 400 farmers, including a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker, have been duped by a private company in the name of doubling their income through contract fish farming in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh, people aware of the matter said.Madhya Pradesh’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has initiated an investigation in the matter after Sanjay Vishwakarma, a farmer, filed a complaint in March this year against Fish Fortune company of Gurugram, Haryana.“The company started a contract fish farming business in August 2019 and lured farmers by promising to double their income. Their agents contacted farmers in at least four states and lured us... We trusted them as initially when they gave some money to farmers as profit. In October 2020, I agreed to do fish farming. They took ₹5 lakh as security money from me and also asked me to convert my 1.5-acre agricultural land into a fishpond,” said Vishwakarma. “According to the agreement signed in October 2020, the company was supposed to do fish farming. They were to provide fish seeds and purchase fish every six months from us. We needed to just take care of the fish. But neither they provide any fish seeds, nor they came to see the pond. Now, I lost my land as well as money.” Also Watch | Stampede-like situation at Covid vaccination centre in Madhya PradeshRajesh Singh, another farmer from Vidisha, who filed a complaint on Thursday, said he rented a piece of land and converted it into a pond. “Now I am under huge debt as the landowner wanted his land back in original condition or I have to pay money for that. I have contacted the company’s employees many times. Initially, they made an excuse...but now they are not responding.”KD Singh, a farmer from Neemuch, said the company’s offices in Bhopal and Gurgaon are closed now. “We tried to contact everybody who came to lure us, but all the mobile numbers are switched off.”Rajshree Rudrapratap Singh, the lawmaker who was also scammed, said she will take up this issue with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Rajesh Singh, police superintendent (EOW), said they have received a complaint and have started an investigation. “(We are also) contacting farmers.”The Fish Fortune’s Gurgaon office number was found to be out of service. The company’s office in Bhopal has been locked and the phone number registered under its name has been allotted to someone else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/over-400-duped-in-the-name-of-fish-farming-mp-s-eow-101625228029314.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||10 days after Kullu slapgate, Sood back as ASP in HP CM’s security||Himachal Police Service (HPS) officer Brijesh Sood, who was slapped by then Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh during a visit of Union minister Nitin Gadkari 10 days ago, has been reinstated as additional SP in chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security.A notification to this effect was issued by governor Bandaru Dattatreya’s office on Friday.Also read: Kullu scuffle: Report indicts 3 HP cops for indiscipline, DGP issues advisorySood was temporarily attached at the police headquarters in Shimla after the incident that left the state government and police department red-faced.Additional SP Puneet Raghu of the 3rd Reserve Battalion, who was holding the charge for Sood, has been relieved of the duty. Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Gaurav Singh and a personal security officer in the CM’s security staff, Balwant Singh, have been placed under suspension.Officials fought in public on June 23The three officers fought in public on June 23 when Gadkari was visiting the state to inaugurate road projects.According to government sources, Gaurav Singh had allowed people affected by the Chandigarh-Manali four-lane project to protest peacefully when Gadkari came out of Bhunter airport. The Union minister met the protesters and listened to their grievances. This didn’t go down well with the chief minister, who pointed it out to his security staff.Sood raised the matter with Gaurav Singh. This led to a heated exchange and things took ugly turn when Singh slapped Sood. Seeing this, PSO Balwant Singh kicked the IPS officer. The entire incident was caught on camera and shared widely on social media, prompting state police chief Sanjay Kundu to remove all three from their duties and order an inquiry.Gaurav Singh and Balwant were suspended the next day, while Sood was attached at the police headquarters as the DIG Central Range, Madhusudan, conducted the probe. The probe report has since been submitted Kundu, who has forwarded it to the state government for further action.Ex-SP claims Sood violated security protocolIn his statement to the investigating officer, Gaurav Singh alleged that Sood abused him and made last-minute changes in the motorcade in violation of the security protocol. Sood refuted the allegation of misbehaviour and maintained that his concern was the CM’s security. Balwant Singh said he lost temper when the IPS officer slapped his boss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-days-after-kullu-slapgate-sood-back-as-asp-in-hp-cm-s-security-101625227249054.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Charged-up Sidhu among biggest power dues defaulters in Punjab||Navjot Singh Sidhu was all charged up on Friday as he took on the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government for imposing power cuts in Punjab but what the Amritsar East Congress MLA conveniently forgot is that he himself is one of the state’s biggest individual electricity dues defaulters. At present, Sidhu has an outstanding electricity bill of ₹8,74,784 for his Amritsar residence. Also read: Sidhu’s power-packed jibe at Punjab CM: No need for cuts“In March 2021, Sidhu owed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) ₹17,62,742. At that time, the PSPCL launched a drive against defaulters and Sidhu paid ₹10 lakh. A sum of ₹8.74 lakh is still pending,” said GS Khaira, the superintending engineer of PSPCL, Amritsar. “Sidhu has applied for one-time settlement of the bill, raising doubts on surcharges which is under consideration,” he said. Power connection and political clout A senior PSPCL official at its Patiala-based headquarters said: “Before giving advice and suggestion to others, Sidhu should clear his dues. Many consumers with a lower outstanding amount faced disconnections, but due to Sidhu’s political clout, the department didn’t take action.” PSPCL officials said that the last date to pay the bill was July 2, and if Sidhu failed to clear his dues, action would be initiated against him. Opposition posts bill on social media Making the most of the situation, opposition parties in Punjab have been sharing the outstanding bill of Sidhu on social media. Despite repeated attempts, Sidhu’s phone was switched off and he was not available for comment. Incidentally, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had allotted the power portfolio to Sidhu instead of local bodies when he resigned in 2019, claiming that his services had been downgraded. For the past year and a half, Sidhu has been criticising his own party’s government over power purchase agreements and costly electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chargedup-sidhu-among-biggest-power-dues-defaulters-in-punjab-101625225388687.html
02-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP MLA booked on rape charges by party worker||A case of rape has been lodged against Suresh Rathore, BJP legislator from Jwalapur at Bahadrabad, around 15 kilometres from Haridwar city, police officials said.“A case has been lodged against Suresh Rathore under section 376 IPC at Bahadrabad police station. We are further investigating the matter,” said sub-inspector Bahadrabad police station Mahendra Pundir.According to the officials, the case was registered on Friday at Bahadrabad police station against the BJP legislator on the complaint of a female party worker who hails from Begumpura village.The complainant alleged Suresh Rathore of raping her a few months back. She said she couldn’t disclose the matter at that time as she was warned of dire consequences by the legislator.Rathore said he is a public representative and law-abiding citizen so would cooperate with the court and police in the investigation process. “I am being wrongly framed by anti-social elements who earlier tried to blackmail me but instead got caught. There is a threat to my life, so I request police protection. All these charges levelled against me are baseless,” he said.On May 26, Rathore lodged a complaint against the complainant, her husband and three others who allegedly posed as media and demanded ₹30 lakh from him. Rathore, in his complaint, alleged that the woman and others with her threatened to circulate a video, in which she was levelling rape allegations against him, in exchange for the sum asked.Police then set a trap with Rathore calling the female and her accomplices, to personally collect the said amount from him.As the five accused arrived, the police nabbed them and lodged a case of blackmailing against them. Later, the female moved the court alleging being raped by Rathore. She accused Rathore of misleading the police and said he is roaming freely owing to his approach and clout as a legislator.A female party district leader, on condition of anonymity, said that the complainant was working closely with Rathore in party related programs till a few months back and was a prominent attendee in political programs, rallies, meetings of the Jwalapur MLA.BJP district president Jay Pal Singh Chauhan said he has not much information about the case. He said it’s a legal matter and refused to comment.Congress, meanwhile, has sought resignation from Rathore.Pradesh Congress Committee vice president Dhirendra Pratap said that when legislators are involved in such heinous crimes, one can assess the law and order situation in the state as well as the morality among BJP leaders.The legislator is regarded as Ravidasacharya pontiff among Sant Ravi Das sect followers and also holds religious sermons. He also took a religious procession of scheduled castes during the Mahakumbh fair.Rathore was also announced to become Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panchayati Niranjani Akhada during the Mahakumbh fair but Akhada retreated owing to stiff opposition against Rathore as he is married and has a family, while only those can become Mahamandaleshwar who renounce family and materialistic life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-booked-on-rape-charges-by-party-worker-101625224368569.html
02-07-2021||Other||Odisha man forced to carry wife’s body in his arms; 2 suspended||A video showing a tribal farmer from Odisha’s Kandhamal carrying the corpse of his wife in his arms has gone viral and provoked outrage. Rutumati, 40, the wife of the farmer Balakrushna Kanhar who was admitted to a hospital on Tuesday, died of cardiac arrest a day later.Kanhar sought help to carry his wife’s body, but hospital authorities allegedly ignored his request. “As no medical staffer came to help him, Balakrushna carried the corpse from the second floor of the hospital on his own to a vehicle waiting outside,” said Basant Kumar Padhi, a local Congress leader.Kanhar dragged his wife’s body on an iron stretcher to the hearse van as no one came to his help.Also Read | Odisha halts Covid vaccination amid dose shortageAfter the video went viral, chief district medical officer Rajashri Patnaik sought an explanation from the staff nurse and the help desk attendant at the hospital. The two were later suspended while another employee was dismissed.Arup Jena, President of Kandhamal Citizen Forum, said, “The medical staff apparently listened to music on their mobile phones while Kanhar asked for help. No one even came forward to hold his two-year-old daughter when he and his father put the body in the hearse van. The child was lying on the ground. I am simply appalled at the lack of empathy.”In August 2016, tribal farmer Dana Majhi was forced to carry the corpse of his wife on his back for 10 km from the district headquarters hospital in Bhawanipatna town of Kalahandi district as no hospital staff came to help him. Following an outrage, the state government started a free hearse van scheme the same month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-man-forced-to-carry-wife-s-body-on-his-back-101625223768484.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||'Group of opportunists and power greedy people': BSP's latest tirade against SP||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria on Friday lashed out at Samajwadi Party (SP), a day after its chief Akhilesh Yadav said it will go to the Uttar Pradesh assembly election in alliance with smaller parties. Reacting to this, Bhadoria, the SP lacks policy and has "no principles, no programmes," news agency ANI reported quoting the leader.Bhadoria added, "The SP is only a group of opportunists and power greedy people. Since the formation of this party, the anti-Dalit mentality has been seen in the country and especially in Uttar Pradesh.”Continuing his tirade against the SP, the BSP spokesperson called the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the SP the two sides of the same coin. "They both represent feudalist and capitalist forces and the BSP’s struggle is against both of them," he also said.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to the polls to elect a new government to the legislative assembly in 2022. With less than a year left until the polls, leaders of all major political parties have ramped up their attacks against each other.Earlier on Thursday, Akhilesh Yadav, who is also a former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, said that the BJP doesn't want to hold a debate on real matters like unemployment, inflation. He had also asserted that the 2022 elections in Uttar Pradesh will usher in "a democratic revolution" against the current "disruptive" and "negative" politics.Meanwhile, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Omprakash Rajbhar suggested a new ‘formula’ to govern the state if his 10-party alliance comes to power. Rajbhar said there will be a new chief minister every year. "If we form the government in 2022, we are clear that there will be five chief ministers in five years. One will be Muslim, one Rajbhar, one Chauhan, one Kushwaha and one Patel. We will also have four deputy CMs in a year and 20 in five years. We are clear that everyone will be treated equally in the coalition," said Rajhbhar on Thursday.On Sunday, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced that his party will contest 100 of the total 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh. It will fight the elections in alliance with the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha", a coalition of small parties including the AIMIM and Omprakash Rajbhar’s SBSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/group-of-opportunists-and-power-greedy-people-bsp-s-latest-tirade-against-sp-101625223263086.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut says Centre using CBI, ED for targeting opposition||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday asked investigating agencies to not involve themselves in toppling elected governments. He said that if investigating agencies like the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are used to target ministers of the opposition parties it is akin to “attacking from behind”.“Threats were issued that more such actions will be seen. This kind of politics is not good. Lakhs of livelihood are dependent on sugar mills. Use of ED and CBI are akin to attacks from behind. One has to fight face-to-face. ED and CBI should not involve themselves in toppling of governments,” Sanjay Raut was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Shiv Sena leader also said that the people who were intrinsic to the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra are being targeted. Raut was speaking in response to the ED’s action of attaching a sugar mill in Maharashtra which was allegedly linked to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana, located at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara district was attached by the ED in connection with the alleged Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) scam.The Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP expressed confidence that the MVA will win the election to the state legislative assembly Speaker's post. He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cannot weaken the government in Maharashtra despite their efforts to cause a body blow. Raut stressed that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray enjoys a cordial relationship with Congress president Sonia Gandhi.“There is no threat to the MVA even if the BJP works hard to weaken it. The BJP will do a favour to Maharashtra by allowing a unanimous election. There is no point in creating suspicion and uncertainty over the fate of the MVA government. The speaker's post will go to Congress. The candidate will be decided by the Congress leadership,” Raut said.State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat earlier said that the Speaker will be elected during the two-day monsoon session, scheduled to be held on July 5 and 6. The post became vacant after Congress leader Nana Patole was chosen to lead Maharashtra Congress earlier this year.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, however, remained non-committal regarding the election for the Speaker’s post during the session, the chief minister said in his letter to governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sanjay-raut-says-centre-using-cbi-ed-for-targeting-opposition-101625221902811.html
02-07-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: Long, short and instant hooks to get tele-spammers off the line||I love tele-callers. Just love them. They are artistes of a different hue, scientists of a different science, peddlers of the ultimate kind. Just love them.I can always tell by the number when a spammer calls. You know how? I just can- it’s a gift. But, I still pick the call. Every day. Why? Just.There all kinds and types of Tele-Spammers. Long, Short, and Instant. The Instant Pitch ones launch into it the moment you pick up. The Short Pitch callers are like the 100-metre dash specialists - they run out of ideas after three questions or 60 seconds, whichever comes first. The Long Pitchers are artistes - they use a meaningful headline, construct a conversation, have loads of information.Then there is the classification by Personality Type: Hesitant, King of Cool, Star, Hostage, and Professional callers. I have sympathy for the Hesitant ones - they are never sure of themselves, or their pitch, or their answers. The Professionals are efficient, smart, articulate and shrug off all outcomes. The Hostage are the ones who don’t want to be calling you, but they have to: “It’s a job, no sir?” “My boss forced me to call you.” “I have to meet my targets sir.” My favourite are the Stars - they always sound like they are doing you a favour. “So? I am going to sell you this car insurance - You know why? Because you are lucky I am calling you.”Then there are the Consultants. These are the ones who call because they want what’s best for you, not to sell you anything, but to give you free information, advise, and tips just because you are such a wonderful and loyal existing customer (or because they want you for one)... these get stuck after all their pitching is over because then they have to sell and they can’t, because their opening gambit was not to sell, but to give free advice. Obviously, I get a lot of calls. And earlier, I used to get mighty upset and rant/rave/hang-up. Then one day, I got a call when I was idle and in a good mood. And this is how the conversation went:“Hello sir, I am calling from Blah Blah Financial Advisors. Who are you?”“You don’t know who you are calling?” I was already smiling.“Yes sir I know. Mr Mukherjee, no?”“Yes - how may I help you?”“No, I want to help you. We have very good financial products to make money quickly.”“Really?”“Yes, yes. We give 30-40% returns. Our investment experts are very experienced and they know how to invest money.”“Excellent, excellent,” I said. Then asked, “Do you also have loan products?”“Yes yes. We give very cheap loans. No documentation.”“Interest rate?”“16%”.“That is too expensive. Banks are offering 15%.”“How much do you want?”“How much will you give?”“We can give up to Rs10 lakh sir.”“Excellent, excellent.”“What about investment sir?”“Yes, why not? Since you are giving me money, I might as well invest. But you guarantee 40% return?”“Yes.”“Okay but I want that in writing.”“Can’t give 40% commitment in writing, company policy.”“Really? Then I can’t invest. Call me back when you can give it in writing. Have a good day.”Click. Now this one works very well for cold callers if you have time and are willing to draw out the caller into a long, engaged conversation. They usually don’t know what happened and when they do, they never call back because they know you are not going to buy and that you will suck up a lot of time without any result.Another strategy goes like this:“Hello is this Mukherjee?”“Hi! You are from the insurance company?”“Yes sir.”“Excellent. Do you have my claim money?”“What? No. I am...”“What? No money? You insured me and now no claim settlement?”“But sir ..”Rant a little and they hang up on their own.A more indirect strategy is: Ring, ring.“Hello?” Sounding busy.“I am calling from ...”“Umm, am in a meeting. Could you call me at 4 pm? Thank you.” Click.I make a note of the number and don’t take further calls for a week. Then, I pick one and tell them I already bought what they are selling from a competitor, why didn’t they call earlier? Now in a way this is mean of me. I mean, they are really just doing their jobs. But the way most of them go about it, isn’t ethical, or professional, nor decorous. For instance, where do they get my number from? These are unsolicited calls and the sales pitches are mostly for products and services that are dubious at best. But there are also good (even great) tele-callers. These are gems. Conversations go like this:“Hello sir, would you be interested in a new product from our company?”“No, I have a product and am not looking for anything new.”“I apologise for disturbing you then. May I call back later in the year to check if you may require our services?”The answer to that one is yes, because that is a professional and respectful approach. Sign me up for two of those… er... make it three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-long-short-and-instant-hooks-to-get-tele-spammers-off-the-line-101625222628817.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||What’s open, what’s not? Your guide to Delhi-NCR’s top hotels||The pandemic has led us to miss our fave restaurants and how! But now as things slowly return to normal, many restaurants in Delhi’s five-star hotels are back, or slated to reopen soon. We bring you a detailed list of what’s open, to help you plan hassle-free evenings. One doesn’t want their evening ruined by not being informed in time about a restaurant being shut, right? Leela palace: Diplomatic Enclave, Chanakyapuri . +91-11-39331234 (Walk-ins allowed). The Qube (Multi-cuisine): 10am-10pm. Megu (Japanese): 12.30pm-10pm. Currently Shut: Le CirqueITC Maurya: Sardar Patel Marg, Diplomatic Enclave, Chanakyapuri. +91-11-26112233 (Reservation preferred). Bukhara (North Indian): Lunch (12.30-2.45pm) and dinner (6-10pm). Dum Pukht (Mughlai, North Indian): 6pm-10pm. The Pavilion (Multi cuisine): 6.30-10.30am, 12.30-3.30pm, 6.30-10pm. Ottimo At West View (Italian and Western fare): Open on weekends only, plus special Sunday brunch. Others: Gym and salon services are operationalThe Westin, Gurugram: MG Road, Sector 29, Gurugram: +91-124-49777777 (Walk-ins allowed). Seasonal Tastes (Multi-cuisine, Global): 6.30am-10pm. EEST (Pan Asian): 6.30pm-10pm. Prego (Italian): 6.30pm-10pm. Daily Treats (patisserie): 11am-10pm. Currently Shut: STORY Club and LoungePullman & Novotel: Aerocity. +91-11-46080808 (walk-in allowed). Food Exchange (Multi-cuisine): 6.30am-11.30pm. Farmers Basket: 6.30am-11pm. Pling (Jazz and blues bar): 11am-10pm. Quoin (Sports bar): 11am-10pm. Currently Shut: Honk and Café Pluck The Oberoi New Delhi: Dr Zakir Hussain Marg. +91-11-24363030 (Reservations encouraged)360° (World cuisine): 7am-10pm. Cirrus 9 (World cuisine): Monday to Friday 5pm-10pm, Saturday to Sunday, Noon-10pm. The Oberoi Patisserie & Delicatessen (Delicatessen): 10am-8pm. Omya (Indian): Temporarily closed, delivery only on request. Others: Fitness centre open for resident guests, 6am-10pm. Currently Shut: Baoshuan; The Club Bar and Cigar Lounge.The Oberoi Gurugram: Udyog Vihar, Sector 19. +91-124-2451234 (Walk-ins allowed). Threesixtyone° (Japanese, Chinese, Italian, Indian) 10am-10pm. The Oberoi Patisserie & Delicatessen (Delicatessen): 10am-10pm. Currently Shut: Amaranta, The Piano Bar and Cigar Lounge.The Imperial: Janpath, Connaught Place, New Delhi. +91-11-41116609 (Walk-ins allowed). 1911 (Multi-cuisine): 7am-10pm. Currently Shut: The Spice Route, San Gimignano, The Atrium, Daniell’s Tavern, Nostalgia at 1911, La Baguette. Crowne Plaza :13 B Mayur Vihar, District Centre . +91-11-4110222/8860634440 (Walk-ins allowed). Infinity (Indian and world cuisine): 8am-10pm. Currently Shut: Spice Art, Connexions Bar and Lounge. Sector 10, Rohini: +91-11-44884488. Mosaic (Multi-cuisine): 6.30am-10pm. Connexions Bar and Lounge (Patisserie): 6.30am-10pm. Community Centre, Okhla: Edesia (Global cuisine): 7am-10pm. Copper Bar & Lounge (Snacks): Noon-10pm. French Heart (patisserie): 9am-10pm. Currently Shut: ChaoBell. Andaz: Hospitality District Delhi, Aerocity. +91-11-49031234 (Walk-ins allowed). AnnaMaya (Modern European Food Hall, Inspired by Indian Flavours): 6.30am-11pm. Juniper (Gin bar): 11am-1am. Currently Shut: The Soul Pantry. Taj Mahal Hotel, Man Singh Road: +91-11-66566162 (Walk-ins allowed). Machan (Multi-cuisine): 8am-10pmVarq (Modern-Indian cuisine): Open for dinner (7pm-10pm). House of Ming (Chinese cuisine): Open for lunch. (12.30pm-2.45pm) and dinner (7.30pm-10pm). Emperor Lounge (Finger food): Open 9am-10pm. Others: Fitness centre open to resident guests, 6am-7pm. Currently Shut: Rick’s Bar. Taj Palace, Delhi, Diplomatic Enclave, Chanakyapuri: +91-11-26110202 (Reservation recommended)Capital Kitchen (Multi-cuisine): 8am-10pm. Masala Art (Indian): All days dinner 7pm-10pm and Sunday lunch 12.30pm-2.45pm. Spicy Duck (Chinese): All days dinner 7pm-10pm and Sunday lunch 12.30pm-2.45pm. Orient Express (French/European): Open exclusively for private buyout (dinner). Others: Fitness centre open to resident guests, 11am-8pm. Currently Shut: Jiva, Swimming Pool. Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-open-what-s-not-a-sneak-peak-of-delhi-ncr-s-top-hotels-101625222097532.html
02-07-2021||Other||Partially charred body found on IIT Madras campus||A partially charred body of a 22-year-old man was found on the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras campus late on Thursday, police said. The man was from Kerala and worked as a temporary project staffer on the campus since April. Police said he lived outside the campus and that they found an 11-page note from his home on Friday, saying he was unable to cope with his daily work and did not want to trouble his parents.An investigator, who did not want to be named, said the man wrote if he is unable to fulfil daily tasks, he may not be able to rise to get bigger work.Police have registered a case of suspicious death under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 174. “The body has been sent to the Royapettah Government Hospital. The burning is caused by self-harm. We are awaiting the post-mortem report,” a second investigator said.IIT Madras described it as an “unfortunate and tragic incident”. “We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of the departed soul. The police are investigating the incident and the Institute is fully cooperating with the authorities,” it said in a statement.Help is just a call away. Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/partially-charred-body-found-on-iit-madras-campus-101625219568117.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka minister’s aide arrested on complaint by Yediyurappa’s son||An aide to Karnataka minister B Sriramulu was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly cheating government job aspirants. The accused, Rajanna, was arrested outside Sriramulu’s residence, people aware of the matter said.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son, BY Vijayendra, filed a police complaint three days ago against Rajanna. “The accused person misused (the) complainant’s name to get a job done by receiving illegal gratification. The complainant also stated that he does not know the said accused nor he has anything to do with him hence the complainant requested to take necessary action against all the persons concerned including the said accused,” said Vijayendra’s complaint to the police on June 28. HT has seen a copy of the complaint.Rajanna has been booked under the Karnataka Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code’s Section 420 (cheating).The arrest comes amid reports of strained relations between Yediyurappa and his ministers. Some of Yediyurappa’s colleagues have objected to Vijayendra’s role in the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-minister-s-aide-arrested-on-complaint-by-yediyurappa-s-son-101625216447831.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Loud sound rattles many areas of Bengaluru, Twitter users compare it to last year's sonic boom||Bengaluru residents across the city heard loud sounds around 12:15pm on Friday as several people took to Twitter to describe it as a "boom" or a "thud". According to reports, the loud noise was heard in ISRO Layout, HSR Layout, Benson Town, Sarjapur, Ulsoor, south Bengaluru, east Bengaluru and JP Nagar areas of the city.Calling it "an annual ritual" many netizens compared Friday's sound to a similar boom they heard last year. Citizens said the sound was loud enough to make windows rattle. “Windows rattled after a huge sound...what was it, one more Sonic Boom?” asked one user.There was speculation online that the sound might have been caused by a trainee fighter jet flying over the city from the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) airport.However, HAL refused to comment on Friday's incident. "Regular sorties of fighters and trainee aircraft take place from HAL airport. Today was no different. HAL can't comment on the loud sound reportedly heard today in Bengaluru," HAL's spokesperson told ANI.In May of last year, a similar "sonic boom" was heard in areas like HSR Layout, Ulsoor, Old Madras Road, Kundanahalli, Kammanahalli, CV Raman Nagar, Whitefield, Ramamurthy Nagar, Cooke Town, Hosur Road, and Vivek Nagar. The ministry of defence tweeted that it was caused by a routine IAF test flight outside of city limits when the aircraft was decelerating from a "supersonic to a subsonic speed" at an altitude of 36,000 to 40,000 feet above sea level.“It was a routine IAF Test Flight involving a supersonic profile which took off from Bluru Airport and flew in the allotted airspace well outside City limits. The aircraft was of Aircraft Systems and Testing Establishment (ASTE) whose Test Pilots & Flight Test Engineers routinely test out all aeroplanes. The sonic boom was probably heard while the aircraft was decelerating from supersonic to subsonic speed between 36,000 and 40,000 feet altitude,” the defence ministry tweeted.The ministry clarified that the test flight was happening well outside of Bengaluru city limits but residents could hear the noise because “the sound of a sonic boom can be heard and felt by an observer even when the aircraft is flying as far away as 65 to 80 kilometres away from the person”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/loud-sound-rattles-many-areas-of-bengaluru-twitter-users-compare-it-to-last-year-s-sonic-boom-101625214238536.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local: How to get QR code-based travel pass for train travel amid curbs||The Maharashtra government along with the railways is introducing a Universal Travel Pass with a QR code for travelling on Mumbai local trains as, despite the pandemic restrictions, people have been travelling using fake ID cards. In the wake of the new variant Delta Plus being reported from the state, the state government has brought back some restrictions in the state. After the second wave of the pandemic, Mumbai local services were never completely opened for the public. Only essential and emergency workers with valid ID proof can now travel by Mumbai locals. In the first week of June, the Maharashtra government announced a five-level unlock plan which has now been reduced to three, but nothing was announced about Mumbai local services.What is a Universal travel pass?Apart from the local trains, this pass will be valid for Mumbai Metro and monorail. While the pass is aimed at eliminating people travelling using fake cards, this pass will also have degrees depending on which the individual will be allowed to travel.Here is how it will workIn accordance with Maharashtra's five-level unlocking, there will be several degrees of the pass. As level 5 of restrictions means effectively no restriction, those with Degree 5 card will be allowed to travel always. Rest will depend on what level of restriction Mumbai is in. For example, Mumbai at present is in level 3 restriction. A person with a Degree 3 pass will only be allowed to travel if the restrictions in effect are of levels 1, 2, or 3. If a commuter has a Degree 2 pass, he/she will be able to travel if the limitation level is 1 or 2, reports said.How to registerOnly establishments can register for this pass on the website of the Disaster Management and Relief Fund Rehabilitation department of Maharashtra-- msdmacov19.mahait.org.Click on Universal travel passClick on 'register your establishement'The establishment authority will have to provide details like address, registration number, co-ordinator contact number, the number of staff who need the pass etc.This application will be manually reviewed by the district disaster management authority and on approval, the coordinator will be able to log in using the mobile phone number and upload individual details of the staff who would be requiring the travel pass.Staff name, ID, mobile number, gender, age, department, the designation will have to be provided.Staff members will get SMS once the information is uploaded.Then they can log in using their mobile number and uploading a photo, they can download their individual travel pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-how-to-get-qr-code-based-travel-pass-for-train-travel-amid-curbs-101625211866879.html
02-07-2021||Dehradun||Case filed against Dehradun school for seeking halal meat supply||The manager, principal, and vice-principal of a prominent boarding school in Dehradun have been booked for allegedly promoting enmity among communities over a tender floated by them for the supply of halal meat for the institute’s mess on Thursday.The case was registered on the complaint lodged by Bajrang Dal members against the school management. Only designations of the accused have been cited and no one has been named in the First Information Report (FIR). HT has seen a copy of the FIR.Sub-inspector Mahavir Singh, who is probing the case, said the case was registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 505(2) for “publishing a statement that promoted enmity among communities”.Also Read | In Uttarakhand, Covid and lack of jobs top BJP’s worries“The case was registered after receiving a complaint from Bajrang Dal leader Vikas Verma. However, we are yet to question the representatives of the school management mentioned in the FIR. Action would be taken after a proper probe,” said Singh.Verma welcomed the police action but said more stringent sections should have been invoked.“What they were doing is completely unpardonable. They were inviting just halal meat supply to serve to the students of Hindu community also which is not permissible in the Hindu religion. We asked them to show documents of any old tender for jhatka meat which is permissible in the Hindu religion, but they failed to show any. It just shows that the school management was doing that for long,” said Verma.Verma demanded an apology from management for their “misdeed”. “We would soon visit other prominent schools in Dehradun and Mussoorie which too are reportedly serving only halal meat and poultry items to students of all the communities.”The representatives of the school could not be contacted for a reaction. The copy will be updated once they react.Halal meat is slaughtered according to Islamic norms and involves the draining of blood from an animal’s body while jhatka is the meat from an animal killed instantaneously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/case-filed-against-dehradun-school-for-seeking-halal-meat-supply-101625212967599.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Yami Gautam summoned by ED in alleged money laundering case||Yami Gautam was on Friday summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in an alleged case of violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The agency has asked Yami Gautam to appear before them next week to record her statement in connection with the alleged irregularities under FEMA.Officials said Yami Gautam received ₹1.5 crore in her private bank account, which she didn’t disclose. She has been asked to join the probe on July 7.This is the second time that Yami Gautam, who recently got married to Aditya Dhar, has been summoned by the federal agency. The first summons was issued to her last year, but she failed to visit the ED office due to restrictions during the coronavirus pandemic.More details will be updated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yami-gautam-summoned-by-ed-in-alleged-money-laundering-case-101625211684384.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s power-packed jibe at Punjab CM: No need for cuts||Amid protests by opposition parties, farmers and other consumers against the power cuts in Punjab, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu hit out at his own Congress government in the state on Friday, raising questions over its handling of the electricity supply situation. In nine tweets, the Congress MLA said that there is no need for power cuts in the state or for the chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh) to regulate office timings or AC use of the common people if the government acts in the right direction. Also read: ‘CM, Sidhu will have a working arrangement’: Harish RawatThe state government had on Thursday announced measures such as the curtailment of timings of government offices from 8am to 2pm and two-day weekly offs for industrial consumers besides appealing for limited use of ACs. Sidhu, who has been critical of Capt Amarinder Singh and his own party’s government in recent weeks, said that he is sharing the truth of power costs, cuts, power purchase agreements and how to give free and 24-hour power to the people of the state. Capt Amarinder Singh holds the power portfolio. Had quit cabinet when given power portfolio Sidhu’s latest attack comes two days after he had one-on-one meetings with former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who are said to be keen on giving an important role in the state Congress to him. Ironically, the Amritsar East MLA had quit the cabinet in 2019 after his portfolio was changed from local bodies to power and new and renewable energy. He had refused to take charge of the departments. Blames over-dependence on three private thermal plants Questioning the high power purchase cost in his tweets, Sidhu said that Punjab is buying power at average cost of ₹4.54 per unit, whereas the national average is ₹3.85 per unit and Chandigarh is paying ₹3.44 per unit. He blamed over-dependence on three private thermal plants at ₹5 to 8 per unit for this. “The (previous) Badal Govt signed PPAs with 3 private thermal power plants in Punjab. Till 2020, Punjab has already paid ₹5,400 crore due to faulty clauses in these agreements and is expected to pay ₹65,000 crore. People’s money just as fixed charges,” he tweeted. Says amend law to cap power purchase costs Advising the state to purchase power from the national grid at much cheaper rates, he said the PPAs (with independent power producers) are acting against Punjab’s public interest. “Punjab may not be able to re-negotiate these PPAs due to them having legal protection from the courts. But there is a way forward. Punjab Vidhan Sabha can bring in new legislation with retrospective effect to cap power purchase costs to prices available on the National Power Exchange at any given time. Thus, by amending the law, these agreements will become null & void (sic),” he wrote. The MLA said that Punjab’s revenue per unit of consumption is one of the lowest in India, due to gross mismanagement of the complete power purchase and supply system. “The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited pays ₹0.18 per unit extra on every unit supplied, even after receiving over ₹9,000 crore in subsidy from the state,” he tweeted, advising the state to harness renewable energy which is becoming cheaper and also environment-friendly. Takes on Kejriwal, says state needs original Punjab model Commenting on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise to replicate the Delhi model of power supply in Punjab, Sidhu advocated an original Punjab model to tackle the state’s power problem. “Punjab already gives ₹9,000 crore power subsidy but Delhi gives only ₹1,699 crore. If Punjab copies the Delhi model, we will get merely ₹1,600-2,000 crore as subsidy… Punjab needs an original Punjab model, Not a copied model (sic),” he posted. He said money spent on giving unreasonable profits to private thermal plants should be used for the welfare of people, giving power subsidy for free power up to 300 units for domestic use, round-the-clock supply and to invest in education and healthcare. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had also promised 300 units of free electricity for each household in the state, waiver of pending power bills and round-the-clock supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-power-packed-jibe-at-punjab-cm-no-need-for-cuts-101625211887640.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices soar; petrol at ₹96.72 per litre in Mumbai||Fuel prices soared on Friday and petrol was priced at ₹105.24 per litre in Mumbai while diesel was at ₹96.72 per litre.An increase of 34 paise per litre meant that in the neighbouring Thane, a litre of petrol was available at ₹105.36 and diesel was available for ₹96.84 per litre.Also Read | ‘Break’ monsoon likely to disrupt sowing of crops, says IMDPetrol price crossed ₹100 per litre mark in Mumbai on May 29. Fuel prices in the city have been on a rise since May 3. In metro cities, Mumbai has the costliest petrol. In Delhi, a litre of the fuel is at ₹99.16, in Hyderabad, it costs ₹103.05 and in Chennai, Rs100.13 today. Within the state, Parbhani was selling petrol at ₹107.56 per litre while diesel was the costliest in Amravati at ₹98.18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-soar-petrol-at-rs-96-72-per-litre-in-mumbai-101625211167552.html
02-07-2021||Kolkata||Post-poll violence: Calcutta HC orders Bengal govt to register all cases, ensure victims' treatment||The Calcutta High Court on Friday ordered the police in West Bengal to register all cases of the victims of violence reported after the assembly elections in the state and also directed the Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led government to ensure medical treatment and rations for those affected, even if they don't have ration cards, according to news agency ANI.The court has also directed West Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi to preserve all documents related to the post-poll violence. It also ordered the government to conduct a second autopsy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijeet Sarkar at the Command Hospital in Kolkata. The court has issued a show-cause notice to the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Jadavpur asking as to why contempt proceedings should not be started against them.Also read: BJP women’s wing accuses state govt of sponsoring post-poll violencePost-poll violence was reported from several parts of West Bengal and the BJP accused the TMC of atrocities against its workers. Abhijeet Sarkar was one of the party workers who was allegedly killed in the post assembly polls violence in Beliaghata, Kolkata. Haran Adhikari was another BJP worker who was allegedly killed by TMC after the election results were announced on May 2. Several more incidents of clashes were reported that killed around 16 people.The high court on June 18 directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) chairperson to constitute a committee to inquire into the complaints of post-poll violence. On June 21, the chairperson justice (retired) Arun Mishra constituted a committee headed by former Intelligence Bureau chief Rajiv Jain for the probe. The NHRC panel submitted its report on the violence on June 30.The high court on Friday directed the NHRC to extend the investigation up to July 13 and the court has scheduled the next hearing in the matter for the same day.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre, TMC government and Election Commission of India (ECI) on a plea seeking Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe to enquire into cause and reasons of the violence in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/postpoll-violence-calcutta-hc-orders-bengal-govt-to-register-all-cases-ensure-victims-treatment-101625207694980.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Vistadome coach for Mangaluru-Bengaluru train from July 7||A train from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, which passes through the picturesque Western Ghats for more than 45 kilometres, will now have an additional feature. The Indian Railways will attach a Vistadome coach from July 7 to the day train number 06211/06212 between Karwar-Yesvantpur at Mangaluru Central station, according to a report in Udayavani on Friday.The Kannada language newspaper reported citing people familiar with the development that the coach will have 40 reclining seats that revolve 360 degrees. Bookings for this bogie will begin on July 3. The Vistadome coach will also be attached to the tri-weekly Mangaluru-Yesvantpur train (06575/06576) from July 11, the people cited above by the newspaper also said.The Mangaluru-Bengaluru railway line is very scenic but people were not able to soak in the beauty of nature in the conventional railway coaches so far. The Shirady Ghat stretch begins at Nettana in Sullia taluk and ends at Sakleshpur in Hassan district, a stretch of 45km. Siribagilu, a station at the top of the Brahmagiri range, gives a 180-degree panoramic view of the Western Ghats.The train will stop at Siribagilu for 10 minutes just to allow the passengers to view this scenery. The only other route that offers such a view is between Hubballi in Karnataka and Ponda in Goa. This line gives a view of the Dudhsagar falls.People cited by the newspaper also said that they were expecting full booking for this facility. The fare for travelling on this coach will be equivalent to that charged for the executive class of Shatabdi trains of the Indian Railways.Incidentally, the Indian Railways mooted the idea of introducing this coach in April this year but had to defer it due to the second round of lockdown that the government imposed due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. When the luxury train Golden Chariot was started in 2008, there was a similar proposal to run the train through the world’s biodiversity hotspot of the Western Ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/vistadome-coach-for-mangaluru-bengaluru-train-from-july-7-101625204967676.html
02-07-2021||Patna||Maize trader shot at, ₹3.70 lakh looted in Bihar’s Purnia||Motorcycle-borne criminals shot at a maize trader and looted ₹3.70 lakh from him on NH-57 Purnia-Jogbani road near Kasba under the same (Kasba) police station in Bihar late Thursday evening. The trader is undergoing treatment at Purnia Sadar hospital where his condition is stable.According to reports, Araria resident Rajeev Kumar Mandal was returning home from Gulabbagh with his friend Raj Kumar Yadav on a bike after selling maize when two motorcycle-borne criminals accosted them near Kath pool at about 10pm.Also Read | Truck mows down 6 in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur; driver escapes“They waylaid us and snatched the bag containing ₹3.70 lakh. When we tried to put up a fight, they fired once and the bullet hit Mandal on his arm,” Yadav said. “Later, I rushed him to the Sadar hospital in Purnia on the bike.”Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station Madhurendra Kishor, who reached Sadar hospital to record Mandal’s statement, said, “We have begun a manhunt for the two criminals.”He also said that the police have been asking businessmen and farmers to accept payments only through digital transactions, and not carry huge amounts of cash.Elsewhere on NH-57, criminals shot at a railway gateman near Jalalgarh when he was going to Katihar. Sujeet Kumar Paswan is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Purnia where his condition is said to be critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maize-trader-shot-at-rs-3-70-lakh-looted-in-bihar-s-purnia-101625204626027.html
02-07-2021||Patna||Truck mows down 6 in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur; driver escapes||Six persons, including five children from three families, were killed and three other sustained injuries when a truck rammed into their houses at Sahdani village of Bihar on Muzaffarpur-Reva National Highway-722 late on Thursday. Irate villagers and panchayat representatives blocked the NH for over three hours on Friday and demanded compensation for the families of the deceased. The incident occurred around 9.35pm when the children were studying in their verandah. A speeding truck from Muzaffarpur on its way to Saran rammed into the houses of Rambabu Prasad, Lakshu Paswan and Chandan Paswan before hitting an electric pole. While four children died on the spot, 45-year-old Machhu Paswan succumbed to his injuries on way to the hospital, and another child died during treatment. Two of the injured minors are said to be critical and are undergoing treatment in hospital. The truck driver managed to flee from the spot.Also Read | Four held in liquor haul in BiharPolice said Lakshu lost a son and daughter, while his other daughter is in a critical condition. Muzaffarpur DM Pranav Kumar said,“The accused driver was speeding… CCTVs are being checked… investigation is on.”Following the incident, angry villagers created a ruckus and vandalised some vehicles on the road. The violence continued for several hours before additional forces were rushed in. Police said the crowd was demanding compensation for the aggrieved families, adding that the protesters burnt tyres and shouted slogans against the administration. Hundreds of vehicles were stranded as police tried to pacify them. Efforts are on to catch the truck driver, an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/truck-mows-down-6-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-driver-escapes-101625203606238.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Colocasia leaf rolls enlisted in AYUSH ministry's 'traditional food recipes'||The Karnataka coast and the Konkan region on the western coast of India have added a new feather in their cap. Pathrode or a roll made out of colocasia leaves has been enlisted in the ‘traditional foods recipes’ published by the central government’s AYUSH ministry. Colocasia leaf rolls are among the 26 dishes which have been chosen because of their nutritional value.The traditional recipes compiled in the form of e-book guides list the ingredients and recipes of these 26 native delicacies, besides elaborating their health benefits and contraindications. Niger seed laddus, apoopam and peya are among other dishes included in this compilation from AYUSH Systems of Medicine.Pathrode is composed of two words--patra meaning large leaf and vade which is a popular dish of south India. Even today certain sections of the Brahmin households call it Patra Vade. This ubiquitous leafy overgrowth called ‘Kesu’ is found almost everywhere along the coasts of Karnataka and the Konkan region during monsoons.The iron-rich colocasia leaves not only improve haemoglobin but the phenols, tannin iron, flavonoids and glycosides present in them also help in reducing inflammation. Besides these, Vitamin C and Beta Carotene are other nutrients are also present in these leaves.The easily digestible colocasia rolls can be either eaten in healthier steamed form or roasted with coconut oil and mustard seeds for enhanced flavour. Pathrode is relished throughout monsoons by most families living in the coastal areas. Coastal communities are also fond of growing Kesu in their backyards during the monsoons.The leaf which grows naturally well during monsoons is nowadays being grown in a cultured environment. Some parts of Kasargod in Kerala and the Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka have started growing them for exporting to areas that do not have natural habitat for their growth. Farmers in Karnataka’s Udupi have grown it in abundance and exported it to places in the middle east and the Gulf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/colocasia-leaf-rolls-enlisted-in-ayush-ministry-s-traditional-food-recipes-101625201054643.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Thunderstorm, rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi may witness a thunderstorm accompanied by rain on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. A cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle has also been predicted for Saturday, as per the forecast. The IMD, on Thursday, announced in its latest forecast that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of northwest India, including Delhi, till at least July 7. The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 31 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 41 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 31.7 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 43.1 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, marking the third straight heatwave day.Also Read | Delhi, reeling under scorching heatwave, looks to thunderstorm alert for respiteDelhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 222. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 266 in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the poor category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and Westerly and forecasted to stay high for the next 24 hours. Dust long-range transport from dry arid regions and local emissions are expected to continue in the coming days. Although high ventilation is favourable for dispersion, AQI is likely to deteriorate and stay in the Poor category next two days. Poor to the high end of the moderate category is forecasted on 4th July (Sunday). Dust (PM10) will be the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-thunderstorm-rain-likely-today-imd-101625194424589.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||With arrival of 85k doses, stage set for mega vax drive in Ludhiana||With the district receiving 85,000 doses of the Covid vaccine for the first phase of July, the health department is raring to hold a mega-vaccination drive on Saturday. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said 1,200 healthcare workers will be deployed at 305 mega-vaccination sites. However, with the heatwave sweeping through the district, there has been some concern over the storage of the vaccine, which needs to be kept cold. Dr Juneja said, “We have made adequate agreements to maintain a cold chain of the vaccine from eight to 10 hours.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the department will do its best to achieve the target of 85,000 doses on Saturday. “We had vaccinated around 50,000 people in two days during the last vaccination drive, which was held amid restrictions. However, as the curbs have been lifted, we expect to vaccinate more people,” she said. Fewer people will be hospitalised in 3rd wave: ExpertDistrict epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said that recent studies suggest that the third wave will arrive in around four to six months. However, if residents fail to follow Covid appropriate behaviour, the third wave could sweep through the region much earlier, he cautioned. “With most of the population vaccinated, the virus will be less severe and fewer people will need hospitalisation,” he said, adding that the health department was ready for any eventuality. Delta plus variant has not made inroads in district yet In a relief, a week after a 68-year-old ex-serviceman from Jand village was found positive for the delta plus mutation of Covid, the health department failed to find anymore cases of the variant in the village after massive sampling. Dr Bhagat said, “After the delta plus variant was detected on June 16, massive testing were carried out in Jand and Latala villages. Fortunately, no one tested positive.” He said that 5% of the total samples collected are sent for genome sequencing tests. Private hospitals. including Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, and Satguru Partap Singh Hospital have also been allowed to send their samples for genome sequencing tests.No fresh Covid deaths, 21 test +ve As many as 21 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the district on Thursday, while no fatalities were reported. At present, there are 328 active cases in the district. So far, 86,985 people have tested positive in the district, of which 2,086 have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-arrival-of-85k-doses-stage-set-for-mega-vax-drive-in-ludhiana-101625194304489.html
02-07-2021||Other||Notorious Irani Gang strikes again in Ludhiana||The notorious Irani Gang, which was responsible for a slew of robberies committed in the garb of policemen in 2018 and 2019, has become active in Ludhiana once again. The gang had laid low in 2020 amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Police suspect that members of the gang, who had been personating police officials, had stolen jewellery from a man delivering the items to a store near the municipal corporation building here on Wednesday. The gang is known to have committed similar robberies in the past. Of the 41 people known to be associated with the gang, four were spotted in Ludhiana. Police on Thursday conducted a foot patrol of markets in the Old City area on Tuesday and circulated pictures of the suspects among traders. They also raided inns and hotels to trace the suspects. The victim, Mukesh Kumar of Chandigarh, had said that he had come to Ludhiana to deliver jewellery to a shop in Sarafa Bazaar. He had parked his vehicle in a multi-level parking of the municipal corporation and had started walking towards the market when a man claiming to be a cop stopped him. The imposter led him to a corner on the pretext of frisking, where three of his accomplices were already present. The accused was let go after frisking. When Mukesh opened his bag after reaching Sarafa Bazaar he was shocked to find two boxes of jewelry were missing. He immediately lodged an FIR against the accused at the Division 1 police station. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal asked the public to be ware as they personate police personnel and rob traders on the pretext of frisking them. The kingpin of the gang Lallu Khani Irani, also known as Bulldozer, Siyaz, has been arrested by the Ludhiana police. He is facing trial in at least 44 cases. “Members of the Irani Gang had migrated to India from Balochistan over a century ago. Most members of the community are involved in robberies, snatchings and burglaries. They reside in small slum areas in Boriwali, Malad, Thane of Mumbai and in Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh and follow their own rules and rituals.” In 2019, after executing crime in the city, the gang had gone to Patiala, Ambala, Panipat, Delhi and then returned to Mumbai. The gang had also executed snatchings in Bengaluru and Chennai, besides parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/notorious-irani-gang-strikes-again-in-ludhiana-101625193944429.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, agriculture secy Anirudh Tiwari interim in-charge of PAU||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) was buzzing with activity, a day after its vice-chancellor professor Baldev Singh Dhillon, declined the board of management’s offer to extend his tenure, citing “personal reasons”. It has been learnt that agriculture secretary Anirudh Tiwari will be in-charge of the agricultural university till a new vice-chancellor can be appointed. Dhillon, who will be remembered as the longest serving vice-chancellor, had been first appointed to the post in 2011 for four years. His term was extended for four years in 2015 and for two more years thereafter in 2019. He has served as the head of the Ludhiana-based institution for 10 years. His predecessor, Sukhdev Singh, had served as the university’s vice-chancellor from 1981 to 1989. PAU Teachers Association (PAUTA) president Dr HS Kingra says it was Dhillon’s long career, which had been the source of contention between the teachers’ union and the V-C. “Transition is the way of life. However, in Dhillon’s case, the post of vice-chancellor had become permanent. Ideally, he should have retired after completing his second term in office. In the meantime, he could have taken a prospective candidate for the post under his wing. Everybody was under tremendous pressure because of his continuing tenure from the top to the lower rungs.” The highlight of Dhillon’s stint on the top post was that he refused to bow down to political pressure and did not allow any political interference in the working of the university. The academic is an internationally acclaimed scientist in the field of plant breeding and genetic resources. He has served in PAU as director of research, director (seeds) and maize breeder; at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) as assistant director general, and director, ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR), New Delhi; and at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, as director of research.Before he took reins of the agricultural university, he was working with the University of Hohenheim, Stuttgart, Germany. He was also associate scientist at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, (CIMMYT), Mexico.At the university, Dhillon laid special emphasis on overall development in research, teaching and extension programmes. Several varieties of paddy and wheat were developed during his tenure.Dhillon led the Joint Inter-State Campaign (Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan) that had successfully managed white fly in cotton, resulting in a bumper crop with record productivity of 756 and 750kg/hectare of lint as compared to 197 kg/hectare in 2015. He had led a vigorous campaign against paddy straw burning in 2018. He had also vocally opposed the farm laws and suggested measures to increase farm income. Dhillon has published 400 research and policy papers. He was conferred with the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award in India, in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-agriculture-secy-anirudh-tiwari-interim-in-charge-of-pau-101625193764392.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fake call centre busted; 27 held for duping UK, US residents||The police busted a fake call centre involved in duping US and UK citizens nationals of lakhs of rupees and arrested 27 fraudsters, including four African nationals. The cops recovered ₹14.5 hawala money, 22 desktop computers, nine laptops, and 31 mobiles, along with accessories including LAN servers, Wi-fi routers, and Wi-fi switches, from their possession. The accused were operating the fake call centre from Chandan Towers at Pakhowal Road. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal informed that the fake call center was being operated by Lakhan Abrol, Yatin, Cain Masih, and Titus in the tower owned by Somal Sood. All of them, along with their 22 employees, including four African nationals, have been arrested. Accused bought victims’ data at ₹1 each The gang has employed the African nationals as they were fluent in English and could converse in UK and US accents. They used to converse with their targets over the phone, while the rest of the accused used to help them. Agrawal said that the fraudster bought the database illegally through the internet at ₹1 per person. The data included the name, mobile number, and other identification details of the victims. Revealing their modus operandi, Agrawal said, that callers approached the UK and USA-based citizens through an internet-based calling application (VoIP) known as VICI Dial App phone service. While calling the UK nationals, they used to pose as officials of the UK government, and while calling the US victims, they posed as Amazon employees,” he added. “The fraudsters used to tell the UK victims that their identity had been used to carry out revenue fraud in their country and a criminal case would be filed against them. When the victims asked them for a remedy, the callers, posing as executive representatives of the department, would transfer the call to a senior ‘handler’,” said the commissioner of police. The handler would then guide the target to transfer the amount temporarily to the accounts of their aides residing in the UK. The targets were told that by doing this they could skip the tax penalty. Agrawal said that half of the transferred amount was kept by the UK and USA facilitators, while the remaining was received by the accused through hawala transactions. The police have also found incriminating evidence of foreign payment gateways, fraud bank accounts, and data of lakhs of UK income taxpayers. He said that further investigations are on to ascertain the total amount of the fraud done by the accused and to trace their accomplices, including those running their operations from the UK and US. An FIR under Sections 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offense, in order to commit extortion), 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 66C, 66D and 75 of the IT Act, has been registered at Division Number 5 police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-call-centre-busted-27-held-for-duping-uk-us-residents-101625193524188.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power outages in Ludhiana render scorching summer hotter||Ludhiana A subdued monsoon has caused a heatwave to sweep across the district, with temperatures hovering around 40°C. Amid the sweltering temperatures, prolonged power outages across the industrial hub of the state over the last two days have added to residents’ woes.According to the India meteorological department (IMD), in the plains, heatwave is declared if maximum temperature is more than 40°C and at least 4.5°C above normal, or if it crosses 45°C. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 39.8°C, which was 4.3°C higher than the normal, while the minimum temperature was 29°C, 2.8°C higher than normal.As the heat continued to bake the region, the power load on the grid soared, causing unscheduled power outages, which lasted for up to 14 hours on June 30 and July 1. In some places, faulty power cables were to blame for the power cuts. Even posh localities had to deal with blackouts. The whole city was plunged into darkness from 8.30pm to 9.30pm on June 30.Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) say a prolonged dry spell, caused due to a delayed monsoon, paddy transplantation and the failure of a unit in the Talwandi Sabo thermal power plant in Bathinda had amplified the problem.Helpline numbers no help, say residentsDespite the power departments’ phone ringing off the hook as residents were hassled due to the unscheduled power cuts, there was no respite in sight. Instead, the PSPCL appealed government and public sector officers to turn off their air conditioners for the next three days.A PSPCL spokesperson said, “We are facing trouble meeting the power demand, which is over 14,500 MW. The PSPCL has appealed to government departments, boards and corporations to use electricity judiciously by switching off lights, devices and high power-consuming appliances such as air conditioners for the next three days. Further, wherever possible, employees are advised to avoid using multiple AC units within the office, which will decrease the power load on the system as well as the electricity bill.” Residents of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, one of the posh localities of the city, had no power for at least 14 hours. Avtar Singh, a local, said, “The first power cut took place around 8.30pm on Wednesday. The power supply was resumed after an hour but was again disrupted within five minutes. Numerous complaints and phone calls later, supply was resumed in one phase around 2am.”Similarly, Rajguru Nagar, Threeke village, and Jagjit Nagar had to contend with a 16-hour power outage. Advocate Nalin Kaushik, who had registered 15 complaints, said, “They (power department officials) kept telling me that they would send over a team to check the issue, but nobody came. With the temperatures touching 45°C, it was impossible to sleep without a fan or air conditioner.”Ansar Colony, behind Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, said they have been facing the issue for eight days. Kavita Rani, who lives in the colony, said. “Each night, the power supply is interrupted around 11.30pm and resumes after 5 hours.”Those residing in New Nanda Colony, Kakowal, are not faring any better. Sunny Singh, a resident of Nanda Colony, said power supply to the area was disrupted around 2am. When they did not get relief from the helpline number, they approached the PSPCL office at Kakowal road, but no official was present there. Power was resumed in the area after 9 hours.”Durgapuri of Haibowal Kalan had to suffer the double whammy of interrupted power and water supply. Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Durgapuri, said water supply was affected due to the electricity outage. “Power supply was disrupted around 1am and resumed around 3.30pm.” Similar, outages were seen in Model Town, Civil Lines, Dugri, Pakhowal Road, Salem Tabri, Focal Point and Jamalpur areas.Heatwave to continue till July 10Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) department of climate change and agriculture meteorology officials say monsoon had arrived 16 days in advance on June 14, which had weakened the weather systems in the region. Head of the department Prabhjyot Kaur said, “Due to a break in the monsoon pattern, the heatwave will continue till July 10.”Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia had sounded a heat wave alert across the district. Apart from advising people to protect themselves from the severe heat, the civil surgeon has asked all government hospitals and community health centres in the district, including dispensaries, to share details of heatstroke patients.“Heatstroke is caused due to prolonged exposure or physical exertion in the heat. It can cause an altered mental state or behavioural changes, confusion, agitation, slurred speech, irritability, delirium, seizures and even coma, said Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor of medicine at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H).An untreated heatstroke can damage the brain, heart, kidneys and muscles. Delay in diagnosis and treatment can also result in serious health complications or death, said Dr Mahajan.There has been a significant shift in weather cycles: Expert Experts have expressed growing concern over the shifting weather patterns over the last few years. They say shifts that may appear minor now may eventually have a devastating impact. The average maximum temperature in June was 36.2°C, nearly 2°C below normal, officials of the meteorological department said. However, at a mean of 25.4°C, the minimum temperature remained normal.“The district received 84.8mm rainfall in June, which met the ideal quota for the month,” said Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) department of climate change and agriculture meteorology head Prabhjyot Kaur.“It may look that all is well on paper, but there has been a significant shift in weather cycles. Even in May, the average maximum temperature had remained two degrees below normal. In both the months, we saw a sudden rise and dip in temperature. Though, the downpour received in June was as expected, but it was short and sharp, which is not beneficial for groundwater recharge,” said Kaur.An erratic rainfall pattern has been observed over the past two decades, where the duration of monsoon has increased, but there has been inadequate rainfall in the region, she added.Beat the heatA heatstroke can be prevented by taking a few precautions: * Avoid strenuous activity in hot weather. Schedule exercise or activities that require physical exertion early in the morning or in the evening when it is cooler.* Drink plenty of fluids. Add salt or ORS to water or have lemonade to replenish salt balance in the body after sweating.*Avoid using alcoholic or sugary drinks to rehydrate. * Wear loose-fitting, light clothing to prevent sunburn||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-outages-in-ludhiana-render-scorching-summer-hotter-101625193224317.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His definition of the city||I’m resting—the thought has taken over Muhammed Saif. At this time of the afternoon, he would be hauling large amounts of construction material on the hand-pulled cart along this central Delhi bazaar. But here’s a surprise respite. His next assignment is after a few minutes, so he has taken advantage of the situation by lying on his bed. The ceiling fan is providing a needful breeze.“I’m letting my body rest,” he says. In his 30s, Mr Saif is in a check lungi and a T-shirt, his red flip-flops by his bed. His bed is a thin mattress on the floor. The room is dusty. One side is covered with piles of bricks that will have to be carried onto a construction site at some point. There’s a shovel too, which belongs to one of the many colleagues he shares this living space with. It is connected to an additional room whose entry is from another side.Having recently returned, following the lifting of the lockdown, from his village in Katihar, Bihar, Mr Saif’s talk naturally starts to hover around his family. “I’ll never want my children to live in the city.” To him, the city is strictly a place to earn paisa. “Otherwise there’s nothing much here,” he says while letting his arms flail around, suggesting that Delhi is pressing him on all sides. “The city gives paseena (sweat).”By the city, he explains, he doesn’t mean Delhi alone, but all the cities. Mr Saif has been in the Capital for a year. He spent the previous 10 years as a labourer in Chandigarh.He has no tender ideas about his village either. Some people there might have airy houses with courtyards, trees and milk-giving buffaloes, he concedes, but not him. “We don’t own any agricultural land… my house was earlier made of mud, and now the walls are of baas and the roof is of tin.”Gazing through the open door—the only source of fresh air since there are no windows in the room—he observes that “my home in the village and this room in Dilli are not very different… sukoon (relief) comes only when you earn a good amount of money.”He considers his sukoon to be idyllic if he makes ₹700 by the day’s end.Now Mr Saif lifts himself slightly, rests his head under his right hand and stays silent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-definition-of-the-city-101625179514095.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Over 1.3 million migrants left Delhi during 2nd wave of Covid-19, shows data||A little over 500,000 migrant workers (and their families) left Delhi for their homes during the second wave of the pandemic, and a consequent lockdown, starting mid-April, the Union labour ministry has said, taking the total number of migrants that left the Capital to a little over 1.3 million.In a report submitted to the parliamentary panel of home affairs on Monday, and using data sourced from the rail ministry, the ministry of labour and employment said that nearly 517,073 migrants left for their homes from Delhi using trains during the second wave. HT has reviewed a copy of the report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Delhi government said last month that nearly 800,000 migrants used buses to leave the Capital between mid-April and mid-May.The report pointed out that unlike the migrant crisis seen in April and May last year, when many tried to reach home (with no transport being available) , this time, the exodus remained smooth, and attributed this to the partial nature of lockdowns.To be sure, there was no nationwide lockdown during the second wave, although most states did enforce lockdowns. But both trains and buses continued to run. For instance, according to the Delhi government, between April 19 and May 14, around 800,000 passengers took buses from three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in Delhi to go to other states. These buses were arranged by the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand specially for migrant workers in addition to the daily buses plying from the terminals.Delhi endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space.Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection in April and May alone. Cases in the city begin to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19 onwards.Interestingly, the report added that, unlike the first wave, many states did not see an exodus. It said the ministry held at least eight meetings with state governments with prominent migrant worker populations in April and May to ensure that “food security, health safety and transport facilities were provided to the workers”.“It was observed that the initial apprehension of large exodus of migrant workers in the wake of the series of lockdowns announced by the state government was gradually dispelled. No extraordinary exodus was seen… due to non-disruption of industries, building and construction works and public transport… the movement this time was mainly due to harvest, marriage and holiday season,” the report said.Railway officials in Mumbai said nearly 600,000 people left Maharashtra in the month of April, during the peak of the state’s second wave and the statewide lockdown. Nearly 300,000 of them left from Mumbai, according to data provided by Central and Western Railway.In April, the two zonal railways operated 370 special trains to accommodate the increase in passenger numbers.To be sure, railway officials said that all passengers were not necessarily migrant workers, and that the increased demand is normal for the summer months. “A majority of the passengers had booked their travel before the lockdown was implemented in Maharashtra,” a railway spokesperson said. “There were hardly any unreserved passengers as they had booked well in advance.” Maharashtra imposed a “mini lockdown” on April 13, and upgraded the restrictions further on April 22.A majority of the special trains that operated in April from Mumbai and Pune were headed for north and north east India, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Odisha and West Bengal.Talking about the steps taken by the government to aid the labourers, the report said that as a part of relief measures, ₹ 1,034 crore has been disbursed by states to five million building and construction workers in the second wave of the pandemic as compared to ₹5,618 crore transferred to 18.3 million workers during the first wave.In addition to this, 20 control centres across the country were reactivated by the ministry to manage distress calls from migrant labourers, the report said. From April 21 to June 23, 1,311 complaints were received by the ministry, of which 861 pertained to the states and 450 to the centre. The calls were primarily about termination, medical assistance, travel assistance and ration. Of these, 830 grievances have already been resolved and 49 others are in the process of being addressed, the report added.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court cited the tribulations of migrant workers during the pandemic and said “the apathy and lackadaisical attitude by the ministry of labour and employment is unpardonable”. It asked the Union government to make the national portal for registration of unrecognised workers operational by July 31 so that benefits could reach migrant workers. It also ordered all states and Union territories to implement the “One Nation, One Ration card” scheme to help migrant workers avail subsidised food ration anywhere in the country.Anindita Adhikari from the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) said that the best possible estimate of the number of migrants who left would come from train data, but added that the numbers are likely to be an underrepresentation. “We all know that with mobility this time, as there were no restrictions of interstate travel, it is likely the figure is an under representation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1-3-million-migrants-left-city-during-2nd-wave-shows-data-101625173931020.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Five of family killed in Gurdaspur road mishap||Five members of a family, including a 3-year-old girl and three women, died when a speeding tipper collided with a car near Khokhar village in Gurdaspur district on Thursday evening. The accident took place after the tipper driver lost control over the vehicle, police said. The car was damaged so badly that the passersby had to struggle for around one-and-a-half hours to pull out the bodies from the wreckage. One of the deceased was identified as Vikram Masih, who was driving the car. The tipper driver fled from the spot. Jatinder Singh, sarpanch of a nearby village, said, “The loaded tipper was coming from the Kalanaur side. Four of the car occupants died on the spot, while the three-old-old was taken to the civil hospital where she succumbed to injuries”. The police also reached the spot. “The victims belonged to the Kalanaur area. The tipper has been impounded and the bodies have been sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem. The statements of the deceased’s family are being recorded for filing an FIR,” said Sadar police station in-charge Jatinderpal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-of-family-killed-in-gurdaspur-road-mishap-101625172459561.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Villagers vandalise power sub-station over outages in Barnala, 62 booked||Angry over frequent power cuts, residents of three villages allegedly vandalised the 66KV power sub-station at Barnala district’s Cheema village on Wednesday night. The main gate of the building and cabin glasses were damaged allegedly by the angry residents. The power department employees have lodged a police complaint seeking action against the vandals. Inderjit Singh, a power department employee, said some people from Naiwala, Jodhpur and Patti Sekhwan villages reached the sub-station and protested against outages. “They also used abusive language against the employees on duty and misbehaved with them. The main gate of the sub-station and other things were damaged by them,” he added.A case against 62 people under sections 452 (house trespass after preparation for assault), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Barnala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villagers-vandalise-power-sub-station-over-outages-in-barnala-62-booked-101625171679384.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir slams govt over erratic power supply, announces protest today||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of practically reneging on the free power facility to farmers by refusing to provide eight-hour uninterrupted supply to them during the peak of the paddy sowing season. Announcing a protest by the party on Friday to demand restoration of power supply, the SAD leader said that after betraying farmers by refusing to implement a complete farm loan waiver, the CM has now effectively made the free power facility a farce in the state. “Instead of the committed eight-hour uninterrupted power, farmers are being given 3-4 hour supply, forcing them to spend thousands of rupees every day on diesel generators to save their paddy crop. All this is being done deliberately as part of a conspiracy to avoid paying subsidy to the power utility for free power given to farmers,” he claimed in a statement. Sukhbir further said that many farmers were being forced to plough their paddy fields and thousands had not completed sowing of paddy due to lack of power. He said the SAD would hold protests outside the offices of PSPCL on Friday to demand restoration of power supply for both the agricultural and domestic sector in the state. The SAD chief also demanded a bonus of ₹50 per quintal to farmers for the extra cost incurred by them in rearing their paddy crop. He condemned the Congress government for severe cuts imposed on the domestic sector, saying these could have been easily averted with well-planned power purchase agreements (PPAs).SAD demands financial relief for paddy growersAkali MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday demanded that the Congress government should announce an immediate financial package for paddy growers who were being forced to use diesel generators to rear their paddy crop.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, he asked the government to reduce value added tax (VAT) on diesel by ₹10 per litre, saying the government was earning thousands of crores from the misery of farmers and the common man. He said if the government did not take these corrective measures, the SAD would gherao the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-slams-govt-over-erratic-power-supply-announces-protest-today-101625171621233.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran youth wanted for Red Fort violence gets interim bail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted interim bail to Jugraj Singh, a key accused wanted in the Red Fort violence that took place during the farmers’ tractor parade taken out on January 26 against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The court has asked the 23-year-old to join the Delhi Police’s investigation. Jugraj, a resident of Wan Tara Singh village along the India-Pakistan border, was absconding since January 26. The Delhi Police had also announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for helping in arrest of Jugraj who is named in two FIRs registered at the Kotwali police station in the national capital.While hearing Jugraj’s anticipatory bail application, special tis hazari court judge Neelofer Abida Perveen passed the order staying his arrest till July 20.While taking part in the tractor parade, he also reached Red Fort along with hundreds of other agitators and climbed on a pole to hoist the Nishan Sahib (Sikh flag).Leaders of the Dal Khalsa, a Sikh radical organisation, are pursuing his case and had filed for his bail a month ago. “Advocate Parmjit Singh is appearing as legal counsel of Jugraj. The court has asked Jugraj to join the investigation on July 8, 11 and 15,” said advocate Jaspal Singh Manjhpur, convener of the Panjaab Lawyers.The court cited pandemic and nature of offences while granting him relief.It fixed July 20 as the next date of hearing in the case.After securing relief from the court, Jugraj along with the Dal Khalsa leaders paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. “Jugraj will join the investigation as per court orders,” said Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwarpal Singh.Jugraj said, “I don’t have a link with any organisation. I went to Delhi to participate in the tractor parade on the call of farmer unions and reached Red Fort with other agitators. When I saw a protester making failed attempts to hoist the Nishan Sahib on a pole, I asked him to let me do so. It was not pre-planned.” Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami felicitated the youth with a ‘siropa’ (robe of honour). The gurdwara body on Wednesday also gave his family ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-youth-wanted-for-red-fort-violence-gets-interim-bail-101625171440604.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Police remove SAD (A) morcha from Bargari, Mann arrested with supporters||Police on Thursday removed a ‘morcha’ from Bargari village in Faridkot district hours after it was started by the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) over the Punjab government’s alleged failure to arrest those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. SAD (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann, who started the morcha at 1pm, was arrested along with 40 of his supporters three hours later. A case was registered against Mann and others under section 188 (disobeying orders promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of a dangerous disease) of the Indian Penal Code, section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act at the Bajakhana police station.Later, they were released on bail. Earlier, Mann was stopped by the police in Faridkot city when he started a march to Bargari. Faridkot deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia tried to persuade Mann, appealing him not to start the morcha but he refused. On June 1, marking the sixth anniversary of the sacrilege incident at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village, Mann and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) president Baljit Singh Daduwal had announced to start a morcha from July 1 if the Punjab government failed to arrest those responsible for the sacrilege and police firing incidents. “The state government has failed arrest people responsible for the sacrilege and police firing. This is unfortunate that even after six years, Sikhs are waiting for justice. The sacrilege was done at the behest of the Dera Sacha Sauda chief. The then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his deputy Sukhbir Badal and then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini were also involved,” said Mann. SAD (Amritsar) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala said the ruling Congress is hand in the glove with the Akali Dal and that is the reason it are trying to save the Badals. The other Sikh outfits, which were part of the 2018 Bargari Morcha, did not participate in Thursday’s protest. The 2018 Bargari Insaaf Morcha had ended after 193 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-remove-sad-a-morcha-from-bargari-mann-arrested-with-supporters-101625171439060.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s GST up 124% year-on-year in first quarter amid second Covid wave||Punjab has posted 124% year-on-year growth in the goods and services tax (GST) revenue in the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22 despite the more devastating second Covid-19 wave. The state government has reported the GST collection, including state goods and services tax (SGST) and integrated goods and services tax (IGST), of ₹3,441.60 crore in the April-June quarter of 2021-22 as compared to ₹1,540 crore during the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, according to data compiled by the taxation department. The year-on-year growth has come amid the second wave of coronavirus which was far more dangerous than the first one witnessed last year in terms of the number of infections and fatalities. “Like the first wave, strict lockdown restrictions were imposed to curb the spread of the more infectious variants of the virus, hitting consumer sentiments and demand. But, unlike the first wave, there was no blanket curfew across the state this time and people were also inured to restrictions,” said an industry watcher who runs his own manufacturing unit but refused to be identified. The GST mop-up stood at ₹1,087.67 crore in June 2021, up 25% from ₹870 crore in the corresponding month of the previous year, according to month-wise break-up. In May, the collection was ₹872 crore as compared to ₹514 crore during the same month of financial year 2020-21 when the collection was really sluggish, reporting a jump of 70%. With the second wave waning to a considerable effect, the state government has gradually eased restrictions and commercial activity is expected to look up further in the coming months, according to state officials. The number of active Covid cases had hit the peak of 79,963 on May 12 in the state before starting a descent and dropped to 3,134 on June 30. “Implementation of measures to ease the compliance burden of taxpayers, closer monitoring against bogus billing, rigorous enforcement, advanced data analytics using data from multiple sources and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue, a taxation official said. Windfall from VAT Besides the GST, the value-added tax (VAT) collection has also soared in the April-June quarter, going up by 107% over the previous fiscal, as fuel prices have been on an upward trajectory in the past one year. With every hike, the state’s kitty swells. Against the VAT revenue of ₹993 crore in the first three months of 2020-21, ₹2,052.49 crore have been collected this year so far. Of the total value-added tax, 90% comes from diesel and petrol and the remaining 10% from three other petroleum products, including aviation turbine fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-gst-up-124-year-on-year-in-first-quarter-amid-second-covid-wave-101625170960046.html
02-07-2021||Other||Tarn Taran police arrested 127 persons in drug cases in June||Launching a crackdown against drug smuggling, Tarn Taran police arrested 127 persons and registered 99 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in June. Divulging the information, senior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimbale said they had launched a special drive against drug paddlers last month during which 4.4kg heroin, 3.6kg opium, 17kg poppy husk and 28,815 drug tablets and capsules were seized. He said the drive against drug peddling will continue this month too. He said cops have also frozen the properties of 109 accused. “We freeze properties of all those who are arrested with commercial quantity of drugs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-police-arrested-127-persons-in-drug-cases-in-june-101625170659112.html
02-07-2021||Other||Speeding truck runs over two camels, injures 4 on Amritsar-Bathinda highway||A speeding truck allegedly ran over two camels and injured four others on the Amritsar-Bathinda national highway near Rasoolpur village of Tarn Taran on Thursday. According to information, Bachna Ram of Bhiwani district of Rajasthan had brought 42 camels to Punjab for grazing. Around 10 am, a speeding truck on the highway hit six of the camels, killing two on the spot and injuring four. A police team led-by assistant sub inspector (ASI) Sarabjit Singh of Sadar Tarn Taran police station and veterinary doctor Baljit Singh reached the spot and started investigation. The injured camels were taken to Tarn Taran government veterinary hospital for treatment. According to Bachna Ram, the injured camels had lost their legs—some two and some three—in the accident. Sadar station house officer (SHO) Prabhjit Singh said they have registered a report about the accident. The truck driver has agreed to pay compensation to the camel owner to settle the issue, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-truck-runs-over-two-camels-injures-4-on-amritsar-bathinda-highway-101625170479049.html
02-07-2021||Other||NIA raids houses of three KTF operatives in Moga||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday raided houses of three operatives of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) at Dala village of Moga and carried out a search operation in connection with a case related to the murder of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower, Manohar Lal, at Bhagta Bhai Ka village in Bathinda. An official privy to the development said the team visited houses of Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi; Kamaldeep Sharma, alias Kamal and Arshdeep Singh of Dala village. The central investigation agency arrived at the village early morning. Their search operation was underway till the filling of this report. Moga police have already arrested Lovepreet, Ram Singh, and Kamaldeep after it emerged that they had allegedly acted on the direction of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar. They also arrested gangster Hardeep Singh, alias Suraj Raunta, an accomplice of the KTF operative. Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill, said, “The NIA team is visiting places related to the investigation. Therefore, they visited the house of KTF operatives in Dala village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-raids-houses-of-three-ktf-operatives-in-moga-101625170239419.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa urges govt to stop release of toxic water into Sutlej, Beas||Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukat) leader and MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Thursday expressed concern over the plight of people of the Malwa region who have been suffering from deadly diseases, such as cancer, due to toxic water being released from industries into the Sutlej and Beas rivers. Dhindsa urged the Punjab government to take immediate steps to resolve this issue and prevent Punjab from becoming a ‘poisonous desert’ in the future. “People of the Malwa region have been suffering for a long time due to the release of industrial toxic waste into rivers. People of this region have repeatedly approached both central and state governments, government departments and courts in this regard but the situation remained unchanged,” he said in a statement. Dhindsa further demanded that the state government should come up with a better plan to stop the discharge of toxic water released from the industrial areas into the rivers at the earliest. “Acidic water is not only dangerous for the health of people but also badly affects crops and animals,” he asserted, expressing concern over the rising incidence of cancer in the belts of Bathinda, Faridkot, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Fazilka and many other districts due to toxic water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhindsa-urges-govt-to-stop-release-of-toxic-water-into-sutlej-beas-101625169999080.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||All is not well with Chandigarh’s roads, says new adviser||All is not well with the road network of City Beautiful and it needs major improvements, said UT adviser Dharam Pal after making a round of the city.While city residents have been complaining about the bumpy ride in many parts of the city and demanding improved road conditions for years now, the new UT adviser reached the same conclusion within a week of joining the administration on June 23.Stating that improvement in the city roads will be one of his focus areas, Pal said, “The road carpeting and maintenance work will be taken up on priority after monsoon. It is one of the things directly connected with people and also linked with the city’s image.”Pal has already taken review meetings of the municipal corporation (MC) and UT engineering department, and issued directions for improvement in road conditions.The upkeep and maintenance of the city’s road network is divided between the UT engineering department and MC. Majority of the city’s road network, measuring about 1,400 km, is with MC, while UT takes care of arterial roads like Madhya Marg. Notably, every year 20% roads in the city are to be carpeted on a rotational basis. However, the road work remained halted for a couple of years due to MC’s inability to pay the contractors. After the UT administration dedicated funds for carpeting of roads, MC finally resumed repair work last year. But its pace has been slow even in the current fiscal, with MC trying to complete the pending work of previous years. Road work worth ₹80 crore is to be carried. This includes pending works worth ₹40 crore. In the last couple of years, even the quality of the road repairs under UT’s jurisdiction has come under scanner. The condition of access roads to houses (the V-6 roads) is worse among all types of roads, complain residents. The roads in villages are no better, which MC officials have repeatedly blamed on fund paucity. “In conjunction with improving the roads, the upkeep and maintenance of parks and green areas will also be stepped up,” said Pal.Earlier, the official had directed MC and UT engineering department to ensure cleaning of road gullies and seasonal rivulets before monsoon revives, which is expected by July 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-is-not-well-with-chandigarh-s-roads-says-new-adviser-101625169759032.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sunday curfew lifted in Mohali||The district administration has cancelled the Sunday curfew, and allowed all shops and restaurants to open from 5am to 7pm.However, night curfew will continue from 8pm to 5am. Bars, pubs and taverns have been allowed to open at 50% capacity if the employees have received at least one dose of vaccine. Universities, skill development centres and coaching institutes have also been allowed to open with the same condition for their teachers, staff and students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunday-curfew-lifted-in-mohali-101625169578862.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amid rumblings, Capt meets Punjab Cong’s urban leaders over lunch||A day after disgruntled former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu called on the Gandhis in Delhi, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met more than 35 party leaders, mostly Hindus, from urban areas to calm frayed nerves in the party’s state unit. The chief minister met these leaders, including some ex-MLAs and present and former-chairpersons of boards and other government bodies, over lunch at his official residence, spending close to three hours hearing their grievances and suggestions relating to development works in urban areas across the state. The meeting was held amid voices of discontent from leaders from the community that they had been given the cold shoulder in the first four-and-a-half years of the present government. Several of them raised the issue and sought better representation in the Punjab Congress and in the upcoming elections, two people present at the meeting said. These voices assume significance in the backdrop of the revamp of the state unit due anytime now. While Sidhu is keen on becoming the state Congress president ahead of next year’s state assembly polls, Amarinder has publicly opposed this more than once and is in favour of a Hindu or Dalit face as the state unit chief. However, a senior minister said the ongoing rift and the change of state president were not discussed explicitly at the meeting, but several of them raised the issue of delay in development works in their areas and complained of the bureaucracy ignoring the party leaders on genuine matters of public interest and welfare. The chief minister assured them quick action on these matters. Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, OP Soni, Vijay Inder Singla, Manpreet Singh Badal, Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka and former Rajya Sabha member Ashwani Kumar were among those who also attended the meeting. Lok Sabha MPs Manish Tewari, Gurjeet Singh Singh Aujla, and Jasbir Singh Dimpa also joined in later. “We had gone to the chief minister’s residence to meet him separately,” one of them said. However, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar was conspicuous by his absence. The state chief was close to the chief minister until recently, but his sharp criticism of the cabinet’s decision — a move that had the chief minister’s blessing — to give government jobs to the sons of Congress MLAs Fatehjung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey on “compassionate grounds” appears to have driven a wedge between the two. Former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri, who has been critical of the CM, also attended the meeting. He refused to talk about the meeting and left for Delhi. He was scheduled to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) three days ago but opted out at the last minute after the CM and other party leaders talked to him. The meeting touted as luncheon diplomacy by some is also seen as the chief minister’s attempt to dispel the impression of lack of accessibility about which a number of party MLAs and other leaders had complained to the central leadership last month. “This is not a one-off meeting. The chief minister will hold more such interactions with party leaders in the next few days,” one of the MPs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rumblings-capt-meets-punjab-cong-s-urban-leaders-over-lunch-101625169518829.html
02-07-2021||Other||Punjab: Unemployed teacher refuses to end fast until govt gives written assurance of job||While the Patiala administration claims to have persuaded the ETT-TET pass unemployed teachers’ union to help end the hunger strike of a 36-year-old agitator, the union has denied the claim and said they want a written assurance of employment from the government first. Thirty-six-year-old Surinderpal Singh, who has cleared the ETT (elementary teacher training)- TET (teacher eligibility test) but continues to remain unemployed, had started a fast unto death on June 22. He has been protesting atop a 260-foot mobile tower, where he has stayed put for the past 103 days. As the fast entered the 10th day on Thursday, the administration issued a release, stating that officials had succeeded in getting the consent of ETT union leaders to end the hunger strike. A meeting between administration officials, including deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit, senior superintendent of police Dr Sandeep Garg, superintendent of police (city) Varun Sharma, Patiala sub-divisional magistrate Charanjit Singh, and representatives of ETT Union, including its president Deepak Kamboj, is said to have taken place on late Wednesday evening. “It was decided to persuade the agitating teacher to end his hunger strike by offering him liquid and food items,” the release stated. DC Kumar Amit said, “School education minister Vijay Inder Singla had also met the union a week ago and it ended on a positive note. I am hopeful the union will convey the message to Surinderpal and request him to climb down the tower and end his fast in the best interests of his health and family.” On the other hand, the ETT-TET union chief Kamboj said, “There was no consensus on ending the protest or bringing down our colleague from the mobile tower. We told authorities that efforts will be made to persuade Surinderpal to come down, but he has refused saying that the government should first issue notification and give written assurance about fulfilment of our demands.” He added that a meeting was also held with Sandeep Sandhu, officer on special duty to the chief minister, in which it is decided that another meeting will be held with senior authorities on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-unemployed-teacher-refuses-to-end-fast-until-govt-gives-written-assurance-of-job-101625169458966.html
02-07-2021||Other||{Doctors’ Day} Docs, dentists in government hospitals observe Black Day||Patiala Doctors in government medical and dental colleges in Patiala and Amritsar observed July 1, National Doctors’ Day, as a ‘Black Day’ in protest against the recommendations of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission report on Thursday. Doctors have said that the report, as it relates to state government doctors, will lead to a drastic cut in their salaries. They also claim that the state government has failed to fulfil some of the long-pending demands of medical and dental faculty. Dr DS Bhullar, state general secretary of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), said, “OPD and operation theatre services, along with classroom teaching, were kept suspended for three hours in medical and dental colleges and attached hospitals in Patiala and Amritsar as a mark of protest.” Emergency, indoor patient and Covid services, along with medico-legal and post-mortem work, was kept not disrupted. Medical and dental teachers, along with senior and junior resident doctors from different departments, organised a massive rally on the medical college premises in Patiala. They burnt copies of the Sixth Pay Commission in protest. In their general body meeting, doctors also threatened to continue with their protest till the NPA (Non Practicing Allowance) is restored and linked with basic pay, along with restoration of all other allowances. They have also sought NPA be renamed as Compensatory Pay, as the NPA is a misnomer. “The PSMDTA has submitted a memorandum to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh; local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and medical education minister OP Soni,” said Dr Bhullar. PCMS docs on pen-down strikeAmritsar Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) doctors observed one-day pen-down strike in government hospitals in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts. Dr jaspreet singh, president of PCMSA Tarn Taran, said the Sixth Pay Commission will lead to grave financial loss for doctors. A joint press statement issued by government doctors coordination committee said, “Doctors hoped that the government would their selfless service. Instead, we have been disadvantaged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-day-docs-dentists-in-government-hospitals-observe-black-day-101625169338326.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct entrance exams in physical mode||In view of the declining Covid-19 cases, Panjab University (PU) has decided to conduct the upcoming entrance tests in physical mode, unlike the even semester exams that are being held online.Various entrance examinations of PU for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses were not held last year due to the pandemic and admissions were conducted on merit basis. Even the aptitude tests for BSc fashion technology, BA and BEd courses were not conducted and admission was on the basis of Class-12 results.However, this year the varsity is prepared to conduct all tests in physical mode. It has also increased the centres of a few entrance tests. PU has also invited quotations for videography at the entrance exam centres. Some tests have been scheduled, including PU-CET (PG) on August 3 and 4. The examination centres for the entrance will be at Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Muktsar.The tourism and hospitality aptitude test (PUTHAT) is scheduled on July 30, while the lateral engineering entrance test (PULEET) will be held on August 1. For the LLB three-year course, the entrance will be held on August 8. The exam centres for PU-BA/BCom LLB (five years) integrated course will be at Chandigarh, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana.The university has yet to schedule the PU-CET (UG) entrance as the Class 12 results have not been declared yet. It is also planning to conduct the golden chance examination in physical mode in August. PU’s controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said, “The schedule of other entrance exams is in process and will be announced soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-conduct-entrance-exams-in-physical-mode-101625169279401.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||1.5kg hair mass removed from 5-year-old Chandigarh girl’s stomach||In a rare case, a 1.5-kilogram hair mass was removed from the stomach of a five-year-old girl from Mauli-Jagran, Chandigarh, on Thursday. The surgery was performed by a team led by Dr Vivek Bhadoo, head of surgery department, Civil Hospital, Panchkula.Dr Bhadoo said that the condition is called trichobezoar, which means mass of undigested hair within the gastrointestinal tract. He added that the girl’s parents visited him a week ago after the child complained of swelling and pain in the stomach and loss of appetite. “As per her family, she had been eating hair for the last two and a half years. They tried to stop her and even cut her hair as well, but then she started eating the hair of other people,” the doctor said.“This condition is mainly associated with people suffering from psychiatric disorder or those dealing with severe stress. However, it is very rare among children. I have been working here for 20 years and this seems to be the first such case among children in the entire tricity. Worldwide, its prevalence is 0.3%,” Dr Bhadoo added.He added: “Hair does not dissolve, so it remains in the digestive system and if one keeps on eating it, then it becomes a ball or mass, which keeps on increasing. Her stomach got full with the hair mass, hence she stopped eating anything, leading to malnourishment, swelling and stomach ache.”The doctor said that the parents have been advised to keep a close watch on the child, cut her hair for a few years. The child is still under observation.Dr Rajesh Gupta, head of surgical gastroenterology, PGIMER, “It is very uncommon among children. Such cases are rare and are seen among adults, that too with psychiatric disorders, wherein they pull their hair and swallow it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15kg-hair-mass-removed-from-5-year-old-chandigarh-girl-s-stomach-101625169219917.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP pats Jai Ram govt’s back for ‘splendid’ achievements||Himachal Pradesh’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit has applauded the Jai Ram Thakur-led government for ‘splendid’ achievements in its three-and-half years’ tenure which it said was full of challenges, more particularly due to the Covid pandemic.Party’s state working committee believes that state government has kept basic mantra of ‘public service and public welfare’ at the forefront, says the political resolution passed in the panel’s meeting held on June 30. Upliftment of the poor and neglected sections, good governance through public participation, quick redressal of grievances, women empowerment, transparent and sensitive administration with equitable and balanced development have been the priority of the HP government. The resolution also highlighted various schemes launched by the current regime which it said were driven by the spirit of ‘Antyodaya’.The party described the Atal Tunnel as an invaluable gift by the Centre to HP. The state working committee said before Covid outbreak, there were around 1,000 oxygenated beds in Himachal, which have been increased up to 4,800. Similarly, against one, the state now has seven oxygen plants while approval has been granted for 13 more units.The party alleges that opposition leaders misled the people of the country by opposing the corona vaccine. “They committed a heinous act of demoralising the scientists of the country, for which the people of the country will never forgive them,” it said.The working committee also highlighted the work done by the party workers to provide relief to the people during the pandemic. It also accused the Himachal Congress of playing petty politics during the pandemic.Gear up for polls, workers toldThe party also exhorted the party workers to gear up for the upcoming byelections and 2022 assembly polls. The BJP aims to achieve its goal of making every citizen of Himachal healthy, educated and self-reliant, it said.The working committee that met here on Wednesday evening called upon the workers to take these achievements of the present government to the people and play an active role in ensuring their candidates’ victory in the upcoming Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai Vidhan Sabha and Mandi Lok Sabha byelections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-pats-jai-ram-govt-s-back-for-splendid-achievements-101625169218832.html
02-07-2021||Other||SAD changing tack, to appoint panels on all polling booths in 2022||Chandigarh To boost its electoral prospects in next year’s assembly polls in Punjab, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), for the first time, has set up committees on all 22,615 polling booths in the state. Each member of the booth-level committee has been given charge of a set of 8-10 houses falling in their jurisdiction. The party’s top decision-making body, the Core Committee, had decided on this course correction a few months ago. There were nearly 2 crore voters in Punjab, according to the updated electoral rolls prepared for 2019 general elections. The SAD’s move is a step ahead of the system of ‘Panna Pramukh’ (electoral roll in-charge) that the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP), its former ally, participated. The SAD had registered a below-par performance in 2017 assembly polls, winning only 15 seats in the House of 117. With this new system, it hopes for more party workers contributing to its day-to-day functioning. Over the past two-three months, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has met halqa in-charges to ensure that the relevant system gets in place. Every booth will have 6-15 workers, with their contact details recorded at the party office. The party has entered into a new pre-poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), with the farm stir proving to be a breaking-point with the BJP. “We have completed the formation of booth level committees in almost all 117 constituencies. The process for allotting houses and the voters in these houses to booth workers has also started,” said a senior party leader, adding they aimed at keeping track of every single voter. “In the previous system, party leaders and workers were in-charge of booths. They were, however, not made accountable for every house and voters registered at a particular booth,” said party’s general secretary and Adampur MLA Pawan Tinu, adding, “There is clarity now on each and every single booth, party workers and the set of voters he has to target.”AGE-OLD CIRCLE SYSTEM TWEAKED The SAD has changed its time-tested system of demarcating circles based on the jurisdiction of police stations in the state. “With this criteria, there was no uniformity in geographical area or the number of voters. We have fixed rhe number of voters to 25,000 in a circle,” said party spokesperson Charanjeet Singh Brar, who is also political secretary to Sukhbir. There are 382 police stations in the state and previously there were these many circle in-charges. “As per the new system, there are at least 800 circles and same number of workers has been adjusted as heads of these circles. MLAs or halqa in-charges, who previously were supported by 2-3 circle heads, will now have a team of at least eight persons to assist them,” Brar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-changing-tack-to-appoint-panels-on-all-polling-booths-in-2022-101625169160399.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Election boycott has not yielded any result: Sajjad Lone||Peoples’ Conference chairperson Sajjad Lone on Thursday said they want statehood of J&K back as soon as possible, but won’t make it a condition for participation in the polls. Lone, who recently attended the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s all-party meeting, said that election boycott has not yielded any result. “There is a need to understand that boycotting elections has yielded no results. We should look at the other side as well as keeping away the opponents could be a trap. We have boycotted elections for 15-20 years... what if it is a trap to scare away all the good people and bring in their proxies?,” Lone asked during a press conference.“I will not say that I will boycott the elections and the party will contest. We are all equal. If something is haram for me, it is haram for them too,” he said, hinting towards Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti who recently said that they won’t contest polls till statehood and Article 370 is restored. On PM’s all-party meet, Lone said, “Given this engagement is an ongoing process and the propriety demands that we don’t totally divulge in detail of what we said. But all we can say is that we welcome the meeting. It was held after more than two years of upheaval. The leadership demands we look towards a bright future rather than something in the recent past which we don’t agree with. We hope it starts a phase of reconciliation between Delhi and Srinagar.” “I, as a Kashmiri and not as a political leader, felt proud that all leaders spoke for the people of Kashmir and reflected their pain in a befitting manner in the meeting,” he added. Lone said that as of now, there are no winners and losers. “It is a long process. And we have to make an enabling environment for facilitating delivery. And that cannot be done by rhetoric. Let us not by our rhetoric create hurdles. And if delivery becomes difficult, there is only one loser which are the people of Kashmir. We must understand that by through rousing and rhetorical statements maybe we are able to address our constituents, but then that may make delivery difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/election-boycott-has-not-yielded-any-result-sajjad-lone-101625169159406.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Political parties in a quandary over meeting delimitation panel||With the delimitation commission set to visit J&K next week, political parties have begun consultations whether to meet them or not, though they haven’t got any invitation from the commission yet.The commission will be visiting J&K from July 6 to July 9 and meeting members of all prominent political parties which had representation in J&K, either in parliament, DDC and BDC, besides top government functionaries. Earlier, three MPs of the National Conference – Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi – had refused to attend the delimitation meeting. However, the NC seems to have changed its mind after it authorised party president Farooq Abdullah to take the call whether to participate in future meetings or not. NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said the party will decide as and when invitation for the participation in the delimitation meeting will be received. “So far, there isn’t any invitation,” he said. The Peoples Democratic Party also expressed similar opinion about its participation in the meeting. “When such an invitation comes, the party will discuss and then take a call. Rest, our stand on the issue of delimitation is known as has been put on record many times,” PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said.The Congress that had discussed the issue of delimitation in the all-party meeting is also contemplating to participate only if they get an invite. “It was the Congress which raised the issue of delimitation in the all-party meeting. Once PM and home minister assured that process will be on merit, the party agreed to its time-bound implementation,” J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said. People’s Conference chairperson Sajjad Lone said they wanted statehood of J&K back, but won’t make it a condition for participation in the polls, which could be a hint that the party will have no objection to the process.Party spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said the leadership will discuss the issue once they get an invite. Recently, Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari had said that they have been conveyed that commission will be meeting all parties that have representation in different forums. “Our party will definitely participate in the meetings,” he added. The decision on the visit to J&K was taken during a recent meeting of the delimitation commission chaired by its chairperson Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd) and chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra. This visit is being undertaken shortly after leaders of J&K mainstream political parties attended an all-party meet that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP has already made it clear that leaders of the parties from the region will be meeting the commission and highlighting their issues, party’s state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-parties-in-a-quandary-over-meeting-delimitation-panel-101625169158221.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||At 40.8°C, Chandigarh records hottest July day in nine years||In no respite from the heatwave, the city’s maximum temperature shot up to 40.8°C on Thursday, making it the hottest July day since 2012 as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) records.In 2012, the maximum temperature had gone up to 42.5°C on July 2, while the all-time highest of 43.5°C was recorded on July 9, 1982.According to IMD, in the plains, heatwave is declared if maximum temperature is more than 40°C and at least 4.5 degrees above normal, or if it crosses 45°C.Thursday’s day temperature was 5.1 degrees above normal, leaving the city sweating under the heatwave for the second day in a row. Speaking about the spiking day temperature, Shivinder Singh, scientist at IMD, Chandigarh, said, “The north-westerly winds coming from Pakistan have warmed up the region and absence of cloud cover is exacerbating the heat.”IMD recommends that during a heatwave, people must avoid exposure to heat, wear light-weight and light-coloured clothes, and cover the head with a cloth, hat or umbrella. It is also recommended to drink sufficient water even if not thirsty.Some rain relief is on the cards on Friday and Saturday. But it may not affect the temperature much and will allow the sweltering weather to continue, said Singh. “Easterly winds are needed to strengthen the currently subdued monsoon system, but are unlikely to blow in the region for at least a week. But western disturbances and moisture from the monsoon system are likely to bring light to moderate rain up to 30mm from Friday onwards,” he added.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature decreased slightly from 28.8°C on Wednesday to 28.4°C, but was still four notches above normal. The maximum temperature is expected to remain between 39°C and 40°C over the next three days, while the minimum temperature will hover around 28°C.Power pangs continuePower outages also continued in Chandigarh and Mohali for the second consecutive day, worsening residents’ troubles in the scorching weather.Chairman of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri said, “We had spoken to the UT electricity department officials on Wednesday but the power cuts persisted on Thursday. We will meet UT chief engineer CB Ojha on Thursday as anticipatory measures must be adopted by the electricity department for when the power demand rises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-40-8-c-chandigarh-records-hottest-july-day-in-nine-years-101625169100678.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||298 infected by virus in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 298 fresh Covid infections and four deaths due to the disease. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 573 with active positive cases dropping to 4,321. The UT had witnessed the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.There were 196 cases and two deaths in Kashmir while Jammu division saw 102 infections and two fatalities. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,07,312, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.26%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,15,960 and the death toll has hit 4,327.The officials said that 56,839 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking the overall number past one million.Officials said with 60 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 30 in Anantnag. Ten districts had no or single-digit cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.22 lakh cases and 1,963 deaths of the total. As the inflow of picnickers has increased manifold at Kashmir tourist spots, the administration has imposed restrictions on weekends at Pahalgam — one of the famous tourist resorts in the Valley.Deputy commissioner of Anantnag on Wednesday issued an order for certain restrictions at the tourist spot especially after there were complaints that large number of people visit the site on weekends which could lead to surge in the cases of Covid-19.“To prevent Covid resurgence and damage to ecosystem of Pahalgam, certain restrictions have been put in place. No day picnicking allowed and confirmed hotel booking is must for weekends. No cooking/tent pitching at random places, and violators of CAB will be fined,” the deputy commissioner of Anantnag said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/298-infected-by-virus-in-jk-101625169098947.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||IAF station attack: NIA, NSG & police working in close coordination, says J&K DGP||J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Thursday said that investigations into drone attack on IAF station has been going on in full swing and NIA, NSG and Jammu and Kashmir Police are working in close coordination. On Sunday, two drones had attacked the IAF station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Thereafter, for four consecutive days, drones were sighted over military stations in Kaluchak, Ratnuchak, Kunjwani and Sunjuwan that kept security forces at tenterhooks. “Investigation is in full swing. Police, NIA and NSG are working in close coordination to work out the case,” he told mediapersons. Though superintendent-rank NIA officers have been probing the case since Sunday, senior officers from Delhi to the rank of IG and DIG reached Jammu on Thursday. Director general of National Security Guard (NSG) MA Ganapathy, along with CISF DG Sudhir Kumar Saxena, on Wednesday visited the technical area of IAF station to take stock of the ongoing investigations. DG NIA is also expected to visit shortly. Contractors asked to vacate stationMeanwhile, it has been reliably learnt that the IAF authorities on Thursday asked contractors engaged inside the station for various construction works to vacate the tenement raised for housing the labourers. “They were asked to come daily in the morning for work and leave in the evening. The decision has been taken in view of the drone attacks and to further strengthen the security grid of the IAF station,” said official sources. Jammu administration has also started verification of photographers and videographers having drones with them. “On Wednesday, administration asked us to furnish a list of members registered with Jammu Photographers’ Association having drones. On DGCA website, we get ourselves registered before we are granted permission to operate drones in weddings and other functions. There are seven steps to get registered with the DGCA. They seek details like Aadhaar cards, drone type, its picture and technical specifications. We have submitted all these details. The drones operated by us cannot ferry payloads and moreover, we can’t fly them in no-flying zones. There are 39 members registered with the association,” said Kapil Kumar, president of the body. NIA court rejects bail in narco-terror case NIA special judge Suneet Gupta on Thursday rejected the bail application of one Mudasir Ahmad Dar in a narco-terror case. According to the NIA, there is a nexus between drug traffickers, organised criminal networks and terrorists who have created a force powerful enough to cause instability in the country. It has been submitted that the money generated through drug trade has been used to fund various insurgent and terrorist movements. In this case, Handwara police had last year recovered a large amount of cash and six packets of heroin-like substance from a naka on Kairo bridge in Langate from a Hyundai Creta without registration number which was being driven by one Abdul Momin Peer. A case was registered under sections 6(5) and 8 of the NIA Act and investigations were launched. Accordingly, NIA re-registered the case on June 23 last year at its police station in Jammu. During the course of initial investigation, at least six accused, including Abdul Momin Peer, were arrested by NIA and a recovery of ₹1.35 crore and 21kg of heroin-like substance was made. The judge, after hearing counsels from both the sides, observed that accused was well-connected with the commission of offence of smuggling of the narcotics drugs and for creating a terror fund for terrorists’ activities. “Therefore, prima facie the offences under section 18/19/39 UA(P) Act are made out against the accused. Once the accused is prima facie found to be guilty for the offences falling under UA(P) Act , he is not entitled for bail as per the provision,” the judge said before rejecting the bail application of accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iaf-station-attack-nia-nsg-police-working-in-close-coordination-says-j-k-dgp-101625169040100.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC rules against jail inmates’ solitary confinement for long hours||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled against long hours of solitary confinement imposed upon some gangsters by Punjab Police in Bathinda jail. Dealing with a bunch of petitions filed by gangsters lodged in the above-mentioned jail, the high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal termed it “quasi-solitary confinement” and held that it is illegal and violative of the rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, which deals with right to life and personal liberty. “The action of confinement of individual prisoners in individual cells for the most part of the day and for limitless periods is impermissible and has been held so (illegal). However, the result of such a direction would be the immediate release of notorious/hardened/dangerous criminals into ordinary prison life which may be a recipe for disaster,” the court said adding that the threat held out by the actions of such desperate persons is also real and cannot be ignored and said that the prison administration can come up with suggestions which would make the custody conform to the law of the land while meeting the security concerns. “For example, the identified prisoners could be housed in separate barracks instead of cells. Members of rival gangs could be confined in different barracks and the system of staggered lockouts could be retained. Confinement to cells be restricted from sunset to sunrise and period of lockouts be increased, however, within the confines of high security zones,” the court said leaving it to the prison administration to impose restrictions. The petitioners had claimed that they fear for their lives and further alleged that various amenities available to ordinary prisoners are not being provided to them and they are being confined in a cell for 22 hours in a day. The high court observed that on one hand, lies the danger of continuing crime and jail violence and on the other hand, lies the demand for human rights and constitutional rights. “They may not enjoy all rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of India, yet, basic rights and liberties are available to them which are the rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Court process restricts the liberty of prisoners but the same courts also have the duty to monitor that the liberty is not restricted beyond the bounds of the law,” it added further adding that restrictions imposed would be open to judicial scrutiny. The court held that the state has a right to classify the prisoners in different categories and deny some facilities accordingly, keeping in view the safety and security aspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-rules-against-jail-inmates-solitary-confinement-for-long-hours-101625169038826.html
02-07-2021||Other||45% paddy still to be sown, erratic power supply hurting farmers||Chandigarh The state agriculture department has said that incase power supply remains erratic, it will adversely impact paddy sowing. In a communication to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), the agriculture department has reiterated its demand for 8-hour uninterrupted power supply for agriculture feeders. To date, paddy has been sown on 17 lakh hectare and at least 45% (13 lakh hectare) of total 30.2 lakh hectare is to be sown. The demand for power is expected to rise further when basmati sowing begins from second week of July. Officials in the department said farmers are already in a fix over erratic power supply. “Paddy sowing, including premium variety basmati, will continue till July-end. The crop needs irrigation, which continues till September, so during the entire season agriculture feeder needs 8-hour supply,” said agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu. “Every year, ahead of paddy sowing season the state government issues a notification asking the PSPCL to give uninterrupted 8-hour supply,” added Sidhu. BLEAK MONSOON PREDICTION ADD TO WORRYThe meteorological department has predicted a bleak monsoon for the state. Department director Surendra Paul said no rain was predicted before July 10. There may be scattered cases of thunderstorms in some parts of the state, but rain was likely in the second week of July. The communiqué added that with the monsoon a few days away, farmers’ dependence is largely on ground water which is extracted with the help of tubewells using electricity. There are 14 lakh agriculture tubewells in the state, and at least 73% of the state agriculture is dependent on groundwater. The southwest of the state that is Abohar, Muktsar, Faridkot and Ferozpur districts are dependent on the canal water for irrigation. Sirhind feeder, Ferozpur feeder and Bathinda branch supplies water for irrigation.DIESEL WORTH RS 1,800 NEEDED FOR PUDDLING AN ACRE Agriculture department officials said that in the absence of regular power supply, farmers are depending on diesel operated motors to run tubewells for irrigation. “A 25 horsepower motor (the most common in the state) installed on tubewells to extract water consumes six litres diesel to run for one hour and one acre requires tubewell to operate for at least three hours. Total diesel consumption is 18 litres for puddling in one acre,” said an officer of agriculture department, adding that going by cost of diesel, farmers who are not getting regular power supply had to spend ₹1,800 on diesel for sowing one acre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/45-paddy-still-to-be-sown-erratic-power-supply-hurting-farmers-101625168858924.html
02-07-2021||Other||Roll back two weekly-offs or we will hand over keys to CM: Industry||Ludhiana Already reeling under losses due to the ongoing pandemic, the state’s industry has termed the sudden announcement of two weekly-off days (48 hours) starting from 2pm on Thursday as signs of extreme mismanagement and systemic failure. With Thursday’s order, Large Scale (LS) industry had to shut operations immediately.Industrialists said such a major announcement was made, with only three hours being given for its implementation. “Even Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) were caught unawares till 2pm,” claimed an industrialist. Industry representatives added that thousands of units will be affected with the decision and losses would run into crores, as both production schedules and payment cycles will go for a toss. They have also called for a roll back of the decision. President of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) Gurmeet Kular said that the industry will be forced to hand over keys of their units to Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, as the industry is already struggling to make ends meet. President of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations Badish Jindal, said, “Around 80% of power supplied to the industrial sector is consumed by large scale industry with power connection of over 100 KW. In all, 8,887 units in the state will be hit by the government’s decision.” He added, “The government has allowed small and medium load industries to operate, but they will not be able to function as they do labour jobs or supply parts to large industries, which cannot work with these restrictions.”Industrialists claimed that separate circulars issued for imposing two-day weekly off for LS consumers falling under Category 2 and 3 and Category 1 created confusion. The 48-hour weekly for Category 2 and 3 started from 2pm on Thursday; it starts for Category 1 consumers from 8am on Friday. United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association president DS Chawla said, “The first circular said that the weekly-off started from 4pm; soon, another circular was issued, starting the weekly-off from 2pm only, just three hours after the announcement was made. This will lead to disputes as the PSPCL will charge hefty penalties for violation of the order. No penalties should not be imposed for the period.” Industrialists rued that the LS industry has been only allowed to use restricted load of around 50KW only. President, Furnace Alliance, Mahesh Gupta, said, “It is double whammy for the industry as the government has increased the power tariff, but it is still not able to provide uninterrupted power supply to the industry.”The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) also condemned the imposition of restrictions, adding that operations will be hit for four days, Thursday to Sunday, in one way or the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roll-back-two-weekly-offs-or-we-will-hand-over-keys-to-cm-industry-101625168618943.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||CHB auction receives poor response again||The Chandigarh Housing Board has again received poor response to its leasehold property auction which concluded on Wednesday.It could sell only 12 out of 156 commercial properties and two out 12 residential leasehold properties that were up for auction. In its previous auction of leasehold properties in 2019, not a single one could be sold. The highest bid for a residential property was one HIG flat in Sector 39 for ₹1.06 crore, while the highest bid for a commercial unit in Manimajra was ₹81.51 lakh.The last date for submission of e-bids was June 30 and 16 e-bids were received for commercial units and six for dwelling units.The total reserve price of the two dwelling units was Rs. 1.70 crores while the total highest bids received against them is Rs. 1.75 crores. For the 12 commercial units, the total reserve price was Rs. 5.65 crore and the total highest bids received against them is Rs. 6.55 crores. CHB received around 13% above the reserve price of these units.“That there was total secrecy about number of bids and the bid amount so the CHB could get better competitive prices. For many of the dwelling units, though a single bid was received, it was considerably higher than the reserve price. Hence, e-tender resulted in better revenue,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.Since the financial bids were opened on Thursday, the highest bidder is required to make the payment within five working days, that is, by July 8 to avoid forfeiture of EMD and blacklisting from future tendering processes of CHB.A different e-tender for 55 residential freehold units is going on and the last date for submission of e-bid is by 6pm on July 5. The remaining unsold units will be included in a fresh e-Tender in the next few days, added Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-auction-receives-poor-response-again-101625168562069.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala fails to stop manual scavenging||Despite employment of manual scavengers and manual cleaning of sewers and septic tanks without protective equipment being illegal under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, five sanitation workers hired by a municipal corporation contractor were seen manually scavenging an open drain at Jaggi Colony near NH-44 on Monday. MC officials on Wednesday assured of a clarification from the contractor. The workers were seen struggling to clean the sewer with bamboo sticks and one of them even got a foot injury due to a broken glass. A worker said, “Sometimes we have to clean deep drains despite the foul smell. We have to earn a living, what else we can do?” As per sources, the contract is awarded for three months before the monsoon every year to clean Ghel Road drain, INCO drain, Police Line drain and this drain behind Pooja Sarees Complex. Workers have to get down into these drains to clean them. Chaman Lal, district president of the Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh, said, “The union doesn’t mandate sanitation workers on-roll with the corporation to engage in manual scavenging. We got to know that these were workers hired by a contractor, who made them work without any gloves, gumshoes or other safety equipment.” This open drain passing through Jaggi Colony, Vita Enclave, Transport Nagar and beyond to the highway, and residents, have time and again complained of foul smell throughout the year. Chief sanitary inspector Madan Lal, who assured of sharing details about the contractor, couldn’t be contacted later. Municipal commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said that the tender was allotted before he joined in the second week of this month. “These are stormwater drains, but as they pass through residential areas, sewage waste gets added. I will ensure that safety gear is worn by the employees and will get an explanation from the agency concerned for this lapse,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-fails-to-stop-manual-scavenging-101625168378742.html
02-07-2021||Other||Three women killed in Moga road mishap||Moga Three women, including a mother-daughter duo was killed, and two others were grievously injured in a collision between two cars on the Moga-Jalandhar Road on Thursday about 6.30am. Those killed and injured were members of an extended family and were on their way to Nakodar from Moga in a Volkswagen car; the other car involved in the collision was a Chevrolet Optra. Those killed are Vaneeta Rani, 25, her daughter, Pihu, 5, and Vaneeta’s sister Anjali, 17. Her brother, Amandeep, and mother-in-law, Meera, have been admitted to a Ludhiana hospital. Investigation officer Rachpal Singh said Ajay Kumar, 30, of Muktsar, along with his wife Vaneeta, daughter Pihu and his mother had come to Zira to meet his in-laws on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, visited a religious place located at Lohara village in their car. His brother-in-law Amandeep and sister-in-law Anjali also accompanied them.“After offering their prayers at Lohara village, they were heading towards Nakodar to pay a visit to another religious place when the incident took place. Further investigation is on,” the IO said, adding that a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) has been registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-women-killed-in-moga-road-mishap-101625168318687.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Senate polls: PU writes to six states for permission again||Panjab University (PU) has once again written to six state governments seeking permission to set up polling booths for the conduct of senate polls.The polling booths of different constituencies of the PU senate are to be set up in Punjab, Haryana, Uttrakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. The varsity had already written to UT administration seeking permission.The development comes a week after seven former senators wrote to the vice-chancellor and registrar requesting them to immediately issue the election schedule amid declining Covid cases. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. As many as 36 senators are nominated by the chancellor, two are from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected. PU had deferred the senate polls, which was scheduled to start from April 26, due to the surge in Covid cases. The varsity had announced the schedule after the high court had pulled up V-C Raj Kumar for the delay.Polls delayed amid pandemicThe polls were earlier scheduled to start in August last year, but they were postponed twice by Kumar amid the pandemic. The last senate polls were held in 2016.The four-year term of the previous senate ended on October 31 last year. The term of the syndicate, PU’s executive body, also ended on December 31. Its members are elected from among the senators. Hence, the university is now functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-polls-pu-writes-to-six-states-for-permission-again-101625168259696.html
02-07-2021||Other||Packed milk rates hiked by ₹2 a litre||Ludhiana Milk prices of two major brands, Verka and Amul, have increased by ₹2 per litre in the state. The manufacturers have cited the increasing input cost of milk production to justify the hike.Rates have been revised after 18 months by the Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited (Milkfed) that sells milk products under the brand name of Verka. The Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation is the maker of Amul. A trader in Model Town extension Tejinder Singh said, “The decision to hike rates is likely to have a negative impact on the demand of packed milk.”Dairy farmers in Haibowal and Tajpur Road dairy complexes had already hiked milk prices by ₹3 per litre, two weeks ago, citing increasing input cost of fodder and transportation. The revised price of cow milk at these dairies is now ₹58 per litre; buffalo milk is now sold at ₹73 per litre.COSTS RISE FOR COMMON MANThe costliest milk variety of Amul, Gold (red packet), will now cost ₹57 a litre. Its lowest-priced variety, Taaza (blue packet), will now cost ₹45 a litre, while Shakti (green packet) will cost ₹51 per litre. Verka, which offers more varieties, and a packet of 1.5 litre as well, sells Shakti (green packet) at ₹51 a litre. A litre of its variety, Slimmer’s (yellow pack), will now cost ₹41.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/packed-milk-rates-hiked-by-rs-2-a-litre-101625168138749.html
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amid power cuts, Haryana power body observes establishment day in Ambala||Amid irregular electricity supply and low voltage issues in urban and rural regions of Ambala district, a symbolic protest was observed by residents to raise the issue before deputy commissioner (DC) Vikram on Thursday, as the power supplier, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) celebrated its 22nd establishment day at Panchayat Bhawan.People from different areas of Cantonment gathered at the venue with placards and later lit candles to express their suffering. Leading the protesters, Amarjeet Arya of Shivpuri Colony, a home appliances repair worker, claimed that instead of providing relief, the board had created problems for them.“Due to shortage of staff, if there is a fuse failure, one has to wait for at least four hours for the repair. Functioning of the local complainant centre should be improved,” he said. A 60-year-old homemaker, Santosh, said that it was almost impossible for them to cook food without electricity and they had to spend sleepless nights without even a fan.As reported earlier, uneven power cuts have largely affected students studying online and employees working from home.Farmers in rural belt also sufferingDue to late monsoon and low voltage, farmers in the rural belt are facing difficulties during the ongoing paddy season. One Dimple of Bhanokheri said that farmers like him were worried that if there would be no water supply, planting of paddy would be difficult. “Even if it rains later or water is made available through other sources, it will be useless for the crop,” he said.On being asked about the shortage of staff at the complaint centre, Sukhbir, the executive engineer, said that instead of two existing employees for six public lines, there will be four more to speak to the complainants.Superintendent engineer (SE) Vinay Burnwal said, “Due to rising temperatures and increasing load, undoubtedly there are power cuts or voltage issues. Consumers are also not disclosing their actual load. To meet the expected demand, we’ve already added or transferred loads of at least 100 transformers in the district. The situation is expected to improve in a week.”DC Vikram said that he had instructed the SE to increase the manpower wherever required and split the load of feeders with highest consumers or fluctuations.“The employees of the department are unsung heroes who worked tirelessly even during the pandemic. We observed the day for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-power-cuts-haryana-power-body-observes-establishment-day-in-ambala-101625168018796.html
02-07-2021||Other||Sukhbir, Valtoha booked for criminal intimidation, spreading Covid-19 infection||Amritsar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is also a former deputy chief minister of the state, and two former MLAs, Virsa Singh Valtoha and Amarpal Singh Bony, have been booked for criminal intimidation, and spreading Covid-19 infection, among other sections, at the Beas police station on Thursday. The police action comes a day after Sukhbir and his supporters conducted a ‘raid’ at the mining site, claiming that it was illegal. M/s Friends and Company, which has the contract for sand mining, along the Beas River is the complainant. In its complaint to Amritsar (rural) SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana on Wednesday, it had alleged that Sukhbir, along with Valtoha and Ajnala, and other SAD members had threatened their employees and staff, besides obstructing and interfering in its legal mining operations at its de-silting site in Wazir Bhullar village of Baba Bakala sub-division. “They terrorised our staff and obstructed our operations by misleading locals. They tried to benefit by maligning the image of the company,” the complaint says, adding, “It is necessary to investigate the act and conduct of Sukhbir, Bony and Valtoha, and the other party members to verify at whose behest they had stopped a legal mining operation.”SSP Khurana said a case had been registered under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897. SAD spokesperson Valtoha said, “It is shameful that the government has acted under the pressure of a mining mafia. It wants to suppress voices against illegal mining.” He added, “We challenge the government to prove that it was legal mining; we are ready to prove that it was illegal. Rules are being floated recklessly with police and mining mafia in collusion. They did not even have permission from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to de-silt the river. We will approach the NGT with facts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sukhbir-valtoha-booked-for-criminal-intimidation-spreading-covid-19-infection-101625167778701.html
02-07-2021||Other||IIT-BHU scientists develop nickel-free steel||: Scientists at the department of metallurgical engineering at Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University) have succeeded in producing nickel-free surgical grade stainless steel. This metal is cheaper and much safer than stainless steel that contains titanium, cobalt-chromium and ‘nickel’ and was being used in organ transplantation in the human body.“The common side effects of nickel are fatigue, swelling and skin allergy. In some circumstances, there may also be a risk of developing lung, heart and kidney disease. Due to rusting of metal inside the body, ‘nickel’ also starts coming out along with various elements. Its dissolving capacity can be as high as 20 milligrams per kilogram, which is very dangerous. Keeping all these things in mind, it became necessary to invent a cheap and effective metal in which nickel is negligible and it does not have any side effects in the body, said Dr Girija Shankar Mahobia, associate professor, metallurgical engineering.
02-07-2021||Other||PIL in Bombay HC challenges new IT Rules for intermediaries||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the recently notified Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, issued under the Information Technology (IT) Act. The PIL moved by senior journalist Nikhil Wagle has termed the new IT Rules as arbitrary, illegal and contrary to the fundamental rights under Articles 14 (equality before law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India and ultra vires the IT Act. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing in due course. The PIL filed through advocate Abhay Nevagi has stated that the new rules grant excessive powers to the enforcing agencies and put intermediaries under an obligation to provide details of all originators of messages across social media and networking platforms, which is against the fundamental right of privacy of users. The petition has also stated that the rules contradict the principle of net network neutrality which is an accepted principle by all nations, including India. Another contention in the petition is that the rules are contrary to the IT Act as the rules authorise authorities to take action against the intermediary or service provider for not disclosing the name of the originator in cases of defamation or hurting religious sentiments by booking the intermediary under any of the stringent laws which are in force at the time. The petition stated that such powers vested with the enforcing agency are excessively arbitrary and give them powers which are over and above what has been provided by the IT Act. “It gives the compliance officers quasi-judicial powers of deciding what is or is not defamatory,” the petition stated. In light of these contentions, the petition has sought a declaration that the Information Technology Rules, 2021 is illegal, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and that the rules are ultra vires the provisions of the IT Act, 2000. The petition has also sought a stay on the effect, operation and enforcement of the rules till the matter is decided by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pil-in-bombay-hc-challenges-new-it-rules-for-intermediaries-101625166097967.html
02-07-2021||Other||Probe tender by mining corporation, Patole tells Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole has stirred a controversy after he requested chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray for a probe into the allotment of a tender by state-owned Maharashtra State Mining Corporation (MSMC) to a firm, which according to him is unfit for the tender. The demand for probe is also seen as an attempt by Patole to target energy minister and his party colleague Nitin Raut. Patole in his June 27 letter to CM had stated that the MSMC has allotted a tender to a private company for washing of coal extracted from mines in Vidarbha. He said that the company has no past experience, net worth or clearance required for such work. The letter has stated that a firm with which the company has the joint venture has been blacklisted by the National Company Law Tribunal.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has supported the demand, but has claimed that Patole is eyeing the energy department.The letter by Patole, also addressed to state mining minister Subhash Desai, is considered to have come up out of the internal rivalry between two Congress leaders. According to Congress insiders, Patole is keen on a ministerial berth and has requested the party high command to appoint Raut as Assembly Speaker. He believes that he would get the energy portfolio, in case Raut is made the Speaker. Though MSMC is not related to the energy department, the coal washeries are directly related to the power generation. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “It is apparent that Patole is eying the portfolio that Raut currently heads. We also are of the opinion that there should be probe into corruption and we will support it if the issue is raised by Patole at appropriate forums.”Patole has, however, rubbished the claims and said that the complaint is against an allotment by the mining department. “It has nothing to do with the energy department or Raut. There are no differences between us and there’s no question of me eyeing the portfolio. The letter is for the probe of irregularities in the mining department,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-tender-by-mining-corporation-patole-tells-maharashtra-cm-101625166038015.html
02-07-2021||Other||JUMBO CARE: Freed from captivity, pachyderms relax in personal pools||: Nearly 29 jumbos, rescued from captivity, at the Wildlife SOS Elephant Conservation and Care Centre, Mathura are beating the June heat by chilling out in their personal pools. At the NGO’s Elephant Conservation & Care Centre in Mathura, all resident pachyderms have access to their very own jumbo swimming pools as well as water sprinklers that create cool zones inside their free-ranging enclosures. The older elephants prefer spending hours simply relaxing in the cool refreshing water while some of the younger ones like Peanut, Coconut, Laxmi and Chanchal happily splashed water and played with rubber tyres placed inside the pools which are 400-square-feet long and 6-feet-deep. Dr Ilayaraja, deputy director of veterinary services at Wildlife SOS said, “Apart from the jumbo pools, the elephants have been placed on a summer diet consisting of seasonal fruits like watermelons, musk melons and cucumbers which helps keep them hydrated. We are also giving glucose water, electrolyte solution and herbal medication to prevent heat strokes and dehydration.” To provide easy access to the elephants, there is an inclined ramp leading into each pool. Wildlife SOS is also home to India’s first jumbo hydrotherapy pool for elephants at the elephant hospital in Mathura. Hydrotherapy is a form of physical therapy that uses the therapeutic benefits of water to perform physical rehabilitation in animals, officials said. Exerting hydrostatic pressure that compresses muscle and joints, hydrotherapy helps in relieving chronic muscle aches as well as rebuild muscle memory with its natural resistance, officials said. The hydrotherapy pool is 11-foot-deep and has 21 high pressure jet sprays that create water pressure that massage the elephants’ feet and body and help in increasing blood circulation. Baiju Raj MV, director, conservation projects, Wildlife SOS said, “We also take these animals to the Yamuna river where they thoroughly enjoy.” Geeta Seshamani, co-founder & secretary Wildlife SOS said, “Our dedicated team of veterinarians and trained elephant care staff work round the clock to cater to the needs of rehabilitated elephants. Wildlife SOS aims to provide these animals a high degree of veterinary care, enrichment and a high quality of life.” The elephants at Wildlife SOS have been rescued from extremely stressful conditions such as performing in circuses, giving tourist rides, begging on the streets and being used in wedding processions etc. They were often made to navigate environments that their body was not built for or were chained for hours on concrete that led to an early on-set of arthritis, officials said. Lack of nutrition and improper foot care also resulted in overgrown toenails and cuticles making them vulnerable to cracking. This made walking or even standing highly painful for these pachyderms. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder & CEO Wildlife SOS said, “Captivity denies elephants the very basic necessities essential to their survival and well-being. It is reassuring to see that our efforts have made a positive difference to their lives and we will continue to help more such elephants in distress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jumbo-care-freed-from-captivity-pachyderms-relax-in-personal-pools-101625165977959.html
02-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra joins Under2 Coalition of states to fight climate change||Maharashtra has become the fifth Indian state after Chhattisgarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Telangana and West Bengal to join the Under2 Coalition, which brings together 125 states from across the globe to combat climate change. Officials said that the move is in line with the state’s climate strategy to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and comes in the run up to the COP26 (Conference of the Parties) summit in November. “Maharashtra is committed to making the region climate-resilient... The state is taking concrete green steps in coordination with other ministries, from energy to tourism, to tackle climate change. As we enhance our efforts, we are delighted to join the Under2 Coalition and collaborate with other states and regions addressing environmental challenges worldwide. Maharashtra is keen to work with its global counterparts and share the critical insights we all have observed through our interventions,” Maharashtra’s environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said in a statement on Thursday. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between Maharashtra and the Under2 Coalition, however, is not legally binding, and does not place any financial obligations on the state. “What we essentially do is facilitate the transfer of knowledge between member states who are committed to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement. In the lead up to COP26, Maharashtra was keen to showcase its actions at a global level and learn from our members in the several global convenings we organise,” said Rana Pujari, manager, South Asia government relations, Under2 Coalition. The Under2 Coalition has previously supported West Bengal in the revamping of its state climate action plan by allocating money from its Future Fund for a feasibility study on e-ferries in the city of Kolkata, as well as Chhattisgarh, where it organised capacity-building workshops for officials concerned on how to track greenhouse gas emissions and build emissions inventories that comply with international standards. “We do not have any concrete action as such planned in Maharashtra, but may get involved at a later date once their State Climate Action Plan is ready,” Pujari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-joins-under2-coalition-of-states-to-fight-climate-change-101625165918051.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Goel likely to take over as UP DGP today||Mukul Goel, the 1987 batch Indian Police Officer (IPS), was repatriated to his parent cadre to Uttar Pradesh (UP) by union home ministry on Thursday afternoon. This happened after the state government announced that he would be the state’s new Director General of Police (DGP), senior officials confirmed. Goel, who was in Delhi till Thursday evening, is likely to take over the charge of the UP DGP on Friday, officials said. Goel is likely to reach Lucknow in the night but will take over as the head of the state’s police force after confirming his return to the parent cadre, state’s home department officials said. Goel started his career as additional superintendent of police (ASP) Nainital when Uttarakhand was part of undivided UP. He served as district police chiefs of Almora, Jalaun, Mainpuri, Azamgarh, Hathras, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Saharanpur and Meerut. Besides, he was also posted as deputy inspector general (DIG) of Kanpur, Agra and Bareilly ranges and IG of Bareilly. He remained additional director general (ADG), law and order, for several months during Samajwadi Party regime between 2012 and 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/goel-likely-to-take-over-as-up-dgp-today-101625165858586.html
02-07-2021||Other||Use of Ganga water for Covid treatment: Allahabad HC notice to Centre, ICMR||The Allahabad high court has issued notices to the central government and director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on a PIL seeking lab test to ascertain the properties of bacteriophages (a virus that destroys harmful bacteria) found in Ganga water, which as claimed in the PIL, can treat Covid-19. Ernest Hackins, a British bacteriologist in 1896, had found the presence of bacteriophages in Ganga and in studies discovered that its presence does not putrefy or deteriorate the quality of water and rather kills pathogens and bacteria. The bench comprising acting chief justice MN Bhandari and justice Rajendra Kumar passed the above order on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Arun Kumar Gupta, a senior advocate of Allahabad high court on June 30. According to the petitioner, he was studying curative properties of Ganga since long and after the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, he started searching on the internet for the effect of Ganga water on Covid patients. After research, the petitioner prepared a paper titled, ‘Treatment of Covid-19 by Ganga Jal’ and sent the same through e-mail to the President of India on April 26, 2020 and the National Mission for Clean Ganga. The mission forwarded it to the Ayush Ministry and the director general, ICMR, but his paper was not considered due to lack of scientific studies. As the petitioner was an advocate and clinical study had to be done by a recognised medical institute, Gupta approached doctors of Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS, BHU, Varanasi) and Dr Vijay Nath Mishra, professor in department of Neurology, BHU for further scientific research and clinical study on the subject. In the petition, it was stated that a nasal spray was also prepared by a team of BHU doctors for treatment of coronavirus, but permission for its clinical trials was pending before the ethics committee, IMS, BHU for the last 7 months. The case will be listed for hearing on expiry of 6 weeks from the date of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/use-of-ganga-water-for-covid-treatment-allahabad-hc-notice-to-centre-icmr-101625165857952.html
02-07-2021||Other||Dahisar robbery, murder: Mumbai Police arrest five, mastermind still at large||Dahisar police have arrested five men from Gujarat, allegedly involved in killing a 40-year-old jeweller in broad daylight on Wednesday and fleeing with gold worth ₹10 lakh.The alleged mastermind of the robbery heist, a local resident, is absconding.As per their plan, the robbers came to the city and stole a bike. Two accused stayed on the lookout, while three others on the bike entered Om Sairaj jewellery shop and threatened the owner, Shailendra Pandey, who was alone at the time. The men then shot him point blank and fled the spot after filling gold worth ₹10 lakh in two duffle bags, the police said. Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), said that after the case was registered, they had prepared 10 teams. Police officers had a CCTV recording of the three accused who were on the bike, based on which they began investigation.“We had nakabandis on all the exit points of the city. Through our sources, we found the bike used in the heist abandoned near a hotel on Ghodbunder Road in Thane,” said an officer from Dahisar police station.The accused had parked a car nearby and after abandoning the bike they fled towards Gujarat in the four-wheeler, said the officer.Based on their investigation, the police found that the five men were hiding in a house at a village near Surat and arrested them. The accused have been identified as Aayush Pandey, 19, Nikhil Chandal, Uday Bali, Chirag Rawal and Ankit Mahadik, all aged 21.The mastermind had hired the robbers for ₹30,000 and armed them with the country-made revolver used in the murder, the police said.“The motive was robbery as the mastermind had tipped that Pandey is the only one at the shop,” said Nangre Patil. The robbers shot Pandey as soon as they entered the shop and fled as the mastermind had alerted them about a button in the shop which closes the main shutter, and could have locked them inside.The police have recovered the gold from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dahisar-robbery-murder-mumbai-police-arrest-five-mastermind-still-at-large-101625165797907.html
02-07-2021||Other||Ex-Maharashtra min Anil Deshmukh played role in cops’ transfers, postings: Secretary to ED||Former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande has in his statement to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said that the politician had a role in the transfers and postings of police officers, especially those of the Indian Police Service (IPS) rank, during his tenure. Appealing for the further custody of Palande and Deshmukh’s personal assistant Kundan Shinde on this ground, ED in the remand application said on Thursday that it wants to interrogate the duo in the alleged money laundering case linked to the purported bribe racket that the former home minister used to carry out with the help of dismissed cop Sachin Vaze. Following this, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Court (PMLA) court remanded the two accused to ED’s custody till July 6. Palande and Shinde were arrested by the agency on June 26. ED has also stated that Palande has admitted that a meeting was held on March 4 with police officers in which a discussion over imposing Covid-19 restrictions on bars had taken place. Special public prosecutor for ED, Sunil Gonsalves, while seeking the accused’s further custody, submitted before the court that during the meetings on transfer of police officers, an ‘unofficial list’ used to be prepared and the agency needs to question the duo on it. He further submitted that, during the investigation, names of the some ministers and other persons have been revealed, who had played a role in the transfer of police officers, and therefore, a detailed interrogation of the accused is necessary as they either attended those meetings or have knowledge on the same. In the various petitions filed against Deshmukh in the Bombay high court, several allegations were made over his involvement in the cash-for-transfer racket. The Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) is also investigating on it and has filed a case against Deshmukh. On Thursday, Gonsalves submitted that the ‘bribery scam’ is worth ₹100 crore. As the transactions were made in cash, it is therefore necessary to find the money trail as well as whether the said proceeds of crime were used for acquisition of property by way of money laundering, ED said. However, Palande’s lawyer submitted that March 4, a sessions of the Assembly was on, and as the home minister, Deshmukh had to attend and discuss with all the officers concerned to reply to questions in the legislature. Therefore, the said meetings cannot be connected with the alleged allegation of transfer of IPS officers, he said. He further submitted that the prosecution is placing wrong facts before the court as it is the chief minister and not the home minister who has the power to transfer officers of IPS cadre. On the cash transfers, the defence argued that there is no material evidence on the accused’s involvement. The lawyer further submitted that investigation agencies are placing contradictory facts and are trying to implicate the accused on the basis of hearsay. Shinde’s lawyer submitted that none of the arguments placed before the court is true but is a “concocted story”. He submitted that Palande is an additional collector appointed as a personal secretary of the home minister by the government and was only performing the duties assigned by the administration department of the state government. ED informed the court that the two accused are the key personnel, deeply and directly involved, and in-charge of the affairs of Deshmukh and others. During their custodial interrogation, they have failed to provide satisfactory answers regarding utilisation, concealment and trail of proceeds of crime. “They have been giving evasive replies in their statements and are trying to delay the course of investigation. At the same time, [them] delaying the appearance of suspected persons before the investigating officer appears to be with malicious intentions to hamper the investigation,” ED stated. “The accused have played a very crucial role in the offence of money laundering and both are influential persons having connections with highly-placed political persons, and if their further custody is not granted to the applicant, they may tamper the evidences and consequently hamper the PMLA investigation being conducted by the applicant,” ED informed the court while seeking further custody of the accused. ED has issued summons to various suspects/witnesses connected to both the accused to appear before the investigating officer during the duo’s custody. They are expected to join the investigation. ED wishes to confront the two accused with various suspects/witnesses to establish the money trail and unearth the proceeds of crime. The agency said that during the duo’s custody, their homes were searched again and some incriminating documents and electronic gadgets were seized. The central agency is also seeking call records and electronic evidence available with other law enforcing agencies to confront the accused with it. ED has previously claimed to have found that Vaze had collected ₹4.7 crore from various owners in Mumbai for “the smooth functioning of the bars”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi, who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that the brothers, at behest of Deshmukh’s kin, diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the ex-minister’s family. The defence argued that Shinde has no power in the management of the trust and that the ₹4.7 crore mentioned by ED is actually the amount of an unsecured loan obtained by the trust. The defence claimed that these facts are being suppressed by the investigating agency. ED said that while collecting money from the bar owners, Vaze told them that part of the money was to go to “No 1’, crime branch and the social service branch of Mumbai Police. It has also said that when they recorded the statement of Vaze – currently in Taloja jail in connection with his alleged role in the Antilia explosives and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – he told investigators that Deshmukh had called him to his official residence and instructed him to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments. ED has also identified 24 private entities that are directly and indirectly controlled by the Deshmukhs and found that huge sums of money had been transferred. “From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers and it can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered based on a first information report (FIR) by CBI against him on April 21. CBI had started the probe after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh ran an “extortion racket” in the city and had instructed some officers to collect ₹100 crore for him every month from various establishments. Deshmukh had called the allegations false and claimed that Singh levelled the accusations only after being shunted out from Mumbai Police chief’s post for his poor handling of the Antilia explosives scare and Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmaharashtra-min-anil-deshmukh-played-role-in-cops-transfers-postings-secretary-to-ed-101625165557966.html
02-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra bank fraud: ₹65.75-cr assets linked to Ajit Pawar attached||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said that it has attached properties worth ₹65.75 crore (as per the purchase price in 2010) belonging to Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana (SSK), situated at Chimangaon in Satara district, in connection with the Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank money laundering probe. These assets are said to be leased to a company related to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra. Despite repeated attempts, Pawar did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. The assets have been attached under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, and are currently in the name of Guru Commodity Services Pvt Ltd and leased to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt. Ltd. A majority of shares of the sugar mills is held by Sparkling Soil Pvt Ltd, linked to Pawar and Sunetra. ED’s money laundering case is based on the August 2019 FIR (first information report) of Mumbai Police’s Economic Offence Wing (EOW), which had registered a cheating, forgery and corruption case after Bombay high court’s (HC) direction. As per the allegations in the FIR, the then officials and directors of MSC Bank had fraudulently sold the cooperative sugar mills at throwaway prices to their relatives/private persons without following the due procedure prescribed under SARFAESI (Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest) Act. However, EOW later closed the case claiming it to be a civil matter. Then the complainant in the case filed a petition in HC, alleging that the closure report filed by EOW, giving a clean chit to Pawar – the then finance minister – and 75 directors of district banks was questionable, as it was based on the statement of an accused, Ajit Deshmukh. ED’s investigation revealed that MSC Bank conducted an auction of Jarandeshwar SSK in 2010 at an undervalued price, without following due procedure. Pawar was one of the influential members on the bank’s board of directors at the time. SSK was purchased by Guru Commodity Services Pvt Ltd (a dummy company) and was leased to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt Ltd, which is now operating Jarandeshwar SSK. “A major part of the funds utilised to purchase the said cooperative [Jarandeshwar SSK] was received from Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt Ltd, which received the same from Sparkling Soil Pvt Ltd, a company related to Pawar and his wife,” ED stated in a statement. ED agency further said that Guru Commodity Services Pvt Ltd was used to acquire SSK. The sugar mill was actually controlled and run by Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt Ltd. According to ED, the cooperative sugar mill has been used as a vehicle by Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills for obtaining loans to the tune of ₹700 crore from Pune District Central Co-operative Bank and others. Thus, Guru Commodity Services Pvt Ltd’s assets, being proceeds of crime, have been provisionally attached, ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-bank-fraud-65-75-cr-assets-linked-to-ajit-pawar-attached-101625165378736.html
02-07-2021||Other||Madras HC rejects plea seeking ban on online games||Chennai: The Madras High Court on Thursday said that elected governments were the appropriate authority to take a policy decision over concerns raised in a public interest litigation (PIL) on the addiction of children and young adults to online games and declined to entertain the plea.A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, however, gave liberty to the petitioner, E Martin Jayakumar, to approach the union government and the state government on the issue within four weeks. The authorities have been asked to indicate the relevant government’s stance on the issue within eight weeks of receipt of the petitioner’s representation.The bench stated that courts would intervene if there is some illegal action or if something is detrimental to the larger public interest but given the present situation of the matter they didn’t want to issue a diktat but that they would leave it to the wisdom of the people’s elected representatives.“...even constitutional courts should be slow in entering into such areas and dealing with such matters on the personal sense of morality of the individual complainant or of the Judge or Judges concerned,” the court said in its orders. “It is only upon the failure of the executive to act and, thereupon, the Court perceiving the matter to be a danger to society, that the Court ought to step in. At least at the initial stage, the duty of the Court is to direct the complainants to the executive for a more wholesome and studied policy decision to be taken by the executive than what may be possible before any Court.”The PIL had sought a ban on all the online and offline video games and to bring appropriate mechanism to track computers, laptops, mobile phones and other devices used for playing games. The petitioner further stated that children are being lured by unscrupulous business enterprises particularly during the lockdown since educational institutions are closed. He perceived the addiction to be devastating and life-threatening in the sense that it destroys the career-building phase of a young adult and may even lead to suicidal tendencies and extreme anger against parents and elders seeking to check the habit. The court noted the submissions and clarified that this order would not prevent any similar complaints in the future if executive action isn’t forthcoming. “There is no doubt that children and young adults these days are addicted to their phones and their worlds appear to revolve around their mobile phones,” the court said. “Oftentimes, a family could be together and sitting at a table but each member using the phone, even if to describe the dish that he may be having or the quality of food at the moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-ban-on-online-games-101625165378021.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Vaccinate all 18+ students by July 7, Dy CM tells vice chancellors||Bengaluru: Deputy chief minister and the minister for higher education, Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana on Thursday asked all the Vice-Chancellors of the universities to ensure vaccination of all students above 18 years, in an expeditious manner. On Thursday, while holding a virtual meet with Vice-Chancellors, he said that as per the schedule of the vaccine drive, these students are to be vaccinated by July 7. He added that VCs should try to ensure vaccination of all students by the said date and if required this could be extended by 2 or 3 days. Students are being vaccinated as a priority group to facilitate the opening of physical classes for higher education. The date of opening of offline classes depends on the success of this vaccination drive and the government is ready to extend all cooperation in this regard, he said. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on June 22 had said that the government is considering reopening higher education institutions in a phased manner. He said that the final decision will be based on the recommendations of the expert committee constituted to tackle the third wave of Covid-19 and following the vaccination of teachers and students. “The committee has supported the relaxations in Covid curbs announced by the government and have suggested opening up educational institutions in the days to come, starting with higher education colleges, after vaccination,” Yediyurappa had said. Following his meeting with members of the expert committee, the chief minister said that during the meeting the committee had suggested prioritizing vaccination for students and teachers. The vaccination will allow colleges to restart physical classes with students above the age of 18 years, he added. He said that there was a suggestion to start schools so that there is a gap of two months between the reopening and the onset of the third wave, which is anticipated in September, however, no decision has been taken regarding this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/vaccinate-all-18-students-by-july-7-dy-cm-tells-vice-chancellors-101625165257885.html
02-07-2021||Bangalore||Panic after crocodile found roaming in Karnataka’s Kogilabanna village||Bengaluru: A crocodile paid a surprise visit to the people of Karnataka’s Kogilabanna village in Uttar Kannada district on Thursday. The reptile was spotted roaming on the street before it was captured by forest officials who released it to the river. A video shot by a local resident of the reptile roaming around, went viral on social media.According to forests officials, the crocodile could have entered the village from Kali river located near the village.Ramu Gouda, Deputy Range Forest Officer (RFO), Dandeli said that Kali river has a large population of crocodiles. “There have been some instances where they have come up from the river into the villages, but it is very rare,” he said.According to the officer, as per the information given by the villagers, the crocodile entered the village around 7.30 am on Thursday. One of the residents, spotted the reptile and raised an alarm. In the video that has been doing rounds, the crocodile was seen walking the narrow lanes of the villages, with residents crowding around it.Residents in the area told the media that they had not seen crocodiles before in the village and no one harmed the reptile.RFO Gouda said that while sighting a crocodile is rare, in the last six months there were two instances. “In the first case it had attacked a goat near the banks and in the second case, it had come up to a forest department check post,” he said.He added that the reason for the crocodile coming to the shores could be several. “It attacks cattle only if it is near the banks. In other cases, they could come for sun bathing since they are cold-blooded,” Gouda added.According to the officer, officials didn’t have to capture the crocodile per se, but only guided it back to the river. “We wanted to ensure that no one harmed it because it would result in retaliation. We were able to reach the location within 45 minutes. In this case, since the river was nearby, we made way for it to go back to the river,” he said.On December 3, 2020, a 10-year-old boy, who was herding cattle at a remote village was killed and eaten by a crocodile in north Karnataka’s Raichur district. The boy identified as Mallikarjun was herding cattle along with six others at D Rampura village near Krishna river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/panic-after-crocodile-found-roaming-in-karnataka-s-kogilabanna-village-101625165137914.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Gulshan Kumar murder: Bombay HC upholds life term for killer||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday upheld the life imprisonment handed down to Abdul Rauf Dawood Merchant, a henchman of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, and also convicted and sentenced his brother Abdul Rashid to life imprisonment for their direct involvement in the August 1997 murder of T-Series music label founder and Hindi film producer Gulshan Kumar Dua. Kumar was brutally killed on August 19, 1997 outside Shiva temple at Jeet Nagar in Andheri East. He visited the temple at 10am, prayed for about 15 minutes and was about to enter his car to return home, when an assailant shot at him in the back. As he was falling down, another assailant came forward and started firing at him. In an attempt to save himself, the deceased got up and walked a few steps, when the third assailant fired several rounds, killing him on the spot. Kumar was immediately rushed to Cooper Hospital where he was declared brought dead and later 18 bullets were retrieved from the body. Nineteen persons, including the father and brother of the Merchant brothers, were arrested in connection with the murder and the prosecution examined 45 witnesses to bring home their guilt. On April 29, 2002, Mumbai sessions court acquitted all accused, but Abdul Rauf and sentenced him to life imprisonment.A division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NR Borkar directed Abdul Rashid to forthwith surrender either before the trial court or before the DN Nagar police station, where the first information report (FIR) was registered in connection with the high-profile murder. He has also been directed to surrender his passport to the police. The HC has directed the trial court to issue a non-bailable warrant and secure Abdul Rashid’s presence for serving the life term, if he fails to turn up within a week.The bench took serious note of Abdul Rauf’s conduct, especially that he was absconding for a considerable period of time before and even after his conviction, and declared that he will not be entitled to any remission. The HC has, however, upheld acquittal of Gulshan Kumar’s business rival, Ramesh Taurani of Tips Industries. Taurani, too, was prosecuted for being part of the conspiracy to kill Kumar, but was acquitted by the trial court. Abdul Rauf was absconding for a long time after the murder and was arrested only in January 2001. In March 2009 he again jumped parole and had fled to Bangladesh, where he was arrested at the behest of Indian authorities and eventually brought back to India in November 2016. Abdul Rauf had challenged his conviction by filing an appeal before HC on several grounds, whereas the state government had challenged acquittal of his brother Abdul Rashid and Taurani. HC on Thursday dismissed Abdul Rauf’s appeal and also convicted Abdul Rashid after noticing that at least five eye witnesses had identified the brothers - as two of the three assailants who shot dead Gulshan Kumar.Two of them – a temple trustee and the driver of the deceased – were accompanying the victim at the time of the incident. The driver also received a gunshot wound on his thigh, when he tried to save his employer. Other two witnesses were local residents, who tried to chase the three assailants. One of them had driven the car when Gulshan Kumar’s driver put him in back seat of the car. The fifth important witness was the taxi driver who was thrown out of his vehicle by Abdul Rauf and his car was taken away by the assailants. “This is not a case of a sole eyewitness. There were five eyewitnesses. Each one had emphasised the role of Accused Nos. 16 (Abdul Rashid) and 19 (Abdul Rauf) at different stages,” said the bench. “The attack mounted upon the deceased was so graphically explained by them, that unless they had seen the incident, they could not have been consistent in the cross-examination also,” said the bench while sealing fate of the Merchant brothers.As regards Taurani, the HC found serious lapses in the police investigation. “In the present case, there are serious lapses in the investigation and there is no cogent and convincing evidence to hold that Respondent No. 1 (Taurani) had spoken to Abu Salem in Dubai,” said the bench. It noted that one witness, Arif Lakdawala, an acquaintance of Abu Salem, had said that he was present when Nadeem and Taurani handed over contract money and was also present when Taurani had contacted Abu Salem, but there was no probe as regards to the Dubai phone number. “There is no investigation to verify as to whether that phone number was used by Abu Salem at that time,” the HC said in this regard. The bench concluded there was no need to interfere with Taurani’s acquittal, especially when an application was made to arraign Lakdawala as an accused in the case, but it was rejected by the trial court and the rejection has attained finality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gulshan-kumar-murder-bombay-hc-upholds-life-term-for-killer-101625165017923.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra speaker poll: MVA ministers plan strategy; BJP quiet on plan||While the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition prepares for the election of Assembly speaker which is likely to be held on July 6, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may take the opportunity to destabilise or weaken the coalition government. MVA leaders are confident about winning the election easily, but it would be a herculean task for the coalition to maintain the support they had garnered while forming the government. The ruling parties have chalked out a strategy to ensure they get the votes they registered during the confidence motion. The Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress have arrived at the consensus to hold the election for the post of speaker on July 6, the second day of the two-day monsoon session. Senior ministers from three parties held meetings over the past two days to decide on the strategy for the poll. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also discussed the issue in a meeting on Tuesday. Since the poll to the post is likely to be held by secret ballot, the ruling parties and opposition are busy garnering support of independents and smaller allies. During the confidence motion in November 2019, MVA had polled 169 votes in the 288-member lower house. The three ruling parties had garnered the support of 16 independents and MLAs from smaller parties in addition to their own MLAs — 56 from Sena, 54 from NCP (including the protem speaker) and 44 from Congress. The BJP’s collective strength stood at 114, of which 105 were from the party. Currently, tally of BJP MLAs has reached 106 after they won Pandharpur bypolls, while Congress’s tally reduced to 43 after its MLA from Degalapur, Raosaheb Antapurkar, died recently. A Congress minister said the ruling parties have started chalking out strategy for the election. “Of the six independent MLAs who had supported the BJP in 2019, few may change sides to support the government. Geeta Jain from Mira -Bhayander has already joined the Sena after initially supporting the BJP. Few other independent MLAs and smaller parties may come to us. Generally, independent MLAs are inclined towards ruling parties for various reasons, including allocation of funds to their constituencies,” he said.“According to state legislature rules, the election for the post is held by secret ballot. Even the Supreme Court verdict mandate for secret ballot, but it is the up to the presiding officer to decide the form of election,” said an official from state legislature. NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said the speaker’s post is with the Congress as per the sharing of portfolios and Constitutional posts between the three ruling parties. “The Congress will have to decide on the candidate for the post, to which all ruling parties will take a decision with consensus,” he said.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis said, “Let MVA make their decision on the election. We will disclose our strategy after the election is announced.”BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said his party was not worried about cross-voting and hence demanded the election. “It was our demand that the Governor ask the state government to hold the elections. Had we had any apprehension on cross-voting, we would not have demanded it. On the other hand, the state government has been dilly-dallying on the elections because of fear of losing votes,” he said.According to BJP leaders, the party would not press for the election if it realised that it could not get desired numbers. “Also, we have a tradition of unopposed election to the Constitutional post and we may withdraw the candidate,” he said.Minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “We are sure about winning the election with more votes than we received last time. The only question will be about the attendance of members, as many of the ruling members have contracted Covid-19.” NCP and Sena were initially not very keen on the election after the Congress appointed the then Assembly speaker Nana Patole as its state unit chief. The two ruling parties claimed they were not taken into confidence by the Congress while removing the speaker as the election to the post could lead to embarrassment to the ruling parties.Political analyst Hemant Desai said though there are major differences within the MVA parties, retaining the number of MLAs would not be a problem. “It would be difficult even for the BJP to keep its number intact, especially when it is in the opposition. The BJP will review its support base before going for the election as it would be embarrassing if its number dwindled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-speaker-poll-mva-ministers-plan-strategy-bjp-quiet-on-plan-101625164537935.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Three of a family killed in accident on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||Three members of a family, including a three-and-a-half-year-old boy, died in a three-vehicle pile-up on Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Thursday evening. The accident took place at Borghat in Raigad district. The deceased — Joaquim Chettiar, 36; his wife Luiza, 35; and their son Jazial — were returning home to Naigaon near Vasai from Pune after an event when the accident took place, said police. “Around 5.10pm, the Chettiars were crossing Borghat area in their car when a trailer driver heading towards Mumbai lost control of his vehicle and hit a truck moving ahead of it. The truck then went ahead and rammed into Chettiar’s car,” said an officer from Khopoli police station. “The car then toppled on the road and caught fire within a few seconds. All three members of the family died on the spot. The trailer driver, Ramesh Nikam, also suffered injuries in the accident and was taken to MGM Hospital in Kamothe. He is under observation there,” he said. The police booked Nikam under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicles Act. “The Pune-Mumbai lane of the expressway saw traffic jam following that accident. We later removed the three vehicles from the road using a crane, and the traffic flow was normal after that,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-of-a-family-killed-in-accident-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-101625164358429.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees rise in property registrations in June at 7,857||The real estate sector in Mumbai recorded 7,857 property registrations in June, marking an increase as compared to May when the city recorded 5,360 registrations. However, the number was less compared to other months of the year as property registrations in February stood at 10,712, in March 17,449 and 10,136 in April.In June last year, only 1,839 units were registered.Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm, said it was better compared to June last year. “Despite the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic being severe than the first wave and lockdown duration as well as intensity being similar, there is a a stronger growth in property registrations post easing of lockdown restrictions compared to last year,” said Baijal. He said he was hopeful that things will improve in the coming days.The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI), an association of builders, said the numbers were less due to twin factors. “During the second wave, people saw deaths among close relatives and near and dear ones, which dissuaded many homebuyers from purchasing properties,” said Deepak Goradia, president of MCHI-CREDAI. “Homebuyers are also facing issues due to the slowdown in economy,” he said, adding, “The Government needs to reintroduce stamp duty waivers to boost sales.”The real estate sector has been facing a slowdown since several years and the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdowns have only made matters worse.The government had, in August last year, announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 till December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales in both primary and secondary markets. The state, however, refused to extend the provision further despite several requests.Shweta Thakker, chief sales and marketing officer at AhujaHIVE, a real estate firm of Ahuja Constructions, said the real estate sector will witness improvement in the coming months. “Many builders are giving discounts with added incentives such as booking amount refunds, statutory fees waivers, cashback schemes, easy payment structuring and assorted freebies. We are hopeful that the momentum will improve on basis of economic recovery and mass vaccination drive efforts,” said Thakker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-rise-in-property-registrations-in-june-at-7857-101625164357782.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may not table farm bill for approval in this monsoon session||The Maharashtra government may not table its proposed farm bill in the monsoon session of the state legislature for approval. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday hinted that the state’s proposed bill, intended to safeguard the interest of farmers, may not come up during the upcoming monsoon session. He said it should be brought up after deliberations with all stakeholders and making desired changes to protect farmers’ interest.The statement assumes significance as many farmer outfits in the state have urged the government to bring the bill only after having consultations with them. Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said the state will not go against farmers’ interest.Following stern opposition to the three contentious farm laws passed by the Central government and ongoing protests by the agrarian community against their implementation, Maharashtra has prepared a draft for its own legislation and was supposed to table the same in the monsoon session.However, farmer organisations requested the three-party ruling coalition to have a discussion on the proposed provisions before tabling it before the legislature. On Tuesday, a delegation led by former MP and farmer leader Raju Shetti met the Pawar, Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar and put forth their request for consultations on proposed provisions. They feared that the state’s own version of the farm bill has provisions which may go against their interest, such as allowing farm lands to be leased to private companies. They also demanded to bring a resolution opposing the three controversial farm laws of the Centre.“I am not sure if the farm bill can be brought in the two-day session. It is unlikely to come. It would be better if it is brought with desired changes after holding deliberations with all stakeholders,” Pawar told reporters.The former Union agriculture minister was interacting with media persons after virtually inaugurating DY Patil Agriculture and Technical University, Talsande, at an event held in Mumbai on Thursday. The event was presided over by Dr DY Patil, former governor of Bihar, Tripura and West Bengal.The NCP chief said the state has formed a group of ministers to take a decision on this issue and the group has started a dialogue with all stakeholders over the provisions. Recently, revenue minister Balsaheb Thorat and agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse held a discussion with him on the issue. “They (ministers) were of the view that there are complaints from farmers over certain provisions of the three farm laws, hence before approving the Centre’s legislations in the state, we should keep aside the objectionable provisions and rectify them by holding deliberations with all people concerned,” he said.There is also a view that if the state is making changes in the three farm legislations then there is no need to pass a resolution against the Central farm laws, the veteran leader further said.“Let the Centre do whatever they want to, but the state government will not do anything which is against the interest of the farmers,” CM Thackeray said while addressing an event in the backdrop of Maharashtra Agriculture Day on July 1.“We are of the opinion that if not minimum support price (MSP), farmers in Maharashtra should get special price for their produce,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-not-table-farm-bill-for-approval-in-this-monsoon-session-101625164298479.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||12-year-old from Alibag teaches kids via YouTube||Suhaima Bangara, a 12-year-old Class 7 student from Alibag, is busy with classes. Not as a student, but as a teacher. Bangara loves teaching and used to teach younger children in her society before the pandemic struck. She now teaches them through her YouTube channel, with each video on a chapter from the state board syllabus, and the lectures are free.A student of St Mary’s Convent School in Alibag, Bangara’s family hails from Kasargod in Kerala and settled down in Alibag. Her father Saleem, 43, runs a bakery while her mother Ruksana, 36, is a homemaker. “Teaching is my hobby and I started teaching children before the pandemic. After the pandemic, they stopped coming and I missed teaching. That’s when the thought of a YouTube channel for teaching the children came to my mind and I asked my parents about it. They too were excited,” she said.Bangara and her three siblings started a channel – Cappuccino BroSis – during the lockdown and it was mostly about them, small challenges they would take up and her elder brother Razeen, 16, would edit the videos. From there, she learnt the skills of video editing.“Small children usually get bored of online classes, hence I felt if a student taught them, it might interest them. Even if one child watches my videos and learns from them, I would be very happy,” she said.Her typical day is spending time with her siblings — three-year-old sister Swiyyah, nine-year-old Rehana and Razeen, making videos and studying.“I try to make a video every day and cover one chapter. On Saturdays and Sundays, I don’t make videos. On other days too, I do my studies first and then make the videos,” she said. Her sister Rehana, who studies in Class 4, sometimes helps her with the camera for shooting while she edits and uploads the videos herself. She uses an app to refer to the textbooks and till now, she has covered six chapters of English and three from Maths.Her parents are proud of her. “She is very fond of children and loves teaching them. We also motivate her to make videos. In a way, she is also brushing up her knowledge,” Ruksana said.Even as she aspires to be a paediatric doctor, she believes that she might always try to keep up with her teaching hobby somehow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12yearold-from-alibag-teaches-kids-via-youtube-101625164238346.html
02-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi suggests ‘memorial gardens’ across UP in honour of Covid casualties||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that all gram panchayats in the state should have a ‘Smriti Vatika (memorial garden) as mark of tribute to all those who died of Covid-19 in the state.He also said that trees of the Ramayana period should be planted along the Ram Van Gaman Marg that the state government was developing.Yogi said this while talking about an extensive tree plantation drive scheduled to start in the state on July 4, at the Covid-19 review meeting.Later, he attended a function to kick start the plantation drive. “Van Mahotsav is an occasion to remind us of our responsibilities towards environment. You might have noticed that closure we live to nature, greater is our ability to fight diseases,” he said after planting a sapling at a function during the day.“In all 75% to 90% of the saplings planted in the past 4 years have survived,” the CM said. The state has planned plantation of 30 crore saplings in Uttar Pradesh.“The Maharishi Valmiki Ramayana mentions about 88 species of trees on way from Ayodhya to Chitrakoot. We have chosen 30 of them keeping in view the climatic conditions in the state and shall be planed as part of the mega-plantation drive in the state particularly in Ayodhya, Prayagraj and Chitrakoot,” said chief conservator of forest, in a press statement.Trees that have been selected include Saal (Shorea Robusta), Mango (Mangifera Indica), Ashok (Saraca Indica), Kalpvriksh (Nyctanthes arbor-tristis), Mahua ((Madhuca Indica), Kathhal (Artocarpus heterophyllus), Asan (Terminalia tomentosa).The forest department has identified 35-hectare land in different places particularly to plant sapling of trees from the Ramayan era.“Work is going on to make pits and put up other necessary arrangements,” said the forest official.“Plantation will boost tourism on the way that was taken by Lord Ram after he left Ayodhya,” said the official.Under its mission for planting 30 crore saplings this year, the state will plant 25 crore of them on July 4, and within a week the target of 30 crore will be achieved, said a press statement from the state government.To achieve the target, different departments have been assigned the responsibility and chiefly forest department will plant 10.80crore saplings, rural development department 10.56 crore saplings, agriculture department 2.01 crore, horticulture department 1.33crore, Panchayati Raj 1.20 crore, revenue department 1.20 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-suggests-memorial-gardens-across-up-in-honour-of-covid-martyrs-101625161838514.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||‘Technical glitches’ on Delhi Metro's yellow, blue lines lead to delayed trains||“Technical glitches” delayed Delhi Metro services on the Yellow Line, connecting Huda City Centre and Samaypur Badli, and the Blue Line, running between Dwarka sector-21 and Noida Electronic City, adding on to the long lines outside stations along both stretches.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday said train services were not available on the Yellow Line stretch between Sikanderpur and Huda City Centre from 2.30pm to 3.30pm due to an “intermittent signalling issue”, while the Blue line services were running slow due to cable theft at Dwarka Sector 9.“The rest of the Yellow Line was running normal throughout this period and services were also restored on the affected section from 3.30pm onwards,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.While metro services remained suspended for an hour on the Yellow line stretch, commuters posted pictures of long queues and crowds swelling outside stations.“We have been waiting to get inside the station for the last 30 minutes. After the reopening, the wait outside stations has anyway increased and now these technical glitches are only adding to commuter woes,” said Pradip Kumar, a commuter at Huda City Centre.Blue line services were affected between Dwarka Sector 9 and Dwarka Sector 21 station. “Due to a cable theft issue at Dwarka sector-9, trains were running slow between Dwarka sector-9 and Dwarka sector-21,” a Metro spokesperson said on Thursday.The cascading effect of the delays was also seen outside stations such as Dwarka, Dwarka Mor, Nawada, Janakpuri (east and west), Uttam Nagar (east and west), Rajouri Garden and Tilak Nagar.Meanwhile, DMRC on Thursday said that after resuming services from June 7, following the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Metro has been running “almost empty trains” as they are only allowed to carry 10-15% of its passenger capacity.Blaming the restrictions for causing inevitable crowding outside stations, Metro said that the passenger load on the network too has increased since resumption of most economic activities in the city.“DMRC regrets the inconvenience caused to its passengers due to these restrictions. While appreciating the patience and cooperation exhibited by the passengers in such scenario, DMRC hopes that the situation will improve once the restrictions are relaxed by authorities,” said Dayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/technical-glitches-on-yellow-and-blue-lines-lead-to-delayed-trains-crowding-101625161178689.html
02-07-2021||Other||2 month excise fee waiver for bars, clubs that were shut during lockdown 2021||The Delhi government has issued an order for a two-month waiver of the excise license fee for bars in restaurants, hotels and clubs which were closed because of the lockdown that was imposed in the city in April in the light of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases that left the health infrastructure overwhelmed.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a lockdown in the NCT of Delhi and as per orders issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), all the bars in restaurants, hotels and clubs were closed w.e.f (from) April 16 to June 20,” said an order issued by the excise department of the Delhi government on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe order, a copy of which HT has seen, further said, “Considering the impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown on hotels and restaurants in Delhi, the competent authority (excise department), in view of the provisions of Rule 49 of the Delhi Excise Rules, has decided that the lockdown period (i.e 16.04.2021 to 20.06.2021) may be treated as deemed cancellation of licenses and accordingly the license fees paid by the licensees for the first quarter of 2021-22 (April 1 to June 30) may accordingly be adjusted towards license fees of the second quarter (July 1 to September 30).”Last month, the excise department directed the licensees to pay the fee for extension of their licence from July 1 to September 30.“For license holders who have paid full fees for the second quarter, the amount will be adjusted in the subsequent quarter (third),” said a senior official in the excise department.Restaurants, hotels and clubs which have bars have to pay in advance the excise license fees each quarter. The fees, under the current system, has a complicated structure which depends largely on slabs set on the basis of seating capacity. Delhi has around 840 restaurants, hotels and clubs which have licenses for a bar.In its Wednesday’s order, the excise department also extended the last date of payment of the licence fee for the second quarter from June 30 to July 31. The order will benefit licence holders of L-15/L-15 F, L-16/L-16F, L-17/L-17F, L-18/L-18F, L-19/L-19F, L-20/L-20F, L-28/L-28F, L-29/L-29, the order said.The department further directed them to pay the remaining amount of the licence fee of the second quarter (after adjustment) by July 31, failing which they will be charged double the quarterly fee.The move is expected to bring relief to hotels, restaurants and clubs which have faced losses in the light of the lockdown.“It is a welcome move. However, the government should have issued this order at least a few days ago because a large number of licensees have already paid full fees for the third quarter. We understand that the amount will be adjusted but in such times, any amount of locked working capital adversely affects business. We also hope that the government implements more measures aimed at boosting business of restaurants in the coming days,” said Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI).Liquor traders move HCThe Delhi Liquor Traders’ Association on Thursday moved the Delhi high court against the city administration’s move to float tenders to appoint new liquor retailers.Naresh Goyal, the president of the association, said, “Our main objection is that the Delhi government floated tenders to appoint new retailers without releasing the final approved version of the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021. The document has still not been made public. Only the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, has been made public through a notification which was issued on May 3. But the details of Delhi’s new excise system is only in the policy document which has not been shared with the public or the stakeholders.”Goyal said the court will hear the matter on Friday.HT on Tuesday reported that the Delhi government has floated tenders for new liquor retail licensees, paving the way for a range of sweeping reforms to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia, and improve customer experience. The new policy also reduces the legal drinking age from 25 to 21, although this can be implemented only after it is passed in the Delhi assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twomonth-excise-fee-waiver-for-bars-and-clubs-that-were-shut-during-this-year-s-lockdown-101625161178145.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||20-year-old man stabbed to death in front of father, brother||A 20-year-old man was stabbed to death by six men in front of his 55-year-old father and brother in Kewal Park area near Azadpur in north-west Delhi late on Wednesday night, the police said on Thursday.The police said the incident took place after Jai Pal Singh’s bike brushed past a truck near Kewal Park, leading to an argument with the driver of the truck. While Singh was talking to the mini-truck driver, six people who live near the crime scene, joined in. Though the truck driver left, the group got into an altercation with Singh over the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said it was not a case of road rage. “Neither did the issue concern them, nor did they know the driver of the tempo,” said Rangnani.An investigator said that when the six suspects started slapping and pushing Singh, he called his two sons — Pant Priya Sagar (22), and Dev Priya Sagar (20). The brawl intensified when the two reached the spot, said officers.While three suspects overpowered Singh and Pant, the other three caught Dev and stabbed him at least four times. As Dev collapsed, the attackers fled the spot. “Dev was taken to a nearby private hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The doctors said he was stabbed in his heart. A murder case was registered and investigation was taken up,” said the investigatorSince the attackers lived close to the crime scene, the police soon tracked them down and arrested them on Thursday morning. Two knives used in the crime were recovered, the officer said. Police identified the suspects as Sahil (25), Annu Kumar (21), Devender (18), Satyaveer Sharma (18), Akash Puniya (18), and Anurag (19).Another investigator said the six suspects were celebrating Annu Kumar’s birthday in a nearby park when they got involved in the argument between Singh and the mini-truck driver.Police said Singh, who lives with his family in Burari, was going towards Adarsh Nagar to meet his friends when his bike brushed past the mini-truck.Pant, who works with a private company dealing in used cars, said Dev graduated recently and was unemployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20yearold-man-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-father-brother-101625161060011.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Residents of Delhi have the right to feed stray dogs, high court rules||In a landmark judgment that could end ongoing fights between dog lovers and others in almost every neighbourhood of the Capital, and which could define how community dogs (the correct term for strays) are treated across the country, the Delhi High Court has ruled strongly in favour of humans’ best friends.In a June 24 judgment that was uploaded on its website on Thursday, a single judge bench of Justice JR Midha has addressed many of the contentious issues.One, the judgment says community dogs can be fed, and that animal lovers have the right to feed them, either in their independent driveways or porches, or in designated areas that they will have to work out with the local officials or the resident welfare associations -- with the caveat that these designated areas should be within the territory of the dogs.Two, it says vaccinated and sterilised dogs cannot be removed by the municipal corporation.Three, it places the onus on vaccinating and sterilising the animals on the municipal corporation, the resident welfare association, and local dog groups (almost every neighbourhood has a group of volunteers that feed dogs, vaccinate and sterilise them, usually at their own cost, and look after injured or ill ones). The order adds that sterilisation of such animals is a must to check over-population.Four, it asks the Animal Welfare Board of India to work with resident welfare associations to ensure that these are followed, and other provisions of the prevention of cruelty to animals law complied with.Five, it asks the local police and resident welfare associations to get involved in maintaining peace in the area between dog-lovers and other residents.The judgment comes on a property dispute between Maya D Chablani and Radha Mittal where an application was filed by the plaintiff to restrain the defendant from feeding community dogs near the entrance or exit of the suit property.However, Chablani, represented by advocate Abhishek Gusain, Mittal represented by advocate DK Pandey later resolved the dispute amicably with the help of amicus curiae advocate Pragyan Sharma and advocate Manisha T. Karia, for Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI).“The settlement between the parties on this issue has been recorded in the order dated May 5 according to which, defendant No 1 (Mittal) agreed to feed the stray dogs at point A at fixed times,” the court recorded in its judgment.Raunak Bhakkar, 30-year-old finance manager, said dogs are loyal animals and that they should be kept along in the colonies, and added that proper care should be taken of the canines which also guard our societies.Rima Barua, a communications manager in north Delhi said dogs in her society once chased her while she was returning late night after work. “ I think the authorities should revisit their guidelines so that other individuals do not have to pay the price for the same,” she said.“Community dogs (stray or street dogs) have the right to food, and citizens have the right to feed community dogs, but in exercising this right, care and caution should be taken to ensure it does not impinge upon the rights of others, or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of society,” the judgment said.Holding that “animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect and dignity”, the court said that community dogs are “territorial beings” having “right to food”.“We have to show compassion towards all living creatures. Animals may be mute but we as a society have to speak on their behalf. No pain or agony should be caused to the animals. Cruelty to animals causes psychological pain to them. Animals breathe like us and have emotions. The animals require food, water, shelter, normal behaviour, medical care, self-determination,” the judgment said.Highlighting the importance of the street dogs, Justice Midha said that they perform the role of community scavengers and also control rodent population in the area, thus preventing spread of diseases like Leptospirosis. Indeed, one of the reasons ascribed to the plague that struck Surat (which hasn’t been scientifically established) is that an aggressive community dog extermination drive could have contributed to the spread of the disease. The court also said that community dogs also play the “role of guards by protecting the community from the entry of outsiders or unknown people”.Atul Goyal, president of United Residents Joint Action (URJA), an apex body of RWAs, said a complete review of the present guidelines is required and a monitoring authority should be appointed to check the implementation of the policy that should be brought in force. It is a civil issue and should be solved amicably at the ground level among the civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-of-delhi-have-the-right-to-feed-stray-dogs-high-court-rules-101625160938670.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s power demand crosses 7,000MW mark, highest since 2019||Delhi’s peak power demand on Thursday crossed the 7,000MW mark, the highest in the last two years, even as officials in the power department said the demand may further go up to 7,400 MW, if the ongoing heatwave in the city continues.According to the power department’s website, Delhi’s peak power demand touched 7,026MW on Thursday at 3:30pm. It exceeded the previous high of 6,921MW for this year recorded on Wednesday.Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand was recorded at 6,314 MW on June 29. It was lower than the all-time high of 7,409 MW on July 2, 2019. In 2018, the peak demand was 7,016MW recorded on July 10.“Delhi’s peak power demand recorded last year (6314 MW) was lower because of the nationwide lockdown. Moreover, in June 2020, Delhi’s peak power demand crossed 6,000 MW only on one day that month. This year, however, Delhi’s peak power demand is expected to be in the range of 7,000 MW to 7,400 MW, though the estimates were around 7,900 MW,” said a power department official.The BSES discoms -- BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL), BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) -- said they successfully met the peak power demand of 2933 MW and 1598 MW, respectively, in their areas.Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited successfully met the peak power demand of 2039 MW, the highest so far this season, on Thursday afternoon without any network constraint and power outage, a TPDDL spokesperson said.The company has adequately prepared for the summer season by strengthening its power network and conducting preventive maintenance and condition based maintenance of all critical electrical installations, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-power-demand-crosses-7-000mw-mark-highest-since-2019-101625160938082.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police questions Sidhana over Republic Day violence at Red Fort||Delhi Police crime branch team probing the violence at the Red Fort during farmers tractor rally on Republic Day questioned Punjabi gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana on Thursday.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said Sidhana was questioned at the crime branch office for at least two hours in the afternoon. Police said he will be questioned again on Friday.“His lawyer contacted us and said he wanted to join the investigation. He came and we asked him some questions related to the investigation. He cannot be arrested because he has been granted interim protection for two weeks,” said the officer.This was the first time that police questioned Sidhana after the incident.A Delhi court had on Tuesday granted Sidhana protection from arrest until July 3 in connection with the Republic Day violence case. Sidhana was also granted interim protection from arrest till July 19 in another case of alleged violence during the tractor rally at Samaypur Badli.Delhi Police has accused Sidhana of being one of the main conspirators who instigated people to indulge in violence after storming the Red Fort on January 21. Many other alleged co-conspirators, such as Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, were arrested and are out on bail. Delhi Police had earlier announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to his arrest.Meanwhile, the crime branch on Wednesday arrested Buta Singh (25) who allegedly delivered inflammatory speeches, climbed the ramparts of the Red Fort and helped one of the accused persons, Jugraj Singh, hoist the religious and the farmers union flag during the Republic Day incident. Police said they were both friends and had reached Delhi together.Jugraj, who carries a reward of ₹1 lakh, is yet to be arrested till date.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured during the tractor rally on Republic Day when protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved route of the rally and clashed with police personnel when police stopped farmers from entering parts of Central and New Delhi. Many protesters also entered Red Fort and hoisted two flags -- a religious one and that of the farmers’ union at the ASI protected structure. While police have alleged that the violence on Republic Day was a well-planned conspiracy to defame the government, the farmer union leaders have rejected police’s allegations and said that some protesters, mainly youngsters, got carried away and went to the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-questions-sidhana-over-republic-day-violence-at-red-fort-101625160879613.html
02-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC tells cops to ensure woman who converted to Islam is safe||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the city police to ensure the safety of a 29-year-old woman from Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who alleged harassment from the UP police, media and vigilante groups after her wilful conversion to Islam.“…given the fact that she is a young girl, I deem it appropriate to issue a limited direction to adequately ensure to protect the life and safety of the petitioner,” Justice C Hari Shankar said.“This is a matter which appropriately should be taken by the regular bench as per the roster, given the nature of the averments in the petition. It is made clear that this vacation bench is not expressing any opinion one way or the other regarding the correctness of the said averments,” the court added.Appearing for the commissioner of police and SHO of Jamia Nagar, advocate Sameer Vashist told the court the woman gave them an incorrect address and phone number, so she could not be contacted.Advocate Tanya Aggarwal, appearing for the woman, told the court that her client is continuously changing her address as she is receiving threats from various fronts, including the media. She assured the court that her client’s current address and phone number would be provided to authorities for better assistance.The woman had approached the high court on June 29 seeking protection for herself and her family, claiming that they are facing life threats and alleged a witch hunt by the UP police, media and vigilante groups after her wilful conversion from Hinduism to Islam.The woman, who is working in Delhi, had said that because of her conversion, she and her family were being targeted and sought the court's directions to stop malicious content from being published in the media.“The petitioner (woman) is an adult and she is protected by the Constitution to choose her own faith and she cannot be targeted and harassed for the choice she makes with regard to the religion she follows,” said the petition, filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra.The plea said that Renu Gangwar, alias Ayesha Alvi, converted to Islam on May 27 in Delhi and since June 23, when she was in Shahjahanpur, she started getting calls from media persons requesting for a meeting.While she refused such requests, the plea claimed that media persons came to her place without her permission and took her photographs and videos, following which she started getting threat calls demanding money if she did not want news about her conversion, which they claimed would get her arrested, published in the media.The plea claimed one of them forcibly took ₹20,000 even as others too tried to extort money from her and her family. The plea further alleged that absurd and imaginary details are being reported in media regarding her conversion.The woman, in her plea, said she gave a complaint to the Delhi Police commissioner on June 24, seeking immediate intervention for her protection, but no action has been taken on her complaint yet.It sought direction to the authorities to ensure that the woman is not taken away from Delhi by force or coercion by any government agency or person, and sought protection for her and her family.The plea further sought direction to the media not to publish or broadcast any malicious content regarding her and not to divulge her personal details and also remove the contents already shown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-tells-cops-to-ensure-woman-who-converted-to-islam-is-safe-101625160878093.html
02-07-2021||Gurugram||Urban forest over 400 acres to come up in Aravallis||The forest department is planning to develop an urban forest over 400 acres in the Aravallis. They said that a proposal has been made in this regard, and it will be sent to the Haryana government within two weeks.Rajeev Tejyan, divisional forest officer for Gurugram, said, “We have made a proposal for developing a green forest in the district, which will be spread across mainly three villages — Sakatpur, Gairatpur Bas and Naurangpur — that are part of the Aravallis. We are focusing on developing native plant species here, so that the native flora and fauna can flourish here once again.”The forest department is planning to fence the entire forest, along with boundary walls, so that the forest area is not encroached upon, Tejyan added. “At present, Aravallis in this region mostly have alien and invasive species which affects the wildlife. The invasive species has blocked the movement of black buck, which was earlier found in this region. Once we plant native species like Ronjh, Kair, and Jaal in the forest, the original ecosystem of Aravallis can be developed. Also, fencing will help us in controlling biotic pressures, and will increase the survival rate of the plants... Biotic pressures such as grazing by cattle, illegal encroachments, and pathways through forest that lead to fragmentation, can be controlled.”Meanwhile, the forest department and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), along with three private firms, are working together to develop a nagar van (urban forest) in Chakkarpur area, officials said on Thursday. This will be an extension of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, covering over 200 acres, in the city.According to the project description, the urban forest will be developed at Sikanderpur/Chakkarpur Aravallis as per the guidelines of Nagar Van Yojana of Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Government of India. It will act as a place for providing a wholesome healthy living environment for the residents of Gurugram, and thus contributing to the growth of a green, clean, healthy and sustainable city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/urban-forest-over-400-acres-to-come-up-in-aravallis-101625160098307.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Pune civic body allows 135 hsg societies to organise vaccination camps||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has okayed around 135 housing societies to hold vaccination camps on the society premises. According to the civic body officials, the step to initiate vaccination at housing societies was taken to inoculate more beneficiaries in less time. As vaccination for 18 to 44 years started, many beneficiaries were facing issues to get themselves inoculated. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, PMC assistant medical officer (health), said that 135 housing societies had applied for private vaccination inside their premises. “We have given permission to all 135 societies so far. Societies which can afford immunisation are going ahead. We have kept no application pending as we are encouraging more vaccination,” said Dr Jadhav. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC chief of health department, said that housing societies can sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with private hospitals and set up vaccine camps. “Since there are many societies which can afford vaccination on their premises, we have given approval to all,” said Dr Bharti. Bharti said the “Vaccination on Wheels” drive is covering super spreaders and reaching areas where inoculation is low. “The intention is to give jabs to maximum number of people. Now that the vaccine supply is streamlined more vaccination is happening in the city,” said Dr Bharti. Abrarali Dalal, CEO, Sahyadri Hospitals, said that they recently did their first vaccination drive at a housing society. “The drive was in one of the societies at Rahatani, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area and the charges are ₹780. As of now, six societies have approached us and we have signed MoU with two,” said Dalal. Till June 30, Pune has inoculated 4,573,053 beneficiaries. On Wednesday, Pune inoculated 57,629 beneficiaries. Of these, 31,798 beneficiaries with first dose between the age group of 18 to 44 years. And 1,061 beneficiaries with second dose in the same age group. Last week, over 50,000 beneficiaries were inoculated each day in Pune district. In PMC limits, on an average over 35,000 beneficiaries daily were inoculated in the past few days. To step up vaccination for those who are not getting slots booked, PMC has started vaccination drive at slum areas. They aim to reach 390 spots to encourage Covid vaccination in slum areas across the city. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that Pune district received 125,000 doses of Covishield on Thursday. “Along with this, 35,000 doses of Covaxin were also given to Pune district. These doses are going to be sufficient for the next few days. The new stock may come by July 5,” said Dr Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcallows-130-hsg-societies-to-hold-vax-camps-101625157097803.html
02-07-2021||Pune||Merger of 23 villages in PMC: Demand rises for additional water allocation||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has demanded increase in water allocation for the Pune city post merger of 23 villages within the municipal limits. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “It was expected that while handing over the 23 villages, the state government would allot funds and increase water supply quota to the city. However, there was no mention of it after the final merger notification was released. Our previous demand for water was 18.96 TMC (thousand million cubic feet), but now we would need more water.” The allocated annual water quota for Pune is 14.5 TMC, but the city’s existing need is more than 18 TMC per annum. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “It is natural that after merging the new villages, the city’s water demand will increase. Even today, it is getting tough to provide water for the previously merged 11 villages. After merging 11 villages, PMC demanded 18.96 TMC water and the city would need more supply and we would officially submit a proposal to the irrigation department.” One of the officials from the water department said on anonymity, “Though the population in the merged 23 villages is looking less, post notification these new areas will soon become crowded in a few years. With development, construction activity would increase in these villages and so would the requirement of water.” Rasne said, “I have instructed the water department to prepare an estimate of water stock requirement and will follow it up with the state government. We welcome the merger move though it is politically motivated. Now, we appeal to the state and opposition parties to join hands with PMC to grant more water allocation for the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/merger-of-23-villages-demand-rises-for-additional-water-allocation-101625156018948.html
02-07-2021||Pune||PMC seeks Rs9,000 cr from state govt for development of new 23 merged villages||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has officially sought Rs9,000 crore financial assistance from the state government for the development of the new 23 villages merged within the civic limits. The civic administration will require the funds for the development of water supply network, sewage lines, streetlights, road development, hospitals, gardens and creating other civic amenities in these areas. PMC city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “We have demanded the state government to give additional funds for the development of the merged areas. Even during the meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the PMC administration had put forth the facts and demanded state’s help post merger of these villages.” The civic administration has carried out surveys of the merged areas by various departments and tabled the work that needs to be carried out in these villages. As the merged areas are scattered, PMC would need to spend more on infrastructure creation, according to the civic body authorities. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The merger plan was initiated in 1995, but the Congress and the NCP opposed it at that time. If these villages were merged at that time, the areas would have been developed. Now, its our responsibility to create amenities in these areas. When the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took the decision to merge 11 villages in 2017, PMC demanded help from the state government. Now, we are making the same demand to provide Rs10,000 crore for development of these areas.” PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC budget is Rs8,370 crore. Revenue has dipped because of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Hence, it is difficult to create infrastructure in the existing areas and elected members are demanding financial assistance under development funds. Besides, the municipal commissioner is seeking cuts in development projects to meet the civic needs. Hence, under these financial constraints, it is the responsibility of the state government to provide funds to the civic body. Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) should also release the funds that it collected from these villages to the municipal corporation.” One of the officials said on anonymity, “Major issues faced by merged villages is rampant development and illegal constructions. Many roads are narrow. PMC would need to give priority for road widening and check on illegal constructions. The civic body would need to reserve lands first for creating public amenities like roads, gardens, schools and hospitals as there is open space available in these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-seeks-rs9-000-cr-from-state-govt-for-development-of-new-23-merged-villages-101625154877041.html
02-07-2021||Pune||June sees slight recovery in production levels of Pune firms||If April and May saw a reflection of restrictions in production levels of various firms in Pune district, the 15th survey conducted by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in June, showed that average current levels of production has increased slightly from 70 per cent in May to now, 73 per cent. A total of 150 organisations participated in this survey from Pune district. While there is an uptick in production levels from April and May, industries have yet to reach the recovery peak of 85 per cent in February-March of this calendar year, according to Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA. “There is some recovery seen this month as compared to April and May. “There is still a long way to go before we reach the peak recovery levels as seen in February-March 2021, and then further growth. In the next few weeks, we look forward to an accelerated vaccination drive to help reduce fear and uncertainty, leading to an increase in economic activity and thereby increasing demand in the economy. “Having resolved most supply-side issues in the unlocking process, MSMEs are now awaiting a boost in demand to increase their production levels,” said Girbane. On an average, the companies surveyed said that the number of employees working has increased from 70 per cent in May to 77 per cent in June 2021, as unlocking allowed some services industries to resume activities to a certain extent. The peak of recovery for employees deployed was at 86 per cent in February-March this calendar year. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to be the same as they were pre-pandemic. As many as 23 per cent of the companies said their production was already at pre-Covid levels, while 53 per cent of the respondents said that they expect their production levels to go back to the pre-Covid levels in up to six months. A total of 24 per cent said it would take more than six months. Organisations surveyed were micro, small, medium and large-scale, at 20 per cent, 26 per cent, 23 per cent and 31 per cent, respectively. A total of 66 per cent of the organisations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector, 17 per cent from the services sector, involved in both manufacturing and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/june-sees-slight-recovery-in-production-levels-of-pune-firms-101625150916679.html
02-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai couple arrested for diverting firm’s money into their accounts||The Mumbai Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested a couple, who worked as assistant managers with United India Insurance Company, for allegedly siphoning off ₹120 crore over the years.Initially, the fraud money reported in first information report (FIR) was ₹8.09 crore, but later during EOW’s probe it was revealed that the accused couple siphoned off over ₹120 crore from the company’s account. The main accused, Khushel Singh, looked after the accounts of the company’s corporate cell. His wife has been identified as Neelam Singh.Also Read | HC raps agencies over progress in Dabholkar and Pansare murder casesThe couple is accused of diverting money into their seven personal accounts. Investigators said Singh also allegedly diverted funds to some other individuals. An officer said details of these people were being obtained and the fraud amount may go up.“We are also checking how Singh managed to dodge the audit system of the company to ensure the unauthorised transactions went undetected,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-couple-arrested-for-diverting-firm-s-money-into-their-accounts-101625147317111.html
