03-07-2021||Other||Electric golf carts may ply in Chandni Chowk to help elderly shoppers||New Delhi: The Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) has proposed to run electric vehicles similar to golf carts with a vintage look on the revamped stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, which has been made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles, officials privy to the matter said.SRDC is the nodal agency constituted for the redevelopment of the heritage market. According to the minutes of a June 30 meeting — attended by Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain, who is also the chairman of SRDC, corporation officials, and traffic and transport department officials — a concept note has been prepared for running low-speed electric golf carts with a maximum speed of 25-30 km per hour to help the elderly who visit the market. Officials from the transport department are expected to apprise the Delhi high court about the proposal. The cart service will be free. “Commissioner (Transport) suggested that Hon’ble High Court may be apprised about the intent of the government to ply Electric Golf Carts in the restricted area for elders and infirm while simultaneously making detailed deliberations,” according to the minutes, which HT has seen. Conceived in 2006, the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project was launched after a prolonged delay in December 2018 following the directions the Delhi high court which is also monitoring the project. In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric and other cables were shifted underground, and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed.During the meeting, officials also discussed that for public roads which have been made pedestrian exclusive zones, running non-motorised vehicles can be considered on lines of the restricted zone around Taj Mahal in Agra.Jain suggested that the agency could explore possible tie-ups with various traders’ associations of the market for operating electric vehicles. Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said the association has started approaching companies for CSR initiatives with regard to the introduction of electric vehicles. “The idea of introducing electric vehicles sounds promising. We are looking forward to this and will approach private players for CSR activities who can present innovative designs,” said Bhargava. In addition to initiatives aimed at boosting pedestrianisation in the market, consultations with private hotel chains are underway for plantation drives in the area this month. Jain approved the horticulture initiatives and directed that they be completed by 25 July. Delhi governments public works department (PWD) will extend support for plantation and maintenance. During the meeting, it was also decided that PWD officials will review the status of arterial roads such as Church Mission Road and Esplanade Road for maintenance and improvement by mid-July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/electric-golf-carts-may-ply-in-chandni-chowk-to-help-elderly-shoppers-101625336577956.html
03-07-2021||Other||UP man booked for marrying minor Hindu girl after concealing religious identity||An 18-year-old man was booked while five of his family members were arrested on the complaint of the father of a 16-year-old Hindu girl, who alleged that the man kidnapped his daughter and married her while concealing his real religious identity, police said on Friday.The main accused-- Qasim Qureshi of Nareerabad Colony in Agra-- is absconding while his father, mother, two brothers and one sister have been arrested for colluding with him in this act, they said. “The parents of the girl, a resident of a locality within limits of Hariparvat police station in Agra city, lodged a complaint that their 16-year-old daughter was befriended by Qureshi who had introduced himself as Sonu Yadav. About 15 days back the girl went missing following which the parents launched a search operation. However, no case was lodged at that time by the parents. They later found that the man was a Muslim and had hid his real identity to marry the girl,” said SP City Rohan Pramod Botre.The SP city added that the girl returned home on July 1 and said Qureshi married her and even impregnated her.“On Friday, a case was registered under section 120B, 363, 376 and 420 of Indian Penal Code besides section ¾ of POCSO Act as the girl is minor. Because of religious conversion on ground of concealed identity, provision of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 has also been added,” said the SP City.Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Agra North, Purshottam Khandelwal, who was instrumental in lodging of the case, demanded strict action against the accused and his early arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upman-booked-for-marrying-minor-hindu-girl-after-concealing-religious-identity-101625335857962.html
03-07-2021||Other||Maoist attack mining area in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur, one killed||Maoists attacked an iron ore mining site in Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday and killed an employee of a private firm after torching vehicles and machinery, police said on Saturday.Police said that an exchange of fire took place between the Maoists and security personnel on Saturday.“The incident took place in Dongar hills in Aamdai Ghati where Jayaswal Neco Industries Limited (JNIL) has been allotted an iron ore mine. Maoists attacked the site around 10 am and set fire to four Poclain excavator machines and two Hyva trucks besides other machinery deployed for the construction work,” a press note issued by police stated.The release further stated that there were 14 workers at the spot. “Maoists thrashed supervisor Pradip Sheel to death with sticks and also injured some others,” police said.Police said that after being alerted about the incident, a team of security forces from a nearby police camp set off for the spot. Reinforcement was rushed to the spot and 13 workers, along with the body of the dead employee, were taken to Chhote Dongar police station. A search operation is underway to trace the rebels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoist-attack-mining-area-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-one-killed-101625335439396.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Restaurants seek weekend relaxations, write to CM||Noida: The restaurant owners in the city have asked the Uttar Pradesh government for allowing them to open their establishments on weekends.Varun Khera, head of the National Restaurants Association of India (Noida chapter), said that he has written to the UP chief minister in this regard. “Under the new guidelines, restaurants are still not permitted operations on weekends. However, with the decline in Covid numbers and improvement in overall situation, we humbly request you to consider permitting the opening of restaurants on weekends as well,” states the letter signed by Khera.After a gap of 50 days, shopping malls and restaurants in Gautam Budh Nagar had been allowed to reopen from June 21 with 50% capacity. However, they were asked to operate their businesses from Monday to Friday between 7am and 9pm. As per Khera, while it has been almost two weeks since the restaurants and eateries in GB Nagar reopened, the business has not picked up. “We are still running in losses. Weekend crowd is a major revenue source for any restaurant. If we are allowed to operate on weekends at 50% capacity, it will be a big respite for the hospitality industry. In GB Nagar, there are at least 200 restaurants and eateries that are struggling to survive. We hope our request can be considered,” he said.Vicky Saluja, who runs a restaurant-cum-bar in Sector 18, said that the restaurants were expecting that relaxations would be given from July 1. “I had not reopened my establishment on June 21, as I was waiting for complete restrictions to be lifted. I was hoping that the weekend curfew will be removed by July 1 as cases have gone down. However, since no such announcement has been made, we are disappointed. But I will be reopening my restaurant on Monday,” said Saluja.District excise officer Rakesh Bahadur Singh said that bars in GB Nagar are allowed to operate from 10am till 9pm on weekdays.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the decision to allow operations of restaurants on weekends lies with the government. “Presently, the weekend curfew stands as it is. I am aware that a request has been made by NRAI to the chief minister regarding it,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-restaurants-seek-weekend-relaxations-write-to-cm-101625335077822.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Noida forest department offers free plants from its nurseries||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department said it will give away plants for free from its nurseries from July 4, the day the district will observe a mass plantation drive, to maximise the year’s plantation target. Residential organisations and institutes can avail of the free plants till July 31 through the development authority concerned in the district.The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier set the annual plantation target for this year at 300 million throughout the state, to be held. Of this, Gautam Budh Nagar has a target of planting 1,026,955 saplings on Sunday. This year’s drive is to be held on July 4.“We have decided to give away free plants from our departmental nurseries to the general public so that they can carry out plantation drives in their localities or high-rise societies. For this, they will have to write a proposal to the respective authority, which will forward the proposal to us, after which the saplings will be provided. We are reaching out to the concerned officials of the authority regarding the same,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.He added that there are over 12 lakh saplings at government nurseries in the district, of which about eight lakh saplings have been kept on reserve for different departments for the mega plantation drive, which is to be carried out on Sunday. Of these, the forest department plans to plant over 325,836 saplings on Sunday.Though the plants will be made available from Sunday, they are above and beyond the mass plantation target for the day for GB Nagar, said officials. “If we keep all reserves, aside there are over 400,000 saplings of 35 different species that we are offering to the residents of the city. These include Arjun, Jamun, Guava, Kanji, Amla, Pomegranate, Neem, etc. We encourage and urge people to come forward and participate,” Srivastava said, adding. “We have enough stock at our six different nurseries to give away. The initiative is being taken to promote plantation throughout the month and increase the green cover of the city.”Officials from Noida authority, meanwhile, confirmed they have received a communication from the forest department.“The forest department’s target is to plant over 300,000 plants. A total of 26 different public departments will be carrying out the drive, of which 19 departments have been given a set target,” Srivastava added.“Though we have received a letter from the forest department, there is some confusion – if the free plants are only for organisations or residential bodies or for the general public as well. We will have this clarified,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty, health, Noida authority.Last year on July 5, the district saw a massive plantation drive wherein over 936,000 saplings were planted against a target of 850,000 lakh with the help of different staff, paramilitary, and hired help.The massive plantation drive in UP was started in 2019 – the first one was held on August 15 – wherein eight lakh saplings were planted through at least 26 different public departments in the district. The aim of the drive is to increase the green cover of the state to 15% (36,146 square kilometre) of its geographical area by 2021, from the 12.09% as of 2019 (29,133.5 sqkm).Of its total geographical area of 1,282 sqkm, Gautam Budh Nagar has 19.99 sqkm (1.56%) of the area under green cover. The city has a total of five moderate dense forests, (density 70-40%), while 15 are open forest (39%-10% density).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-forest-department-offers-free-plants-from-its-nurseries-101625335017895.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Noida to get deputy registrar office for societies soon||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday directed to set up an office of the Deputy Registrar (Firms, Societies and Chits) in Noida. The move will help residents get the issues involving their resident bodies resolved in a timely manner.Currently, the hearing of disputes related with residential bodies, including apartment owners associations (AOAs) and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), in all districts of Meerut division -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Bhagpat -- takes place only at the deputy registrar office in Meerut. Various residential bodies in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad had been demanding for an office in Noida so that they do not have to travel to Meerut. “This decision was long awaited. We face a lot of issues as the deputy registrar office is in Meerut. We hope its new office will begin functioning soon. There are hundreds of AOAs and RWAs in the district that will benefit, and residents also can get an easy say in dispute cases,” said Rajiva Singh, president of the Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of at least 70 AOAs.There are at least 400 RWAs and AOAs in GB Nagar, Singh said. Dilip Gupta, deputy registrar (Meerut division), said, “We will set up our office in Noida soon which will function for two days in a week as per the government order. I cannot comment further on the development.”There are around 100,000 societies registered with the Meerut office. “We had put forth the demands of residents before the chief minister with regard to setting up of an office of deputy registrar in Noida, and the same has been accepted. Now, residents can get speedy justice,” said Pankaj Singh MLA, Noida.Police officials have also welcomed the government’s decision. “RWA or AOA disputes often take ugly turn and become a law and order problem. Now, addressing such issues in Noida office will be easier due to better coordination,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida. Some experts feel that setting up a deputy registrar office in Noida will take a long time. “I do not understand how the government will provide adequate staff in Noida. If they hire new staff, it will take time. The process of setting up the office should be prompt,” said Mangreram Bhati, a member of GB Nagar Bar association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-get-deputy-registrar-office-for-societies-soon-101625334898415.html
03-07-2021||Noida||After over 14 months, active Covid-19 cases below 25 in GB Nagar||NOIDA: The last time the number of active Covid-19 cases Gautam Budh Nagar was below 25 was on March 22, 2020, when the count was 24. It took the district about 14-odd months to come below that mark again, with active cases below 22 on July 2, 2021.The first case of the coronavirus disease was recorded on March 8, 2020. In that month, there were no deaths, while a total of 38 cases were reported, with an average of 1.58 cases per day. From then on, the monthly tallies kept rising up to a peak of 5,797 cases in October last year, with 15 deaths and an average of 187 cases per day for the month. After this, the cases counts declined and rose up again during the second wave of the pandemic seen this year. From 175 cases and zero Covid deaths in February 2021, the tally saw a sharp incline to 15,232 cases and 121 deaths in April, and 21,024 cases and 238 deaths in May. In June 2021, however, the monthly tally fell drastically to 698 cases and 16 deaths. The first two days of July, meanwhile, saw only six cases and zero deaths. According to district magistrate, Suhas LY, “We are now preparing for the anticipated third wave, if it comes at all. Our focus will be on reducing the number of deaths as during the second wave, the district recorded as many as 375 deaths. For that, we are ensuring maximum contact tracing and testing nearly 4,000 people every day. While the recovery rate in GB Nagar is still over 99%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is only 0.73%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.32%,” he said.The DM further said that till date, as many as 1,308,908 samples have been tested in the district. “We’ve so far taken as many as 945,903 people under surveillance. As far as vaccination is concerned, it’s going on at various booths despite limited stock available. Till Friday, as many as 1,110,399 doses had been administered in the district, in which 1,059,475 people have taken their first dose. On Friday, as many as 13,590 people were vaccinated at different private and government health centres in the district, of which 6,397 doses of vaccines were administered at 36 government health centres,” he said. Echoing similar views, chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, said that due to state-wide paucity of vaccines, it is unlikely to start any major vaccination drive at least in the coming fortnight. The state headquarters have to evenly distribute the available stock of vaccines, so we could get altogether 24,000 doses only on Friday, which will be used for vaccination of 6,000 people for four days. Till a bigger stock arrives, we’ll continue vaccination with the available doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-over-14-months-active-covid-19-cases-below-25-in-gb-nagar-101625334897846.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Noida weather: Respite from heat wave to continue, more rains likely||Noida: Noida and its adjoining areas received some respite from the heat wave on Saturday as the mercury dropped by 4°C over the past 24 hours due to the drizzling, the weather department said.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the respite is likely to continue as cloudy weather is likely to persist for the next few days.The southwest monsoon is, however, not inching towards the National Capital Region anytime before July 7.“The heat waves have abated due to rainfall activities. There is a western disturbance at the lower level, and a trough from Rajasthan to Nagaland that is passing through Delhi. This weather condition is likely to persist for a few days, leading to light rainfall till July 5. Sunday may also see some drizzling. The monsoon, however, is yet to advance from the Himalayan foothills,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Noida saw recorded two millimetre of rain till Saturday morning.The IMD recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida on Saturday at 38.3°C and 26.4°C, against 42.3°C and 31.7°C a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 38.6°C and 24.1°C, respectively.The air quality of the region, meanwhile, saw a massive improvement. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida was 186 on Saturday, while Greater Noida’s was 158 and Ghaziabad’s was 164. Just a day before, the AQI was 283 for Noida, 291 for Greater Noida and 334 for Ghaziabad. An AQI level from zero to 50 is considered ‘good’, between 50 and 100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-weather-respite-from-heat-wave-to-continue-more-rains-likely-101625334779173.html
03-07-2021||Other||ED issues third summons to ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued the third summon to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with an alleged money laundering case linked to a purported bribery racket operated through dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze.A senior ED officer, confirming the development, said that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has been asked appear before investigators at ED’s south Mumbai office at 11am on July 5. The agency has also summoned Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh on Tuesday.Deshmukh had failed to visit the agency’s office for questioning despite two summons. Through his lawyers, he had sought documents pertaining to ED’s complaint against him and also requested the agency to record his statement online. Both his requests were turned down by the agency. Deshmukh had earlier denied all the allegations against him in the past and claimed that he is cooperating with ED.The central agency on June 26 had arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde on the grounds that they have “deep knowledge” of all of Deshmukh’s activities. The duo is in ED’s custody till July 6.The agency has claimed that it has found that Vaze had collected ₹4.7 crore from various orchestra bar owners in Mumbai for the “smooth functioning of the bars”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two Delhi-based brothers who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that the brothers, at the behest of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh, diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.ED has claimed that while collecting money from bar owners, Vaze told them that a part of the amount was to go to “No 1”, the crime and the social service branches of Mumbai Police. The anti-money laundering agency has also said that Vaze – who is currently in Taloja jail in connection with his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hirani murder cases – in his statement to ED claimed that Deshmukh had called him to the latter’s official residence and instructed him to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments.ED has also identified 24 private entities that are directly and indirectly controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money had been transferred to them. “From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers, and it can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The agency also said that during Palande during his interrogation admitted that a meeting was held on March 4 with police officers, in which a discussion with regard to Covid-19 restrictions on bars had taken place. Palande in his statement also allegedly said that Deshmukh had a role in transfer postings of police officers, especially with respect to those belonging to the IPS (Indian Police Service) ranks. However, the defence lawyer had refuted this allegation.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered based on an FIR (first information report) by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him on April 21. CBI had started the probe after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the NCP leader ran an “extortion racket” in Mumbai and had instructed some officers to collect ₹100 crore for him every month from various establishments. Deshmukh had called the allegations false and claimed that Singh levelled the accusations only after he was shunted out from the Mumbai Police chief’s post for his “poor” handling of the Antilia explosives scare and Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-issues-third-summons-to-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101625334778526.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Three arrested with illegal weapons||Greater Noida: Police on Saturday arrested three persons and recovered a huge cache of illegal weapons and raw materials allegedly from their possession in Greater Noida (West). The suspects had allegedly procured the raw materials and equipment to set up a firearm factory in Meerut, the police said.According to the deputy commissioner of police (crime) of Gautam Budh Nagar, Abhishek, who goes by a single name, the police received intelligence inputs that the suspects would be going to Meerut from Ghaziabad via Gautam Budh Nagar. “A SWAT team, along with the Bisrakh police, were deployed near Shahberi village to check for the suspects. Three suspects reached the spot in a car. The police checked the vehicle and found 10 illegal pistols, 80 cartridges, and other raw materials and equipment on them,” he said.The suspects were identified as Aftab, 40, Shakeel, 36 and Saghir, 35, all residents of Bhatta area in Ghaziabad. Police said Aftab and Saghir’s day job was running a jewellery shop while Shakeel works as a fitter. The suspects allegedly used to manufacture the weapons in Ghaziabad and had recently planned to set up the factory in Meerut, police added. During interrogation, the suspects allegedly revealed that they used to buy the raw materials from a resident of Delhi, and sold the furnished weapons to another suspect, who sold them further.“On Saturday, they were going to meet the suspect to whom they sold furnished weapons, to discuss the modalities of setting up an illegal gun factory in Meerut. This suspect is a seasoned criminal and was arrested under Arms Act in 2010 in Delhi. He was sent to jail and when he was released, he again got involved in illegal activities,” the DCP said.Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said the three arrested suspects allegedly used to copy foreign pistol’s modals and made duplicates. “The suspects sold each pistol for up to ₹1 lakh to people. Primary investigation shows that the gang has sold around 500 illegal pistols in the past few years,” Chauhan said.The three suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have launched a search for their two accomplices who are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-three-arrested-with-illegal-weapons-101625334777843.html
03-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra politics heats up ahead of Assembly Speaker poll on July 6||Political developments in Maharashtra over the past few days have led to speculations over the fate of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. A series of meetings are happening in both the camps – between key leaders from the state’s ruling parties as well as among Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Mumbai and Delhi – fuelling speculations ahead of the monsoon session of the state legislature beginning on Monday, and the crucial election of the Speaker of Legislative Assembly, which is likely on July 6. MVA leaders are also alleging that the BJP-led Centre is trying to destabilise the government through central investigative agencies. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) seems to be closing in on NCP leader and former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s relatives are under scanner of investigating agencies as the purchase of a cooperative sugar unit in an auction is being probed. ED has also taken action against Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills, which is believed to be under control of Pawar’s relatives. It is part of the alleged irregularities in the Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank – the apex bank of cooperative banks in the state – which is under the control of NCP and Congress. State BJP has also demanded a CBI probe against Pawar and transport minister Anil Parab – a close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray – to investigate corruption charges levelled against them by former Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze. Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik is facing action by ED in a money laundering case. State BJP leaders are predicting the MVA government to fall in the next few weeks. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis’s frequent visits to Delhi have further fuelled the speculations. The action against the MVA government leaders prompted key leaders from the ruling parties to deliberate on how to handle the current crisis and counter the BJP-led Central government’s offensive against it. MVA leaders are also suspecting that the BJP would try encourage defections in NCP or Sena to pull down the government. The pressure being built by investigation agencies is being seen by them as BJP’s attempts to break MVA to pull down its government. NCP chief Sharad Pawar met Thackeray early this week, followed by several rounds of meeting between top state leaders from the three parties. Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut’s meetings with Pawar and Thackeray are also considered to be significant amid the developments. “The leaders mainly discussed the action against Deshmukh and the threat of similar action against other leaders. A deliberation over combating pressure from the Centre was primarily held. The leaders discussed the counter plan by similar actions against BJP leaders by using the files and cases of corruption that had evolved during their five-year rule,” said a senior Congress leader. A section of the leaders from the three ruling parties also feel that they should aggressively go after BJP leaders to combat the action initiated by the central agencies against their leaders. One of the senior leaders from the ruling parties, during their recent meeting, believably compared the pressure tactics by BJP against West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and expressed the need to go her way. In these backdrops, the Speaker’s election is being seen as a crucial event. The defeat of the MVA candidate would lead to the collapse of Thackeray government. In their meetings, MVA leaders also discussed about the risk of cross-voting and the drop in the support of legislators during the election to the post of speaker. BJP leaders have dared MVA to prove their majority on the floor of the House during the election to the speaker. It would be a Herculean task before the ruling parties to retain the number – 169 – garnered during the confidence vote in November 2019, when the government was formed. Polling fewer votes on the floor of the Assembly than the 2019 trust vote figure would indicate trouble for the ruling coalition. “It would not just be embarrassing for the ruling parties even if the number dropped even by a few votes, but would also lead to an uncertainty among our legislators. BJP will pull out all the stops to orchestrate a split in MVA, especially in the backdrop of the letter by Sarnaik. All the three ruling parties will have put all their strength behind to ensure the victory in the poll,” said an NCP leader. In his letter to CM, Sarnaik had mentioned that Congress and NCP are “trying to weaken the coalition and there seems to be veiled support from the Centre” “The speaker will be from Congress and we will win the election with majority,” state Congress chief Nana Patole said. However, BJP’s Ashish Shelar dared the ruling parties to hold the Speaker’s election and said that they will ensure MVA’s defeat on the floor of the House. Fadnavis said that his party would open the cards at an appropriate time. “It is not clear if the MVA is in position to face the election. Let them announce it first. We will open our cards after it,” he said. Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi this week has led to further speculations. A section of BJP leaders feels that even if political developments in Maharashtra do not happen immediately, they are bound to happen in the near future. “Fadnavis has made it clear that he would not be part of the Union cabinet, which is expected to be expanded in the next few days. It seems that he has convinced the party high command that changes in Maharashtra are possible only if he is camped in the state. Secondly, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections are very crucial for us and they are likely to be fought under Fadnavis. The state leadership feels that BMC is Shiv Sena’s weak point and it could be exploited to come back in power in the state. If pulling the government down is not possible immediately, it could happen in the near future,” a senior BJP leader and former minister said. Raut has rubbished the speculations. “Leaders keep meeting their political bosses from the party. Dialogue between leaders from different parties is also not new to our political culture. There’s nothing more to read from these meetings. MVA government is doing well and will complete its term. We are not going to bow to the pressure by the Centre, which has been using Central agencies against us,” Raut said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that though BJP is trying to topple the government, it is unlikely to succeed anytime soon. “I don’t think there will be any immediate political development in the state. BJP is trying to use or misuse Central agencies to destabilise the government in Maharashtra. If it cannot topple the government, its aim is to at least defame the ruling parties and capitalise the situation in the next election. BMC elections, scheduled to be held early next year, are crucial for BJP and Shiv Sena, and the political happenings in the run up to the polls are likely to be crucial,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-politics-heats-up-ahead-of-assembly-speaker-poll-on-july-6-101625334537852.html
03-07-2021||Other||BKU farmers oppose Khattar’s Karnal visit||A group of farmers protested against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar before his arrival for a party meeting in Karnal on Saturday.The protesters allegedly removed BJP flags from Ramgarhia Chowk that were put up a few meters from the venue and replaced them with the Tricolour. Police took a few of the protesters into preventive custody, and later released them.The CM was in Karnal to attend multiple programmes including the first meeting of the BJP district executive committee. The Karnal administration had kept details of the CM’s visit a secret.Local BKU (Charuni) functionary Jagdip Singh Aulakh said the farmers will continue to oppose the visit of BJP and JJP leaders till the Centre’s three farm laws are revoked.Speaking to the media, Khattar said that he reviewed the progress report of the organisation members and party workers were told about the achievements of the government.On possibility of talks with farmers, he said, “The government is always ready to hold talks with the farmers, barring repeal of the farm laws.”On a Congress MLA meeting Vivek Bansal in New Delhi, Khattar said that dynasty politics is an old tradition of Congress, which is still on.HAD NO INTENTION TO CALL KHATTAR PAKISTANI: CHARUNIMany farmers from Chandigarh and adjoining regions rushed towards the protest sites near Delhi.At Ambala Cantt’s Mohra Mandi, local farmers gathered to welcome the contingent and a few joined them for Delhi.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said the government should not think that the farmers have returned back in fact the urban population that supports our cause has joined them.On him calling CM Khattar “Pakistani”, Charuni said he had no intention to do so and the statement was intentionally dramatised.“What I had said is - if the CM had migrated from Pakistan, will we call him Pakistani?” Charuni said.“Khattar had said that only residents of Haryana living at Khori village in Faridabad will be rehabilitated. I told them that most of them are from other states and are living here for the last 15-20 years. They were born on this planet and will live here only, not on moon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-farmers-oppose-khattar-s-karnal-visit-101625334478493.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Businessman’s luxury car snatched in Noida||Noida: A 35-year-old businessman was robbed of his car, mobile phone by three unidentified men at gunpoint near Sector 76 metro station early Saturday. According to police, the victim, Amandeep Singh, who runs a restaurant in Sector 51, was returning home in Noida’s Sector 47 from Sector 78 when the incident took place.A case was registered at Sector 49 police station. Vinod Kumar Singh, SHO, Sector 49, said: “He dropped his friend at 4.30am and was returning when the incident took place.”While returning, Amandeep stopped near a drain opposite Sector 76 metro station to relieve himself when three unidentified suspects on a motorcycle reached the spot and robbed him of his car, a BMW model, and mobile phone at gunpoint and fled the spot, police said.They added that the victim informed the police with the help of a passerby.Rajesh S, DCP, Noida, said a team reached the spot and launched a search but the suspects managed to escape with the car. “We have registered a case against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC. We have formed four teams and scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby to identify the suspects,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/businessmans-luxury-car-snatched-in-noida-101625334417866.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Two killed, six injured as car hits truck on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: Two persons died while six others were injured when their multi-utility vehicle (MUV) allegedly hit a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway on Friday. Police said that the speeding MUV was going to Faridabad from Darbhanga in Bihar when the accident took place in the Jewar area. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that the eight persons were travelling in a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga. “A truck was parked on the roadside. The MUV hit the stationary truck on the Agra-Noida side and all the occupants were badly injured,” he said. Officials said that a police team reached the spot after getting the information about the accident from some passersby and rushed them to a private hospital where two persons – Amit Kumar, 30, and Suresh Thakur, 60, died. Kumar was driving the MUV while Thakur was sitting next to him, the officials said. The injured were identified as Manoj Kumar, 40, his wife Sanju, 38, and their four sons Sachin, 17, Prem, 15, Chandan, 11 and Vijay, 5. The car was also badly damaged in the accident, they said. Police said that Manoj worked as an AC mechanic in Faridabad. He had visited his native place in Bihar sometime back and was returning with the family members on Friday. The two deceased were his extended relatives. Bahadur, the SHO, said that the police seized the truck, but its driver managed to escape. “We traced the truck owner who said that the driver was feeling sleepy and hence he had parked the truck on the roadside to take a nap. We have registered an FIR against the truck driver under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. We have launched a search to arrest him,” he said. Recently, several accidents have taken place on the Yamuna Expressway. On June 28, a 28-year-old motorcycle enthusiast from Delhi had died after his speeding vehicle allegedly collided with his friend’s motorcycle on the expressway. Police had said that the riders were racing their motorcycles which led to the accident. His friend had succumbed to injuries the next day.On June 13, three persons were killed while two others injured when their car hit a stationary truck on the expressway. The victims were residents of Delhi, police had said.On March 19, four persons had died in a collision between a mini-truck and a speeding SUV on the expressway. A Tata 407 was going from Delhi to Agra when its front tyre got punctured near Falonda cut in Rabupura. The truck driver lost the control of the vehicle which hit the divider and came on the Agra-Noida side of the expressway. However, at the same time a Maruti Suzuki Brezza coming from Mathura to Noida hit the truck leading to four casualties, police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-killed-six-injured-as-car-hits-truck-on-yamuna-expressway-101625334297851.html
03-07-2021||Other||BKU expels water cannon boy Navdeep, his father for ‘anti-union activities’||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has expelled radical farmer leader from Ambala, Jai Singh Jalbera and his son Navdeep, 26, popularly known as water cannon boy, for allegedly getting involved in ‘anti-union activities’ and misappropriation of funds.The decision comes days after the duo went against the union’s plan of action, during governor house gherao in Panchkula and got into a brief scuffle with fellow protestors.Later, a committee was constituted by union chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, comprising Ambala and Yamunanagar district presidents Malik Singh and Sanju Gudiyana among other leaders, that submitted its findings this week and a decision was taken on Friday.Following the expulsion, Gudiyana said the committee had asked the father-son duo for a response regarding their indisciplined behaviour during the protests.“Navdeep refused to appear while Jai Singh failed to justify their actions. He couldn’t explain the utilisation of funds that the union had received. Navdeep had even bought a personal mobile phone using the funds,” Gudiyana added.Soon after, the union activists on Saturday started calling for a rollback of the decision which was “taken in a hurry.” No leader is ready to speak on the matter.People familiar with the case said the expulsion should be looked into again as they have contributed equally and faced many cases for standing against the Centre’s farm laws.“While Jai Singh has aggressively led the protests, Navdeep has been a popular face among the youth and their removal could have consequences. They have assisted in many successful campaigns, mostly against the programmes of BJP leaders that were cancelled after the farmers’ resistance,” they said.The duo has been a crowd-puller for the union in the Ambala region since the protests began last year. Navdeep had risen to international fame in November last year, when farmers from Haryana and Punjab were rushing to Delhi on tractor-trailers, breaking police barricades, and he had jumped over a moving tractor after closing a nozzle of a water cannon trying to stop them.Navdeep has refused to comment on the expulsion stating that they are expecting a solution soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-expels-water-cannon-boy-navdeep-his-father-for-anti-union-activities-101625334178461.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested with Ambergris worth ₹6 crore||Unit 10 of the Mumbai crime branch on Friday arrested two men and allegedly recovered whale vomit or Ambergris worth ₹6 crore.An officer of unit 10 of the crime branch had received a tip-off about the accused heading towards Powai in a car, carrying whale Ambergris (whale vomit), used in the manufacturing of expensive perfumes.The officers laid a trap at Ambedkar garden in Powai and intercepted the car. On searching, the police recovered the 6 kg ambergris.The police said they are now investigating to find out who were the buyers of the ambergris and whether the accused are a part of a larger syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-with-ambergris-worth-6-crore-101625334058480.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man gets 5 years in jail for sexually abusing minors||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court has recently convicted a 33-year-old Bhandup resident for sexually abusing minor girls in his neighbourhood, one of whom suffered 75% burn injuries and subsequently died. He has been sentenced to five years in prison along with a fine of ₹1.12 lakh, of which, ₹50,000 would go to the family of the victim. He has, however, been acquitted of the charge of rape.The court has convicted the man for sexually abusing the victim and other girls by showing them pornographic videos.The convict allegedly sexually abused minor girls when they visited his house for preparing school projects and showed them pornographic content. The minors alleged that he would sexually abuse them at times.The incident came out after a girl succumbed to burn injuries. The family subsequently found a suicide note, blaming the accused for her decision to end her life. It was alleged by the prosecution that the girl ended her life after being sexually harassed by the accused.The incident took place on July 1, 2014, when the victim, who was studying in Class 7, suffered 75% burn injuries. On July 3, 2014, the police registered a case of suicide against the accused and arrested him.During the trial, which lasted for almost seven years, the prosecution heavily relied on the suicide note and pornographic content recovered from the mobile phone of the accused. The prosecution also examined other girls who were subjected to abuse by the accused.The girls had deposed before the court that the accused would show them video clips and touch them inappropriately. However, the prosecution could not bring any evidence to show that the minors were sexually assaulted or raped by the accused. The court noted that the prosecution had not examined medical officers and the minors were not sent for medical examination. Defence lawyer Prakash Salsingikar had alleged that the accused was falsely implicated by the parents of the girl. He also argued that the investigation was faulty and the girl died by accident and not by suicide.After considering both the side and suicide note, the court observed, “The deposition of child witnesses established that the accused was using his mobile phone to show obscene, pornographic material to the minor girls with sexual intent. He has outraged the modesty by touching their body while showing them video clips.”The court, however, did not accept the theory of suicide and claimed that the girl died by accident. “There is a possibility that child got burn injuries through a stove as she was not in an attentive state of mind. The child was disturbed due to an obscene video clip. If the child had the intention to attempt suicide, she would have poured kerosene on herself and this is not the case,” the court observed while negating the theory of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-gets-5-years-in-jail-for-sexually-abusing-minors-101625333997813.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Anaesthetist kills daughter, self; wife survives||A 68-year-old anaesthetist from Vile Parle allegedly administered some “dangerous solution” to his daughter and wife and then died by suicide by injecting the same to himself. His daughter died while the wife survived. She is in deep shock, said the police.The anaesthetist, Dr Shrikrishna Patil, has left a suicide note behind, stating that no one should be held responsible for his extreme step. Police sources said he was out of work during lockdown and his daughter was not getting married, because of which he had slipped into depression and took the extreme step.Deputy commissioner of police (zone 8) Manjunath Singe said there was no foul play and the deceased has not blamed anyone for the drastic step in the suicide note.According to Vile Parle police, the incident took place on June 26 at Dr Patel’s residence. His wife Chhaya, 67, is a retired banker and his daughter, Juilee, 37, was an assistant professor. Preliminary police probe has revealed that the anaesthetist administered some solution to his daughter and wife under the pretext of taking blood sample for some regular tests, and then injected the same to himself.The next morning, Chhaya gained consciousness and found the other two lying on the bed. As she was feeling unwell, she informed her neighbours, following which the police were alerted.The three were taken to Cooper Hospital where doctors declared Dr Patil and his daughter dead, while Chhaya was out of danger.A note written by Dr Patil was found in the house. “In the note he has not blamed anyone for his drastic step. He also urged that no last rituals or religious ceremony be performed after their deaths,” said inspector Rajendra Kane of Vile Parle police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-anaesthetist-kills-daughter-self-wife-survives-101625333937812.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Auto driver, mob assault three in Kalyan; 11 arrested||A woman and her two friends were allegedly assaulted by a mob including an autorickshaw driver and his friends in Kolsewadi, Kalyan on Friday night. The incident took place when the woman was returning home in the auto and the driver tried to molest her. She called two of her friends — Rahul Gadekar, 28, and Bunty Pradhan, 30 — who came and confronted the driver, following which the driver, along with around 10 to 11 friends, assaulted the three. Kolsewadi police registered a case and arrested 11 persons, including the auto driver identified as Sagar Mhatre, 27. A police officer said, “The 30-year-old woman, who works in Ulhasnagar, had boarded the auto towards Dombivli. The driver made lewd comments and asked for her phone number, following which she got into an argument with the driver. The driver allegedly slapped her. She then attacked him in self-defence and called her friends to help her.” The two reached the spot near Kalyan (East) and confronted Mhatre. The officer added, “The driver then called his friends who assaulted the three with belts and hands. One of the villagers, Gulam Makbul, recorded a video of the same and tweeted to Thane Police. We have arrested 11 persons. Gadekar and Pradhan, who were assaulted, also registered complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/auto-driver-mob-assault-three-in-kalyan-11-arrested-101625333877802.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to give ₹8,000 per acre for kharif onion cultivation||The Haryana government has decided to provide a grant of ₹8,000 per acre to farmers for cultivation of onion sown during the kharif season.The move is aimed at weaning away farmers from water-guzzling paddy crop.An official spokesperson said that the grant given by the state government to the farmers adopting kharif onion cultivation under the Integrated Horticulture Development Mission will go directly to their bank accounts.The farmers will be given benefit of this grant for a maximum of five acre.Famers opting for it will have to register the area of cultivation on the HORTNET portal and submit relevant documents to the district horticulture officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-give-rs-8-000-per-acre-for-kharif-onion-cultivation-101625333759446.html
03-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal sleuths use 3D scanner in fake vaccination racket probe||Sleuths probing the fake vaccination racket in Kolkata used a 3D laser scanner on Saturday to capture the crime scene - office of the mastermind from where he used to operate, officials said.A senior official said that the high-tech gadget would allow investigators to recreate the entire crime scene in the courtrooms and help in building their case.“Officers of the Special Investigation Team also seized a huge volume of materials including fake tender documents, visitor slips, attendance registers and job applications that were used to run the racket,” said a senior official of the Kolkata Police’s detective department.Last week, Kolkata Police had busted a racket allegedly run by a 28-year-old man Debanjan Deb, 28, who was masquerading as a bureaucrat. More than 800 people, including TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, were duped into taking the fake vaccines. Police had earlier arrested eight persons including Deb.On Saturday, another person was arrested in connection with the racket. Police said that the accused, Indrajit Shaw, was instrumental in organising one of the fake vaccination camps held in a college in north Kolkata.The racket has triggered a political slugfest between the TMC and the BJP. While the BJP has alleged that the mastermind had links with senior TMC leaders, the latter rubbished the charges. TMC, meanwhile, released a picture in which Deb’s security guard could be purportedly seen standing behind West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.The Centre has asked the West Bengal government to file a report by Thursday in the fake Covid-19 vaccination camps busted by the Kolkata Police last week even as the Calcutta high court directed the state to file an affidavit in the matter by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-sleuths-use-3d-scanner-in-fake-vaccination-racket-probe-101625332738483.html
03-07-2021||Other||Rose Valley scam: Tripura BJP welcomes CBI chargesheet, alleges Left leaders’ involvement||Welcoming the move of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s filing chargesheet against Rose Valley Real Estates & Construction Limited, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that many Left leaders in Tripura and even ministers had involvement with the ponzi scam.“Many Left leaders and ministers were involved in the Rose Valley scam. We welcome the chargesheet filing by the CBI, though the investigation is not yet completed. We are hopeful the true facts will be revealed through their investigation,” said BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee.“It is an attempt to malign the Left leaders. All the allegations raised against us are baseless,” said Left Front convener Bijan Dhar.The chargesheet was filed in Gomati district and session judge court on Friday against former chairman and director Goutam Kundu, and three directors - Ashok Kumar Saha, Ram Lal Goswami and Shibamoy Dutta.A case was registered by the CBI before, following the Tripura High Court’s order. They had filed the chargesheet followed by a long investigation.Bhattacharjee added that the then chief minister Manik Sarkar attended an event of Rose Valley in 2008. He accused him of promoting such companies to grow in the state. Sarkar had forwarded 37 ponzi scam-related cases to the CBI in 2013 but they took up only five cases then.After coming to power in 2018, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb handed over 74 ponzi scam-related cases to the CBI that were then investigated by the state’s special investigation teams. Former Left ministers Bijita Nath and Badal Choudhury and CPM leader Goutam Das were interrogated by CBI sleuths over the scam.An amount of Rs. 4,81,19,365 was reportedly siphoned in the scam at Rose Valley’s Amarpur branch in Gomati district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rose-valley-scam-tripura-bjp-welcomes-cbi-chargesheet-alleges-left-leaders-involvement-101625332079665.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Allow Class 10 and 12 teachers to travel by train, education department tells Maharashtra govt||A day after the state minister for school education department Varsha Gaikwad announced that Class 12 results will be decided on the basis of a 30:30:40 formula and that these results need to be declared by end of this month, the office of the deputy director of education has written to the state government seeking travel allowance for teachers.In a letter addressed to the state school education minister and secretary, deputy director of education Sandeep Sangve has requested that Class 10 and 12 teachers be allowed to travel by train, at least till the results are announced.“For the purpose of declaring results, school and junior college teachers will have to be present in their respective institutes in order to collate the results. Starting Monday, July 5, we request the authorities to allow such teachers to travel by train,” said a letter signed by Sangve. The letter further mentions time limits within which teachers be allowed to travel starting from morning 7am till evening 5pm.This request comes a day after Gaikwad announced that Maharashtra state education department will also follow the 30:30:40 formula, giving 30% weightage each to class 10 and 11 marks and 40% weightage to Class 12 internals marks and students’ performance in the year. This is similar to the decision of both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) for their respective Class 12 results.“Since the final result will include marks of Class 10, 11 and the overall performance of students in class 12, it won’t be possible to do this sitting at home. Teachers will have to start visiting respective schools/junior colleges and work with the admin staff to get Class 10 and 11 marks and put all this together,” said a teacher, adding that without permission to travel by trains, it’ll be very difficult for many teachers to reach their respective institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-class-10-and-12-teachers-to-travel-by-train-education-department-tells-maharashtra-govt-101625332077688.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends From Stan Swami’s stay at Bandra hospital||The Bombay high court (HC) on Saturday extended the stay of Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, at Holy Family Hospital till July 6, as he is still under treatment.Fr Swamy has been shifted to the private hospital from Taloja jail, based on an HC order of May 28 as he had tested positive for Covid.Rama, wife of Elgar Parishad accused Dr Anand Teltumbde and Susan, wide of his co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, have filed a petition in the Bombay high court seeking an inquiry and action against the superintendent of Taloja jail for imposing restrictions on the accused writing letters to their wives and to their lawyers and also delayed posting of the letters written by them. They have said in the petition that such restrictions were arbitrary and against the rights of the prisoners and hence appropriate directions should be issued against the jail superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-from-stan-swami-s-stay-at-bandra-hospital-101625331957699.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport sees over 1,800 medical cargo flights in a year||Even as the pandemic forced limited flight operations domestically and no operations on the international sector, charter flights have come to the rescue in order to supply essentials and vaccines. According to the data sourced from Mumbai airport, the city airport saw over 1,800 medical cargo flights in a year. These included over 350 charters, operated just for vaccine distribution (international and domestic) and over 1,400 flights imported medicines and oxygen concentrators in Mumbai, until June 30.Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) spokesperson said, “Even during the Unlock 3.0, CSMIA helped in the facilitation of over 570 charter flights in August 2020. The airport handled over 67,500 passengers by connecting to 34 international destinations operated by 26 airlines in the same period. As of June 30, 2021, CSMIA processed around 396 charters for vaccine distribution (international and domestic) and 1,473 flights bringing imports of medicines and oxygen concentrators.”As one after another government, including India, placed curbs on visas and travel to contain the pandemic, the move had a direct bearing on the aviation industry with both domestic and international passenger flights getting suspended initially. At this stage, the regular international passenger services which are operated under various air services agreements have still not been allowed by the Indian government. The second wave of the pandemic, which has crashed on the country is expected to prolong this further.According to the credit rating agency, CRISIL, while passenger traffic for the financial year (FY) 2020-21 was only 34% of FY 2019-20 volumes, cargo traffic was at 74% of FY 20 levels due to the rising demand for freight during the first wave of the pandemic led by a rise in e-commerce demand and disrupted global supply chains necessitating quick transport by air.CSMIA facilitated over 17,700 Oxygen concentrators, 319,800 vials of Remdesivir injections and 113,900 vials of Tocilizumab injections approximately in the period between April 26 – May 14, 2021, to cater to the increase in demand for these goods for the treatment of patients in India. Thus, the city airport facilitated the transportation of over 387 tonnes of Covid relief supplies, in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-sees-over-1-800-medical-cargo-flights-in-a-year-101625331897685.html
03-07-2021||Other||Palghar district to remain in Level 3||The Palghar district will continue to remain in the level 3 category for another two weeks as the positivity rate as per weekly data is reported at 8.6%, said the officials from the collector’s office. In late June, due to a technical glitch, the district was accorded to level 4, however, it was later rectified by the collector’s office.Under level 3, essential shops and establishments will remain open till 4pm on all days and non-essential shops and establishments will remain open till 4pm on weekdays. Restaurants will be allowed a dine-in facility with 50% capacity till 4pm on weekdays and takeaways and home deliveries post that, as per the notification.Gyms and salons can open till 4pm on an appointment basis and no air-conditioners will be used.Malls, theatres, including multiplexes, will stay shut. E-commerce services are allowed. Film shoots are permitted in a bubble and no movement outside is permitted after 5pm.Meanwhile, so far 117,222 Covid cases have been reported in the district, with 48,903 in Palghar rural and 68,319 in Vasai-Virar civic area. The death toll stands at 2,603, with 1,480 in Vasai-Virar civic area and 1,123 in Palghar rural, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palghar-district-to-remain-in-level-3-101625331837698.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Four months accounted for 54.8% of Mumbai’s total cases||Mumbai saw 54.8% of its total Covid-19 caseload in the four months of March, April, May and June, corresponding to the second wave. Of the total 723,551 cases, Mumbai recorded 396,305 cases in these four months. Mumbai also recorded 25.6% of its total deaths due to Covid-19 during these four months, which saw 3,976 deaths, of the toll of 15,499 so far. The second wave for the city started in March, peaked in April, and began to decline by the end of May. On April 4, Mumbai recorded its highest ever single-day spike, at 11,206 cases recorded on a single day. Throughout March, Mumbai recorded 88,856 Covid-19 cases and 215 deaths; through April, the city recorded 233,698 cases, and 1,435 deaths; through May, the city reported 56,817 cases, but the highest in the second wave - 1,701 deaths; through June, Mumbai has reported a total of 16,934 Covid cases and 625 deaths. Regarding the higher number of deaths in May, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department had earlier said, “The nature of this wave is such that critical patients are taking longer to recover, or the infection is taking a very severe turn, and the outcome is not good.” The higher number of deaths in May have been attributed to the high number of cases in April. However, through June, the number of cases in the city daily has reduced. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 517 cases, and 21 deaths, taking the caseload to 724,122 and toll to 15,520. The active cases in the city now stand at 12,826.Of the total active cases, approximately 47% are asymptomatic, 44% are symptomatic, and 9% are critical. The case fatality rate in the city at present is 2%. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 96%. On Friday, Mumbai conducted 35,491 Covid-19 tests, with a positivity rate for the day of 1.6%. so far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 7,255,318 Covid-19 tests, with a cumulative positivity rate of 9.97%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-months-accounted-for-54-8-of-mumbai-s-total-cases-101625331657645.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Expedite Esplanade Mansion restoration, HC directs MHADA, BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra Housing and Development Authority (MHADA) and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to complete all formalities related to the restoration and conservation of the Esplanade Mansion, a heritage building in south Mumbai after the landlord and tenants informed the HC that they had arranged for ₹20 crore to restore the structure. The court also directed the MHADA to permit the architect of the landlord and tenants to access the building to draw up the plans for restoration and extend all help required by them to commence work. The heritage committee is expected to consider the proposal too. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the petition by Sadiqali Noorani, the landlord of Esplanade Mansion which was earlier known as Watson Hotel and tenants seeking directions to MHADA to hand over possession of the building for commencing restoration work at their own cost was informed by advocate Chirag Balsara that an amount of ₹20 crore had been arranged for the restoration and conservation work in the building. Balsara submitted that as the amount was arranged they required access to the building which is in possession of the MHADA so that their architect was able to draw up plans and also undertake protective work during the monsoon. He added that the proposal for restoration would thereafter be given to the heritage committee and after receiving a go-ahead from them, further approvals for commencement of work would be sought from MHADA and BMC.Last year in February, the landlord and 140 tenants had undertaken to provide the estimated cost of ₹50 crore for restoration and conservation as the MHADA had declined to foot the bill. After MHADA’s counsel, Prakash Lad informed the court that the housing authority had no objection for the same, senior counsel Anil Sakhare representing BMC on instructions said that its heritage committee would consider the proposal of the owner in its next meeting. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the owners to give the proposal for restoration at the earliest and also asked MHADA and BMC to expedite all formalities related to the restoration of the structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-expedite-esplanade-mansion-restoration-hc-directs-mhada-bmc-101625331597658.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra medical colleges gear up for third Covid wave||As the country is reeling from the second wave of Covid-19 and stares at a third wave in the near future, amplifying medical infrastructure is the need of the hour, and medical colleges in Maharashtra are doing exactly that. From setting up full-fledged oxygen generation units on campus, to training medical staff in paediatrics department in anticipation of the third wave, state undergraduate medical colleges are ensuring they are introducing several new changes to be better prepared for future challenges.“The second wave has taught us all an important lesson and that is to be prepared in advance for challenges. The state started a paediatrics training programme for medical staff and students across the state to ensure that basic treatment is done for patients at the time of admission. All state hospitals are preparing a minimum 100-bed paediatric ward along with special intensive care unit beds as well,” said Dr TP Lahane, who recently retired from his post as the director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). He added that the state has also started training physicians in rural Maharashtra in paediatrics to ensure no patient is denied help.As hospitals across the country struggled with oxygen shortage amid rising Covid-19 cases during the second wave, the National Medical Commission (NMC) in April this year made draft amendments to their existing rules, making it compulsory for medical college hospitals to set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses. NMC revealed that this move was introduced through a draft amendment to the Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations, and the circular clarified that these arrangements have to be made within six months.On Friday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated seven new PSA oxygen units across five civic hospitals including Cooper Hospital, Bhabha Hospital, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and Rajawadi Hospital. “At least 20 other medical colleges are in the process of setting up PSA units, and others will also follow. We are ensuring that medical infrastructure gets better with every passing day,” added Lahane.The NMC circular from April 2021 also stated that all medical college hospitals should have a dedicated supply of oxygen produced using the PSA technology in addition to the supply from liquid oxygen tanks, which is installed and made operational within six months. “Central oxygen and suction points shall include provision of piped oxygen supply to all patients in critical care from liquid oxygen tanks installed in appropriate place in the hospital complex,” said the circular.“We already have a large oxygen tank on campus and even during the second wave of Covid, we had adequate oxygen supply through the tank as well as extra cylinders. Oxygen generation is now on our agenda and the management is already in talks about it,” said Dr Varsha Phadke, dean of KJ Somaiya Medical College.The move to upgrade the present medical infrastructure is also in tune with the introduction of Pandemic Management as a module for undergraduate medical students which was introduced by NMC in August last year.NMC board of governors (BoG) released the official document with the syllabus in August last year for colleges to implement in the 2020-21 academic year itself. “The pandemic management module is designed to ensure that MBBS students acquire competencies in handling not only the illness but also social, legal and other issues arising from such disease outbreaks,” states the foreward of the module. “The emergence of Covid-19 and its rapid spread across the globe has further underlined the need to develop these skills in our graduates. One of the desirable outcomes of the competency derived education programme is to enable to medical graduate to be able to understand, investigate, treat and prevent new and emerging diseases,” it added.As per details mentioned in the new module, it has been arranged in a phase-based manner and is expected to be covered by an interdisciplinary team under the supervision of the institute-level curriculum committee. The course not only covers disease/epidemic management, intensive care, research and control, but also includes module on communication with media during a pandemic. “All second- and third-year MBBS students have already studied this module. It will be part of the syllabus for good. Hopefully this will help better prepare our future doctors,” said dean of a private medical college in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-medical-colleges-gear-up-for-third-covid-wave-101625331537672.html
03-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: BJP levels corruption charges against ex-minister Saryu, seeks probe||The Bhartiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Jamshedpur unit has sought independent investigation in alleged corruption in civil and supplies department headed by former minister Saryu Roy during the previous Raghubar Das regime. A team of the district unit on Friday met Governor Draupadi Murmu in this regard and submitted a memorandum seeking probe against Roy, who fell out of the BJP in 2019 and defeated former chief minister Raghubar Das as a rebel in Assembly polls. The party leaders have alleged corruption in Roy’s department in publication of a journal without following due tendering process. “Financial irregularities were done by minister Saryu Roy and those close to him. We have demanded investigation by an independent agency such as the CBI or vigilance and action against those responsible,” a statement released by the Jamshedpur BJP unit said. Reacting to the charges, Roy said he was open for a CBI probe. “I would suggest three tall leaders of the BJP--Arjun Munda, Deepak Prakash and Babulal Marandi--to probe the issue. I would suggest the state government to provide them all the files and they can see it all. I would also suggest them to ask the Centre to get a CBI probe done in the matter,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-bjp-levels-corruption-charges-against-ex-minister-saryu-seeks-probe-101625329617561.html
03-07-2021||Other||Flood water enters five blocks of Araria, Purnia districts||Incessant rains for last one week caused flood water to enter about a dozen villages in five blocks of Araria and Purnia districts, forcing people to shift to safer places.The flood-affected blocks of Araria district are Palasi, Kursakanta and Sikti, while in Purnia about six villages falling under Baisi and Baisa blocks in eastern part have been affected by floods.Besides, a sudden rise in water level of Parman, Bakra and Nuna rivers has posed flood threat in other areas of the districts.According to a Sikti resident Rameshwar Madal, Bakra and Nuna rivers are posing a serious threat, as they are fast eroding arable land. Another Araria village resident Baleshwar Mandal said, “Bakra River has forced our family to disintegrate. We are living separately, as our land and houses were devoured by the river.” In Palasi block, low lying areas of three villages has already been flooded. In a bid to minimise damage, anti-erosion work has begun as per guidelines of the district magistrate, Kursakanta circle officer (CO) Birendra Singh said.Several villages of Baisi and Baisa blocks of Purnia district are facing erosion. “This year, Parman river has started rising menacingly and has caused damage to our land and habitation,” said one Md Shah Alam of Mala village under Baisi block. The Araria district administration has identified 72 most vulnerable panchayats to floods and asked block level officers concerned to remain alert. Besides, 311 higher spots have also been identified in the district, officials said.Similarly in Purnia, Baisi, Baisa, Amour and Dagarua blocks are flood prone and the district administration has alerted officials. “We have almost completed anti-erosion work,” said Purnia district magistrate Rahul Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flood-water-enters-five-blocks-of-araria-purnia-districts-101625329558714.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Take special care of pregnant women, senior citizens during floods: Bihar dy CM to officials||Deputy chief minister Renu Devi, who also holds a disaster management department portfolio, has directed the officials to take special care of pregnant women, lactating mothers, senior citizens and persons with disabilities during flood situations. At a virtual meeting held on Saturday to review the preparations for the flood situations, the minister also asked the officials to arrange a Covid-19 vaccination facility at the flood relief camps. “There’s the need to be extra cautious regarding the relief arrangements for the people in the flood-hit zones. In the last few years, inundation and flood have become a regular phenomenon in the areas located on Indo- Nepal borders. This year also, a similar kind of situation is being witnessed. There’s the need to be prepared to face the challenges of relief measures,” she added. The deputy CM also asked the officials to ensure sensitive handling of the situations. The deputy CM also directed the officials to upload the list of those families on the disaster department portal who will get gratuitous relief. Besides, the officials were asked to update the Bihar State Disaster Response Network and upload on its portal the information related to the relief facilities and resources made available by the government and by some private agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/take-special-care-of-pregnant-women-senior-citizens-during-floods-bihar-dy-cm-to-officials-101625329558110.html
03-07-2021||Other||Families rendered homeless by turbulent river in W Champaran’s Mainatand||Thrown together by circumstances beyond control and taking shelter on roads and barren lands, a bleak future continues to stare as many as 22 families rendered homeless after turbulent Maniyari river uprooted their houses under Damarapur panchayat in Mainatand block of West Champaran early this week. Speaking to HT on Saturday, one such village resident Amal Mandal, 50, said he hardly had the inkling about the fate his family of six had in store. It was late on Thursday night when Mandal and his family members were jolted out of sleep after a part of their house collapsed.“We raised an alarm and many families rushed to a safer place with whatever household items we could lay our hands on,” said Mandal, a resident of Biranchi 3 in Mainatand block, while recalling the harrowing experience.Much to their dismay, Mandal and many other village residents found no traces of their houses in the morning. Sarpanch of Damarapur panchayat Hari Das claimed that residents of Biranchi 3 are facing threat of displacement for many years now, with around 200 families displaced due to floods since 1998 . “While houses of 15 families collapsed on Wednesday night, seven other houses were engulfed by the river the following day. We have been fighting against our destiny all these years, but nothing tangible has been done to save us,” said Das, also a resident of Biranchi 3.Demanding compensation for the displaced families, former MLA from Sikta constituency Dilip Verma announced monetary help of ₹50,000. He also distributed relief material in the form of dry ration and plastic sheets, said some of the displaced village residents.When contacted, Kumar Rajiv Ranjan, circle officer (CO), Mainatand confirmed that 15 houses were engulfed by the river. Dry ration and other relief material has also been distributed, he said, adding that a flood fighting team was carrying out repair works. Sahila Heer, sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Narkatiaganj, said, “The administration is keeping a close tab and is prepared to meet any eventualities. The need for relief material has been necessitated in Biranchi 3 village,” the SDM said, adding that road connectivity in some areas has also been snapped. However, local MLA and CPI (ML) leader Birendra Gupta said about half a dozen villages in Sikta block are totally disconnected from subdivisional headquarters. The villages are Magalahiya, Sonargawa, Mahesara, Kadama, Sonbarsa and Birayith, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/families-rendered-homeless-by-turbulent-river-in-w-champaran-s-mainatand-101625329557564.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Complete confiscation proceedings in liquor cases in 90 days or release ‘things’, says Patna HC||The Patna High Court has directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, must positively be initiated/concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned. The court has further directed that the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released. Hearing a petition filed by one Abhishek Kumar, who prayed for a direction to release his Swift car seized and kept in the premises of Baikunthpur police station in Gopalganj under open sky, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar directed the authorities to take appropriate action within the time schedule fixed, failing which the vehicle/property/things liable for confiscation shall be deemed to have been released without any further reference to this court. Citing various HC orders, the bench said litigants were forced to approach the court due to delay in completing the proceedings or on account of non-initiation of such proceedings of confiscation. The order of the court, given on July 1, was uploaded on July 3. The bench said it had already laid down the time schedule for such cases.“It is seen that despite our observations, authorities have not taken any action in initiating the proceedings for confiscation of the property under the Act. The litigants are, thus, forced to approach the Court by way of filing separate petitions. In a large number of cases, the position about concluding the proceedings remains the same,” the bench said. The Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, prohibits manufacture, storage, distribution, transportation, possession, sale, purchase and consumption of any intoxicant or liquor. In addition to the penalty imposed for committing such an offence, Section 56 of the Act lays down the procedure for confiscation of “things” used for in the commission of such an offence. In an earlier order, the court had directed the state to provisionally release vehicle/property, subject to initiation/conclusion/finalisation of the confiscatory proceedings. It even threatened to initiate contempt proceedings and directed the chief secretary to evolve a mechanism to ensure that the provisions of the Act were implemented in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/complete-confiscation-proceedings-in-liquor-cases-in-90-days-or-release-things-says-patna-hc-101625329497531.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Cong veterans from Bihar meet in Delhi for state unit reshuffle||Ahead of the much-delayed reshuffle in the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC), senior leaders of Bihar Congress on Friday met at the Delhi residence of former governor and party stalwart Nikhil Kumar, where they are believed to have discussed campaign to install a new BPCC president in place of Madan Mohan Jha who had offered to resign after the 2020 Assembly polls taking moral responsibility for the party’s poor performance.Among hose present were former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, former BPCC chief Anil Sharma and former Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ashok Ram. Several state Congress leaders are said to be restive over plans to make Kutuma legislator Rajesh Ram as the state unit chief. AICC in-charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, is said to have suggested Rajesh Ram’s name for the top party post in the state. When contacted, Anil Sharma refused to share details of what was discussed at the meeting. However, one of the leaders present at the meeting said, “More would join hands to refurbish the state unit in a way that catapults the Congress as a force to reckon with in the state instead of being a pillion rider.”Tagging Sharma’s tweet, Das replied, “He was happy to learn that the party seniors have expressed their serious concerns about its affairs of Bihar through this meeting.” Earlier, some senior leaders of the state Congress had met AICC leaders in Delhi to scuttle the move to make Rajesh Ram the next party chief in Bihar.Some other senior leaders, it is reliably learnt, are also planning to visit Delhi to meet AICC leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to rally for a “strong, energetic leader acceptable to all” as the next BPCC chief once the Punjab and Rajasthan issues were favourably resolved. “The party has lost its mass support by playing the second fiddle to regional parties. It’s time Congress focuses its attention on rebuilding the organization,” said a former MLA.AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, former governor Nikhil Kumar, former MLA Ashok Kumar, Bihar Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee chief and former MLA Amita Bhushan, former BPCC vice-president Pravin Kushwaha, working president Samir Kumar Singh and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra are said to be potential contenders for the state chief’s post.Meanwhile, BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha said preparations were on for a statewide agitation from July 7 against exorbitant hikes in prices of essential commodities, including petroleum products. He said that the Centre had increased the price of petrol 29 times in a month. “Party workers would beat plates, take out marches and cycle rally as part of the protest against the Central government,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cong-veterans-from-bihar-meet-in-delhi-for-state-unit-reshuffle-101625329438139.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Nitish cabinet divided over Sahni’s resignation threat||The Nitish Kumar cabinet in Bihar seemed divided on Saturday over the impending resignation of social welfare minister Madan Sahni, who had earlier threatened to quit while alleging high-handedness by bureaucracy and had accused officials close to the chief minister of corruption. While several ministers backed Sahni and requested the chief minister to look into the allegations seriously, others advised the minister caution.“The chief minister should take cognizance of what the minister is alleging and see why and where it is happening. In the past too, legislators have raised their voice against the officials’ attitude and demanded respect for public representatives,” said Neeraj Singh Bablu, the minister for environment, forest and climate change. Bablu is from the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), a key constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) headed by Nitish Kumar of the Janata Dal (United).“Officialdom is there,” art and culture minister Alok Ranjan Jha, also from BJP, told a TV channel.However, some other ministers did not find merit in Sahni’s allegations. SC-ST welfare minister Santosh Kumar Manjhi, son of former CM JItan Ram Manjhi, said, “Bureaucrats and officers are all ears to ministers’ advice. I have experienced this. If Sahniji has any grievance, he should have directly approached the chief minister rather than making things public,” said the minister, who is from HAM-S, a party founded by his father.The minister’s views are, however, at variance with his father who had said a few days ago, “There are at least 20 per cent officials who do not listen to ministers or MLAs. This tendency should be curbed.” Tourism minister Jivesh Mishra, of the BJP, asked Sahni to work in harmony. “The department has to work in harmony. There is no such problem in our department,” he said.Meanwhile, suspense over Sahni’s resignation continued on Saturday as he failed to get an audience with chief minister Nitish Kumar.Sahni, however, reiterated he was firm on his resignation and would be meeting the chief minister in the evening to submit his resignation. The minister, who had accused Atul Prasad, the additional chief secretary of his department, of arbitrariness in the recent transfers, had skipped the state cabinet meeting on Friday. Both Sahni and CM Kumar are from the Janata Dal (United). .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-cabinet-divided-over-sahni-s-resignation-threat-101625329437604.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power purchase pacts signed by Badals under review: Punjab CM||With the Punjab government feeling the heat of public protests on the issue of power shortage, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said power purchase agreements (PPA) signed by the previous SAD-BJP government were already under review and the Congress government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter these agreements that had put an “atrociously unnecessary financial burden” on the state. The chief minister, who chaired a meeting to review the power situation in the state, later said that a carefully charted legal course of action was being formulated to save Punjab from further financial losses due to the ill-conceived PPAs signed by the Badals during their rule. Of the 139 PPAs signed during the SAD-BJP regime, 17 were enough to cater to the state’s full power demand, he pointed out, adding that the remaining 122 for 1,314 MW of expensive power were inexplicably signed, putting unnecessary financial burden on the state. Even as he appealed to the people to use power judiciously and cooperate with the government in overcoming the temporary shortage of power, the CM said against the supply of 13,500 MW, the demand last week touched an unprecedented 16,000 MW. Immediately, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) started purchasing 7,400 MW of power from outside the state, he disclosed, adding that this was 1,000 MW more than what was purchased last year. Had the quantum of purchase not been promptly enhanced, the state would have faced an additional deficit of 1,000 MW of power, further aggravating the crisis, he pointed out. Notice issued to Talwandi Sabo plantCaptain said the present crisis was the result of failure of one unit of the Talwandi Sabo power plant, generating 660 MW of power. While a notice had already been issued to the plant by the PSPCL for imposing a heavy penalty, the state government had, on its part, taken strong measures to address the power shortage, he added. These measures, he said, included three weekly days off for the industry, including rolling mills and induction furnaces, from July 1 to 7. Only essential services and continuous process industries have been exempted from these regulations, he added. Further, the state government offices have also been directed to function from 8am to 2pm till July 10, with use of air conditioners prohibited. The CM said the power distribution system in the state had improved significantly over the past four years. He said that 2 lakh new distribution transformers have been installed, taking the total to 11.5 lakh. Transformers have also been installed at substations to keep the supply stable, he added. Eight-hour supply to agri sector: PSPCLMeanwhile, a spokesperson of PSPCL said that following the measures taken by the state government, eight hours of power is being supplied to all agriculture consumers and there are no scheduled power cuts for domestic, commercial, small and medium supply industrial consumers in the state. The situation has improved considerably, he said. On the availability of power from the power exchange, the spokesperson said the same was highly unpredictable, with even the rates varying, according to the time of the day, from ₹2.32/unit to ₹10/unit. On the closure of Bathinda and Ropar thermal plants, the spokesperson said that the unit cost of power generated by these plants was high since they are of old design and required more manpower for operation. The maintenance cost of these plants was also very high, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-purchase-pacts-signed-by-badals-under-review-punjab-cm-101625329378288.html
03-07-2021||Patna||CM patronising corruption, officials call the shots: Tejashwi||Leader of the opposition Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on Saturday said bureaucrats in the state were enjoying unbridled powers and accused chief minister Nitish Kumar of patronising corruption by not taking action against corrupt officers. Referring to allegations levelled by social welfare minister Madan Sahni that he was ignored by his department’s top official in the matter of transfers, Yadav said it not only raised questions on the work culture of the chief minister but also validated his party RJD’s allegations that corruption was rampant in the present dispensation in all matters related to transfers of officials. Earlier this week, Sahni had threatened to resign, saying he was overlooked by his department’s additional chief secretary in the transfer of officials.“The minister has also demanded that assets of bureaucrats close to the chief minister should be probed. Now, this is a serious matter. It is to be seen now whether the chief minister gets the assets of officials close to him investigated or not,” Yadav said while talking to reporters after inducting former JD(U) MLA Maheshwar Singh into RJD at a function at the official residence of former chief minister Rabri Devi. Yadav said Singh, a two- time former MLA, had worked with RJD chief Lalu Prasad, but ducked queries about Manjit Singh, another former MLA in the chief minister’s party, who had similarly met the RJD leader recently fuelling speculation of his changing sides, but backed down reportedly after receiving a call from Nitish Kumar. Attacking the CM, Yadav said, “We have alleged several scams in various departments, but the chief minister has not taken any action against the corrupt officers. It reflects how corruption in bureaucracy is being patronized.” He said people in the state were frustrated with the rampant corruption in block offices and police stations and wanted the government to go. “It not me alone who is predicting the fall of the government. It is the general sentiment of the people, who had given a mandate for change in the last election by giving their overwhelming support to the grand alliance . But the present dispensation came to power through back door. The present government is already down, and it is obvious, it will fall soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-patronising-corruption-officials-call-the-shots-tejashwi-101625329317525.html
03-07-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka allows govt offices to reopen; weekend curfew lifted||The Karnataka government on Saturday further eased Covid-19 restrictions in the state, issuing a set of relaxations which, it said, will remain in place for the next 15 days.Also Read: Karnataka eases lockdown restrictions in 16 districts with less Covid-19 loadAccording to an order issued by the Karnataka government, the daily night curfew will continue to be imposed from 9pm to 5am but the weekend curfew, from 7pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, has been lifted. Also, deputy commissioners in various districts, based on their assessment of the situation, and after consultation with the district in-charge minister, can impose additional containment measure, the order said.Here's a look at what is allowed and what is not:Allowed:(1.) Government officers permitted to open at 100% capacity;(2.) Public transport, including Bengaluru's Namma Metro, to begin operations with full seating capacity;(3.) Swimming pools to open only for competitive training purposes, while sports complexes and stadia to open only for practice purposes;(4.) Marriages/family functions can be held but not more than 100 guests allowed to attend;(5.) Funerals/last rites to take place with a maximum of 20 people in attendance;(6.) Only "darshan" allowed at religious places and not "sevas."Prohibited:(1.) Theatres, cinema halls and pubs to remain closed until further notice;(2.) All social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious/any other gatherings and large congregations prohibited;(3.) All educational institutions/tutorials/colleges to stay shut.Additionally, all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices, and other closed places have been directed to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Any violation of the required norms will invite action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, according to the order.Also Read: Karnataka makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travellers from Kerala over Delta plus scareOn the Covid-19 front, Karnataka on Saturday recorded 2,082 fresh infections and 86 deaths due to the viral disease, a health department bulletin showed. The day also saw 7,751 patients recover from coronavirus, while the number of active case declined below the 50,000-mark to 48,116. The state's cumulative Covid-19 count has reached 2,852,079 which also includes 2,768,632 recoveries and 35,308 fatalities.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-allows-govt-offices-to-reopen-weekend-curfew-lifted-101625325796273.html
03-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC to meet President Kovind to seek removal of Solicitor General||A delegation of Trinamool Congress leaders will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday seeking the removal of solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said.“It has been decided in the party that we would now directly approach the President and apprise him of the incident. The President has given his consent and we would meet him around 2:30 pm on Monday,” said Roy. On Friday, the TMC sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal while alleging that the senior lawyer met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Suvendu Adhikari in violation of established norms. Both Mehta and Adhikari have, however, denied that the meeting took place. Mehta said on Friday that Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in West Bengal, came to his residence-cum-office in Delhi at 3 pm on Thursday but left without meeting the SG, who was tied up in previous engagements, and expressed his inability to meet the Nandigram MLA. “Narada accused enters home of SG (who is also Special PP, CBI in Narada case) in vehicle, is checked & waved inside by security guards & exits after 30 mins. They say nothing happened. Yeah, right,” Mahua Moitra, TMC MP, tweeted on Saturday. Adhikari is accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, and Mehta - the Union government’s second-highest law officer - is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Supreme Court and the Calcutta high court in the agency’s probe against senior TMC leaders in the case. The TMC’s letter to PM Modi, signed by party MPs Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, said that the alleged meeting between Adhikari and Mehta “reeks of impropriety”. BJP’s West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh attacked the TMC saying that the BJP seeks the removal of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “The TMC is engaged in politics of removal. Earlier they wanted the Governor of West Bengal to be removed. Now, they want the SG to be removed. Mamata Banerjee has lost the elections (she was defeated from Nandigram by Adhikari, even though TMC won the polls) but has become the chief minister through the backdoor. We are seeking her removal,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-to-meet-president-kovind-to-seek-removal-of-solicitor-general-101625328658156.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh visits family members of Covid-19 victims in Lucknow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh began his three-day Uttar Pradesh visit on Saturday and met the family members of people who died of Covid-19 in his Lucknow Lok Sabha constituency.Singh visited the residences of a few party leaders, the owner of a prominent private hospital, as well as the journalist of an English daily who had succumbed to Covid-19.Accompanied by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, law minister Brajesh Pathak and Lucknow BJP chief Mukesh Sharma, Singh visited the Tikait Rai-LDA Colony residence of former party MLA Suresh Srivastava. Both Srivastava and his wife had succumbed to the infection. Offering floral tributes to the pictures of the couple, the defence minister recalled his long association with Srivastava who was the BJP MLA from Lucknow (West).Two days after Srivastava, his Malti succumbed to the infection in April at the height of the second wave of Covid-19Srivastava’s other family members, including Dr Shailesh and Dr Swati Srivastava, Dr Mrinalini Srivastava, Sourabh Srivastava and Jaisi were also present. The defence minister also visited the Cantonment residence of former Lucknow BJP chief Pradeep Bhargava, who too fell prey to the virus.“His wife Achla urged Singh to help her younger son Abhinav join the BJP and serve the party like her late husband did,” said BJP’s Praveen Garg.Bhargava’s other family members, including Shikha, Shweta, Aarav, Pranav and Pranika, were also present.Rajnath Singh also visited the Gomti Nagar residence of Mayo hospital owner Dr KN Singh. He also went to the Dilkusha colony residence of senior journalist Subhash Mishra, who died due to the Covid-19 infection. Singh met Mishra’s wife Sandhya and his two sons Siddhant and Shashwat.Earlier, the defence minister was warmly welcomed on his arrival by several ministers, including urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon Gopal, law minister Brijesh Pathak, Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, BJP’s Awadh region chief Shesh Narayan Mishra, his Lok Sabha representative Diwaker Tripathi and several lawmakers, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-visits-family-members-of-covid-19-victims-in-lucknow-101625328358308.html
03-07-2021||Other||Fresh tension along Assam-Mizoram border over Covid-19 testing center||Fresh tension erupted along the Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi district after a makeshift camp in the name of Covid-19 testing centre was constructed in the Jhumghar area of the district, officials said.The Covid-19 testing centre was allegedly constructed by Mizoram IR Battalion personnel.While Mizoram said the makeshift camp was made on their land, Assam police claimed that the area comes under Assam as per the demarcation based on the Survey of India. Those camps were finally removed by Assam police and a district administration level discussion was also held between Kolasib and Hailakandi.Superintendent of police, Hailakandi district, Ramandeep Kaur told Hindustan Times that in a regular patrol, forest officials found a temporary camp constructed by Indian Reserve Battalion, Mizoram near the state border on Assam’s land.“It was found on June 29 and the forest officials informed us about it. Following the demarcation based on the Survey of India map, we found that it was on Assam’s land so we removed it accordingly,” he said.The next day they held a discussion with the deputy commissioner and the superintendent of police of Kolasib district of Mizoram. Both of them agreed to follow the demarcation based on the Survey of India.Some locals did not want to follow this and tried to create tension again on July 1 and we had to deploy our forces in the area,” he added.According to the locals in Hailakandi, some groups from Mizoram regularly try to construct makeshift bases in the name of Covid-19 testing centres.In this process, they get engaged in a war of words with the people of Assam and the situation often worsens. In the past, several houses were burnt by unknown miscreants along the border area. Local people alleged that it was done by people coming from Mizoram. Many residents moved to other parts of Hailakandi district from the border areas due to these regular incidents.Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Assam police’s southern range, Debajyoti Mukherjee, said, there is no tension in the area.“Our duty is to protect the common people and keep the law and order situation normal. There have been several attempts in past to encroach Assam’s land from Mizoram’s side. We cannot allow any such attempts. We have a boundary demarcated by the Survey of India and following that, our offices are doing their duty. It’s a forest area and it is the department of forest which has to look at these issues. The police department will definitely support them, our officials are keeping strict vigil”, he said.Similar attempts were made in Lailapur area in Cachar district of Assam on July 2. According to forest officials, some people from Mizoram tried to destroy the forest on Assam’s land. Locals informed the officials and when they reached, Mizoram police personnel got engaged in an argument with them. A team of police led by Superintendent of police, Cachar district, Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar, rushed to the area and tried to control the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-tension-along-assam-mizoram-border-over-covid-19-testing-center-101625327520936.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||‘State can’t provide everything to homeless, beggars’: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Saturday said that homeless people and beggars should work for the nation as the state cannot provide them with every amenity. The division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni made the observation while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Brijesh Aarya. Aarya’s PIL sought directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asking the civic body to provide three nutritious meals, potable water, shelter and clean public toilets for homeless persons, beggars and poor people in the city.The court told the petitioner that beggars and homeless people should also work for the country and allowing further help is an invitation to refrain from working completely. “They (homeless persons) should also work for the country. Everyone is working. Everything cannot be provided by the state. You (petitioner) are just increasing the population of this section of the society,” the high court told the petitioner. The court however asked the Maharashtra government to consider allowing people belonging to this section to use toilet facilities free of charge.“We direct the state government to look if the homeless persons can use these toilets free of charge,” the court said. It told the petitioner that the petition lacks details of who a homeless person is, population of homeless persons in the city and other details.The civic body informed the court that food packets were being distributed to the people belonging to this section of the society all over Mumbai with help from NGOs. The BMC further said that sanitary napkins are being provided to women belonging to these sections of the society as well. The court accepted this submission. It also said that no further direction is required to augment the distribution.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-can-t-provide-everything-to-homeless-beggars-bombay-hc-101625327021749.html
03-07-2021||Other||Boy, girl found dead in Amritsar hotel room||Amritsar An 18-year-old boy and a minor girl were found shot dead in a hotel room near the bus stand on Saturday. The duo’s bodies — with bullet injuries in their heads — were found about 1pm. The victims had checked-in, together, about 8.30am and had taken the room for a few hours. Around noon, when the duo did not open their door despite repeated calls from the hotel staff, the police were informed. Rambagh station house officer (SHO) Narayan Singh reached the spot with his team and broke open the hotel room door. “When we broke in, we found the bodies with blood scattered all around. A revolver has been recovered from the spot,” the SHO said. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “The revolver seized from the spot belongs to the boy’s father. Investigation suggests that the boy gunned down the girl, before killing himself with the same revolver. We are registering a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the boy.”“As the girl was minor, the hotel was not supposed to rent them the room. The staff took only the boy’s identity card. A case will be registered against the hotel management. The victims had entered the hotel with their own will,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-girl-found-dead-in-amritsar-hotel-room-101625326918175.html
03-07-2021||Other||{Covid-19 effect} 160 prisoners released to reduce rush in jails jump parole||Amritsar Punjab prisons department has written to all 24 jails in the state seeking details of inmates who have not returned from parole and interim bail granted to them sinc March 2020. Over 5,000 convicts and an equal number of undertrials were released to reduce rush in jails, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state’s jails are horrendously overcrowded with a capacity to hold 23,500 inmates. Even after the decongestion, 24,000 still remained in the gallows.Additional director general of police (ADGP), prisons, Praveen Kumar Sinha said, “Around 160 prisoners have, so far, jumped their parole across the state.” Most inmates, who were given the relaxation, were above 65 and suffering from co-morbidities. Those convicted or charged with murder, rape, snatching by theft, acid attack, POCSO Act, UAPA, Explosives Act & foreign nationals were not even considered.In Amritsar, 30 prisoners have failed to returnIn Amritsar Central Jail, 30 prisoners have jumped their parole and interim bail. The jail authorities have written to police stations concerned for registration of cases against all those who have failed to return.Two such cases, under Sections of the Prisons Act, were registered in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts on Saturday. The first case has been lodged against an accused, Gurjant Singh of Jiobala village, in Tarn Taran, who was facing a case under murder and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Sarwan Singh of Padhri village in Amritsar, is also on trial under attempt to murder charges. These two had to present themselves in a designated Pathankot jail with their negative covid-19 test in April.A spokesperson of the Punjab prisons department, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Many prisoners are jumping their paroles and interim bails, we have sought data of all such cases.”The prisoners released on special parole and bails have been asked to start surrendering in batches by following the first-out first-in formulae. Amritsar jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said, “All those who are not returning are being booked in police stations near their residences.”A jail official added some of the prisoners are getting messages late, but they are returning to the designated prisons with an average delay of 5-6 dates from their scheduled dates. “We write to the police stations concerned for the registration of a case, in case the prisoner does not return within ten days of receiving the message,” Gill added. Prisoners released on special parole during Covid-19 pandemic are required to report at designated jails — Barnala and Pathankot for males, and Malerkotla for females — with a negative Covid-19 test report dated within three days before the date of their return. If any prisoner on parole tests positive before returning, he or she has to inform their jail superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-effect-160-prisoners-released-to-reduce-rush-in-jails-jump-parole-101625324758033.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Zero Covid-19 case not possible in Delhi, experts explain why||The Covid-19 situation of the Capital is steadily improving but it is unlikely that there will be zero Covid-19 case in Delhi on a given day in the near future, experts have said. What these experts suggest is that people will have to learn living with Covid-19. While this may be true for many metro cities that were at the frontline of the pandemic, the experts have commented specifically for Delhi. There might be zero new case reported on a certain day, but it is unlikely for the Capital to have zero number of people with the infection, experts said.Medical director of Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital Dr Suresh Kumar has told PTI that zero is an unlikely figure for Delhi as the virus is mutating and it's difficult to predict its future."This virus is smart and just for the sake of living, it will keep mutating. Covid will be there and may not be affecting all 193 countries but it will be there. Coming down to zero won't be achievable. In hospitals for getting surgeries, one has to get tested for Hepatitis and HIV. Eventually, you will be tested for Covid too," Dr Sanjeev K. Singh, Resident Medical Director, Amrita Hospitals in Faridabad said, as quoted by the news agency.Eradicating the virus is an unrealistic possibility as Covid-19 will gradually become endemic in 12-24 months, Dr Gauri Agarwal has said. It will not remain a figure closely watched daily but will remain there.On Monday, Delhi recorded 59 cases, the lowest single-day rise this year, and two deaths. Since then, daily cases have been hovering around 90. Both in the first and the second wave, the Capital was caught by the deadly blow of the pandemic. During the second wave, oxygen shortage aggravated the severity of the situation if the Capital.What is pandemic, epidemic, endemic?An epidemic is when a disease affects a large number of people and when it affects multiple countries or continents, it becomes a pandemic. Endemic is when a disease is regularly found among a particular people or in a particular area.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/zero-covid-19-case-not-possible-in-delhi-experts-explain-why-101625323018145.html
03-07-2021||Dehradun||5 key challenges before new Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami||45-year-old Pushkar Singh Dhami, the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, has many challenges ahead of him at a time when the assembly elections are less than a year away, political observers say.First, being the youngest CM of the state, who has never held any ministerial position, the question is how will he deal with political veterans in his party, many of whom were in the race for the CM post. Will he be able to assert himself before them and get his orders and vision for the party implemented?SMA Kazmi, Dehradun based political analyst said that BJP seems to have played its biggest gamble ahead of the elections by making a comparatively younger politician who doesn’t have much experience of the governance or party politics, as the new CM of the state. “With very little time left for the elections, I wonder whether he really has to perform or make some difference. He will also have to deal with political mess and issues from the past. Creating rapport with senior party colleagues and cadre will be one of his biggest challenges,” he said.Second, he has little time to perform, with elections scheduled early next year. Political observers say it will take him at least four to five months to get acquainted with the functioning of the government and the secretariat. In such little time, he has a lot on his plate and less experience when compared to the other veteran politicians in his party. Being from US Nagar, he also has little time for creating rapport with the party cadre and people from other regions of the state, especially the Garhwal region.Third, if he will be able to check infighting in the party and different voices coming up from different power centres in the party. Being junior to other veterans, it is to be seen if he will be able to intervene and resolve the differences within the party leaders or the ministers. In the past few months, former CMs Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat were seen indulging in shadow boxing over the alleged Mahakumbh testing scam.Political analyst and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University, MM Semwal said the biggest challenge before him would be “to work in coordination with the senior leaders of BJP who were overlooked for the CM position.”Fourth, Dhami will have to deal with issues and discontent that emerged during the tenures of the two previous CMs. How he deals with that needs to be seen. There has been growing discontent among the people on issues ranging from growing unemployment in the state, hill migration, people from various sectors seeking relief packages for economic losses due to Covid-19, poor health infrastructure in hill districts and improving the health infrastructure in the state. He also will have to make his stand clear on whether Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board will be scrapped or not. The preceding two CMs differed on the same.Also read: ‘Sad his father isn’t with us to see him as CM’ - Pushkar Singh Dhami’s motherFinally, a Thakur by caste, it is to be seen if he will be pitted against veteran Thakur leader from Congress Harish Rawat. Will he be able to have a state-wide sway within his caste and in general among the people as Harish Rawat is yet to be seen. Harish Rawat is one of the most popular political faces in the state, Dhami’s people connecting skills are likely to be pitted against the veteran Congress leader.“By electing Dhami, the BJP leadership did a surgical strike on its own senior state leaders which include the likes of Bansidhar Bhagat, Harak Singh Rawat, Satpal Maharaj, Dhan Singh Rawat, Harak Singh Rawat and Yashpal Arya. Dhami would have a tough time working in coordination with them ahead of next year’s assembly elections,” said Semwal.Semwal also cited Dhami’s lack of administrative experience as another major challenge in his tenure. “Due to his inexperience, he would largely have to rely on the bureaucracy in his short tenure.”The senior political analyst further said that the new CM would also face the challenge of “clearing the mess created by the previous two CMs whether it be the alleged Mahakumbh fake Covid test or the Covid-19 mismanagement in the state.”“Not only this, he would practically have nothing new to take before the public ahead of elections as all the major announcements, including recruitment on 22,000 vacancies and distribution of laptops of school students, were made by previous CM Tirath Singh Rawat before putting down his papers on Friday night,” said Semwal.He also said, “Dhami would also have to take a decision on whether to continue with or abolish the controversial Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board against which the priest community has been protesting for long.”Semwal however, also termed the election as new CM as a golden opportunity for the 45-year-old legislator who would be the state’s youngest CM.“Despite the challenges, he would be the CM which is a golden opportunity for him to leave a mark on the party and the public with his works. In the nutshell, his short tenure would not be smooth but at the same time not too uneven,” he said.Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson, however, said that he is confident that being a young and dynamic leader, Dhami will meet the challenges ahead of him in the election year. “In BJP, we believe in working collectively and facing all challenges collectively. He is not there as an individual but represents our collective approach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/5-key-challenges-before-new-uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-101625323978118.html
03-07-2021||Other||Heroin haul at port now 260kg: Revenue intelligence team takes Tarn Taran importer to Navi Mumbai||Tarn Taran A team of the Ludhiana Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) took a Tarn-Taran based importer, arrested after 135kg heroin was found in a container booked in his name at the Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai on Thursday, to the port for further probe. The quantity of heroin seized has increased to 260kg on further searching of the containers.“The total consignment of heroin that has been seized from the container ordered by Prabhjit Singh, 25, of Chohla Sahib village, is now pegged at 260kg. Prabhjit, who the DRI arrested on Friday, has been taken to the spot where the seizure was made,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named.“We are assisting the DRI team. Over the past five years, since he entered the import business, the accused has accumulated huge wealth. We have sought detailed record of properties registered in the name of Prabhjit and his family members from the revenue department. He has built a palatial bungalow in his village. Previously, he owned just 4 acre,” the official added. He added that the police had confirmed that Prabhjit was in contact with a family in Dhun Dhaye Wala village, which is notorious for drug smuggling. “We are investigating the accused’s local links. An influential religious leader of Punjab also used to visit the accused’s home, where a special room was designed for his stay. To date, the accused does not appear to have a criminal record,” he added. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said they would question the accused, once the DRI completes its questioning. He, however, refused to share information on the DRI’s investigation. Sources added Prabhjit also had links with some leaders of the ruling party. He ran and agriculture implement store and had been importing gypsum and other items from Pakistan and Afghanistan through the Attari-Wagah border. “He had ordered this container of gypsum through sea-route as the Attari-Wagah border has been closed for trade between India and Pakistan since the abrogation od Article 370,” the source added. The DRI team had also rounded up a relative of Prabhjit, but he was released after questioning, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heroin-haul-at-port-now-260kg-revenue-intelligence-team-takes-tarn-taran-importer-to-navi-mumbai-101625323918111.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala man booked for rape as minor cousin delivers child||A 35-year-old man has been booked for rape three weeks after his 15-year-old cousin delivered a child at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. “The victim’s family came to know about the crime after she delivered a child on June 12. The family was earlier hesitant to file a formal complaint and had left for Varanasi,” said Ronnie Singh, station house officer (SHO), Urban Estate.While the victim’s parents live in Varanasi, she had been staying at her cousin’s house in Patiala for the past five years, said the SHO. “According to the victim, she was repeatedly raped by her cousin, who even threatened to kill her parents if she dared to tell them about the sexual assault,” he said.A case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. No arrest has been made so far as the suspect is on the run, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-raped-by-cousin-delivers-child-in-patiala-101625323738139.html
03-07-2021||Bhopal||MP private bus owners seek ₹200 crore tax waiver for April-June lockdown period||Private bus owners in Madhya Pradesh have called for a waiver of permit tax for the period between April and June this year, citing the loss of revenue they experienced due to not operating their businesses during these months for coronavirus (Covid-19)-induced lockdown, news agency PTI reported.Govind Sharma, president of the Prime Route Bus Owners Association in Madhya Pradesh told PTI that a delegation of the private bus operators is scheduled to meet Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday evening to seek waiver of ₹200 crore tax amount.According to the PTI report, Sharma pointed out that the private bus owners will “seriously think” of discontinuing services, primarily intra-state from July 15, should discussions with the state government fail. He added that the association has to pay the monthly permit tax despite facing enormous monetary losses from the lockdown. “[We] don’t have money to pay the tax,” Sharma was quoted as saying by PTI.He further highlighted that private bus operators, who run nearly 35,000 buses in the state, own at least 10-40 buses each. Sharma also claimed that these owners owe nearly ₹200 crore to the state government in the form of permit tax for the last three months.Bus services in the state primarily rely on private players after the MP Road Transport Corporation (MPSRTC) was declared defunct years ago.Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal was put under ‘corona curfew’ on April 1, and the unlock phase only started from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-private-bus-owners-seek-200-crore-tax-waiver-for-april-june-lockdown-period-101625321701802.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||NGT orders inquiry into felling of 176 trees in Patiala village||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the principal chief conservator of forests, Punjab, to look into the alleged illegal felling of 176 fully grown trees at Roshanpur village in Patiala district. Punjab and Haryana high court lawyer HC Arora had brought the issue to the tribunal notice, stating that no public auction was conducted for the sale of trees, and the trees were suddenly felled in a “hush-hush manner” within two days on June 18 and 19.In the application filed with the NGT, Arora said that the gram panchayat of Roshanpur village had got the price of 176 trees of various species assessed from the divisional forest officer, Patiala. According to the assessment, ₹2.60 lakh was the reserve price, he stated. “However, the joint inspection team of gram panchayat and forest department deliberately did not include about 20 neem trees in its inspection, but those neem trees were also cut down, in a fraudulent manner, thereby misappropriating government funds,” Arora had further alleged.He had also alleged that all fully grown trees standing on the premises of a local government school were axed and sold, without any justification. In its order issued on June 30, the NGT said: “Undoubtedly, cutting of trees can be allowed only for some valid justification after requisite clearance under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. Such action adversely affects the environment. Thus, the grievance needs to be looked into and further remedial action taken by principal chief conservator of forests, Punjab, in accordance with law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-orders-inquiry-into-felling-of-176-trees-in-patiala-village-101625322058931.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man beaten to death on suspicion of sacrilege at Gurdaspur gurdwara||A gurdwara managing committee head is among two people booked for murder after a General Reserve Engineer Force personnel was beaten to death on the suspicion of sacrilege at the shrine situated on the outskirts of Gurdaspur. The victim, identified as Deepak, belonged to Larhi Sharmo village in Pathankot and was posted in Arunachal Pradesh. He had reportedly returned by air and was on his way home from Amritsar, when by mistake he got off the bus at Gurdaspur instead of Pathankot on Thursday night. Seeing the gurdwara, situated on the Tibri road, he had entered it to take rest. It was then that he was brutally beaten up by some locals on the suspicion that he was there to commit sacrilege, said police on the basis of initial probe. Gurjit Singh Saini, who is the chief of the gurdwara managing committee, has been named as the prime accused in the FIR registered in the case, besides Daljit Singh, a local. Both are on the run.“No sacrilege was committed. It’s possible the people who thrashed him mistook him for someone else who was there to commit it. We can attain clarity only after arresting and questioning the prime accused,” said Nanak Singh, senior superintendent of police, Gurdaspur.Semeer Singh, the area station house officer, said that as per the locals, Deepak was drunk when he entered the gurdwara premises. “The postmortem report is awaited to verify it. We are also trying to procure CCTV footage of the incident,” he said.The Gurdaspur police had initially registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, but it was converted to that of murder on Saturday, on demands made by the victim’s family.Meanwhile, local Sikh bodies are backing Daljit and terming him innocent. “As far as Daljit is concerned, he was present on the spot when police reached there and the grieving family named him in the complaint,” said the SSP, while also denying allegations of detaining and harassing his mother. Also dispelling the rumours of custodial death, the SHO said police had rushed Deepak to hospital in a critical condition, and he later succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-sacrilege-at-gurdaspur-gurdwara-101625322057779.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||A clean sweep for BJP in UP zila panchayat chairperson polls||Amid leaked videos, visuals and claims of misuse of official machinery, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged victorious in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls on Saturday with candidates backed by the party winning 67 of the 75 seats.The party won 21 of these seats unopposed after the Opposition candidates in many cases joined the ruling BJP overnight and withdrew from the contest. Even before the official results were out, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya declared a win.“Kaho dil se, 2022 pe bhajapa phir se (say with heart, BJP again in 2022 UP polls),” Maurya tweeted.The “kaho dil se, Akhilesh phir se” is the Samajwadi Party’s tagline for UP polls. The BJP, having lost the zila panchayat ward members’ poll in April to the Samajwadi Party (SP), was desperate to make amends in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls.Only the SP and its ally Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) put up any resistance from the Opposition ranks. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) boycotted the elections, citing misuse of official machinery while the Congress lost the only seat it contested in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha bastion of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.The SP, which won its stronghold Etawah unopposed, registered a one-sided victory in Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of party chief Akhilesh Yadav. It also surprised the BJP in Etah, Sant Kabir Nagar and Ballia, but faced reverses in bastions like Mainpuri, Rampur, Kannauj and Ferozabad. It also lost Farrukhabad where the BJP got top SP leader Dharmendra Yadav’s ex-wife Monica Yadav to contest.The RLD won the Baghpat seat where the SP-RLD joint candidate had first gone “missing”, then was said to have withdrawn her papers before an official protest by the party ensured a contest.“The public built moral pressure and didn’t let desperate tactics (by the ruling party) succeed,” said RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary.The SP put out a video, alleging that a senior district administration official in Auraiya was caught conspiring against opposition voters.In Chandauli, another video that went viral showed former SP MP Ram Kishan Yadav touching the feet of zila panchayat ward members to secure the party win.“He is known for dramatics,” said local SP leader Chandrashekhar Yadav and alleged former MP Ram Kishan conspired against the party.Such conspiracy theories also circulated in Lucknow where the BJP, with just three zila panchayat ward members, defeated the SP candidate who had claimed more zila panchayat members by its side. In these polls, zila panchayat ward members vote.“The local administration abducted my brother Arun Rawat, a zila panchayat ward member,” Arun’s brother Tarun said in a video put up by the Samajwadi Party.“The SP has forgotten its own past when 36 of its candidates won unopposed in these elections in 2015 when it was in power,” said UP BJP vice president Daya Shankar Singh.The BJP also prevailed over rebels. In Unnao, party candidate Shakun Singh defeated rebel candidate Arun Singh. Here, the SP had expelled its official candidate for siding with the BJP. In Muzaffarnagar, Union minister and local MP Sanjeev Balyan, who was tasked with managing the election, ensured the BJP candidate’s win over his cousin who was the joint opposition candidate.The elections also revealed interesting alliances and withdrawals. In Jaunpur, BJP’s ally Apna Dal withdrew from the race in support of independent candidate Srikala Reddy, wife of former MP Dhananjay Singh, and she won the election.In Ghazipur, two members who had won on the backing of Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), supported the BJP. Owaisi’s party is planning to contest 100 seats in the 2022 UP assembly polls.“AIMIM’s nexus with BJP now lies exposed,” said Congress’ Surendra Rajput.In Amethi, the BJP won against the SP even as the Congress failed to even put up a candidate. The Congress lost Amethi to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.In Pratapgarh, the BJP “tactfully” boycotted the elections in support of former minister and local heavyweight Raghuraj Pratap Singh, aka Raja Bhaiya, whose candidate Madhuri Patel won as a nominee of the Jansatta Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/a-clean-sweep-for-bjp-in-up-zila-panchayat-chairperson-polls-101625320977930.html
03-07-2021||Dehradun||‘Sad his father isn't with us to see him as CM’: Pushkar Singh Dhami's mother||Uttarakhand’s newly appointed chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s mother Vishna Devi on Saturday said that she is a “little sad” as his father is not with them to see his son become the head of the hill state, news agency ANI reported.“I’m very happy but feeling a little sad that his father is not with us to see him as the chief minister of Uttarakhand,” Devi was quoted as saying by ANI.She added that Dhami has worked very hard to achieve this feat, ANI reported.Dhami’s wife Geeta, on the other hand, thanked BJP’s high command, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and party chief JP Nadda for appointing her husband as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand. Talking to ANI, Geeta also thanked the people of Khatima, his constituency.Hailing his middle-class background, Geeta further told ANI that Dhami is “aware of the problems of people.”Soon after the announcement of Pushkar Singh Dhami as the new chief minister, celebrations broke out outside his home in Khatima. According to visuals shared by ANI, Geeta was seen feeding sweets to family members while people danced by playing dhols outside Dhami’s house.Addressing the media, the new chief minister said that his party (BJP) has appointed a “common worker, the son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in Pithoragarh to serve the state.”"My party has always kept me under its wings, just like my mother. I consider myself fortunate enough that the party gave me this opportunity. I pledge to serve people even in remote areas of the state," Dhami told ANI, adding that he will discuss the Cabinet changes later.45-year-old Pushkar Singh Dhami became the third chief minister of Uttarakhand, succeeding Tirath Singh Rawat, in nearly four months. On Saturday, about 57 state BJP MLAs met at the party headquarters in the capital city of Dehradun to choose the next CM of the state. Notably, Uttarakhand will go to the polls early next year.Outgoing chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who was sworn in as the state head on March 10, resigned from the post amid uncertainty over by-polls that was mandatory for him to win to continue as the chief minister.Meanwhile, BJP leader and union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that Pushkar Singh Dhami will take the oath as Uttarakhand’s new chief minister on Sunday, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/sad-his-father-isn-t-with-us-to-see-him-as-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-s-mother-101625318706702.html
03-07-2021||Bangalore||Ex-serviceman, mother of two set out on 6000-km tandem cycling trip||As pandemic and lockdowns pushed many towards a sedentary lifestyle, two cycling enthusiasts – one from Bengaluru and another Nashik – have embarked on a nearly 6000-kilometre-long journey on a tandem bicycle in a bid to promote cycling.A 44-year-old mother of two and a 48-year-old ex-serviceman on Saturday reached New Delhi after cycling for more than 14 days. Meera Velankar from Bengaluru and Dinkar Patil from Nashik started from Bengaluru on June 19 to cover the entire ‘Golden Quadrilateral’ which would nearly be a 6000-kilometre-long trip.The journey will take them through 12 states and will pass through Bangalore, Pune, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, New Delhi, Lucknow, Calcutta, Bhubaneswar, Visakhapatanam and Chennai before returning to Bengaluru.“I’ve always loved a good challenge and since I had done a cycle ride from Kanyakumari to Kashmir in October last year, I wanted to cover the Golden Quadrilateral on a tandem bicycle. It was doing this time, I heard about Dinkar, and I asked him if he wanted to do this ride. We knew it was difficult, but that was the most exciting part about it,” said Velankar, who holds a PhD in life sciences.Patil, an ex-serviceman, who currently heads security at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited at Nashik in Maharashtra says he was initially reluctant about the offer but Velankar’s enthusiasm convinced him. “A soldier is always up for challenges and I took this one as well,” he said.Tandem cycling is difficult than normal cycling, according to them. “For starters, the tandem bicycles available in India are very basic because touring on them is not popular. At the same time, getting along as a team is very important too. Dinkar rides fast and my pace was different. It could use few days to get the rhythm and once that is done, the teamwork makes you very proud,” she said.The duo covers around 150-200 kilometres every day. The routes they have covered came with their own challenges as well. “It takes a lot of mental and physical effort to cover these distances. Around Bengaluru, the terrain had a lot of elevation, near Mumbai the rain slowed us down and towards Rajasthan, the heat and the traffic were a nightmare,” she said.But Velankar says the support from the people keeps them going. “Of course, there is a lot of curiosity. In some places, since we were wearing riding gear and riding a tandem bicycle, people thought were part of the circus,” she said. “But in most of the places, we find that people could relate to the effort we are putting. They understand how challenging this is and they motivate us,” she added.More than holding or setting records in tandem cycling, Velankar says she wants to chronicle the experience of travelling the country on a tandem bicycle.The lockdowns across the several states posed some problems to their efforts, especially in Rajasthan where they couldn’t ride during the day, but at night. “But the good thing is that the highways were not overcrowded, which made our trip easier,” said Patil.Do they feel like giving at times? Almost, says Velankar. “There are days when a thought why did I start this journey creeps in, but then you keep yourself motivated. And most importantly, if Dinakar or I stop this journey halfway, the other person will be stranded on the road with a cycle that can’t be paddled by one person or transported in a normal vehicle because of this size,” said Velankar.“So, it is also essential not to irritate your riding partner too much either,” she added with a laugh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/exserviceman-mother-of-two-set-out-on-6000-km-tandem-cycling-trip-101625319057903.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Visual storytelling through sounds||Sameer Dhamangaonkar approached me through a friend around eight years back. He was an IT professional with a stable job, and family. He, along with a few of his friends, had started a venture named “Snovel” wherein they would create audio CDs of popular books in Marathi. I had heard about them and also the concept of audio books. It had just started gathering steam in India and “Snovel” was one of the, if not the, first to venture in Marathi. I met with Sameer and he explained that he felt that the practice of reading books has started waning. Apart from the obvious benefits of increasing a person’s ability to visualise, improve the vocabulary, capacity of concentration and widening the reader’s horizons of knowledge, books are a form of entertainment too. The options of entertainment, like radio or television, started cropping up in the last few decades of the previous century and shot up with the advent of computer and internet, finally culminating in mobile devices on the palms of our hands. The habit of reading thus took a beating and affected book sales too. The changes in lifestyle through the decades and the quest for instant gratification has to be mentioned too. Books in regional languages, like Marathi, were especially affected as their reader base is smaller to begin with. So, in an effort to conserve books, Sameer and “Snovel” had purchased the rights to a few books in Marathi and had roped in some big names to read them. They received a positive response from many quarters and they were now planning their first big project – “Raarang Dhaang”. Written by Prabhakar Pendharkar, “Raarang Dhaang” is an immensely popular novel in Marathi. Set in the 70s, it is the story of a principled, young civil engineer named Vishwanath who is doing extremely well in his high-paying corporate job. He leaves that job and joins the Indian Army as a short service commissioned officer for the Border Road Organisation, to build roads in the Himalayan ranges. The book starts with him travelling through the terrain and getting introduced to huge mountains, locally called as “Dhaangs” and finally seeing “Raarang Dhaang”, the highest and most dangerous of the lot, through which he is supposed to build a tunnel. The book explores the difference in working styles of Vishwanath and his seniors, the beautiful but deadly terrain, his interaction with the locals, letter correspondence with his father and the girl he is in love with and his struggle to stay true with his work ethic while following military orders. The book is a page turner and transports the reader to the Himalayas! After I read it, I realised that this was a mammoth task. There were so many characters, locations, descriptions! All this had to be conveyed without boring the listeners. The entire experience can be brought about only by a meticulous sound design, which will make the listeners feel as if they are on the site of a road construction job in the Himalayas during the day and in pin drop silence of the mountains at night. They should not only be on the emotional journey of the characters, but also be able to feel that atmosphere. And all this had to be achieved through sounds only! I had listened to the previous works of “Snovel” and they were mostly short-stories which had been narrated, with different voices for the dialogues of the characters with some sound design and music. While it worked for that format, making an audio book of a novel was going to be a different ball-game. I met with Sameer and pitched my idea – adapting the book into the audio format. I was of the opinion that just like books which were adapted into films, this book will need to be adapted into an audio book. There will have to be modifications, like there are while changing the format and proper scenes will have to be written. Merely reading it out by a celebrity will not do justice to it. Fortunately, even he was onboard, though it was a departure from their earlier works. But we all were excited nonetheless! Then came one of the hardest parts of the entire process – writing the script! I had a go at it right away and made tremendous progress. The entire book was converted into nearly sixty-two large scenes. I trained myself to write detailed sounds to create the world. It is fun to even remember that process! But, when I read it out aloud for the first time, we all agreed that it was missing something. It had all the elements of the book, but nobody could pinpoint what was missing, including me. I went back to the basics – reading the book again. This time, I found the key. It was in the preface! The writer mentions that he had first written the book as a first- person narrative and upon reading its manuscript, had received feedback from an eminent scholar that it might work better if the story was told in the third person. He made that change and found out that it worked beautifully. I thought maybe this was the change I was looking for! Since we were changing the medium of telling the story, maybe we needed to tell it in the first-person format. So, I added a narrator – the aged Vishwanath who was telling the story after thirty odd years. And suddenly, everything fell in place. With the script now working, I began casting for it and working on its music and sound design to bring the audio experience to life!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/visual-storytelling-through-sounds-101625317556996.html
03-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC leader allegedly administers Covid-19 vaccine, draws flak||A Trinamool Congress leader in West Bengal allegedly administered the Covid-19 vaccine to a woman at a government vaccination camp in Asansol on Saturday drawing from the opposition, HT has learnt. The state health department has sought a report from the district's chief medical officer of health on the incident within three days.Tabassum Ara, outgoing deputy mayor of the Asansol Municipal Corporation (AMC), who was at the centre of the controversy, however, said that she never administered the vaccine and just posed with it to raise awareness.“I never pushed the injection. I just posed with the syringe to take a picture so that it could encourage others,” Ara told reporters.The incident allegedly took place at a vaccination camp organised by the AMC at a red-light area in Kulti. While the drive was going on Ara, took a syringe from nursing staff and allegedly gave the vaccine to a woman.“I received the vaccine. The woman who gave me the shot was not a doctor or a nurse,” said the woman who received the vaccine.It triggered a controversy, particularly at a time when the BJP has been attacking the ruling TMC in West Bengal over a fake vaccination racket recently busted by the Kolkata Police.“TMC supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee plays the role of a doctor, engineer and scientist singlehandedly. The party leaders are also like that. She (Ara) has just maintained the tradition of the TMC,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s Bengal unit.The TMC, however, tried to downplay the allegations saying that even quacks are now being roped in.“If any such incident has happened, the state and district administration would have to look into it. But in our country, even quacks are being recognised. Do they have any certificate? If they can be roped into the health infrastructure, then I don’t think that hue and cry should be raised if a person, out of enthusiasm, gives the right vaccine shot. But yes, the one who is administering the vaccine should have the knowledge without which it could be dangerous,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, TMC MP.The incident has also drawn flak from the doctors who said that the receiver could develop complications if the dose is not injected properly.A senior doctor of the AMC said, “This is beyond the system. Only health workers are supposed to administer the vaccine.”“I don’t know whether she has received any training. But a public figure need not give a dose to raise awareness. Covid-19 vaccination is a deep intra-muscular vaccine. Without training, it may end up in the wrong position. This may trigger complications,” Manas Gumta, state general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors, said.Outgoing mayor Amarnath Chatterjee said that he has sought a report from the AMC chief health officer. Chatterjee has also issued show-cause notice to Ara, a doctor and two nurses present at the vaccination camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-leader-allegedly-administers-covid-19-vaccine-draws-flak-101625317438737.html
03-07-2021||Other||Assam boy plants 1,000 saplings to boost oxygen amid pandemic||A nine-year-old boy in Cachar district of Assam has started planting nearly one thousand saplings after hearing of many Covid-19 patients struggling due to lack of oxygen. His motive is to increase oxygen in the atmosphere, HT has learnt.Abhinab Deb, a Class 3 student at Delhi Public School’s Silchar unit, hails from Borjalenga area under Assam’s Dholai constituency. Being a tree-lover, he never allows the felling of any tree at his house or the neighbouring areas. Since he heard about issues of lack of oxygen among the Covid-19 infected patients, he pledged to increase oxygen in the atmosphere by planting trees. Deb has requested his parents to help him protect the saplings.Talking about his initiative, the nine-year-old said, “I have heard that people are dying because of lack of oxygen. My teachers have said that trees are the only source of oxygen and we can increase oxygen by planting and preserving the trees. I want to protect each and every tree in our area and would also like to plant more and more. I have started planting saplings on my birthday and this will go on still I make my entire area full of valuable trees.”His father, Ajoy Deb, is a businessman and also a social activist. “Abhinab is always conscious about plants and their lives. He creates pressure on us to plant new saplings and never allows felling any tree in our house. He has a lot of queries about how trees generate oxygen and what is the impact of cutting the trees. Even his teachers say that they are a bit scared of his questions. But, at this age, Abhinab is a positive thinker and as a father, it is my responsibility to support him.”Abhinab was planning the plantation drive for several months but it was on his 9th birthday on Friday when the family started with the planting. They are planning to plant saplings along a 2.5-kilometre road which starts from Chotojalenga Part-2 and ends at Nagathal village. Along with the family members, some locals have also joined their forces in fulfilling the little boy’s dream.Bulti Deb, Abhinab’s mother, informed that her son is also against the killing of animals. She said that he doesn’t support the killing of animals for food. He loves fruits and prefers eating vegetarian items.“Initially we used to laugh at him and tried to convince him but now he has started convincing us with his determination. We have learnt that it is not always the seniors who teach the kids about good values. Sometimes the kids also teach us great lessons with their innocent ideas. My husband and I are supporting his initiative of growing more trees in our area. It is just a small step with a big dream,” she said.Borjalenga comes under Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s constituency. There are villages where people have started growing available trees with the help of the forest department. There is a tea garden under the Dholai constituency named Jalinga, which is keeping a 225-hectares-long rainforest to preserve valuable trees. The forest is also home to some rare species of birds and animals.Owner of the tea garden, Ketan Patel, said, “We are keeping the forest untouched where we have several valuable trees. Besides, many rare birds and animals are also being protected in the land. There are rare trees like Himalayan Rudraksha and many other. Forest officials visit the rainforest to look after the rare birds and animals living here”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-boy-plants-1-000-saplings-to-boost-oxygen-amid-pandemic-101625316720720.html
03-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal government’s Covid-19 portal ‘Benvax’ comes under central scanner||The Covid-19 digital portal launched by the West Bengal government has come under the scanner of the Union government, following allegations of irregularities raised by the leader of the opposition (LoP) of the state’s legislative assembly. Senior health officials of the Mamata Banerjee administration, however, said that the portal ‘Benvax’ is integrated with the centre’s CoWIN app, which forms the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine drive. “LOP, WB Assembly Sh @SuvenduWB Ji visited Delhi yesterday to discuss repercussions of an alternative digital platform, not authorised by GoI, allegedly being used in WB to carry out #VaccinationDrive. The matter is being investigated,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted late on Friday night. The tweet came a day after, BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari sent a letter to Vardhan alleging that in some vaccination camps in West Bengal the CoWin registration aren’t being sought and people were being given vaccination certificates with the photo of chief minister Mamata Banerjee through Benvax portal. “Such a move shall give wind to distrust regarding #VaccinationDrive, not to mention difficulties people may face in verifying authenticity of inoculation,” tweeted Vardhan. Top health officials of the state health department, however, rubbished the charges and clarified that the Benvax portal was integrated with the CoWin app on a real-time basis, with some additional features. “Benvax, which an initiative of the West Bengal government is integrated on a real-time basis with the centre’s CoWIN. One gets the vaccine certificate from Benvax only after registration with the CoWIN. The recipient gets all the SMS and certificate from CoWIN. Benvax gives them an additional certificate with the chief minister’s photo and has some additional features like sending SMS for the second dose after importing data from CoWIN and also helps to identify some groups like the super spreaders,” said a senior official of the state health department. While the certificate downloaded from CoWIN has a photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the certificate downloaded from Benvax bears a photo of CM Mamata Banerjee. Meanwhile, the Centre has asked the West Bengal government to file a report by Thursday in the fake Covid-19 vaccination camps busted by the Kolkata Police last week even as the Calcutta high court directed the state to file an affidavit in the matter by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-government-s-covid-19-portal-benvax-comes-under-central-scanner-101625315639648.html
03-07-2021||Pune||81.40% of Pimpri-Chinchwad’s population has antibodies against Covid: Sero survey||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) which conducted a sero survey has found that 81.40 per cent of the population with a sample size of 10,000 has the presence of Covid-19 antibodies.The survey which also included the population of children was conducted from June 16-26 and was initiated by the medical team of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.The samples included 200 clusters from 32 wards out of which 120 were from housing societies, 40 in slum areas and 40 from the tenement.In the survey, it was found that the population living in slums in the Pimpri and Chinchwad had more Covid antibodies (82.5 per cent) than housing societies (80 per cent).The antibodies were almost similar in women (81.5 per cent) and men (81.3 per cent).“Survey shows the presence of a good amount of antibodies among all age groups. But precaution needs to be taken seriously as the “delta” variant is mutating if these antibodies are capable of fighting this variant is not confirmed by experts,” said Shirish Poredi, PCMC spokesperson.Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer, Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre (SUHRC), said, “The sero surveys cannot be reliable and the percentage of antibodies can be vary in next month.So it is advisable to undertake sero survey on regular basis to find out more accuracy on development of herd immunity which is more important.”PCMC, meanwhile, conducted its first survey in October 2020 with a sample size of 5,000 during which antibodies were found in 37 per cent of its populationAge group; Presence of antibodies6 to 18; 70.6%19 to 44; 78.9%45 to 60; 91.1%Above 60; 90.5%Overall presence of antibodies: 81.40%(Source: PCMC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8140-of-pimpri-chinchwad-s-population-has-antibodies-against-covid-sero-survey-101625315636764.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro services on Yellow Line tobe affected tomorrow due to maintenance issues||Delhi Metro services on the Yellow Line from Qutub Minar and Guru Dronacharya will run on a single line from 10.30pm on July 3 till 6.30am on July 4, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement."To undertake planned track maintenance work in the above section, train services between Qutab Minar and Guru Dronacharya section of Yellow Line will be run on single line after 10.30 pm till the end of revenue services on July 3 and from the start of revenue services till 6:30 am on Sunday," said DMRC.DMRC also said that announcements will be made at the stations, where services will be affected, and inside the trains running on the yellow line on July 3 and 4, about the destinations and respective platforms for change."Announcements will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on Yellow Line about the destination of trains and respective platforms for change over during this period." DMRC added.A total of four stations falls between Qutab Minar and Guru Dronacharya - Chhatarpur, Sultanpur, Ghitorni and Arjangarh.Metro services on the Yellow Line were also affected on July 1 due to a technical glitch at Huda City Centre, causing train services to halt between Huda City Centre and Sikanderpur."Earlier today, DMRC informed that there will be a delay in services between Huda City Centre and Sultanpur. Due to a technical issue at Huda City Centre, temporarily no train services will be available between Huda City Centre and Sikanderpur. We apologise for the inconvenience.", DMRC had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-on-yellow-line-tobe-affected-tomorrow-due-to-maintenance-issues-101625314503535.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||Hope new UP DGP stops BJP’s tradition of filing false cases: Akhilesh Yadav||After Mukul Goel took charge as the new director general of police of Uttar Pradesh on Friday, Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday wrote in a post on Twitter that he hopes the new police chief will “show commitment towards the public.” “Hope…the tradition which was prevailing in the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) till now of registering false cases against the public and opposition, will end. The police should become a symbol of faith of the public” the tweet written in Hindi read.Goel, a 1987 batch officer, succeeded Harish Chandra Awasthy, who retired from the services on Friday. Goel was till now posted as the Additional Director General (Operations) in the Border Security Force (BSF), and his appointment as the new DGP of Uttar Pradesh came on June 30.Addressing the media after taking charge on Friday, Goel said that he will ensure that law and order is maintained in the state, PTI reported. He stressed on taking the assistance of common people to focus on crime control, and said that police officials should be “sensitive and connected to people” so that the gap between them is reduced and crimes can be checked.Meanwhile, on Saturday, former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati took to Twitter to slam Congress, Samajwadi Party and the ruling BJP for misusing the state’s police machinery. In a tweet posted in Hindi, she said under the reign of all the three parties, police and official machinery were not permitted to work impartially.Mayawati further claimed that under her party’s rule in the state, the government machinery was allowed to run without any bias, even as she pointed out an incident for a party MP being sent to jail for breaking the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hope-new-up-dgp-stops-bjp-s-tradition-of-filing-false-cases-akhilesh-yadav-101625313715344.html
03-07-2021||Patna||SEC gears to advance Bihar panchayat poll schedule by holding election from August||The State Election Commission (SEC), mandated to hold the panchayat polls in Bihar, is all set to advance the schedule of holding the election to the three-tier local bodies by starting the poll process from August so that the exercise could be completed by October end, officials said.People privy to the development in the SEC said that the first phase of the panchayat polls would start from the end of August and the rest of the phases of the ten-phased polls would be conducted till October end. “We are going to start the panchayat poll process from August. The poll process would be completed by October. We are working in this direction,” said secretary, SEC, Yogendra Ram.Officials said reports from district magistrates are being sought to finalise the schedule of poll dates and a proposal in this regard would be sent to the state government soon for cabinet approval following which the notification of the poll process would be done.The panchayat polls, scheduled to be held in March and April, were deferred owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and litigation over the non-availability of electronic voting machines. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has already given the nod for use of single post EVMs (M2 model) in the forthcoming panchayat polls, the first such exercise to be conducted in local bodies elections in Bihar.The SEC, in last few weeks, has also worked on the strategy of holding polls in flood-prone areas in the last few phases depending on the severity of floods usually experienced in north Bihar districts in July and August, a departure from its previous planning to hold the polls after the rainy season in September.“If in case, there are floods in some districts or blocks, we will hold the polls there in the last few phases. We have already asked the DMs to identify such blocks which are flood-prone or quite remote where accessibility is difficult,” said another SEC official.On Saturday, SEC officials held a video conferencing with all district magistrates to take stock of the ongoing process to requisition electronic voting machines (EVMs) from different states, polling stations and the process of first level checking of EVMs.Sources said the SEC has set the target of completing the process of first level checking of EVMs by mid-July and already tagged nodal officers from districts to get the EVMs from different states in the next couple of weeks.The SEC has assessed that around 8.5 lakh EVMs would be required for multi-phase polls having a total number of 1.15 lakh polling stations and around six crore electorate. A total of 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier local bodies, including gram kutcheries, would be elected in the polls.At present, all the three-tier local bodies are being run through advisory committees following an ordinance brought to empower such bodies for six months as an arrangement to run the local self-government institutions after their five-year term ended on June 15 this year.Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena, said that a decision on holding the polls and finalization of dates has to be done by the SEC.Vaccination for panchayat members to be voluntary. The SEC will be issuing an advisory to all those participating in the panchayat polls, including candidates, to get Covid-19 vaccines instead of making jabs of the coronavirus disease mandatory for the aspiring candidates or those seeking re-election, as proposed by the panchayat raj department minister Samrat Choudhary.The reason is said to be legal issues as a mandatory provision for those contesting polls would require necessary provisioning of rules in the Bihar panchayat election rules, 2006. Officials said the poll panel also has taken into account the fact that the entire vaccination drive in the country is a voluntary exercise where both state and central government are appealing to people to get the jabs.“We are already asking the DMs and field officers engaged in panchayat polls to create awareness among the rural population to get Covid vaccines so that they are safe and protected when they participate in the polls. We are hopeful the vaccination drive already underway would cover a large section of the population, especially in rural areas ahead of the polls,” said SEC, secretary Yogendra Ram.A few weeks back, panchayati raj department minister Choudhary advocated that the SEC should consider making Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for all those keen on contesting polls reasoning that it would give a fillip to the vaccination drive in rural areas where vaccine hesitancy is rampant, and also help in inoculating a large section of the state’s population in next few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sec-gears-to-advance-bihar-panchayat-poll-schedule-by-holding-election-from-august-101625314257654.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||P305 barge tragedy: Director of shipping company, 2 others arrested by Mumbai Police||Yellow Gate police in south Mumbai on Friday late night arrested three key management members of Papaa Shipping Company Pvt Ltd, Vile Parle, in connection with accommodation barge Papaa305 (P305) that had capsized in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae on May 17, resulting in the loss of 75 lives.Deputy commissioner of police (port zone) Ganesh Shinde confirmed the development.Police officers said that the accused – Prasad Ganpat Rane, Nitin Dinanath Singh and Akhilesh Tiwari – acted irresponsibly, and the lives of many onboard were lost because of their negligent acts, and hence they have been arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, endangering life or personal safety of others and common intention.Rane is the manager of Papaa Shipping, while Singh and Tiwari are director and technical superintendent, respectively. A local court has remanded them in police custody till July 8.Of the 261 people on board, the Indian Navy had rescued 186 in one of the most difficult search and rescue operations of recent times.Afcons Infrastructure Private Limited had hired P305 on a rental basis from Durmast Enterprises Limited for work in Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) field. Afcons had sub-contracted the works to various companies and had made accommodation arrangements for their workers in barge P305. There were around 23 crew members of Papaa Shipping on the barge along with other employees of other shipping companies. A service contract to Papaa Shipping was given by Durmast Enterprises Limited.“The arrested men were well-aware of the serious warning issued by the authority concerned in connection with Cyclone Tauktae. Despite this, they neither called back their employees from the barge nor did they ask them to shift to a safer place. They were also aware of the decision taken [on the basis of miscalculated judgement] by the barge’s master [which later proved fatal for everyone on the barge]. They could have still called back their employees to safety. But they failed to do so and all of their crew members lost their lives in the incident. Hence, they have been arrested in the case,” said senior inspector Suhas Hemade of Yellow Gate police station. Another director of Papaa Shipping, Shilpa Kanojiya, is also an accused in the case, but has not been arrested yet, Hemade added.Initially, a first information report (FIR) in the matter was registered on May 21 against the master of the barge Rakesh Ballav and some others on the basis of the statement of Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of the maintenance crew of the vessel.Shaikh had accused Ballav and others of overlooking the weather alerts and for failing to take appropriate care despite knowing that the lapse could result in loss of lives.As per the police complaint, the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields. Around 11pm on May 16, the wind speed started to increase. An hour later, the wind speed almost doubled, and the crew could hear the sound of the roaring storm. At 2am, two of the eight anchor cables of the barge gave way and the captain send a distress message to a tug boat, which was supposed to be around. However, the boat was about 16 nautical miles away and expressed its inability to move in the stormy weather.In the statement, Shaikh further alleged that at 4am, two more anchor cables broke and the barge started experiencing huge jerks. Eventually by 8am, all the anchors gave way and the barge started drifting when the wind speed was about 60/70 knots. Later, the barge hit a platform around 9.45am and water started gushing inside, following which the captain finally sent a distress signal to the navy and other authorities.The police have recorded the statements of more than 100 survivors, rescued by the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard from barge P305.Afcons Infrastructure, which led the consortium that had chartered the ill-fated barge along with its marine crew, had earlier said that the master of P305 had chosen to stay in the sea near the platform where it was working despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai Harbour in the wake of warnings for Cyclone Tauktae.Yellow Gate police are also investigating another FIR, which was registered on June 24 in connection with tug boat Varaprada, which sank on May 17 during Cyclone Tauktae.In that case, the police have booked the owner of the tug boat – Glory Shipmanagment Pvt Ltd – alleging that it did not carry out the required maintenance and repairing works, and their irresponsible act resulted in a tragic incident in which 11 people died. The complainant, Francis K Simon, who was the second engineer of the boat and one of its only two survivors, told the police that due to poor maintenance, the boat was not seaworthy and had also lost its stability on the fateful night and sank leading to the deaths of 11 people. The owner was well-aware of the boat’s defective conditions, he alleged in the FIR. No arrest has been made in this case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/p305-barge-tragedy-manager-2-directors-of-shipping-company-arrested-by-mumbai-police-101625313716703.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Police use water cannon to quell AAP protest outside Punjab CM’s farmhouse||Punjab Police on Saturday used water cannons to disperse Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers who had gathered to gherao the farm house of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Siswan near Chandigarh to protest against the ongoing power crisis in the state. The protesting AAP workers, led by their Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, raised slogans against the Congress government over the power shortage and tried to break the barricading following which the police resorted to cane-charge. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the chief minister’s farmhouse. As scores of AAP workers carrying party flags forced their way through the first layer of barricades and reached the second, police used water cannons to disperse them. Later, the police booked 23 AAP leaders and 200 unknown supporters for flouting Covid-19 safety norms. The protestors had gathered in large numbers without wearing masks or observing social distancing. Those named in the FIR include Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Cheema and MLAs Meet Hayer, Manjeet Singh Bilaspur, Kulwant Singh Pandori and Master Baldev Singh. They have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code besides Section 51A of the Disaster Management Act at the Mullanpur police station in Mohali. Capt sleeping in palaces: MannEarlier, addressing the gathering, state unit chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said: “We have come to express the grief of 2.75 crore people of Punjab to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who is sleeping in palaces and visited Punjab only six times since he became the CM.” He said the people of Punjab were buying the most expensive electricity in the country at ₹10 per unit, but were still not getting electricity. “Instead, they have to leave their homes in the scorching heat for paddy sowing in the fields and hold dharnas on the roads,” said Mann. He said that Captain Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister should go to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the issues of the farmers and get all the three black laws against farmers repealed. Mann alleged the people of Punjab were suffering the consequences of a collusion between the Akalis and the Congress, because during the Akali rule, the Badal family had entered into deadly deals with the private power companies and now the Congress government has implemented these deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-use-water-cannon-to-quell-aap-protest-outside-punjab-cm-s-farmhouse-101625312517234.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal allows army recruitment rallies, relaxes curbs on gatherings||The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed to organize recruitment rallies for the Indian Army and also relaxed Covid curbs on gatherings. A notification to this effect was issued by the state executive committee (SEC) headed by chief secretary Anil Khachi in Shimla on Saturday. Also read: Pushkar Singh Dhami elected as new Uttarakhand chief ministerIt said that the army recruitment office (ARO) for the state had requested to allow recruitment rallies to provide job opportunities in the armed forces for youngsters of Himachal Pradesh and permission to hold the common entrance exam (CEE). “After considering the prevalent status of Covid-19 and the fact that the number of positive patients, daily mortality and positivity rate has declined considerably, and the situation has improved, the SEC provides relaxation on the maximum number of persons allowed to congregate in such recruitment rallies/drives by the army, paramilitary forces, police and forest, subject to observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and safety protocols during these rallies in public interest,” the notification said. It said the district magistrates shall coordinate with the respective recruiting authority for the enforcement of the safety protocol. Indoor gathering of 150 people allowed The limit for the number of people in social/academic/sports/entertainment/ cultural/religious and other congregations has also been relaxed. In an indoor facility, a maximum gathering of 50% of the capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of a maximum of 150 people. In open spaces, gatherings will be allowed with ceiling of maximum 250 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory at all such venues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-allows-army-recruitment-rallies-relaxes-curbs-on-gatherings-101625311257474.html
03-07-2021||Business||Kumaraswamy terms GST regime 'monster symbol' that limits states' financial autonomy||Senior JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday termed Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime as a 'monster symbol' of curtailing the financial autonomy of states in the federal system of governance. The former chief minister alleged that the GST regime is aimed at diverting the revenues of states to the Centre.On the fourth anniversary of GST, Kumaraswamy took a dig at the Centre in a series of tweets. "The GST regime has stood like a monster symbol of curtailing the financial autonomy of states in the federal system of governance. The GST regime appears to be a financial system of nurturing the Centre by fleecing the states," he tweeted.Kumaraswamy stated that the Centre was celebrating the fourth anniversary of the GST regime because it has filled its stomach by snatching away the rights and freedom of the states with respect to taxes. "The Centre, which had promised the states of compensating for losses while including them under the GST regime, has now gone back on its words. Should the states too celebrate the GST's fourth anniversary for getting cheated on their tax resources?" Kumaraswamy asked. Noting that Karnataka is yet to get a GST compensation of about ₹9,000 crore, he said the state would have celebrated the occasion if it had got the compensation on this occasion of commemoration.According to Kumaraswamy, compensation would have benefited the state as it has suffered from resource crunch due to the impact of COVID-19. He alleged that instead of compensating for the losses on account of GST, the Centre is celebrating amidst the sufferings of states. "The main intention of the GST regime is to divert the revenues of states to the Centre so that states would have to sheepishly stand before the Centre like slaves to seek financial allocation.This system of slavery was evolved by the Congress and implemented by the BJP," the JD(S) leader said. He added that the GST regime has reduced the states to a position of begging the Centre for financial allocation and the states are also forced to take up a struggle against inclusion of petroleum products under GST.Kumaraswamy claimed that the GST has failed to improve the lives of common people besides not even providing any boost to start-ups. "There is nothing for the states as well as people to celebrate about the GST regime. It is merely a symbol of fascism of Congress and BJP," the former CM alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/kumaraswamy-terms-gst-regime-monster-symbol-that-limits-states-financial-autonomy-101625305669392.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir raids illegal sand mining sites in Punjab’s Mukerian||Having conducted a raid on the Beas riverbed in Amritsar district three days ago, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal along with supporters raided sand mining sites at Mukerian in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday. Accompanied by his brother-in-law and former state revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia besides supporters and mediapersons, Sukhbir reached the Hajipur block and alleged that illegal mining was taking place in the area under the patronage of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and other Congress leaders. Also read: ED raids 6 locations across Delhi, UP in religious conversion PMLA caseHe dared mining department officials to register a case against him. “The mining mafia is plundering the land but the mining department is looking the other way as Congress bigwigs are involved in the illegal activity,” Sukhbir said. He visited mining sites at Dhamian, Sandhwal and Kulian Lubana villages. As his convoy reached Kulian Lubana, those carrying out mining at the site escaped, abandoning the machinery. Will safeguard interest of Punjabis: Sukhbir “Shocking state of the mining mafia. After the Beas, visited Mukerian & saw first-hand how mafia has extracted sand up to 200 feet. CM @capt_amarinder & minister @SarkariaTeam should tell Pbis (Punjabis) which law allows extraction of sand up to 200 feet? Officially the limit is 10 feet only,” Sukhbir said in a tweet. “2 days back when we exposed illegal mining at Beas, Mining Secretary justified the same. I’m waiting how govt will justify illegal activity at Mukerian. We aren’t afraid of cases. Cong govt can register 10 cases against me but I’ll continue to safeguard interests of Punjabis,” he said in another tweet. Booked in Amritsar for violating norms On June 30, the SAD chief had made similar charges when he made a visit to Beas river bank in Amritsar. Though at that time, the state mining department had trashed Sukhbir’s accusations and asserted that the site visited by the SAD chief near the Beas river was a legal one. On July 1, the Amritsar police had booked Sukhbir and two other Akali leaders under sections, including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-raids-illegal-sand-mining-sites-in-punjab-s-mukerian-101625305616767.html
03-07-2021||Gurugram||In Gurugram, fake insurance claim unravels racket||It was a meticulously planned insurance fraud built on a foundation of data stolen from insurance companies, potentially earnings for its perpetrators hundreds of crores in life insurance claims on around 10,000 fake deaths -- but it was discovered by chance, after possibly a few hundred claims, because of an insurance policy that was linked to three others.That insurance claim itself was worth only ₹30 lakh, below the threshold requiring a physical verification by insurance surveyors, but the ones it was linked to were worth ₹10.2 crore, something the perpetrators were not aware of. And on June 20 , when the surveyors went visiting, they met the wife of the man believed dead, the chairperson of a private university in Gurugram, who was very much alive.The lady complained to the police, and the fraud came to light.The Gurugram Police said a gang of six is behind the fraud, built around stolen insurance data, forged death certificates, hundreds of bank accounts, and fake claims. They have arrested four of the gang. The police said they are ascertaining details of the number of such claims filed by the gang, and added that they have so far recovered at least 250 insurance claim documents from their possession. They believe the gang may have actually claimed money against 150 policiesBased on the complaint of the lady mentioned above, KK Rao, Gurugram’s commissioner of police, formed teams comprising members of the police’s crime and cyber crime units led by an assistant commissioner of police (crime). The success of the fraud depended on the entire process being digital -- and by checking the online claim process, the teams were able to follow the digital breadcrumbs -- the address of the suspects, the details of the bank accounts into which the claims were paid, and the mobile numbers linked to those accounts.The trail led them to the four gang members -- Rajnikant Kumar, the mastermind who earlier worked with the insurance company; Durgesh Dubey, a call centre employee; Naval Kishore, who helped with the opening of the bank account, and Nitish Saini, a Delhi-based property dealer -- all of whom were arrested from Delhi on Thursday.The other gang members, who arranged for the death certificate, have been identified but are yet to be arrested.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said: “The four suspects are presently on five-day police remand and are tough nuts to crack. They are not sharing any details but we are questioning them and are also contacting families through the insurance claims [recovered] to find out whether they were aware of this fraudulent activity.”Gang members Sangwan said the mastermind, identified as Rajnikant Kumar from Jaipur, moved to Gurugram in 2011. In 2012, he started working with an insurance company where he met Durgesh Dubey, who, at that time, was deployed in the back office of the same company.In 2014, Kumar moved to another insurance company where he worked till August 2019. In 2017, Dubey left the insurance company and started working with a fake call centre in Gururgam. These are centres that specialise in telemarketing, credit card and insurance frauds, sometimes even on people outside the country.Police said that in March 2020, the two men hatched the plan for the fraud to overcome financial difficulties. But they needed more people, including some with specialised skills (or access), Sangwan explained.“Before they could start the process, the first wave of the coronavirus disease hit . They took advantage of the situation, and started making connections with the staff of private hospitals.” The idea was to see if they could get insurance and other details of patients who had combined health and life insurance plans.They also had data on hand. Kumar, the police claim, left the two insurance companies with details of around 10,000 life insurance policies from across the country.The data, Sangwan said, had “details of insurance policies, Aadhaar cards, PAN cards, e-mail IDs and mobile numbers; nominee details were [also] easily accessible through the documents.”First step Meanwhile, Dubey, who lived in Delhi, contacted his school friend, Nitesh Saini, a Delhi-based property dealer whose friend, Naval Kishore, worked in a private bank in Gurugram .The four decided to join hands.According to Sangwan, they also met a few insurance advisers and sought their help to understand the safest way to claim money -- that wasn’t theirs by right. They also needed documents that made them the beneficiaries, and bank accounts. “They wanted someone who was expert in forging documents. Saini and Dubey knew two people who were experts in forgery and so they contacted them and involved them .”How the fraud workedRao said the gang members used to work 14 hours a day, making calls and sending emails for insurance claims.The gang, the police claimed, opened at least 300 bank accounts in different places in Delhi-NCR. They planned to dupe more than 10,000 families of their insurance money, police said.Then came the event that led to their capture.“Kumar got details of a customer whose policy was for ₹30 lakh and they got the forged death certificate made and applied for the claim in the first week of June. They were unaware of the background and details of the victim. They opened a bank account in the nominee’s name with forged documents and were waiting for the insurance claim. They even sent two reminders to check the progress,” Rao added.They did not know that the insurance policy belonged to chairman of a prominent university; nor that it was linked to three other policies of ₹10.20 crore.Physical verification is not mandatory for insurance claims less than ₹40 lakh. The gang was aware of this. However, they were unaware that the policyholder had multiple linked policies with the same company.On June 20, an insurance surveyor reached the house of the man believed dead in South City -1 in Gurugram for verification. They met the wife. Then the man himself. “The family was shocked to know that someone tried to dupe them. The wife went to Sector 29 police station and registered a case against unidentified persons,” said Rao.Sangwan said they are questioning the suspects to get names of the hospitals where staff the details of patients. The Gurugram Police have called a few families whose policies have been misused by the gang and also alerted insurance firms to share details if they receive complaints from customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-gurugram-fake-insurance-claim-unravels-racket-101625299321982.html
03-07-2021||Jaipur||Three Rajasthan Congress MLAs in Delhi amid calls for cabinet expansion||Three ruling Congress lawmakers from Barmer known to be close to chief minister Ashok Gehlot have been camping in Delhi to meet the party’s central leadership amid demands for Cabinet expansion.Congress candidates, who lost the assembly elections in 2018, and supporters of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot were earlier in Delhi to meet the top leadership.The three, Ameen Khan, who has been a minister, Madan Prajapat, and Mewaram Jain, were expected to meet Congress’s Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken on Saturday. A Congress leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Cabinet expansion is on the cards and Gehlot is likely to induct some lawmakers from the Pilot camp such as former minister Hemaram Choudhary. He added the three lawmakers were expected to demand fair representation in the expansion. Khan claimed his visit to Delhi has no political motives. “We have come here for a general visit and will be meeting various leaders such as Maken and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/three-rajasthan-congress-mlas-in-delhi-amid-calls-for-cabinet-expansion-101625299256363.html
03-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man held for killing brother following family spar||A 55-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing his brother in Surajpur in Greater Noida. The suspect, identified as Satyapal, is a native of Sakipur village in the city. The 45-year-old victim, Mahendra, lived with his family in the neighbourhood of Satyapal.Mahendra’s 20-year-old son, Sobindra, had filed a complaint on June 22, 2021, saying that Satyapal’s son, Shekhar, had married a woman in Bulandshahr a few years ago. However, Shekhar and his wife had some domestic issues.Sobindra, in the FIR, said, “The family members of Shekhar and his wife held a meeting with the panchayat members on this in Greater Noida on June 21. My father had intervened to resolve the issue, but my cousin brother Shekhar and his family members were unhappy with the meeting’s outcome as the panchayat had asked Shekhar to pay ₹60,000 to his wife.”Sobindra said that he had come to his maternal uncle’s place in Dankaur on June 21. Sobindra’s father and the victim — Mahendra was at home with his wife Seema (45), daughter Neha (18), and son Tanishq (16). “That night, Shekhar, his father and the suspect — Satyapal, and two brothers Bhoora and Rakesh, barged into our house and attacked my father with a sharp knife. When my family members tried to rescue him, they were attacked, too,” Sobindra added.A case was registered against them under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and 147 (rioting) at the Surajpur police station on June 22.Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that the four victims were admitted to a private hospital, where Mahendra died during the treatment. “The four suspects had been absconding since the day of the attack. Later, police arrested Satyapal near ATS roundabout in Greater Noida on Thursday. He was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a hunt to nab the three absconding persons,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-held-for-killing-brother-following-family-spar-101625298703954.html
03-07-2021||Dehradun||From Satpal Maharaj to Trivendra Rawat: List of probable CM faces in Uttarakhand||After Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation as the Uttarakhand chief minister late on Friday, the names of several BJP leaders have been doing the rounds as probable candidates for the top post in the hill state. The BJP is going to hold its legislature party meeting to be chaired by state unit president Madan Kaushik later on Saturday to name a new leader and all its 56 MLAs have been asked to attend it.Reports have said Chaubattakhal MLA and cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj, Shrinagar MLA Dhan Singh Rawat, Pushkar Singh Dhami and Ritu Khanduri have come up as contenders for the Uttarakhand CM post. Former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who represents Doiwala in the Uttarakhand assembly, has also been suggested by a few BJP leaders, according to reports.Also watch | Tirath Singh Rawat resigns as Uttarakhand CM in 4 months, BJP MLAs to meet todayAccording to news agency PTI, those who have put forward the name of Trivendra Singh Rawat contend that rather than choosing a new face the former CM will be a safer bet ahead of the next year's assembly elections.Also read | Uttarakhand BJP meeting today after Tirath Singh Rawat's resignationPolitical experts have said Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation after a series of meetings and the change in leadership necessitated after it could impact the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) chances in the Uttarakhand assembly election 2022. The political crisis in Uttarakhand has also invited criticism from the Congress, which said the BJP has been using "the sacred land of Uttarakhand into a playground of their dirty politics."Also read | A sudden leadership change not new to UttarakhandThe scathing attack came during a press conference held by Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, national general secretary and former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat, party state in-charge Devendra Yadav and state unit president Pritam Singh. "The sacred land of Uttarakhand has always offered lessons on spirituality and culture to the country. But the BJP's dirty politics has now turned it into a prime example of the greed of power, political instability...which is just despicable and shameful," said Surjewala.The legislature party meeting will begin at the BJP headquarters at 3pm and central observer Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, national general secretary D Purandeshwari and general secretary in charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam will monitor the decision-making process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/from-satpal-maharaj-to-trivendra-rawat-list-of-probable-cm-faces-in-uttarakhand-101625295040255.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Bihar amends mine rules with aim to contain emboldened sand mining mafia||The Bihar government is amending the mines rules to provision for levy of heavy fines following seizure of vehicles involved in illegal sand mining, which has shown no sign of abating, leading to environmental hazard and revenue losses. Under the new rules, trucks ferrying illegally mined sand will be released on payment of ₹4 lakhs in fine and tractors for ₹25,000. This will be in addition to the penalty imposed on the seized sand. Attempts to regulate sand mining trade since 2016 have failed spectacularly despite formation of a new policy and attempt to cancel mining lease of 25 companies owned by powerful people, who are believed to operate in connivance with politicians, police and officials of mines and geology department, said a government official on condition of anonymity.Patna, Saran, Bhojpur, Aurangabad, Kaimur and Rohtas are some of the worst-affected districts. Sand in Bihar is being sold for as much as ₹30,000 to ₹35,000 per truck load. Officials say that Chirand village in Saran district, is the favourite spot for the illegal trade as it is situated on the confluence of Ganga and Saryu rivers and connects to National Highway-19.Sand mined from nearby Sone River in Patna and Bhojpur districts is shipped to Chirand in boats to be smuggled to north Bihar and neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh. According to locals, around 90% of the population in Chirand village are engaged in sand smuggling. Saran range deputy inspector general (DIG) Manu Maharaaj said he has asked police chiefs of Gopalganj and Saran districts to send a detailed report against the culprits so that their properties could be confiscated. Saran SP Santosh Kumar claimed that 35 FIRs against 357 persons were lodged in May for illegal sand mining and 39 were arrested; 576 vehicles were seized apart from collection of ₹4.28 crore in fines. Similarly in Bhojpur district, the police claimed to have seized 324 vehicles, lodged 49 FIRs and arrested 94 persons. Besides this, the station house officer (SHO) of Barhara police station and 5 constables were suspended on May 28 on the charges of collecting money and protecting the vehicles carrying illegally mined sand. An FIR was also lodged against the SHO of Sahar police station and two others for extortion from the sand mafia In adjoining Rohtas district, altogether 1,056 vehicles have been seized since January this year. Rohtas police chief (SP) Ashish Bharti said two additional police camps have been set up to check illegal mining in the district. This year the police has so far lodged 159 FIRs, arrested 116 persons and collected a fine of ₹3.79 crore. In Aurangabad, over 75 trucks and 175 tractors engaged in transportation of illegal sand were seized from Barun, Obra and Daudnagar police stations in the district between May 1 and June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-amends-mine-rules-with-aim-to-contain-emboldened-sand-mining-mafia-101625294095934.html
03-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga medical college gets ₹25 lakh Covid-19 essential kits in donation||A non profit organisation donated a truck load of healthcare supplies worth ₹25 lakh to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) to aid in the fight against Covid-19. The consignment donated by Habitat for Humanity India on Friday includes semi-fowler beds, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters, thermometers, water filters, bed sheets, hygiene kit and PPE kits among others.“This donation was made under the Road to Recovery 2.0 Covid Response in coordination with World Vision India, Chennai and Mithila Gram Vikas Parishad, Darbhanga,” said Dr Raman Kumar Verma, chairman, Bihar unit Indian Medical Association (IMA) hospital board of India.Stock brokerage firm Zerodha has partnered with Habitat for Humanity India to provide the Covid-19 containment essential kit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-medical-college-gets-rs-25-lakh-covid-19-essential-kits-in-donation-101625291215561.html
03-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court asks Mamata govt to reinstate Suvendu Adhikari's security||The Calcutta high court on Friday directed the West Bengal government to reinstate the security cover of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s Suvendu Adhikari, the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly. Adhikari's security detail was earlier withdrawn by the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the state.Suvendu Adhikari is a Z-category protectee designated by the Union ministry of home affairs. While hearing the BJP leader's security case on Friday, the court observed that he is adequately covered by the central security detail assigned by the home ministry.In an earlier hearing, the court had ordered the director of security of the West Bengal administration to file a report stating why the security cover given to Suvendu Adhikari by the state government had been withdrawn.The West Bengal government told the Calcutta high court that Adhikari's security is already well-maintained by the administration as per the guidelines laid down in the 'Yellow Book' titled ‘Security arrangements for the protection of individuals’.Security is provided on the basis of threat assessment done by the Central Security Agency. The security arrangements for VIP individuals are made after careful assessment of their threat perception by the central agency. Depending on the level of threat, security is provided in Z+, Z, Y+, Y, and X categories.A report of the Directorate Security on this day mentioned that Adhikari, a Z category protectee, is already being provided state security for the pilot, route lining, and meetings.The state government had earlier on May 18 withdrawn its security cover to Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP leader then moved the Calcutta high court in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-asks-mamata-govt-to-reinstate-suvendu-adhikari-s-security-101625285462573.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Covid in Delhi: DDMA allows reopening of Laxmi Nagar market, surrounding bazaars||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday allowed the Main Bazaar, Laxmi Nagar from Vikas Marg to Lovely Public School, Kishan Kunj and its surrounding markets to reopen from Saturday, two days after they were ordered to be shut till July 5 due to alleged violation of all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) safety norms.“A meeting of DDMA (East) was held on 02.07.2021 wherein various issues were discussed. After the deliberations in the meeting on this aspect and on the basis of assurances from Delhi Police, MCD and Market Association, DDMA (E) agreed that the Main Bazar, Laxmi Nagar from Vikas Marg to Lovely Public School, Kishan Kunj and its surrounding Bazars /markets like Mangal Bazar, Vijay Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Jagatram Park, Guru Ramdas Nagar, etc can be allowed to function w.e.f. 03.07.2021,” the DDMA said in an order, adding the traders assured that they will adhere to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Also Read| As crowds pack markets in Delhi, govt tells districts to crack the whipHere are the new conditions to be followed by traders and shopkeepers:1. The markets association and the chamber of trade and industry shall ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour and DDMA guidelines are strictly followed by visitors, vendors, shopkeepers etc.2. Shopkeepers shall ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour is followed by people coming to their shops and those inside should be limited accordingly. Visitors who do not wear masks and do not maintain social distancing are not be entertained by shopkeepers.3. District police shall increase the presence of its personnel in markets and adopt adequate measures to stagger crowd movement and also ensure all DDMA guidelines are followed along with Covid appropriate behaviour.After assurance from traders that COVID-appropriate behaviour will be followed, DDMA, District East, directs that the Main Bazar, Laxmi Nagar from Vikas Marg to Lovely Public School, Kishan Kunj and its surrounding markets are hereby allowed to open w.e.f today- July 3, 2021. pic.twitter.com/aKjsFWNoUc4. Traffic police shall regulate vehicular movement and enforce ‘No Parking’ in and around market areas to limit crowds.5. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) should ensure only authorised vendors, shopkeepers and hawkers are allowed entry in markets.6. Officials have been asked to mobile testing vans at markets and also organise vaccination drives for shopkeepers and vendors at nearby vaccination centres.7. Officials have been also instructed to keep strict vigil in markets and submit a status report regularly.Markets in Delhi re-opened in the third week of June after a gap of two months as the daily cases of Covid-19 were continuously declining. However, shopkeepers and traders allegedly failed to comply with social distancing and other Covid related protocols which led to overcrowding. The traders' bodies in Delhi pointed out it is impossible to control crowds outside shops and the responsibility of controlling them lies with the administration, Hindustan Times reported on June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-in-delhi-ddma-allows-reopening-of-laxmi-nagar-market-surrounding-bazaars-101625286001833.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||UP zila panchayat chairperson polls to be held in 53 districts today||Voting for 53 seats of zila panchayat chairpersons in Uttar Pradesh will be held on Saturday after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 22 of them unopposed and the Samajwadi Party’s candidates in one, poll officials said. The polls, being held ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled next year, will be held from 11am to 3pm and the counting of votes will start after that, they added.UP State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said, in a statement on Tuesday, that chairpersons of zila panchayats of 22 districts have been elected unopposed. The poll panel did not announce the party affiliation of winning candidates but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) later claimed it had won 21 seats and the Samajwadi Party (SP) said the seat in the Etawah district was bagged by its candidate.Also read | UP’s local polls and the distortions in decentralised governanceThe districts where whose zila panchayat chairpersons won unopposed are Saharanpur, Bahraich, Etawah, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur. Also read | At a joint panchayat, SP and RLD allege zila panchayat members being framedSamajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has accused Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of rigging the district panchayat chairpersons elections. "The CM has crossed all limits in rigging the district panchayat chairperson elections. His undemocratic conduct has posed a threat to the constitutional institutions in the state,” Akhilesh Yadav said on June 28. “Hijacking the mandate, the state administration forcibly prevented candidates of Samajwadi Party and other opposition parties from filing nominations,” the former UP chief minister also said in a statement. Also read | BJP using state machinery to secure votes for its candidates, says AkhileshBSP president Mayawati has said that her party will not contest the zila panchayat chairman elections and will instead channelise its energy on strengthening the organisation and expand its base before the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year. “Once the BSP forms its government in the state, the majority of the zila panchayat chairman themselves will join the BSP as they cannot function without power. We have kept this fact in mind and so decided not to contest the election,” she said on June 28.Also read | Priority is 2022 polls, not contesting zila panchayat election: MayaThe State Election Commission has said that senior officials have been made observers in all the districts to ensure peaceful and transparent polling and counting of the votes to the post of zila panchayat chiefs.Zila panchayat chairpersons are elected from among the elected members of zila panchayats of the 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh. The panchayat polls or those for district panchayat chiefs are not held on a party basis but candidates enjoy the tacit support of various parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-zila-panchayat-chairperson-polls-to-be-held-in-53-districts-today-101625271132531.html
03-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP meeting today after Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation||Uttarakhand BJP unit will hold its legislature party meeting on Saturday to decide on a new leader after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the hill state's chief minister. Uttarakhand BJP unit president Madan Kaushik said the legislative party will meet at 3pm and Narendra Singh Tomar will be the central observer at the meeting. “The new leader will be an MLA,” Kaushik said. State BJP media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said all party MLAs have been asked to attend the meeting.Tirath Singh Rawat resigned on Friday after just four months in office in the shortest term for a Uttarakhand CM. Rawat, who took over as the chief minister on March 10 this year, resigned days after he met the BJP central leadership, including Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda. Rawat's resignation also comes ahead of the Uttarakhand assembly elections scheduled to be held in early 2022.Also watch | Rawat Vs Rawat: Former Uttarakhand CM on ‘mistakes’ made by his successorRawat resigned from his post on Friday night and submitted his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya hours after he addressed a press conference in the state capital of Dehradun. He said that the decision was right amid what he said was a "constitutional crisis" in the state. “I must express my gratitude to the party’s central leadership which has given many responsibilities from time to time. I have been MLC, MLA, MP, party state president and recently chief minister,” he said after submitting his resignation to the governor. "I thank my party president JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the core of my heart,” he added.Also read | A sudden leadership change not new to UttarakhandThe senior BJP leader hinted that he resigned because the Election Commission was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19. A CM, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post. However, a poll official indicated that no request was made to hold a bypoll and suggested there were precedents that may have permitted it.Also read | Speculation about new Uttarakhand CM is throwback to 2012Tirath Singh Rawat's stint was marred by controversy, including his decision to allow the Mahakumbh amid a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and large-scale fraud in testing during the holy event. His comments on women’s clothing and that the waters of the Ganga could prevent infections also invited criticism.Rawat, who was elected to the Lok Sabha from Garhwal in 2019, was appointed Uttarakhand's ninth CM after Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned from the top job post amid infighting in the state unit. The BJP has 56 MLAs in the 70-member house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-meeting-today-after-tirath-singh-rawat-s-resignation-101625270301482.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sattu ghol of Turkman||The Mughal-era Turkman Gate marks the border between New and Old Delhi. It’s been here for centuries; its stony ramparts a symbol of steadfastness in this world of constant shift. Now, it is also becoming a souvenir to the future generations of the greatest public upheaval of our times—the coronavirus pandemic.But look down carefully on one side of this gateway. There’s another monument attached to it like a limpet—far younger, more vulnerable, and extremely modest. It’s Mahinder Singh’s sattu drinks—or sattu ghol—stall. This establishment has been operating from this spot for more than 40 years. Actually, 40 summers. Mr Singh sells sattu drink only in the sweltering season, from April to August; the rest of the year is spent in jaggery production in Punjab and as a carpenter in his UP village. In his 70s, he has survived the two surges. “As soon as the lockdown ended, I came back from my village in Baghpat.”As always, Mr Singh is dressed in a white dhoti kurta. People change over time but he looks just the same as one year ago, or three years ago, or five years earlier—neither any younger nor any older. This evening he is sitting between his two sons, Prem and Krishnapal. The stall consists of a bucket filled with the drink—sattu flour mixed with water and sugar, with chunks of ice, acquired from a “baraf” supplier in nearby Phatak Teliyan.The road that goes into the Old Delhi lanes is teeming, this afternoon, with a great many people. A flautist is sitting close to the stall, playing a tune, indifferent to the indifference to his performance. Rickshaw pullers are stopping frequently to have Mr Singh’s sattu ghol. As well as men on bikes. Now a man approaches, his figure gaunt, his beard long and knotted. He has a blanket on his shoulders, his pants and shirts are torn, and he’s barefoot. Mr Singh wordlessly gives him a glass of ghol for free.The drink is very chilly, very very sweet, and in these sweaty days it infuses the body with an instant rush of utmost calmness. “Thanda le lo (have it cold),” Mr Singh exhorts.He sits from 9am until the evening call for the prayer from nearby mosques. After that, Turkman Gate temporarily loses its most long-lasting human element.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sattu-ghol-of-turkman-101625262870950.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||DPCC order to reduce fuel genset emissions||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Friday ordered mandatory fitting of emission control devices on all fuel-powered generators sets in the Capital with a capacity above 125kVA and above, to bring down pollution from the devices by up to 70%.In an order issued on Friday, DPCC said the directions were issued in compliance of targets set by the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) and the orders of the National Green Tribunal, to reduce pollution levels in the national capital by at least 20%-30% by 2024.“Under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, all users of DG sets (diesel generator sets) having capacity 125kVA and above are directed to retrofit it with an emission control device or equipment having a minimum specified particulate matter capturing efficiency of 70%...,” the order read.The DPCC has also given an option for genset users to shift to new gas-based generators. “This order has to be complied with within 120 days of the issuance of the order,” the order read.Pollution from fuel-based generators is a major problem every winter, with the authorities issuing complete bans on its use in Delhi and NCR every year between October and March -- when pollution levels start rising — as part of the Graded Response Action Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dpccorder-to-reduce-fuel-genset-emissions-101625261426997.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL to extend power cuts on industry for another week||With the electricity scenario in the state continuing to be grim, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to increase load shedding and forced weekly off on industrial units. A unit of the 210 megawatt (MW) Ropar thermal plant went out of operation after it developed a snag on Friday, forcing the corporation to impose unscheduled cuts in rural and urban areas. The unit was restored late in the evening. Despite having taken load-shedding measures, the gap between demand and supply is still around 1500 MW. Power cuts in both rural and urban areas continue even as their duration has been reduced. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said it was decided in a meeting to extend the compulsory weekly-off imposed on the industry in the central, north and west zones to entire Punjab. Director (distribution) DPS Grewal, director (generation) Parmjeet Singh and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) director (technical) Yogesh Tandon and other senior officials participated in the meeting.Also, the PSPCL has taken up with the northern regional dispatch centre (Delhi) seeking enhancement of transmission capacity to allow more import of power from outside the state immediately, he said.The CMD said to ensure 8-hour supply to farmers and uninterrupted power to other consumers, regulatory measures imposed on industrial consumers recently helped PSPCL improve supply to agriculture sector. “The situation may improve as rains are expected this week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-to-extend-power-cuts-on-industry-for-another-week-101625257311773.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht being used as ‘football’ by competing Sikh segments: Jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday said that Sikhism’s supreme temporal seat is being used as a “football” by competing Sikh segments as a result of which its supremacy has taken a hit.Addressing devotees during a ceremony to celebrate the Akal Takht foundation day, he said, “Anti-Sikh forces are actively harming the dignity of the Akal Takht by using members of the community. Ironically, it is Sikhs who are indulging in acts that reduce the stature of the Takht.”“Sikhs hold the Akal Takht jathedar in even higher regards than the Prime Minister or the President. But the jathedar is expected to solve people’s trivial issues like a munshi posted in a police station. When abuses are hurled at the jathedar, the dignity and supremacy of the seat become a casualty. This has become a new normal,” said Giani Harpreet Singh.He added, “We ourselves are responsible for reducing respect for our institutions. We are fighting against each other for political reasons.”The acting jathedar hailed the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)’s move to commemorate the 1955 police action at the Golden Temple during the Punjabi Suba movement.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the entire Sikh community should treat its great institutions with reverence and beware of propagandists. She appealed to the community members to lead their religious, social and political life following their own traditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-being-used-as-football-by-competing-sikh-segments-jathedar-101625257017421.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Conversion’ issue: Kendri Singh Sabha condemns Jathedar’s letter to J&K Lt Guv||Kendri Singh Sabha on Friday said Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s intervention in the matter related to a Kashmiri Sikh girl’s alleged religious conversion and marriage to a Muslim, went to serve Sangh Parivar’s sectarian agenda of ‘Love-Jihad’ political agenda. Sikh intellectuals associated with the Kendri Singh Sabha said the Jathedar, in a letter to the Jammu and Kashmir Lt governor, had sought the implementation of an inter-faith marriage law. The Sikh body also raised objection over the Jathedar addressing the Lt Governor as “Your Excellency”. As per Sikh religious principles, the Jathedar should not acknowledge any worldly authority as supreme except the all-pervading Akal-Purkh. The statement further read, “Most Sikhs feel their religious sensibilities have been hurt as some self-proclaimed Delhi Sikh leaders aligned with the ruling BJP made the Jathedar write the letter which fits into the Sangh Parivar’s political programme of projecting a certain minority as an ‘aggressor’ and pitting other minorities against that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coversion-issue-kendri-singh-sabha-condemns-jathedar-s-letter-to-j-k-lt-guv-101625257011860.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Punjab threaten to pull out of Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana over tussle with insurance firm||Private hospitals in Punjab have threatened to pull out of the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), alleging harassment at the hands of the insurance company implementing the scheme in the state. The Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which represents private hospitals in the state, said it may call for mass de-empanelment from the scheme as the company, Iffco-Tokio, which is settling claims, is unnecessarily imposing hefty penalties on its members. Nearly 200 private and 250 government hospitals in Punjab are empanelled under the scheme. On the recommendations of the company, the state government has already de-empanelled 24 private hospitals from the scheme, citing discrepancies. “There is a strong resentment against the company. In the name of verifying our claims, the firm’s vigilance team checks our infrastructure and then imposes heavy penalties on us. We are planning to pull out of the pact if the state health minister doesn’t intervene immediately,” Dr KD Singh, president of IMA, Punjab chapter, said. An IMA delegation has also sought audience with health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, he added. The AB-SSBY was launched in August 2019 as a flagship health insurance scheme in the state. The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government extended the benefits of the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat which was to cover nearly 14 lakh families as per the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) data. The premium for 14.65 lakh SECC beneficiary families shall be borne by Centre and the state in 60:40 ratio. The premium cost of remaining 16.49 lakh beneficiary families will be completely borne by the state. The Association of Nursing Homes, Jalandhar, in a meeting earlier this week, has also threatened to drop out of the pact signed by private hospitals, the state government and the insurance firm. “As per the MoU, the company’s vigilance team should be headed by a managing director or a retired director-level senior health official. But their teams are headed by BDS or BAMS doctors,” said Dr Dheeraj Gupta of the association. IMA national vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya said the private company officials have turned inspectors checking established hospitals to tarnish their image. “If there is an issue between a hospital and the insurance firm, the state health agency does not have powers to adjudicate the dispute,” said Dr Dahiya. Iffco-Tokio project head (Punjab) Dhritman denied the allegations, saying it is the right of the company to check infrastructure and audit treatment cost per the MoU. “There is no question of harassment. Whatever action we take is decided by a committee of experts headed by the secretary (health). Moreover, a penalty is imposed only after a couple of hearings for the hospital to clear objections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-hospitals-in-punjab-threaten-to-pull-out-of-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-over-tussle-with-insurance-firm-101625256952253.html
03-07-2021||Other||Farmers block Jalandhar-Ludhiana NH for five hrs over power crisis||Protesting against the frequent power disruptions in paddy sowing season, farmers’ unions on Friday blocked the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway for over five hours, leading to traffic snarls and inconvenience for commuters. The blockade was lifted only after senior officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) met the agitators and assured them of uninterrupted power supply in the coming days. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU, Rajewal) member, Kashmir Singh said the Congress government had betrayed the farmers by not ensuring eight-hour power supply in paddy season. Farmers also blocked the Jalandhar -Moga national highway at Pratapura village in Jalandhar. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, farmers staged a protest in front of MLA Angad Singh’s house. In Jalandhar, Shiromani Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party and Bharatiya Janata Party staged protests against the government. BKU (Rajewal) member Amarjot Singh said they are prepared to protest outside the chief minister’s house in Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-block-jalandhar-ludhiana-nh-for-five-hrs-over-power-crisis-101625256711939.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Power demand hits new peak for 2021, now past 7,300mw||The national capital recorded a peak power demand of 7,323 mega watts (MW) – the highest since 2019 – on Friday, with officials saying that they managed to meet the surge in demand “without any constraints”.“Despite a sharp increase in electricity demand, Delhi has managed it well. No power cuts. Uninterrupted power supply,” tweeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Earlier, in a tweet, Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain also lauded the power sector’s role.“Delhi successfully met ever-highest [highest in two years, as per government records] electricity peak demand of 7,323 today. Heartiest congratulations to (the) Delhi power sector for this achievement,” he tweeted.The highest peak power demand ever in the Capital was 7,409 MW, which was recorded on July 2, 2019.As the mercury soared, Delhi recorded peak power demands of 6,921 MW on Wednesday and 7,026 MW on Thursday.Friday was also the second time in two years that peak power demand in Delhi crossed the 7,000-mark.On June 29 last year, Delhi’s peak power demand was recorded at 6,314 MW.In 2018, the peak demand was 7,016 MW, which was recorded on July 10 as per government records.The demand this year may further go up to 7,400 MW, if the ongoing heatwave in the city continues, said a senior power department official who did not wish to be identified.The BSES discoms -- BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) -- said they successfully met the peak power demands of 3,079 MW and 1,640 MW in their respective areas on Friday.Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited, in a statement, said that they too successfully met the peak power demand of 2,104 MW in their areas on Friday afternoon, “without any network constraint and power outage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/power-demand-hits-new-peak-for-2021-now-past-7300mw-101625256567345.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab receives ₹235 crore from Centre for paddy stubble management||Punjab government has received a sum of ₹235 crore from the Centre for management of paddy stubble ahead of the harvest season set to begin in October. Burning of stubble by paddy growers of Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Punjab is a cause of environmental and health concern as the entire region, particularly National Capital Delhi, gets covered with smog at the onset of winter due to this menace. The state agriculture department plans to provide crop residue management (CRM) machines to farmers at subsidised rates with the funds received from the Centre. “We had planned to give 40,000 machines on subsidy but there is a dearth of funds, we have cut down the number to 25, 000,” said Manmohan Kalia, the department’s nodal officer for CRM. This is the third consecutive year when the Centre is providing the state funds for CRM. Three years ago, it was decided to sanction funds for CRM after the PMOs intervention. The state has received a sum of ₹810 crore as CRM funds in the last three years (2018 to 2020). The farmers are provided several machines, including super shredder, happy seeder, reverse plough, zero till drill, bailer, super SMS and mulcher, for in-situ management of stubble. This year, the department has received applications for 50,000 machines from individual farmers as well as groups such as cooperative agriculture societies, village panchayats and farmer producer organisations (FPOs). At least 385 applications were received from farmer groups. While the groups will get a subsidy of 80%, individual farmers will get 50% subsidy. “Each group will get subsidy for 10 machines and are on our priority for supplying machines,” added Kalia. Hot spot districts Majority of the stubble burning cases are reported from the villages in Patiala, Mansa, Moga, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Barnala, Tarn Taran, Sangrur and Muktsar, which have been classified as hotspot districts. Out of the total ₹235 crore received from the Centre, ₹10 crore will go for publicity campaigns in these districts. There was a spurt in stubble fires in the kharif season in 2020, with the Punjab remote sensing centre detecting at least 73,833 fires between September 21 to November 14. Other than the shortage of machines, anger amongst the peasantry against the three farm bills passed by the Centre in September is said to be the reason behind the spike last year. In May this year, the Punjab government had sought funds for 70,000 more machines for in-situ management. In an action plan sent to the Centre’s ministry of environment, last week, the state government had submitted a three-year road map, seeking ₹873 crore to distribute one lakh machines to the state’s farmers for in-situ management. Taking the plea that in three years, the machines given on subsidy to farmers could help in crop residue management of only 60 lakh tonne paddy straw, more machines were sought. ‘76,590 machines given in 3 years insufficient’ The number of machines (76,590) given to the farmers in the last three years (2018-2020) are insufficient to deal with stubble burning menace, department officials said. “The window between paddy harvest and wheat sowing is short so stubble can’t be managed with the machines available,” said Kalia, adding that as per estimates, 70,000 more machines are required. A total of 220 lakh tonne of stubble is produced along with the paddy. The biomass power generating plants in the state consume 50 lakh tonnes of stubble. Of the remaining 170 lakh tonne, 100 lakh tonne goes unmanaged, and majority of the farmers prefer to burn it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-receives-rs-235-crore-from-centre-for-paddy-stubble-management-101625256292187.html
03-07-2021||Other||Angry farmers uproot paddy saplings from BJP leader’s field in Barnala||Farmers under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) uprooted paddy saplings from a field belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Harjit Singh Grewal at his native place in Dhanaula of Barnala district on Friday. The protesters, including women, entered the paddy fields and ‘damaged’ the saplings on around one acre. Union leaders claimed they had only gone to talk to a farmer who had taken Grewal’s land on rent but some angry protesters damaged the saplings. The union leaders had earlier appealed to farmers against working on Grewal’s land as he has been actively speaking in favour of the agricultural reforms.“We had appealed to the farmer to not work on Grewal’s land. However, he transplanted the paddy. When we visited for a talk today, the mob abruptly uprooted the saplings. We have no personal vendetta against the BJP leader but he should not use derogatory language against farmers,” said Balwant Singh Upli, a farmer leader.Jagseer Singh, another member of the union, said, “Farmers have already refused to take around five acres of his land on lease but he offered the land free to one farmer. The BJP leader wants to divide the farmers.”Dhanaula station house officer Vijay Kumar said if the police receive any complaint, action will be taken after verification.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) to protest fuel price hikeThe Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) held protests in front of the offices of the deputy commissioners of Sangrur and Barnala to oppose the hike in petrol and diesel prices. Janak Singh Bhutal, senior vice-president of the union, said, “All sections of the society are unhappy with the fuel prices but the Modi government is making pro-corporate policies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/angry-farmers-uproot-paddy-saplings-from-bjp-leader-s-field-in-barnala-101625256171908.html
03-07-2021||Other||PGIMER’s satellite centre in Sangrur got fire NOC before construction was complete||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER)’s satellite centre in Ghabdan of Sangrur district was given the fire NOC (no-objection certificate) even before construction work was complete, a probe has revealed. Sangrur deputy commissioner (DC) Ramvir had ordered the probe after the matter was raised by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders. As per the report, the building construction was 95 to 96% complete. “The building has a fire hydrant and an alarm system but as the construction is yet to be completed, the fire systems have not been activated. In such a scenario, the system cannot be checked,” the probe report stated. DC Ramvir said that after getting the report, he informed the authorities of PGIMER about the situation. Sources revealed that the former fire officer of Sangrur had issued the NOC in a hurry before his retirement last year. AAP activist Narinder Kaur Bharaj who had raised the issue said, “It was an illegal act. The Congress government is playing with the lives of its people. The responsible officer must be punished.” Amarinder Pal Singh Sandhu, the current fire officer, said that on the directions of the DC, he inspected the construction site twice and submitted his report. “The PGIMER satellite centre has six blocks. Four of these are residential buildings, one is an OPD block while and one is the main hospital building. The OPD and other four buildings have been checked but the hospital building will be checked when its construction work is complete,” he added. Doctors yet to be recruited Sources say the work on the project has been delayed and there have been no recruitment of doctors so far. Punjab school education minister and Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla, however, claimed the work on the 300-bed hospital is on track and the recruitment process will start in a month or so. “We got the project passed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2013. Funds to the tune of ₹500 crore were given to PGIMER, Chandigarh. The OPD services are operational but new doctors will be recruited in a short period for all services,” added Singla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgimers-satellite-centre-in-sangrur-got-fire-noc-before-construction-was-complete-101625255991781.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||5 dead, as many hurt as SUV plunges into gorge in J&K||At least five people died and as many were injured after a Srinagar-bound cab plunged into a gorge in Ramban district around 4.30pm on Friday.Ramban senior superintendent of police (SSP) PD Nitya said, the SUV veered off the road after hitting another vehicle at Digdol.Soon after the mishap, Ramban police along with QRT, UTDRF and Indian Army rushed to the spot and started rescue operations. The injured have been identified driver Khadim Hussain of Neel, Asmeena, 15, of Neel, Jeevan Singh, 30 of Panthyal, Naima Bano, 16, of Neel and Sukhdev Singh, 80, of Pantiyal.The injured have been admitted to district hospital in Ramban where they are undergoing treatment. Identities of those who died in the accident are being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-dead-as-many-hurt-as-suv-plunges-into-gorge-in-jk-101625255931670.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||When legitimate questions are raised, forces must be held accountable: Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said that forces must be held accountable as legitimate questions are being raised on the security forces, especially on the death of 17-year-old boy during an encounter in Kulgam on Wednesday.She said that the “Indian government must come clean on the killing of a youth in Kulgam”.“Encounters occur on a daily basis in J&K. But when legitimate questions are raised, the security forces must be held accountable. The parents of the 17 yr old minor killed in the Kulgam gunfight claim that he was an innocent civilian. GOI must come clean on these allegations,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti while raising questions over the encounter which took place in Chimmer village on Wednesday in which three militants were killed according to the police.However, family members of one of the killed persons identified as Zakir Bashir Naik told mediapersons that he was innocent and had no affiliation with any of the militant groups. Soon after the encounter ended, police spokesperson said that three local militants were killed in the encounter and said Zakir Bashir had recently joined militant ranks.The family members contested the police claims and said their 17-year-old son was a cricketer and had no association with militancy or the militant groups. They even said that on the day of encounter, he was busy in his orchards along with other relatives. The family said Zakir was a civilian and then dubbed a ‘militant’.Soon after reports of family appeared in local media, Kulgam police warned people against spreading rumours.“Rumors are being spread by vested interests that Zakir Naik, LeT terrorist killed in Chimmer on 30 June`21, wasn’t a terrorist. Fact: he had joined terrorist ranks just a few days before he was eliminated. Don’t belive in rumors. Legal action will be taken for spreading rumors,” tweeted Kulgam police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/when-legitimate-questions-are-raised-forces-must-be-held-accountable-mehbooba-101625255873240.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 331 infections, six deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 331 fresh infections and six deaths due to the coronavirus.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 437 with active positive cases dropping to 4,209. The UT had witnessed the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.There were 254 cases and one death in Kashmir while Jammu division saw 77 infections and five fatalities. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,07,749 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.36%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,15,960 and the death toll has hit 4,327.Officials said with 78 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 29 in Anantnag.From June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities with lowest four on June 19 and June 23.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-331-infections-six-deaths-101625255871851.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic cop slaps Haryana tourists in Shimla||Himachal Pradesh Police are again at the centre of controversy following a traffic cop slapping tourists in Shimla town on Thursday. The incident, which took place near Victory Tunnel on Circular Road, drew criticism from all quarters prompting senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohit Chawla to take action against the erring cop. In a video of the entire episode, which has been widely shared on social media, a traffic cop is seen slapping a tourist several times. As per the information, the tourists who were from Haryana, didn’t stop their car at Victory Tunnel despite being signalled by the cop. When cops finally stopped them at some distance, they started misbehaving with them. The heated exchange soon turned into a scuffle as the traffic cop slapped one of the tourists several times. Meanwhile, Chawla said the cop in question was immediately removed from duty. The SSP termed the incident unfortunate, but said that the traffic police work in tough conditions and it were the tourists who misbehaved first. He agreed that the response of the police was also not “up to the mark”. “The cop should have reported it to the higher official or taken tourists to the police station,” said Chawla, adding that they haven’t received any complaint from the tourists. They have left the town and their vehicle is being tracked. The police jawan has lodged a complaint against the tourists, he added. The SSP has also urged the tourists to behave properly while they come to visit the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-cop-slaps-haryana-tourists-in-shimla-101625255816289.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Appoint, rather than elect Panjab University senate members, says panel||Panjab University (PU) must do away with its practice of giving 15 seats in the senate, its supreme decision-making body, to registered graduates constituency through elections and appoint eminent alumni instead, a committee of experts has recommended.RP Tiwari, vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, chaired the high-level 11-member panel that the Vice-President of the country and PU chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu had formed in February to recommend governance reforms. This was in light of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020). In November 2020, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had also directed PU to initiate governance reforms. These recommendations have been sent to Naidu, who will take the final call. The committee has also recommended that the senate and syndicate be retained, but with lower number of members for enhanced efficiency. The membership of the senate is proposed to be lowered to 47 against 93 now.The syndicate membership will be reduced to 13 from the present 18 if the committee has its way. The report adds that preference must be given to academicians from the university and its affiliated colleges in appointment to the two bodies. Senate members, however, have opposed this, saying that elections were essential for varsity’s democratic flavour. They have also said that a public debate must be held on these recommendations before implementation. Changes in composition of faculties have also been recommended that include doing away with the bifurcation of faculties as major or minor. The number of faculties will also reduce from 11 to 10 as prescribed by PU regulations.In place of added/co-opted members, nominated members from among the academia have been recommended. The present system of appointment of deans of faculties by election has been recommended to be replaced with appointment from among senior professors on seniority basis, by rotation.Re-alignment of territorial jurisdiction of PU has been advised. The report adds that this will ensure colleges situated in close proximity of PU in Mohali and Ropar may be affiliated to it, while colleges far away can be affiliated to other varsities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/appoint-rather-than-elect-panjab-university-senate-members-says-panel-101625255811720.html
03-07-2021||Other||135kg heroin seized from Mumbai port: Tarn Taran-based importer detained||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has apprehended an importer hailing from Chohla Sahib village of Tarn Taran district in connection with the 135kg heroin seized from Mumbai port, sources said on Friday.On the basis of a tip-off, the heroin was recovered from the consignment of gypsum delivered at the port on Thursday. As the consignment was imported on his name, Chohla Sahib-based Prabhjit Singh, who also runs an agriculture store, has been detained by the Ludhiana zonal unit of the DRI from Tarn Taran.Prabhjit imports the gypsum from Pakistan and Afghanistan. DRI sleuths are trying to ascertain where the consignment has come from. A team of the DRI also visited Prabhjit’s house and questioned his family members on Friday.Confirming the development, a senior police official, requesting anonymity, said the Tarn Taran Police are also probing the matter at their own level. He said they have not found any criminal record of the person held in this connection, but his link with a smuggler belonging to Dhun Dhae Wala village has surfaced during investigation.“Besides, it has been found that Prabhjit has amassed many assets within a short span of time. He owns a mansion-like house in the village,” he added. Prior to this, in its biggest ever narcotics haul, the customs department had seized 532kg of heroin worth ₹2,700 crore, which was smuggled into India from Pakistan in a truck through a trade route at the Attari border on June 30, 2019. The heroin was recovered from a consignment, of 600 bags of rock salt, from the integrated check post (ICP) at Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan.As trade between India and Pakistan through Attari-Wagah check post has been suspended ever since Article 370 that gives autonomous status to Jammu and Kashmir was abrogated, this route is closed for narcotics smuggling. Going by the fresh seizure, the heroin smuggling has started coming through Mumbai port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/135kg-heroin-seized-from-mumbai-port-tarn-taran-based-importer-detained-101625255751853.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flights from Chandigarh to Goa, Kolkata, Lucknow, Chennai resume||Four IndiGo flights to Goa, Kolkata, Lucknow and Chennai resumed at the Chandigarh International Airport on Friday. As per schedule, the Goa flight will depart from Chandigarh at 8.25am and land at 11.30am. On its return journey, it will leave Goa at noon to reach Chandigarh by 2.45pm. The fare for the flight ranges from ₹6,400 to ₹7,300 depending on the booking time frame. The flight to Kolkata will leave at 7pm and reach at 9.25pm. It will return from Kolkata at 3.10pm the next day after taking off at 12.25pm. This flight will cost between ₹7,400 and ₹8,700. The Chennai flight will take off for Chandigarh at 8.50am and arrive at 11.55am and return at 12.25pm to reach Chennai at 3.35pm. The fare will be between ₹5,600 and ₹7,300.The Lucknow Chaarbagh flight will leave Chandigarh at 6.45am to reach Kolkata at 8.05am and depart from Lucknow at 1.35pm to arrive in Chandigarh at 2.55pm. The tickets will range between ₹4,600 and ₹5,400. “Due to Covid restrictions, the footfall in the past three months dropped to 2,000 per day at both departures and arrivals, but now it has increased to 5,000 per day. Currently, 33 flights are operational and more will resume operations soon,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flights-from-chandigarh-to-goa-kolkata-lucknow-chennai-resume-101625255571893.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 Chandigarh lawyers approach SC against fresh senior advocates’ list||Three city lawyers have approached the Supreme Court against the full court decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court on the designation of 19 as senior advocates.Lawyers Amar Vivek, Krishan Kumar Gupta and Harbhajan Singh Dhandi were among the 112 applicants who have demanded quashing of the notification on designations, directions to produce the complete records of proceedings and stay on implementation of the notification. The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing next week.The permanent panel headed by the chief justice had recommended 27 lawyers’ names including three women for consideration as senior advocates. However, eight names were dropped after full court proceedings.The plea alleges that the HC violated the mandatory and binding directions of the Supreme Court and Rules 9 to 11 framed by the HC pursuant to the Indira Jaising case. The entire result of 112 candidates was never placed before the full court for approval, the plea says.It claims that the full court was convened with a single agenda, to approve 27 shortlisted names, and was not afforded enough time to go through the complete records of the candidates, to enable it to “apply its own independent mind”.“Thus, the full court had no material, whatsoever, to apply its own independent mind on 27 selectees or on the remaining 85 candidates, nor the relative merit by way of scores of the latter vis a vis the ones shortlisted had been placed,” it says, adding that seemingly the objection to this was raised before full court too.The plea says that as per the initial suggestions, the committee drew 41 names with 55 marks cut off. However, on May 23, another list of 24 was reportedly made.“The full court resorted to secret voting, albeit without any exceptional circumstances or recording of reasons in writing... Out of the list of 27 names, 18 names were approved,” the plea says, adding that one of the candidates selected outside the list happened to be the wife of a former HC judge, and the three judges who participated in the proceedings had their relatives as candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-chandigarh-lawyers-approach-sc-against-fresh-senior-advocates-list-101625255331904.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s aging power infra crumbling in the face of rising summer demand||If the heatwave wasn’t exasperating enough, the frequent power supply disruptions have been aggravating summer woes of city residents, particularly those living in the southern sectors.From the demand peaking at 383 megawatts (MW) on Wednesday, when the heatwave first started, it rose to 405MW on Thursday, when the temperature soared to 40.8°C, and further to 409MW on Friday.While the city has adequate power supply to cater to the rising summer demand, it is not backed by a robust transmission system, with upgrades pending for years, causing lines to trip as load increases. Absence of adequate support staff to fix the faults only exacerbates residents’ troubles.The situation has consistently worsened over the last three days. While on Wednesday, only couple of sectors faced long power cuts, as earlier highlighted by Hindustan Times, by Friday, several areas in the southern belt, including Sectors 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47 suffered major power outages. Among these, the power cut was scheduled only in parts of Sector 40, as per UT electricity department officials.“Normally, the power load grows by around 7% every year. This has to be supplemented by upgrade of aging equipment to bolster the transmission system. But since the power privatisation started over the last couple of years, the process has been put on hold. For instance, purchase of more powerful transformers has been delayed and may not be installed this summer,” said an official, requesting anonymity.Worse, the process to recruit support workforce remains on hold. “More than 400 contract workers, including assistant linemen and linemen, are awaiting contract renewal. This affects repair work and response to complaints,” the official said.Busy phone linesReeling under long unscheduled power cuts and voltage fluctuations, city residents termed the electricity department’s response as callous and torturous.“Nearly 99% of the time, the complaint centres’ phone numbers remain busy. Even when someone answers, the response is usually that it’s a back-end problem and the call is simply disconnected,” said Hitesh Puri, chairperson, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED). With their phone calls going unanswered, many residents even rushed to the complaint centres for solution, but contended that the staff remained uncooperative and only gave assurances.On UT’s part, chief engineer CB Ojha said, “There is no shortage of supply even if the demand rises. There was disruption in supply from Punjab side last night. Repairs were going on in Sector 40. Similar outages will not be repeated going forward.”Mohali in the same boatThe situation is no better in Mohali, where, too, infrastructure upgrade has been hanging fire for years.According to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited records, nearly 50% of the 19 grid sub-stations do not have sufficient infrastructure to cater to the burgeoning demand, leading to outages through the day and night.Yet, three months into summer, the corporation has not been able to ramp up the transformers and transmission lines.PSPCL superintending engineer Mohit Sood admitted transformers were getting overloaded with increasing demand. “We are working to sort this out at various sub-stations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-aging-power-infra-crumbling-in-the-face-of-rising-summer-demand-101625254971657.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT questions Sikh preacher Panthpreet, police officials||Thirteen persons, including a Sikh preacher and police officials, who were present on the spot during the firing incident at Kotkapura on October 14, 2015, appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) at Faridkot on Friday. The SIT head, additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, along with other two members, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh, questioned Sikh preacher Panthpreet Singh, a key witness in the case, at the Faridkot camp office and recorded his statement. The SIT also questioned four cops, including then Bajakhana SHO Amarjit Singh Kular, who is an accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case, besides Ajit Singh, on whose complaint an FIR was registered in 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura firing incident. Others include Baba Balkar Singh, Inderjit Singh Sukhanwala, Harjinder Singh Sukhanwala, Pooran Singh Daggo Romana, Kala Singh, Amarjit Singh and Himmat Singh. Head constable (retd) Rashpal Singh, on whose complaint another FIR was registered against protestors on October 14, 2015, after the firing incident and two other cops didn’t appear before the SIT. Panthpreet along with the other preachers, including Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, was leading the protest against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari, when the agitators were cane-charged and gunshots were fired by the police at the Kotkapura chowk, leading to injuries to a number of persons. “I have requested the SIT members to investigate the matter fairly and provide justice to Sikhs. There should be no other SIT. I don’t know why they are also investigating the FIR, which was registered against the protestors. Even the cops had admitted in the court that the then SAD-BJP government had ordered to quash it, but the case has not been cancelled,” Panthpreet said after coming out of the SIT’s Faridkot camp office. The SIT will question Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale at his dera in Patiala on Monday. Officials privy to the development said the decision has been taken due to security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-questions-sikh-preacher-panthpreet-police-officials-101625254911608.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Convict who jumped parole arrested for snatching in Chandigarh||A man convicted of kidnapping and attempt to murder was arrested for snatching while he was jumping parole, the police said on Friday. The accused, identified as Parminder Singh, 29, of Mohali, was arrested by the crime branch team near the area between Sector 39 and Maloya. He was earlier awarded 20-year jail in a kidnapping and attempt to murder case, and was released on parole after serving a sentence of 10 years. However, he never returned to jail.With his arrest, the police claim to have solved two snatching cases. The accused was sent to judicial custody.As per police records, the accused had snatched a mobile phone of a Sector-41 resident on June 18. A clue of his whereabouts was received by the police after he briefly used his own SIM card in the stolen phone. The accused then disposed of the phone by throwing it in a river in Ropar. The SIM card along with a motorcycle used in the crime have been recovered.Similarly on April 14, police said that the accused had snatched the purse of a woman containing ₹3,500 cash. The cash was spent, but the police recovered the documents and the purse from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convict-who-jumped-parole-arrested-for-snatching-in-chandigarh-101625254671505.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla man in soup for marrying minor girl||ChandigarhA Malerkotla man who married a minor girl could be in for a trouble. Thought the high court has asked police to take steps to protect his life and liberty, but said providing protection does not prevent authorities from registering criminal case against him and take appropriate action under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.The 28-year-old man had married a 17-year-old girl and both had filed a plea seeking protection from the family members of the girl. As it came to be known that the girl is a minor, the high court sent the girl to a care home. According to the plea, they got married against the wishes of the girl’s parents on June 16 at their friend’s residence in Chandigarh as per Hindu rituals and are living together. The state’s counsel had told court that the girl was a minor and case fell within the definition of child under Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act provides punishment for a person who performs child marriage. The groom is not entitled to custody of the girl and her life and liberty has to be protected by sending her to child care institution under the care of Child Welfare Committee.Taking note of submissions, the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi gave custody of the girl to Chandigarh Police as she was residing there and directed to ensure that till further orders, she be kept in Aashiana, Sector 15, Chandigarh, and also to take steps for protection of her life and liberty. All expenses too for the stay are to be borne by the police.As of the man, the court directed Malerkotla police to take steps for his protection of the life and liberty but made it clear that legal action, if any, can be initiated against him as per law. The matter will now come up for hearing on July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malerkotla-man-in-soup-for-marrying-minor-girl-101625254611509.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 10 deaths, 200 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhTen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Friday as 200 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 5,96,094, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has killed 16,086 people in the state. The fresh deaths were reported from Amritsar, Bathinda and Ferozepur. Faridkot and Jalandhar reported 19 infections each, followed by 16 in Amritsar. The state currently has 2,752 active cases with the positivity rate of 0.42%. With 390 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,77,256, it said.There are 102 critical patients who are on ventilator while 1,478 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,09,95,612 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-10-deaths-200-fresh-covid-cases-101625254553024.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Inter-state gang of vehicle lifters busted in Mohali||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali police on Friday busted an inter-state gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of four members and recovery of 21 cars.The accused were identified as Ramjeet Singh, 27, of Vikas Puri in Delhi; Girish Bamby, alias Garry, 27, of Taran Taran in Punjab; Chanpreet Singh, 33, of Nangloi, New Delhi; and Maninder Singh, 29, of Tarn Taran. The gang was operational in tricity, Ambala, Panipat, Delhi and Karnal.On Friday, the police even returned the stolen vehicles to seven owners, who got their releasing orders from the court.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said that on June 10, Balongi police registered a case of theft, forgery, and criminal conspiracy, following which, the police arrested all the four accused.SSP further said that during the investigation it came to light that accused Ramjeet Singh was booked in 70 to 80 cases of vehicle thefts in different states and was the kingpin of the gang. Ramjeet Singh is also a proclaimed offender (PO) since 2012.The other accused, Chanpreet Singh, was also booked in 20 to 25 criminal cases and was declared a PO after jumping bail, the SSP said, adding that the two used to sell the stolen cars to Bamby, who would later tamper with the chassis numbers to sell them further.A case was registered and all four accused have been sent to judicial custody. Police have named 16 others in the case and raids were on to nab them.Modus operandiThe accused used to remove a small windowpane of the vehicle, following which the engine control module (ECM) was disconnected. Thereafter they would get the ECM decoded and connect wires to it to start the engine. Some cars were opened with the help of a ruler, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-in-mohali-101625254551530.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power shortage: AAP to gherao CM’s farmhouse on Saturday||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday expressed concern over the outcry in Punjab due to non-availability of electricity. Addressing a press conference, party’s state unit president Bhagwant Mann said that the AAP would gherao chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan village on Saturday to wake him up from slumber. The people of Punjab would check the meters of the CM’s farmhouse to find out how many hours of power outage was taking place there, he added. The AAP leader said that during the 2017 elections, Capt Amarinder and the Congress had made many promises to the people, but none of them were fulfilled. He said that due to the wrong agreements signed by the Badals with private thermal plants and non-cancellation of agreements by the present Congress government, the power situation in the state had deteriorated. “Like the Badals, Amarinder is also bent upon ruining Punjab economically,” he alleged, accusing the Congress leader of backstabbing the people by not cancelling the wrong power deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-shortage-aap-to-gherao-cm-s-farmhouse-on-saturday-101625254371524.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power crisis: SAD seeks financial package for farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday held protests outside Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) offices across the state for failing to provide 8-hour power supply to farmers, besides imposing unscheduled cuts and ordering closure of industries two days a week. The SAD demanded an immediate financial package for paddy farmers who were forced to use diesel generators besides demanding an immediate reduction in VAT on diesel. The party said if these corrective measures were not taken along with restoration of regular supply of power to farmers as well as the domestic and industrial consumers, the SAD will gherao the chief minister and ministers in the next phase of its agitation. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal joined protests at Lambi, Fazilka and Ghubaya during the course of which he held the CM solely responsible for the plight of the people. He said the CM has not taken a single review meeting of the power utility to ensure adequate supply to paddy farmers. “This was done deliberately to keep the subsidy bill down. The Congress government does not want to provide free power to farmers,” he said. In Fazilka, Sukhbir said the government did not make any attempt to ensure timely maintenance of thermal plants, which led to the closure of the Lehra Mohabbat plant as well as one unit of the Talwandi Sabo plant. Former minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal participated in dharnas at Bathinda and Sangat Mandi where she disclosed how the erstwhile SAD government had spent more than ₹4,000 crore on upgrading the transmission and distribution system. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, who participated in the dharna at Majitha, said instead of resolving the crisis which had engulfed the state in the form of a power emergency, the CM was busy hosting five star luncheon meetings for Congressmen. No shortage of canal water: MinisterReacting to Sukhbir’s statement that paddy crop will be destroyed if water is supplied in next 2 days, state water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said there was no shortage of canal water anywhere in the state and no complaint has been lodged by any farmer in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-crisis-sad-seeks-financial-package-for-farmers-101625254191597.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces 30:30:40 formula for HSC evaluation||Nearly two weeks after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced an evaluation pattern for Class 12 results, the Maharashtra government on Friday announced they would follow the same 30:30:40 pattern for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) students. Nearly 1.5 million students take HSC exams in the state every year. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that in HSC results, 30% weightage each will be given to Class 10 and 11 marks and 40% to Class 12 internal test marks and students’ performance in the year. “To ensure that students from different boards are graded at the same level, Maharashtra board will also follow the 30:30:40 formula, giving weightage to Class 10, 11 and 12 performance. For students who feel they want to improve their scores, depending on the Covid situation in the state, we will conduct two round of exams,” said Gaikwad in a press conference held in the city on Friday. In keeping with the decision of the Supreme Court to ensure that all Class 12 results are announced by July 31, Gaikwad requested junior college principals and teachers to work towards the deadline.“It will be difficult but I request all staff, teachers and principals to get together and work this out as soon as possible,” she added. This year, Covid-19 pushed all education boards to rethink their decision of conducting board exams at a time when the country was grappling with a deadly second wave. Scrapping of exams was unanimously accepted by all, and instead, grading students on a formula giving weightage to students’ performance of past three years was unanimously accepted. The approved mechanism for CBSE Class 12 students includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the past three examinations (the 12th pre-board, 11th finals, and 10th board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination that could not be held. The theory portion accounts for 70% or 80% of a subject score, with the remainder coming from internal practical tests that most schools managed to complete prior to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. In case of CISCE, the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in Classes 11 and 12. While the state is positive that the results will be ready by the end of this month, teachers and junior college principals feel this mammoth task is impossible to achieve within the next one month. “As the final result will include marks of Class 10, 11 and overall performance of students in class 12, it won’t be possible to do this sitting at home. Teachers will have to start visiting respective schools/junior colleges and work with the admin staff to get Class 10 and 11 marks and put it together. Since trains are still not accessible for teachers, it’ll be difficult for us to travel to and from the college to work on the results,” said a teacher, on condition of anonymity. Colleges are unhappy with the last minute announcement and demand for quick results. “CBSE and ICSE schools have been working on this same formula for nearly two weeks now and will be in a better position to announce the results by month-end. For us, not only is the time limiting, but we are also catering to larger batches of students, so will need more time,” said the principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-30-30-40-formula-for-hscevaluation-101625252630722.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Election for Speaker’s post after review of MLAs’ attendance: Maha CM tells Guv||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray replied to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s letter apprising him of the government’s stand on the three topics mentioned by the latter. In his letter, Thackeray said the state government will hold the election to the post of the speaker at the earliest, after reviewing the attendance of members of legislative assembly (MLA) amid the second wave of pandemic.In response to the query over the duration of the session, the CM reminded him that the business advisory committee (BAC) has the right to decide on it. Responding to the governor’s query over the election to the local bodies in the wake of the quashed political reservation to the other backward class, Thackeray said the state has already taken due steps. The CM said the state government has moved a petition in the apex court and also requested the State Election Commission to defer the bypolls to the local bodies.In his letter to the CM on June 24, Koshyari had directed the latter to elaborate on the government’s stand on extending the period of session, election to the post of speaker and deferment of bypolls. The letter was written by the governor after a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis called on him at Raj Bhavan. The BJP delegation had requested for the direction by the Governor for the monsoon session of longer duration, holding speaker’s election in the monsoon session and put the bypolls on hold until the OBCs get their political reservation back.Apart from the statement on the three topics raised by Governor, the CM has also requested the former to help the state in getting the empirical data required for the restoration of the OBC reservation. “The reservation has been struck down for want of empirical data on the backwardness of the communities. The central government can avail the data for which we have requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi during our meeting. I would request you to use your good office for the follow-up with the Centre to get the empirical data from 2011 Socio-Economic Caste Survey,” he said.Thackeray has also stated that in the wake of the pandemic situation it would not advisable to hold the two-day monsoon session, beginning from July 5, for long. “BAC has the right to take a decision over the duration of the session. The second wave of the pandemic has not been subsided as yet and there is a possibility of the third wave in the coming months as anticipated by the experts. As far as the election to the post of speaker is concerned, the government wants to hold it at the earliest. However at the same time, we want all MLAs to participate in the poll. The schedule of the election could be finalised only after the results of RT-PCR tests which are mandatory for every member to attend. Currently, deputy speaker Shri Narhari Zirwal has been performing the duties of the speaker and we do not think not holding the election has violated any constitutional provisions,” the letter read.The letter is assumed to have started another tiff between Raj Bhavan and Mantralaya. “The CM has subtly pressed the point that the decision over the duration of the session is the prerogative of the BAC. He has also put the ball in Raj Bhavan’s court to get the empirical data from the Centre for the restoration of the OBC quota in the local body polls by requesting him for a follow-up with the Centre. Ahead of the budget session in March, the governor had written a letter asking the government to hold the speaker’s election. This time, he instead of directing the government had asked for the information, but it was in the response to the demand by the BJP. This has not gone well with the political leadership of the state,” said a senior minister.In October last year, Koshyari and Thackeray engaged in a letter war over reopening of religious places in the state, as part of the unlocking of Covid-enforced curbs. In the acrimonious exchange of letters, the governor, making a case for reopening places of worship, asked the CM if he had “turned secular”. Thackeray shot back, asking if Koshyari does not believe in “secularism as enshrined in the Constitution”, adding that his Hindutva doesn’t need the governor’s certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-cm-tells-governor-election-for-speaker-s-post-after-review-of-mlasattendance-101625252570743.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||In golden years, veteran doctors play stellar role in fight against Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh||Many elderly doctors chose the call of duty over their own safety and served Covid-19 patients in their own way.They did so at a time when senior citizens were supposed to exercise extra precautions and advised to stay home. The government’s Covid safety protocol guidelines asked all those above the age of 65 years and below 10 years, as well as pregnant women, to stay indoors and venture out only in case of medical need.Dr Arun Chaturvedi, 68, a physician with a successful practice and immense love of his profession, did not stay home when Covid-19 struck Agra, which was among the districts with a large number of cases in the first wave.He continued to run his clinic and a dispensary to give medicines to the poor. Again, when the second and deadlier second wave of the pandemic emerged, he took no time in opting for Covid duties when asked to supervise health services at a 350- bed Covid hospital on the outskirts of Agra. This Covid hospital was made out of a trade centre of Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Council (AFMEC) on the initiative of Pooran Dawar, the president of AFMEC. “It took 15 days to make the hospital operational at the trade centre of AFMEC at Seengna on Agra-Mathura Road, about 20 kilometres from Agra city. Dr Shammi Kalra and I began the OPD,” said Dr Chaturvedi who lives in the heart of Agra. “The need for a hospital was felt given the sharp surge in Covid cases. At AFMEC, we believed that we should lend a helping hand to the government in the pandemic. So, our facility was converted into a Covid hospital,” said Pooran Dawar. “By the time the hospital became operational, the Covid cases began dropping and now the hospital will not be dismantled. It will stay prepared for the possible third wave of the pandemic and I will serve here again. Others and I, all served at the hospital without seeking any remuneration,” Dr Chaturvedi said. Now, he is back to his own small clinic and dispensary.Going online to help patientsDr OP Upadhyaya, senior chief medical officer at Sir Sunder Lal (SSL) Hospital of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), embraced technology to serve people.He said, “I am already 65, so was not expected to attend serious Covid cases. But I started giving online consultations. I gave consultations to more than 300 patients/families for Covid treatment, home isolation and monitored their medication as per their condition.”He referred about 10 patients to L-3 (Level-3) hospitals as their oxygen level had dipped below 60% and more than 95% of the cases he attended online recovered in home isolation.Taught from the hospital bedKanpur-based veteran paediatrician Dr Raj Tilak, 70, was diagnosed with Covid-19 in April, but continued teaching GSVM (Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial) Medical College students and faculty members about the latest research on the pandemic.Along with medicines, lying by his side were journals like Lancet. They kept him engrossed when he was not busy sharing the latest updates with junior doctors and faculty in the neuro Covid ward of Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) Hospital, Kanpur where he was admitted after his oxygen saturation (SpO2) level dropped below 90.During his stay in the ward as a Covid patient, he discussed Covid treatment and management or explained to the junior doctors about the double mutant virus, said one of the doctors who had attended on him.Dr Tilak’s recent paper on allergies in children and their pulmonary issues had found a place in Lancet. Apart from being a top paediatrician, Dr Tilak is involved in research on asthma and allergies.“Junior doctors listened to him intently as he continued to share the latest developments,” said Prof Yashwant Rao, one of the senior doctors who attended on Dr Tilak.Dr Tilak said, “I can’t stop teaching, my heart is always in it.” Though Dr Tilak was surprised at contracting Covid-19 despite following all necessary safety protocols, all that’s behind him now. And he is back to his paediatric practice at his private clinic in a busy locality of Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-golden-years-veteran-doctors-play-stellar-role-in-fight-against-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-101625252031158.html
03-07-2021||Other||ED arrests Mumbai builder Gopal Thakur in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested builder Gopal Amarlal Thakur, a director of Monarch Universal Group in a money laundering case of more than ₹50 crore, on Thursday night. ED officers said that the group has diverted funds from project accounts to different entities and individuals, and thus siphoned off huge amounts of money.A local court on Friday remanded Thakur in ED custody till July 8.According to ED, the proceedings under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against Thakur and the real estate group was initiated on the basis of multiple first information report (FIRs) and charge sheets filed against them at various police stations in Navi Mumbai and Thane. ED has clubbed five FIRs, filed on the basis of complaints by flat buyers and a non-banking finance company, at these police stations. In these FIRs, allegations pertaining to cheating, criminal conspiracy and defrauding of genuine home buyers were levelled on the group. The builder was accused of not registering flats in the names of home buyers despite collecting money from them on the pretext of selling flats.“The Monarch group is owned by Thakur and his brothers Hasmukh and Anand. But as Thakur is the main accused behind the irregularities, he has been arrested. His signatures are also there on all the documents,” an ED officer said.Thakur and Hasmukh were previously arrested by the economic offences wing of Navi Mumbai Police for allegedly duping many flat buyers, but were released on bail. In one of the cases, Kharghar police had booked Thakur based on a complaint by inspector Pramod Bhovate, who was posted with Mumbai Police’s special branch. Bhovate had paid money to the builder for a flat in 2011, but he never received the possession nor was he given the refund.Thakur was also charged under the relevant sections of Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act (MOFA). ED’s investigations have revealed that the real estate company and its directors sold flats to multiple persons. They also availed loan from non-banking finance companies by mortgaging the sold flats without the knowledge of the buyers, the agency said. “It was also revealed that Monarch Universal Group has diverted funds from the project accounts to different entities, individuals and thus siphoned off the money,” ED stated in a statement.“We are investigating where exactly did the accused divert the funds and if any properties were bought from the ill-gotten money,” the officer added. Once the proceeds of the crime are ascertained, then the relevant assets would be attached by ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-arrests-mumbai-builder-gopal-thakur-in-money-laundering-case-101625251971129.html
03-07-2021||Other||Petrol crosses ₹105 per litre in Mumbai||Petrol price crossed the ₹105-mark in Mumbai on Friday. One litre of petrol was available at ₹105.24, while diesel was priced at ₹96.72 per litre. On Thursday, a litre of petrol and diesel were available at ₹104.90 and ₹96.72, respectively, in the city. In Thane, petrol was priced at ₹105.36 per litre, while diesel was available at ₹96.84 on Friday. Among the metro cities, Mumbai had the costliest petrol. In Delhi, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.16, while in Hyderabad, it was available at ₹103.05. In Chennai, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹100.13 on Friday. The price of one litre petrol crossed the ₹100-mark in Mumbai on May 29. Fuel prices in the city have been on an increase since May 3. In Maharashtra, the costliest petrol was in Parbhani, where prices had soared to ₹107.56 per litre. Amravati had the costliest diesel at ₹98.18 per litre, on Friday. Residents have reacted sharply to the constant rise in prices and said that if fuel prices keep on rising, they would be forced to stop using their vehicles. “We travel by our vehicle for everyday activities because local trains are not being operated for all. Prices of all the commodities are increasing rapidly. If the fuel prices keep on increasing, then we will be forced to park our vehicles. The government is doing nothing to relieve the pressure on the citizens,” said Charu Jain, a Mazagaon resident. Transporters’ body had on Monday protested against the constant hike in petrol and diesel prices across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-crosses-105-per-litre-in-mumbai-101625251912302.html
03-07-2021||Dehradun||Resigned due to constitutional crisis, says Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat||Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday tendered his resignation to governor Baby Rani Maurya, a little less than four months after he was sworn-in. Rawat, who had refused to respond to questions about his resignation before he went to Raj Bhavan, later explained his decision to resign to what he described as a constitutional crisis.The Election Commission, he said, had decided not to hold a by-election due to the Covid pandemic and it was decided that he should resign. Rawat added that he could not contest the bypoll to the Almorah’s Sult seat in April since he had tested Covid positive.“I must express my gratitude to the party’s central leadership which has given many responsibilities from time to time. I have been MLC, MLA, MP, party state president and recently chief minister. I thank my party president JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister from the core of my heart,” said Rawat, who had just an hour before meeting governor Baby Rani Maurya, refused to respond to swirling rumours of his exit.There has been no statement from the poll panel to indicate if it has taken any decision. People aware of the details said the EC had not received any request from Uttarakhand to hold a by-election on grounds that it was necessary to fulfil constitutional requirements.Uttarakhand BJP chief Madan Kaushik said the party legislative party will meet at 3pm on Saturday to decide on the new leader. This time, he said, “the new leader will be an MLA”.Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson Manvir Singh Chauhan said Union minister and party veteran Narendra Singh Tomar will be the central observer at the MLA meet. “We have been told to come for the urgent legislative party meeting,” a BJP MLA said.The BJP has 56 MLAs in the 70-member house.Tirath Singh Rawat’s successor to be named on Saturday will be the Bharatiya Janata Party’s third chief minister since 2017 when the BJP delivered a stunning performance winning 57 seats in the 70-member assembly. Trivendra Singh Rawat, who became chief minister, was ejected from the seat in March when he was days short of completing four years in office.But this is not the first time that the state has seen a change within a five year term of the government. In 2007, BC Khanduri was elected as chief minister and continued in the seat for 2 years and 111 days; he was replaced by Ramesh Pokhariyal who also stayed in office for 2 years and 75 days between 2009 and 2011. In September 2011, Khanduri made a comeback and served another 184 days in the top job.The only Uttarakhand chief minister to complete the five-year-term is its first chief minister, ND Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/resigned-due-to-constitutional-crisis-says-uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-101625251791147.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||BMC to rebuild 140-year-old Malabar Hill reservoir in south Mumbai||In a bid to increase the storage capacity for smooth supply of water, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed to reconstruct the Malabar Hill reservoir, built in 1880, to supply drinking water to the Island city.BMC has planned the reconstruction in such a way that there will be no water cut in south Mumbai during the commencement of the work.Shirish Uchagaonkar, chief engineer of BMC’s water supply projects, said, “The plan is to reconstruct the reservoir in a period of five years at an approximate cost of ₹308 crore. There will be no water cut or shortage in the areas where water is supplied from Malabar Hill reservoir, during the work.”According to BMC officials, the decision to reconstruct the around 140-year-old reservoir was taken after a structural audit, done over two years ago, had indicated that the structure needs to be demolished and rebuilt.The Malabar Hill reservoir supplies drinking water to some of the prime areas in the city, including Colaba, Fort, Churchgate, Cuffe Parade, Chowpatty, Malabar Hill, Peddar Road and Altamount Road. The reservoir is located on the hillock and has a filtration bed to supply potable water to the city. The structure was built in masonry arch roof and rubble masonry columns. In 1925, the capacity augmentation of the reservoir had started. Now BMC has proposed to reconstruct the reservoir with necessary improvements including construction of a new pumping station, installation of pumps and piping as well as construction of a new substation structure and its commissioning.According to BMC officials, the current capacity of the reservoir is 146 million litres of water per day, of which around 80 million litres is usable. After the reconstruction of the reservoir, BMC plans to increase the storage to 200 million litres and make around 190 million litres usable.“Currently, there are six compartments in the reservoir, which after the reconstruction will increase to seven for storage of around 200 million litres of drinking water. At a time, only one compartment will be demolished and reconstructed so that there won’t be any impact on the supply of drinking water in the area,” said Uchagaonkar.Meanwhile, out of the seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai, Tansa and Vaitarna provide potable water to the Island city. According to BMC’s data, Mumbai currently has water stock for over 70 days as the level in the seven lakes is 19.36% as compared to 7.91% last year and 10.18% in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bmc-to-rebuild-140-year-old-malabar-hill-reservoir-in-south-mumbai-101625251371128.html
03-07-2021||Other||CBI failed to follow rule of law, acted arbitrarily: Anil Deshmukh to Bombay HC||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s counsel on Friday argued before the Bombay high court (HC) that though its April 5 order had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry against the politician in accordance with law, the Central agency had commenced the probe without following the protocol of informing the state about it.Deshmukh has moved HC for quashing of the April 21 first information report (FIR) against him filed by CBI on the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.It was argued on behalf of the politician that CBI had not followed proper procedure as per section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, which mandates prior consent of the state government before registration of an FIR, nor did it seek sanction of the state under section 17A of Prevention of Corruption Act to conduct investigation based on the FIR. Hence, the CBI action was illegal and arbitrary, Deshmukh’s counsel argued. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Deshmukh’s petition, was informed by senior counsel Amit Desai along with advocate Kamlesh Ghumre that there were serious procedural lapses on CBI’s part after HC ordered a probe against the then home minister of the state. While commencing his arguments for quashing of the FIR, Desai argued that the Supreme Court in one of its judgments had observed that a constitutional court should exercise caution when ordering a preliminary probe against a public servant if the accusations were uncorroborated and merely based on ‘whispers’. Desai said HC, while passing the April 5 order, should have considered the Apex court’s observations. However, the current bench, during a previous hearing, had clarified that it was only dealing with the petition challenging the FIR and would not review the April 5 order. Thereafter, Desai submitted that even before commencing the inquiry, CBI was bound to inform and get the state’s sanction to commence, it as it was probing Deshmukh’s role in the allegation when he was a public servant, but the central agency had failed to do so. Desai argued that while even 26/11 terrorist Ajmal Kasab got the benefit under the rule of law, none was accorded to Deshmukh, and hence, CBI’s action was arbitrary. He further submitted that as the Maharashtra government had withdrawn the blanket consent to register FIR, CBI had to get the consent of the state prior to registering the case. It also did not take the consent of the state as per the Prevention of Corruption Act to initiate investigation against Deshmukh on the basis of the FIR, said the counsel. Desai will continue arguments on the invalidity of the contents of the FIR filed by CBI on July 5, which will then be countered by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-failed-to-follow-rule-of-law-acted-arbitrarily-anil-deshmukh-to-bombay-hc-101625251310556.html
03-07-2021||Other||LIGO India waits on central govt approvals: IUCAA director||PUNE The proposal for LIGO India has reached many milestones, but further approvals are pending with the central government and as soon as the approvals come, work will begin,” said Professor Somak Raychaudhury, director, Inter University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), during a webinar on Friday. LIGO-India is a collaboration between the LIGO Laboratory (operated by Caltech and MIT), and three Institutes in India: the Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology (RRCAT, in Indore), the Institute for Plasma Research (IPR in Ahmedabad), and the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA, in Pune).“The process of land acquisition is complete. Due to the pandemic, work has been delayed but talks are ongoing. During the lockdown, the physical work had stopped, but the science was ongoing,” said Raychaudhary.After 48 collisions between black holes, and two collisions between neutron stars, the discovery of a new source of gravitational waves (GWs) by the LIGO Scientific Collaboration (LSC) is a major breakthrough, the webinar noted. Scientists noted that this was the first confirmed detection of a pair of hybrid, neutron star-black hole collisions.During the webinar, scientists shared that although indirect detections of black holes of stellar mass, which result from collapse of a dead star and supermassive black holes, which are central engines of massive galaxies, were found, it was not known until recently whether intermediate mass black holes (IMBH) can exist.Archana Pai from IIT Bombay said that this was first detected on May 21, 2019 (event GW190521), and announced on September 2, 2020.“This led to a hunt for IMBH binaries in the year-long data run of Advanced LIGO-Virgo detectors. The results were announced by LIGO-Virgo-Kagra (LVK) collaboration of GW detectors (LVK) on May 31, 2021. In addition to confirmation of the previous results, it led to a revised understanding of how rare such massive mergers are,” said Pai.During the webinar, Dr Anupreeta More from IUCAA said that on May 13, this year, LVK announced the results of the search for lensing of GWs - the bending of GWs by gravity itself. “So far there have been no promising lens candidates which is consistent with our expectations, but even the absence of detectable lensing effects has already improved our knowledge of the compact binary merger rate in the distant universe,” said Dr More.Professor KG Arun from Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI), Chennai, said that among the other science we can learn from observations of GWs, are tests for theories of gravity.“High speed collisions of black holes/neutron stars are excellent test-beds for general relativity (GR) and Einstein’s theory of gravity. Results from current observing runs show no hint of GR violation which means Einstein is still right. But, analyses are still ongoing. Significant contributions from several Indian institutes in these efforts, and LIGO-India can play a crucial role in certain tests of GR which use data from multiple detectors,” said Arun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ligo-india-waits-on-central-govt-approvals-iucaa-director-101625250830515.html
03-07-2021||Other||SPPU issues guidelines ahead of second- semester online exams||PUNE As the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is set to conduct its examinations for the second semester from July 12, the examination department, on Friday, issued guidelines for students. Similar to the last semester’s examination, the exams will be conducted in online mode with multiple-choice questions (MCQs). Results will be declared within 48 hours of a student appearing for the exam. It is expected that SPPU will declare all the results by August 15. As per guidelines issued by the SPPU, there will be 60 MCQs and students will have to answer 50 of them correctly. Students of Science, BCA and Engineering courses, will have 30 questions for Maths and Statistics, and will be required to answer 25 of them. One hour is the time given to students for attempting the online questions and the examination will be held in two schedules – 9am to 11am, and 3pm to 5 pm.If any student faces a technical issue while appearing for the exam, answers will be automatically saved and students will get further time to attempt the next question. Divyang students will get 20 minutes extra to complete the exam. SPPU will conduct mock examinations from July 8 to 10. Students having any difficulty can login on at sps.unipune.ac.in to register a complaint.A total of 605,000 students are going to appear for 4,200 different subjects under various courses of the SPPU. “All students are requested to complete their registration process and pay the necessary exam fees, so that there is no issue appearing for the exams,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-issues-guidelines-ahead-of-second-semester-online-exams-101625250771334.html
03-07-2021||Other||ZP not willing to handover properties in merged villages for “free”||PUNE With 23 more villages now officially under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the process for handing over properties in 11 villages merged in 2017, has not yet been completed. Schools located in these villages and water networks have not yet been handed over to the municipal corporation. The Pune Zilla Parishad is not ready to handover buildings in these villages, without a reimbursement from the PMC. Recently, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting in Mumbai to discuss the issue. When questioned, ZP officials said, “The Zilla Parishad purchased the lands from private parties to start schools in these villages with loans.”PMC elected member Siddharth Dhende, who present for the meeting, said, “Pawar instructed the PMC that if the ZP borrowed for purchasing of properties, PMC needs to help them before taking ownership of the same. He instructed the Pune municipal commissioner and Zilla Parishad CEO to sort out it. “Even water pipelines in Uttamnagar and Shivane have not been handed over. The Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, currently running the water network, wants ₹12 crore before the handover. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Though the 11 villages merged in 2017, PMC has not able to provide enough water. Now 23 villages have been merged. We are capable to handle this vast area, but will require funds from state government for same.”Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal, who was present at the meeting, said, “ZP demanded ₹21 crore and we opposed it. We promised to give money only for those properties which were bought on loans. We have asked them to submit documents for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-not-willing-to-handover-properties-in-merged-villages-for-free-101625250770496.html
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||At 12, Ludhiana clocks lowest daily Covid cases in 7 months||The district clocked the lowest single-day virus infections of the year, with only 12 people testing positive for Covid on Friday. The last time the daily cases had been in the ballpark was January 18, when 14 cases had been detected in the district. No deaths were reported for the second consecutive day. With the health officials gearing up for a mega vaccination drive on Saturday, the low tally of infections is encouraging. April and May had been the most devastating for the district with the daily cases peaking at 1,729 on May 9. The cases finally started to decline after restrictions and lockdowns were imposed across the district. With the cases dwindling, authorities have lifted most curbs. At present, the district has 306 active cases, against the 86,997cases reported in the district. The death toll stands at 2,086. 1 more black fungus case One fresh case of black fungus was reported in the district while no casualty was reported , as per the district health department officials. The number of confirmed cases in the district has reached 145, out of which 19 patients have succumbed to the disease till now. There were 34 active cases in the district on Friday. Of the confirmed cases, 81 are residents of Ludhiana, while the rest are from other districts/states. Similarly, the deceased include eight residents of Ludhiana, while the rest were from other districts.Mega vaccination drive The health department is all geared up for a mega vaccination drive scheduled for Saturday. The district has received 85,000 vaccination doses for the first phase. District immunization officer Dr Puneet Juneja said that 1200 healthcare workers will be deployed at 308 mega vaccination sites across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-12-ludhiana-clocks-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-7-months-101625250652086.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Respite for Delhi as 4th day of heatwave ends with showers||After a week of scorching heat, residents of the national capital were treated to some relief on Friday evening, with rain in parts of the city which caused a 12 degree-drop in the temperature, said officials of the India Meteorological Department. However, the high daytime temperature meant that Delhi saw a heatwave for the fourth straight day, with the maximum mercury hitting 41°C at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the Capital.The minimum temperature at the station, recorded in the morning, fell to 27.2°C from 31.7°C the previous day. Experts said the city is likely to see rain in patches on Saturday as well, even as they warned that the temperature will resume its rise next week.IMD declares a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5°C or above from normal temperatures.“A thunderstorm with light intensity rain and gusty winds with a speed of 30-40kmph occurred over Delhi and parts of the National Capital Region, including Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Gurugram,” Met officials said on Friday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said that between 2.30pm and 5.30pm on Friday, the Safdarjung observatory received 0.4mm rainfall, Palam received 26mm rain and the Lodhi Road station got 2.5mm rain. Aya Nagar received trace rain during this period.Weather experts said that temperatures reduced significantly after the rain, despite the heatwave conditions during the day.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, said that there was a drop of around 12°C in Delhi’s temperature after the showers.“The temperatures fell from 37°C to around 25°C after the rain. Rain covered most parts of Delhi. Patchy rain is likely to continue on Saturday as well,” said Palawat.Scientists, however, warned that this relief was short-lived and temperatures will rise again in the Capital next week, till the monsoon arrives. IMD on Thursday said that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7.“Current forecast suggests that hot conditions and maximum temperature above 40°C will continue in and around Delhi till July 7. The maximum temperature is expected to reduce marginally on July 3 due to cloud cover and some thundershowers, but it will rise again from July 4,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading in England.Met officials also said the high temperatures are likely to be exacerbated by the high humidity levels, which will increase the “discomfort index”. The discomfort index is a metric used to measure the discomfort felt during warm spells, as a result of the combined effects of temperature and humidity of the air.When temperatures are high and the moisture level in the atmosphere also increases, the human body tends to feel greater discomfort. Such a weather phenomenon is usually seen during the end of June in Delhi, when patchy pre-monsoon showers increase moisture in the air, leading up to the arrival of monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/respite-for-delhi-as-4th-day-of-heatwave-ends-with-showers-101625250290603.html
03-07-2021||Lucknow||Only two tested positive after returning from Nepal, earlier figure of 19 due to technical error, says UP official||Fresh sample tests of Bahraich residents who returned from Nepal indicated that only two of them tested positive for Covid -19 while a technical error had initially put their number at 19 earlier, officials said.Bahraich district magistrate Dinesh Chandra said due to a technical error by the staff, the report of 19 people who returned from Nepal was mentioned as positive for SARS-CoV-2 (the pathogen that causes Covid-19 disease).On Thursday, the fresh samples of all the 19 people were sent for laboratory tests and the report indicated that merely two people were positive. The two patients were admitted in the Covid ward of the district hospital, while the remaining 17 discharged, he said.Nevertheless, the district administration is on alert and Covid desks have been set up at all the entry points on the Bahraich-Nepal border.Along with the district health department, the district police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) have set up such Covid desks to test the samples of people coming from Nepal. The Nepal government had also set up Covid desks on the border to test the samples of people going from India, he said.During a Covid review meeting on Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to sound an alert in the districts bordering Nepal and maintain vigil on people coming from the Himalayan nation.Maharajganj district magistrate Ujjwal Kumar said the movement of people across the international border was minimal due to restrictions imposed by the Nepal and the Indian governments.Only movement of cargo was permitted between both the countries and the people who entered UP with special permission were screened at Covid desks set up on the border, he said. The district police and SSB were on alert, he said.A state government official said the authorities in seven districts bordering Nepal — Pilibhit, Balrampur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bahraich, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar and Maharajganj districts — were on alert following directions of the chief minister. The district administration officers were directed to screen all the people coming from Nepal for Covid-19, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/only-two-tested-positive-after-returning-from-nepal-earlier-figure-of-19-was-due-to-technical-error-says-up-official-101625249331039.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||2 found dead in Vasant Kunj flat, police suspect murder-suicide||A 61-year-old man and his 53-year-old wife were found dead by their 16-year-old foster son in their flat in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on Thursday evening. Based on prima facie evidence, police suspect that the senior citizen allegedly killed his wife with a blunt object before committing suicide.Police said the couple’s 16-year-old foster son was studying in an adjacent room when the incident happened.A 61-year-old man allegedly killed his wife with a blunt object and then hanged himself while their 16-year-old foster son was studying in another room in their house in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on Thursday evening, police said.The police are waiting for the couple’s autopsy report to ascertain the exact cause of their deaths. Police also said that they are yet to find the blunt object used in the attack.Senior police officers said that the couple, who lived in a third floor flat, were having a marital discord for the past seven years.According to police, the 53-year-old woman, who owned the flat, had filed an eviction notice in court against her husband, in addition to cases of dowry harassment and domestic and physical violence against him at the local Vasant Kunj south police station. The dowry harassment case is pending in court.Investigators, quoting statements of the couple’s son and other relatives, further said that the man was arrested a few years ago for allegedly assaulting his wife.“We are waiting for the couple’s autopsy report to ascertain the cause of their deaths. Accordingly, a case will be registered. We are also making efforts to find the weapon that was used in the woman’s killing,” said DCP (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.Additional DCP (southwest) Amit Goel said that the police control room received a call about the deaths at around 7.30 pm on Thursday.According to Goel, the couple’s son told police that he was studying in his room when he heard a loud sound in the drawing room. When he stepped out, he found his father hanging from a ceiling fan and a wooden stool lying nearby.“The son ran to his mother’s room to alert her about the hanging but was shocked to see her unconscious and bleeding on the bed,” said the additional DCP.The police said that the teenager was in shock for a few minutes, after which he went downstairs and alerted the neighbours.A police team later rushed the couple to a nearby government hospital where both of them were declared brought dead.According to police, the couple got married in 1990. The husband initially worked in an export company and was earning well but he lost his job when the company shut down over some fraud.The couple’s son told police that his father, however, kept up the pretense of working by leaving home in the morning and returning in the evening everyday. A senior police officer said that nobody in the family knew where he worked.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-found-dead-in-vasant-kunj-flat-police-suspect-murdersuicide-101625249272257.html
03-07-2021||Other||Happiness curriculum will bring sea change in society: Sisodia||The Delhi government on Friday celebrated ‘Happiness Utsav’ to mark the third anniversary of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) ambitious Happiness Curriculum which is being taught across public schools in the Capital.To mark the event, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia interacted with students, teachers and parents to learn about the changes it has brought about in their lives. He also interacted with a panel of international experts to discuss Delhi’s experience and the international best practices on social-emotional learning.The AAP government had introduced the happiness curriculum in Delhi government schools on July 2, 2018. Under the curriculum, sessions are held twice a week for nursery and kindergarten students, and daily for students in classes 1 to 8. The sessions include meditation, storytelling, and other activities, followed by question-and-answer sessions.Emphasising on the impact of the Happiness Curriculum, Sisodia said, “It is a great joy to hear that the Happiness Curriculum has brought about a change in the lives of children, their families and also their teachers. If there has been any significant change among the children due to the Happiness Classes in just 2-3 years, in the coming 10 years, the children will adopt happiness in their life fully and it will grow to become an important component of their everyday life. These are the real happiness agents and will bring a sea change in the society.”During the virtual interaction, several students also shared their experiences with their education minister.Sparsh Aggarwal, a Class 7 at a government school in Kalkaji, said that she learned how “one should never give up on their efforts despite persistent challenges”.Another Class 7 student Rakshit, from a government school in Rohini Sector-9, narrated about the changes in his life because of the happiness classes. “Earlier, I was addicted to mobile games, leading to irritability and pain in my eyes. But with the practice of mindfulness and other activities learned in the Happiness class, I now feel stress-free and have started taking more interest in academics,” he said.Prachi, a Class 9 student, said that she has been able to control her anger better.Later in the day, Sisodia also interacted with an international panel of experts on the Happiness Curriculum. Dr Scherto R Gill, chair of G20 Interfaith Forum’s education working group, said, “Education around the world should be about well-being, self-exploration, and co-inquiry. The ecosystem Delhi has managed to create is almost a haven of sorts which allows conversations around well-being, collaboration, happiness and such.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/happiness-curriculum-will-bring-sea-change-in-societysisodia-101625249090867.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||Sports varsity to kick off this year from govt school building in Civil Lines||The upcoming Delhi Sports University will start operations this year in a government school building and sports complex in north Delhi’s Civil Lines area,government officials aware of the matter said on Friday. The University will continue to run out of the Shaheed Amir Chand government Sarvodaya Vidyalaya (SAC GSV) till construction work on the varsity’s Mundka complex ends, officials said, just over a week after the state government appointed as its vice-chancellor Karnam Malleswari, India’s first female Olympic medallist.According to the minutes of a June 23 meeting — attended by Delhi director of education Udit Prakash Rai, Chandni Chowk MLA Parlad Singh Sawhney, and other government officials, apart from members of the School Management Committee — the Civil Lines school and nearby sports complexes will be used as the administrative block and as classes for the sports university.“Augmentation and procurement of infrastructure and other facilities will take about one year at the designated location [in Mundka]. Therefore... it has been decided to use the premises of SAC, GSV, Sham Nath Marg and nearby sports complexes for the purpose of administrative block and classes for the sports university,” said the minutes.Classes for the university will be conducted at the Ludlow Castle Sports Complex in Civil Lines, said the minutes.Some of the students of the Civil Lines government school will be moved to other nearby institutions in the meanwhile, and others will continue at the same school, but in another block, said state government officials aware of the matter.The state cabinet in October 2019 passed an order setting up the university in Mundka. Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal at the time, said the university will offer field-specific degrees that will be at par with those offered in other courses at the graduate, post-graduate and doctoral levels.The government in the same month allocated the university a 90-acre plot in outer Delhi’s Mundka. However, construction work on the university was disrupted because of the pandemic and has not started yet. Weightlifting champion Malleswari was named the varsity’s V-C on June 24.The government is yet to announce either the curriculum or admission criteria for the university.During the meeting, it was decided that while the students of the Civil Lines school in nursery till Class 8 will be shifted to three nearby government schools, those in classes 9 to 12 will continue in another block of the same school.“The 74 girls of the middle section and primary students may be shifted to Sarvodaya Vidyalaya Shankaracharya Marg. The 364 boys of middle sections may be shifted to SBV Gokhle Marg and SV No.1 Mori Gate. The remaining 985 students of classes 9 to 12 will remain in the old block of the same school,” the minutes said, adding that the MLA, parents and SMC members approved the proposal.When contacted, Delhi government officials, SMC members and Sawhney confirmed the decision.A senior Delhi government official said, “The decision has been taken because construction work in Mundka has been delayed due to the pandemic… Some existing students of the school will be shifted to nearby schools without causing any inconvenience to them or their parents.”Some members of the School Management Committee flagged their concerns over shifting students and wrote to the office of Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on June 26 against the move.Shashi Singh, an SMC member, told HT, “The Delhi government should tell us how much time it will take to build the University campus. Whenever that is done, all students should be shifted back to this school. It will be very difficult for students to suddenly switch to another school and adjust with new teachers at a time when classes are being held online.”Sawhney, however, said he has so far been approached by only one parent concerned about the move. “The decision has been taken keeping the interest of students in mind. It will help the university to start functioning at the earliest. Besides, the schools are shut due to Covid-19 and it is expected that they won’t reopen anytime soon,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-sports-university-to-kick-off-this-year-from-govt-school-building-in-civil-lines-101625249031750.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||As crowds pack markets in Delhi, govt tells districts to crack the whip||After the Laxmi Nagar market in east Delhi was ordered shut earlier this week over violations of Covid-19 regulations and another three prominent markets warned of similar action, the Delhi government on Friday directed district administrations to keep a close tab on the attendance and whereabouts of civil defence volunteers deployed in marketplaces to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations.“We are taking all possible steps to ensure that there is no crowding in marketplaces, and that social distancing and other Covid-19 regulations are adhered to. We are doing our best to provide opportunities to traders to revive their businesses, but after taking adequate precautions. There is a possibility of another Covid-19 wave if we let our guards down. Apart from enforcement teams, we have also deployed civil defence volunteers in markets. Directions have been issued to districts and subdivisions to keep a close tab on the attendance of these volunteers,” said revenue minister Kailash Gahlot.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier this week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered shut for a week the market in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar over alleged violations of Covid-19 protocols. Since June 20, as per documents seen by HT, at least three more prominent markets in the city – Sadar Bazar, Sarojini Nagar and Kamla Nagar – were issued notices either by the police or district authorities warning them of similar action.Markets in the city have a complicated structure, said trader bodies. They comprise traders, employees, porters, labourers, rickshaw pullers, transporters and, finally, customers. “It takes a whole lot of effort to coordinate these many stakeholders and ensure that Covid-19 regulations such as social distancing and mask compliance are adhered to throughout the day. Agencies such as the police and the revenue department are entrusted with enforcement of regulations,” said a senior government official, who asked not to be identified.The official further said, “The civil defence volunteers have an important role in such a scenario. They are primarily entrusted with the coordination between stakeholders and enforcement agencies. They are to interact with traders, customers and officers throughout the day to ensure that regulations are met. However, in the past few days, we received several complaints from traders that volunteers could not be spotted in markets. So, we decided to make the attendance system more stringent. Now, throughout the shift, they will have to report to their respective SDM office and also their location details. WhatsApp groups have been made for the purpose.”The number of volunteers deployed in a market depends on the size and nature of the market. For instance, a weekly market in Najafgarh may have only two volunteers, while a bustling one such as the Lajpat Nagar market will have 20 volunteers at any given time. In markets, they are usually deployed in two shifts between 8am and 10pm.“They are often divided into groups and each group is given a video camera for recording their surroundings. The recordings help us monitor each market and issue prosecution fines; the videos also act as evidence if any case of any penalty dispute,” the official said.Devraj Baweja, president of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Confederation, said, “Covid-19 regulations can be followed in markets only with better coordination between stakeholders and enforcement agencies. Civil defence volunteers can help immensely in scaling up such coordination. Several volunteers have been deployed in the market but we hardly see them. I hope that the new policy to keep a tab on the attendance and whereabouts of volunteers will help in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-crowds-pack-markets-in-delhi-govt-tells-districts-to-crack-the-whip-101625248972002.html
03-07-2021||Delhi||760 black fungus patients still being treated in Delhi hospitals||Hospitals in the city are still treating over 750 patients with mucormycosis, instances of which shot up in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the national capital between April and May, showed Delhi government data.At least 760 patients are being treated for the infection, commonly known as black fungus, in Delhi government-run and private hospitals, the data, compiled on Tuesday, said, six weeks after the fourth wave of Covid-19 infections began to decline in the Capital. The numbers from the four central government-run hospitals in Delhi were not immediately available.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCases of mucormycosis rose sharply across India during the April-May surge of infections as a secondary infection among patients infected with Covid-19 due to a diabetes complication or the indiscriminate use of steroids. Between the second and third week of May, over 600 patients were being treated for black fungus in Delhi.The state government declared mucormycosis an epidemic and notifiable disease on May 18.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), one of the four central government hospitals, has been treating over 100 cases of the infection at any given time since mid-May. In comparison, the hospital used to see 12 to 14 cases of the rare infection over an entire year.The state government-run--Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals--were treating 157 and 133 patients respectively as on Tuesday, said officials.With 84 patients, Sir Ganga Ram hospital is treating maximum cases of all the private sector facilities.Hospital officials, however, said they are still running short of Amphotericin-B, the only last-line drug that can treat the fungal infection.“The number of new admissions has gone down a bit, but we might have been able to treat the patients better if the medicine was readily and regularly available. The supply of medicine is still not as per demand,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital.An AIIMS official said, “We now have around 100 patients with mucormycosis, though the numbers have reduced over the last one week. Earlier, we were treating more patients. The supply has improved but the medicine is not available every day and not always in the required quantity,”Every mucormycosis patient needs 50 vials of Amphotericin-B per week on average, extending to even 100 vials in severe cases, as per officials. So far, Delhi has received over 22,000 doses since the government took control of the distribution of the medicine across the country in May. The Delhi government wrote to the Centre asking for 100,000 doses of the medicine over a period of two months on May 20..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/760-black-fungus-patients-still-being-treated-in-delhi-hospitals-101625248850429.html
03-07-2021||Pune||37 warkaris test positive at Alandi in Pune district||Ahead of the “palkhi prosthan” ceremony of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj in Alandi, 37 warkaris were tested positive for Covid on Friday. The warkaris were isolated and measures were taken to do RT-PCR test of the warkaris which came in their contact. Earlier, the state government had given permission to 100 warkaris to remain present for the ceremony. However, after the request of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple committee, permission was given to 430 warkaris. Since the last two days, temple management committee was conducting RT-PCR test of all warkaris who have started visiting pilgrimage town of Dehu since June 30. Every year in Alandi, 430 registered dindhis gather for the pilgrimage walk of Pandharpur. Only one representative from each dindhi was allowed this year due to Covid restrictions. “Once their reports were received, all of them were quarantined. All the warkaris did not showed any symptoms of flu or cough during the RT-PCR test. We immediately did the contact tracing of persons who came in their contact. Few reports are yet to come,” said health official from Alandi Municipal Council on request of anonymity. All the warkaris were given lodging facilities in Mumbai Maratha Frutiwala Dharamshala. “All the 37 who tested positive have been sent for isolation and further medication is on. Those warkaris who came in their contact were only given entry on the temple premises after their RT-PCR test came negative,” said Vikas Dhage Patil, trustee, Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Temple, Alandi. Yogesh Desai, member of the temple trust, said, “Warkaris are following the Covid norms and listening to all the instructions given by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/37-warkaris-test-positive-in-alandi-101625243269767.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj “palkhi prasthan” commences with limited warkaris||The “palkhi prasthan” (departure) ceremony of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj was held with reverence by devotees from the main temple at around 6.15 pm. The number of warkaris allowed inside the temple for the ceremony was limited due to the Covid restrictions. The religious function was streamed online through the Alandi temple trust on their social media platforms. For the prasthan ceremony, Pune district principal judge N P Dhote, state Vidhan Parishad deputy chairperson Neelam Gorhe, MP Bandu Jadhav, Palkhi ceremony head for this year advocate Vikas Dhage Patil and other dignitaries were present. Before the prasthan ceremony, all traditional rituals before the palkhi was solemnly carried out of the temple were performed since morning. As the walking wari tradition is cancelled for this year, from July 3 to July 19, the palkhi will remain in Alandi and on July 19 — Ashadhi Ekadashi — the palkhi will carried in a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus towards Pandharpur. “There was a lot of enthusiasm amongst the selected warkaris and other representatives of each dindi ((group of warkaris) as they gathered from all over the state. Social distancing and other Covid protocols were followed in today’s prasthan ceremony and now the palkhi will be kept in Alandi till July 19,” said advocate Patil. Last year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the historic wari (pilgrimage) tradition in Maharashtra was not carried out. Every year, lakhs of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur, all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. While cancelling the walking tradition of wari, palkhis of both the sants were taken into MSRTC bus to Pandharpur last year with only few selected warkaris in the bus. Before the pandemic, annually more than 3 to 4 lakh warkaris join in several dindis with the Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram Maharaj palkhi which starts from Alandi and Dehu village respectively. There are around 250 registered dindis which follow the palkhi on its way to Pandharpur and lakhs of warkaris walk in the wari. Dindis from across Maharashtra start coming to Alandi and Dehu a week before the starting day and then both the villages are crowded with warkaris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sant-dnyaneshwar-maharaj-palkhi-prasthan-commences-with-limited-warkaris-101625242910297.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Pune civic body audits Covid bills, returns Rs19,51,642 to patients, families in 7 days||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) scrutinised 69 Covid bills between June 24 and June 30 and returned Rs19,51,642 to patients and their families. The civic body initiated the Covid bill audit last year following reports of inflated bills by private hospitals. Though bills above ₹1.5 lakh were audited earlier, post second wave in May, all Covid bills are probed. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief, said that auditors appointed at 30 private hospitals check pre and post-Covid treatment bills of these hospitals across the city. “We have 30 auditors so far and every bill is scrutinised by them. The intention is no Covid patient should be overcharged,” said Dr Bharti. As per PMC officials, ₹4,84,26,733 was returned to Covid patients and their families by June 26 and 1,469 bills were audited. Rubal Agarwal, PMC assistant commissioner, said PMC covers all major private hospitals for bill audits. “As of now, as there are less cases, we have only covered big private hospitals. As the cases increase, we may rethink of covering more hospitals. If there are any complaints, the patient and their family can reach out to PMC anytime,” said Agarwal. As the second wave of Covid started in March, private hospital bills were audited by the PMC officials as many patients complained about overcharging and inflation of bills by private hospitals. Many private hospitals despite several notices by PMC were seen charging inflated bills to Covid patients. Health activists from the city have urged the civic body to scrutinise bills of non-Covid patients as well. State health minister Rajesh Tope in May instructed PMC to conduct audit of all Covid bills. He stated that earlier only bills above Rs1.5 lakh were audited. However, now, every bill of Covid-19 treatment should be audited as many hospitals break up the bills into multiple parts with small amounts. A separate auditor should be assigned by the administration at each private hospital, said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-audits-covid-bills-returns-rs19-51-642-to-patients-families-in-7-days-101625242069695.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar proposes restart of medical colleges offline in Maharashtra||Following the Covid review meeting in Pune, Ajit Pawar proposed the resumption of offline classes in medical colleges across the state. Pawar said that he would suggest to the chief minister and the medical education minister that the classes in medical colleges with fully vaccinated students and professors could be restarted with Covid-appropriate behavior. Pawar said that each year thousands of doctors pass out from these colleges and in the pandemic their services are essential. “On the state level, we are thinking of restarting the classes in medical colleges if students and staff are fully vaccinated. Every year thousands of doctors pass out from these institutions. If medical colleges remain closed then this will get hampered. It would cause scarcity of doctors. I will suggest this to the CM and medical education minister. As a precautionary measure the students and the staff can be tested after 10-15 days of classes,” said Pawar following the weekly Covid review meeting at the divisional commissioner office. Dr Prashant Munde advised the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) wing in BJ Medical college Pune that offline classes could be restarted. “The offline classes with fully vaccinated students and the staff can be resumed. Undergraduate and Postgraduate medical students can be benefitted. Also, by resuming the academic activities, administration will get doctors. According to me, even the NEET should not have been postponed,” said Dr Munde, advisor to MARD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pawar-proposes-restart-of-medical-colleges-offline-in-state-101625240929575.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar denies role in “Ambil odha action” row||Pune guardian minister on Friday dismissed the allegations that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had undertaken the anti-encroachment action on the banks of Ambil odha (stream) on his instructions. “Though the issue was discussed in detail, I have nothing to do with it. The administration took the decision on its own. People who know me know that I don’t run away from my responsibilities,” said Pawar. After the anti-encroachment action, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol had alleged that the PMC administration had acted under pressure from a “big” leader without naming Pawar. The affected residents also carried out a protest in front of the PMC building and anti-Pawar slogans were raised in the presence of MP Supriya Sule. “Slogans were raised against me in front of Supriya. Often such issues are politicised to hamper the good work,” he said. On the meeting conducted by him in Mumbai on June 29 regarding Pune’s issue, Pawar clarified that the Pune mayor was invited to the meet as irrespective of who holds the position the chair has to be respected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pawar-denies-role-in-ambil-odha-action-row-101625240569509.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Level 3 restrictions to continue in Pune city||Covid curbs to remain in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, after Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar took stock of the virus situation on Friday. Level 3 restrictions would continue for the coming week. According to officials, the positivity rate in Pune has marginally increased over the last week’s rate. Exceptions have been made for coaching classes teaching for competitive examinations which have been allowed to operate with 50% till 4 pm on weekdays. Also, outdoor and indoor sports have been allowed till 4 pm on all days. However, shop timings have not been extended. They will remain open till 4 pm. Malls, theatres will remain closed. Dining time in restaurants will remain till 4 pm on weekdays (Mon-Fri). “Last week, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded a positive rate at 4.6%. This week it climbed to 5.3%. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation was 5.1% and now it is 5.4%. So, it has been decided to continue with the existing rules,” said Pawar. Indoor sports activities have been allowed by the civic authority for fully vaccinated players and coaching classes should operate with students at least with the first vaccine dose. Pawar said it is a goal of the state to vaccinate the eligible population by August 31. “In the country, we are still leading on vaccination count. There are still fluctuations in the vaccine supply. Pune district has the capacity to give vaccine doses to 1.5 lakh people every day, but the supply has to be in that proportion,” Pawar said. Pawar said that experts have advised against reopening malls. “As air conditioners on the premises circulate same air so it has been decided to keep malls closed,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/level-3-restrictions-to-continue-in-pune-city-101625239789461.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Sugar mills sold after HC’s orders in 2010: Ajit Pawar||After the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached the properties of Jarandeshwar Sahakari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) on Thursday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar claimed that there were no irregularities in the selling procedure of the mill in 2010. Speaking in Pune on Friday, Pawar asserted that the board of directors of Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank (MSCB) did not sell the sugar mills directly and it was done as per the orders given by the Bombay High Court. He also said that the directors of Jarandeshwar SSK mill will appeal in court against the latest action. “While selling Jarandeshwar sugar mill, MSCB followed all the due procedures. About 12-15 companies had applied in the tendering process. The highest bid was offered by Guru Commodity situated in Mumbai for ₹65.75 crores and the mill was sold at this price. Other mills were also purchased by various companies. Many owners of the mills appealed against this in courts, but the results were not in their favour,” said Pawar. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it had attached assets worth ₹65.75 crore belonging to Jarandeshwar SSK situated at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara in connection with the money laundering case involving Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank while adding that a firm linked to state deputy chief minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra was involved in the case. Pawar categorically denied any wrongdoing in the matter. He claimed that multiple investigations have already been done by several other agencies, but nothing has come out of it. “An agency has a total right to do the inquiry. During the tenure of the last government, CID had done an inquiry after it received complaints. But nothing came out of it. After that, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) started an inquiry but nothing came out of that as well. Many PILs have been heard in the high court regarding the matter. A committee of retired judges had also done an inquiry in the selling of these mills. The allegations of me snatching away the sugar mills have been made earlier as well. But the sugar mill was not sold by the board of directors. It was done after the order of Bombay high court,” said Pawar. He said that the current directors of Jarandeshwar SSK would appeal in the courts against the action taken by the agency. “There are no irregularities in the operations of Jarandeshwar sugar mill. When the directors of this mill were called by ED for the inquiry, they showed all the records to them. So, why the ED has started this action regarding Guru Commodity is beyond me. The directors of Jarandeshwar sugar mill will appeal in court for justice. Thousands of farmers and workers are dependent on this mill for their livelihoods,” he said. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil alleged that the wrongdoings came forth related to Jarandeshwar SSK is just a tip of the iceberg of fraudulent selling of the 24 SSKs and all such transactions are now on ED’s radar. “The action on the Jarandeshwar SSK is just the beginning. Inquiries of the sugar mills and cotton mills acquired in peanut amounts through MSCB are on ED’s radar. The fraudulent pattern to take over the property of sugar mills has been unveiled. After the ED’s action on Jarandeshwar SSK, the transaction paperwork has come into public domain,” said Patil. Patil refuted the allegation that the action taken by the central agency is to create political pressure. “Those who complain about the action first should accept that there has been a fraud. Those who have done wrong will have to pay for it,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sugar-mills-sold-after-hc-s-orders-in-2010-ajit-pawar-101625238829357.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,283 fresh Covid positive cases, 11 deaths in 24 hrs||As per state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,283 fresh Covid positive cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours. Of the 11 deaths, 9 were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 2 deaths in rural Pune. No deaths were reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. Pune Municipal Corporation has so far reported 494,943 Covid cases and 8,279 deaths till Friday. PCMC has reported 251,291 cases so far and total 2,747 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 311,266 total cases so far and 5,797 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,057,500 Covid cases. Of this, 1,023,450 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 17,037 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 17,031 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 8,385 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,836,920 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.01%. Across Maharashtra, 8,753 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 156 Covid deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.01%. The state health department stated of 42,096,506 laboratory samples, 6,079,352 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 14.44% patients till Friday. Currently, 624,745 people are in home quarantine and 4,472 people in institutional quarantine. Pune district figures Covid-19 Cases: 1,057,500 Recovered Patients: 1,023,450 Deaths: 17,037 Active cases: 17,013 New cases 1,283 New deaths: 11||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-283-fresh-covid-positive-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hrs-101625238229344.html
03-07-2021||Pune||Pune docs save 5-yr-old’s left eye injured by tile particle||A two-hour multiple surgeries at a city hospital saved the severely damaged left eye of a five-year-old boy. A tiny tile particle penetrated the eye of Yashim Shaikh while playing at his home, leaving his vision defective and eye red. Yashim’s parents rushed him to Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, Aundh that later carried out surgeries. The medical treatment was done in the first week of May this year and the hospital released the information in July as the boy was kept under observation for two months with regular follow-ups.Doctors diagnosed three severe conditions: penetrating eye injury with corneoscleral tear, iris prolapse and pupil disfiguration. A medical team, headed by senior eye surgeon (ophthalmologist) Dr Ashis Ghosh performed corneal tear repair, iris excision, and pupilloplasty — a procedure on the iris to alter the shape of the disfigured pupil, while the patient was under general anesthesia. The boy got back 100 per cent vision of his left eye within 24 hours. Dr Ghosh said that the damages to the boy’s left eye were severe, necessitating immediate surgical intervention and multiple structures. “The interventions were challenging and critical. The procedures involved conjunctival peritomy, to expose the wound; corneoscleral tear repair, and single-pass 4-throw pupilloplasty for the reconstruction of the pupil. Any minor flaw in pupil reconstruction could lead to the patient losing at least 50 per cent of the vision with disturbing glare at daytime. The damage would be lifelong. Fine corneal suturing is also vital to maintain the corneal contour and ocular surface which is significant to reduce high astigmatic spectacle power,” said Dr Ghosh. The boy was under observation for about four hours after the surgeries and discharged. The bandage on the left eye was removed the next day and the boy gained full recovery of his vision, according to the hospital. Dr Ghosh said ocular injuries are one of the leading causes of blindness. It affects mainly younger generations, in the 20-40 year age group. According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, every year over 55 million eye injuries which restrict activities more than one day occur across the world. The prevalence of ocular trauma is reported to be 2.4 per cent of the urban population in India and 11.4 per cent of those who sustain injuries lose vision. Dr Pankaj Asawa, medical director, Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, said eye injuries can be prevented by teaching children to handle things and play carefully, preventing them from playing with sharp objects, and encouraging teenagers and adult to wear protective eyewear such as goggles and glass in workplace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-docs-save-5-yr-old-s-left-eye-injured-by-tile-particle-101625231148705.html
03-07-2021||Mumbai||ED summons actor Yami Gautam in FEMA violation case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned actor Yami Gautam in connection with an alleged violation of Fema (Foreign Exchange Management Act). This is the second summon issued to the actor, and she has been asked to visit the ED office on July 7.Senior ED officers said the actor had received an amount of over ₹1 crore in her bank account from an overseas entity a few years ago, but she neither disclosed it nor did she comply with mandatory Fema rules. Her bank officials informed the Central agency about the suspicious overseas transaction, equivalent to over ₹1 crore, in her account and the non-compliance of the transaction as per rule, said ED officers. Also Read | Mumbai local: How to get QR code-based travel pass for train travel amid curbsFollowing this, a case under Fema was registered and investigation was initiated last year. She was summoned last year, but due to the lockdown restrictions, she did not show up at ED office. So a fresh summon has been issued to her recently, an ED officer said.She has been summoned to furnish details about the overseas transactions. If she is found guilty during the investigation, she may be asked to pay a hefty penalty for violations under Fema or may face other punishments as prescribed under Fema, ED sources indicated.ED officers said that the further probe in the case is on. “She has defaulted in compliance of relevant norms and submitting documents as per the mandatory rules under Fema. We wish to question her about the source of the funds and why she failed to submit the documents and comply as per the rules. She has been asked to visit ED office at Ballard Estate along with relevant documents,” a senior ED officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-summons-actress-yami-gautam-in-fema-violation-case-101625216628023.html
