04-07-2021||Other||Civic body removes encroachments near Panj Peer Road in Ludhiana||Civic authorities on Sunday removed encroachments, including at least 10 dairy units, near Panj Peer Road in Ward Number 78 which were causing waterlogging in the area. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, who visited the area with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, senior Congress leaders Sunil Kapoor and Inderjit Singh Indi during the drive, said, “The encroachments had choked the seasonal drain, Budhha Nullah, due to which water was entering houses in the area during monsoon.”Sandeep Salwan, a resident of F-Block Rishi Nagar, said, “For people, this is a posh colony but in reality, we were living in a virtual hell. Every year, during monsoon, water enters the houses in the area. The street remains waterlogged. Today, super suction machines were brought in to clean the sewers. We hope the condition improves soon.” Ashu said that close to 15,000 residents of Mandeep Nagar, New Surya Vihar, Mehar Singh Colony, Chand Colony, Radhe Sham Colony, Corporation Colony, Mayur Vihar, Sukhdev Enclave, Amrit Colony, Haibowal Dairy Complex Block B and several others will benefit from the anti-encroachment drive.Earlier, the cabinet minister held a series of meetings with the residents of B Block Rajguru Nagar, Goodwill Park in B Block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and assured residents that all their issues would be resolved on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-body-removes-encroachments-near-panj-peer-road-in-ludhiana-101625423345296.html
04-07-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Stan Swamy’s condition worsens, NHRC issues notice to Maharashtra chief secretary||As the health of 84-year-old Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy deteriorated, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), which is looking into a complaint that Swamy’s condition is serious, issued a notice to the Maharashtra chief secretary, asking him to ensure that every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment as part of the life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. Swamy was arrested by the NIA on October 15, 2020 from Ranchi and was kept at Taloja jail along with other accused arrested in connection with Elgar Parishad case. After multiple pleas from his family and following a Bombay high court (HC) order on May 28, Swamy, a tribal rights activist, was admitted to Holy Family Hospital, Bandra for general weakness and Parkinson’s disease. He tested positive for Covid on May 30.On Sunday afternoon, he was put on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU). Dr Ian D’Souza, medical director of the hospital, refused to comment on Swamy’s health. But a doctor from the hospital, who did not wish to be identified, said, “His condition is quite critical and he suffers from severe breathing difficulties. It could be related to post-Covid complications and we are examining him for this.” Twitter was abuzz with ardent pleas by users to free Swamy and seeking prayers for him after his condition deteriorated. The commission also sought a report in light of the allegations made in the complaint and the treatment record of Swamy, while he was lodged in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail. The direction comes in continuation of an earlier order of the commission, in which it had advised the state to provide adequate medical care to Swamy. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, who represents Stan Swamy, had on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that his concern was to get his client bail on medical grounds as the condition of the activist is critical. The Jesuit priest will require continued hospitalisation even if he is granted bail, said Desai. “My main concern is to extend the hospital stay. Even if he is granted bail, he will not be getting up and roaming around, as he needs further hospitalisation. We are more concerned about getting him bail as soon as possible,” Desai said. Due to paucity of time, the petition could not be heard and a bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar extended Swamy’s stay at the hospital till Tuesday, when the hearing will be held. Apart from the application for bail on medical grounds, Swamy had filed another petition seeking to set aside a provision under section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), through which investigating agencies could book him under charges of working in the frontal organisation of a banned terrorist outfit. The petition has claimed that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had made it “impossible and an insurmountable hurdle” for him to apply for bail, which is arbitrary and against his personal liberty. In light of this, Swamy’s counsel sought setting aside and quashing of the terminology ‘front organisations’ from the first Schedule of UAPA. Debrati, posted a tweet stating that after learning that his bail application had been posted to Tuesday, Swamy appeared agitated and disoriented on Saturday. Meena Kadasamy, another user, tweeted, “Father #StanSwamy battling on a ventilator. At 84, he’s India’s oldest political prisoner. Share widely (sic).” (Inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-stan-swamy-s-condition-worsens-nhrc-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-chief-secretary-101625423344117.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, SIT urges MLAs to share info about Kotkapura incident||Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case has invited members of the state legislative assembly to share information about the incident as it may lead to vital revelations. In a letter to Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh last week, the SIT led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav has urged him to circulate the message to all MLAs. “I can’t reveal much as it is confidential. But we have put the communication into motion,” said the speaker. The state government reconstituted the SIT in April after the Punjab and Haryana high court rejected the findings of the previous probe team headed by former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who recently joined the Aam Aadmi Party. A number of protestors were injured in police firing at Kotkapura on October 14, 2015, when they were protesting against desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. It may delay probe: Cong legislator MLAs belonging to the ruling party, however, said the move could delay the probe report and further politicise the matter. “This is an unnecessary exercise and could complicate the case and delay the probe report,” said an MLA of the ruling party, adding that he doesn’t have much to share as he comes from a place which is far-off from Kotkapura. Another MLA, who is also a minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet, said: “What can we share now? The entire incident is in the public domain. There is already a lot of confusion and if MLAs are involved, it would lead to chaos.” Kushaldeep Dhillon, Congress MLA from Faridkot that remained the epicentre of the sacrilege and police firing cases, said: “I have not received any message (from the speaker) so far. There’s nothing I can share now, it’s an old case,” he said. We will seek speedy probe: AAP Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Dirba and leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said: “I don’t have much to speak on the issue. We are seeking an early probe report so the perpetrators of the crime be punished. Already much time has been wasted.” Will politicise the matter: Akali MLA“It is clear that the MLAs will speak as per their political preferences. This, I think, will politicise the matter further. Local MLAs are the best to give information. The desecration was orchestrated to defame the (Sikh) religion and bring a bad name to then SAD-BJP government. It was very unfortunate. Despite all that, our party’s government made best efforts to control things. We tell all this to the new SIT,” said Akali MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala.“The SIT is indulging in a political witch-hunt. It is acting at the behest of the Gandhis and chief minister Cap. Amarinder Singh. State congress chief Sunil Jakhar has already announced that Rahul has understood the case and they will be framing the Badals. The SIT is moving in the same direction,” said former minister and Akali MLA Bikram Singh Majithia, adding that his party will act on SIT’s request to MLAs accordingly. “Information shared by the MLAs would be vital for the probe. We will maintain secrecy,” said a member of the SIT, adding that a WhatsApp number and an email ID has been dedicated for the purpose by the investigating team. SIT to quiz Dhadrianwale today The SIT will question Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, who was leading protest at Kotkapura when the incident took place, in Patiala on Monday. The probe team has already quizzed another Sikh preacher Panthpreet Singh, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal, then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and number of police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-sit-urges-mlas-to-share-info-about-kotkapura-incident-101625423167829.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power crisis: Bajwa seeks action against officials||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday demanded stern action against government officials responsible for power crisis in Punjab. In a statement, Bajwa said that Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSCPL) must be held accountable for being unprepared for the supply of uninterrupted power. “Heads must roll and the government must take action against erring officials. PSPCL’s lack of preparedness will only continue to harm the image of the state,” he said, urging chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take stringent measures to ensure such a situation does not arise in future. The Rajya Sabha member said a delayed monsoon is not an excuse that Punjabis will believe as there is enough availability of technologies that predict its progress advance. On the “ill-conceived” power purchase agreements (PPAs), Bajwa said the chief minister’s statement that the state government is reviewing them is “extremely delayed but absolutely necessary”. He also said the state government should ensure 300 units of free power to all households. “It is well-known that the state provides ₹6,000 crore as power subsidies to the agriculture sector and ₹4,000 crore to other sectors. Given the large social net covered by the present subsidies, to extend to every household across the state would be overall beneficial to the people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-crisis-bajwa-seeks-action-against-officials-101625422985157.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt pushed state into darkness: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the erstwhile SAD-BJP government had made Punjab a power surplus state, but chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh pushed it back into darkness.His remarks came a day after Amarinder said his government would soon announce a legal strategy to counter the “ill-conceived” power purchase agreements signed during the SAD-BJP rule which had put an “atrociously unnecessary” financial burden on the state.He said of the 139 power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the SAD-BJP rule, 17 were enough to cater to the state’s full electricity demand. The remaining 122 PPAs for 1,314 MWs of expensive power were inexplicably signed.Attacking Amarinder, Sukhbir tweeted: “@capt_amarinder Re your new rant on SAD govt’s power agreements, 4.5 yrs is a long time to scrap any agreement. Who stopped/stops you? Do anything but save Punjabis from long unbearable power cuts & bills. But it seems U want to be remembered for “BIJLEE MEHANGI, BIJLEE GULL.” “Those who plunged Punjab into darkness are blaming power cuts on those who made the state power surplus. As PS (Parkash Singh) Badal took over in 2007, Punjab was used to 16 hrs daily cuts. He took 3 yrs to make it power surplus-exactly the time u have taken to push it back into darkness,” the SAD chief said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-pushed-state-into-darkness-sukhbir-101625422865770.html
04-07-2021||Other||13 new Covid infections but no deaths or black fungus cases in Ludhiana||The district’s Covid-19 count continued to remain on the lower end as 13 fresh cases were detected on Sunday. In more good news, no deaths or new cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported on the day.The district, however, still has 255 active Covid cases, of which one patient is on ventilator support.Since the outbreak last year, Ludhiana recorded 87,036 Covid cases, out of which 84,695 patients recovered and 2,086 succumbed.The latest infections include three patients with influenza-like symptoms and three detected at outpatient departments.Ludhiana’s black fungus tally stands at 146, out of which 30 are currently active. As many as 19 people have also succumbed to the fungal infection. Of the 19, eight were from Ludhiana and 11 were from other districts and states who were undergoing treatment here.97k vaccinated in two-day long driveThe district reached a rare milestone on Sunday as it inoculated 97,995 persons during a two-day long vaccination drive. While 82,677 people were vaccinated on the first day, 15,318 residents got the jab on the second day. A total of 12,63,205 residents have so far been inoculated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13-new-covid-infections-but-no-deaths-or-black-fungus-cases-in-ludhiana-101625422864778.html
04-07-2021||Other||Consumers should get front-row seats in tribunals||New Delhi: The union ministry of consumer affairs should ensure that the first row of seats in every consumer tribunal in the country is reserved for consumers who seek redress before these commissions without the assistance of advocates.It is indeed ironic that the consumer tribunals, whose raison d’etre is protection of consumer rights, do nothing to protect their rights and privileges in the very precincts of the consumer commissions, where the front seats are all occupied by the advocates as a matter of right and consumers are relegated to the back benches and many times forced to give up even those seats.Even though the exclusive consumer justice system came into existence to help consumers resolve their complaints against goods and services without the aid of lawyers and in an atmosphere of informality and simplicity as distinct from regular courts, complainants who appear before these quasi judicial bodies do not get the respect due to them and it begins with the seating arrangements. Yes, consumers do not have the privilege of sitting in the front row in these tribunals , because that is the exclusive domain of the advocates. Unfortunately, even the Consumer Protection (Consumer Commission Procedure ) Regulations, 2020, drawn up by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission last July, fails consumers here. The regulations lay stress on how the tribunals should look and feel different from the courts and accordingly suggest several measures to ensure this.However with regard to seating, it merely says that the commissions “shall give proper respect and courtesy to the parties who appear in person and shall provide separate accommodation in the Hall for the convenience of the parties”.Instead of ‘separate accommodation’ the Regulation should clearly mandate that the first row be reserved for such consumers, because in many consumer tribunals around the country, the ‘separate accommodation’ is a bench stacked against the wall in an obscure corner and they may well be asked to vacate even these seats, if members of the bar do not have a seat! Surely, consumers are not second class citizens in these special tribunals!I must mention here the case of PC Jose Vs Nandakumar (July 26, 1993, Kerala high court), where PC Jose, a litigant who was fighting his case without a counsel, refused to get up for a senior lawyer and was asked to pay a penalty by the court. In response to his appeal , arguing that the constitution guarantees equality (Article 14 ) before law, the Kerala high court quoted the Advocates Act and said in a court room, members of the bar have certain privileges as officers of the court and it was open to the presiding officer to direct members of the public, even if they are litigants, to vacate their seat for the advocates.Well, whatever be the practices and procedures before these courts, they obviously cannot be applied to the consumer commissions because firstly these are not regular courts and secondly, these commissions are meant for consumers to fight the case on their own and thirdly, consumers have the preferential right in these forums meant exclusively for them. In fact on several occasions the government has considered barring advocates from these quasi-judicial bodies altogether. Having said that, I must emphasise that over the years, several factors. including the slow and complicated procedures, repeated adjournments, the high cost of fighting the case (if you hire a lawyer) and the miserly computation of compensation, have all made a mockery of the ‘quick, simple and inexpensive’ justice promised under the consumer protection law. And this is reflected in the dwindling number of consumers approaching these tribunals. The number of those who seek justice without the help of lawyers, has fallen even more sharply.There is thus an urgent need to not only change the way these commissions function, but also give consumers due respect and encourage them to fight their battles without the help of lawyers. ‘Consumer Assistants’ at these tribunals can make a difference, so also the ambience that gives the consumer the confidence to approach these commissions on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consumers-should-get-front-row-seats-in-tribunals-101625422743953.html
04-07-2021||Other||Army personnel robbed in Sarai Kale Khan, 2 arrested||Two men were arrested for allegedly assaulting and robbing a sepoy of the Indian army in April after offering him a lift in their autorickshaw at south Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan, senior officers said on SundayThe sepoy, Tawar Raj Singh, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, was on his way to Punjab on April 13 to resume his duties, when the robbery took place. The two arrested men, who were accompanied by another suspect, fled with his bag, which contained 10 cartridges, his uniform and ID card, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena.Singh told police that around 1am on April 13, he reached Sarai Kale Khan and was waiting for a mode of conveyance to reach Kashmere Gate bus terminal, from where he had to take another bus to Punjab. An autorickshaw with two passengers stopped. The driver offered to take him to Kashmere Gate for ₹50 on sharing basis. Singh sat in the auto. After driving for a kilometre, the driver stopped the vehicle at an isolated place. The driver and the two passengers asked Singh to hand over his belongings. When he resisted, they assaulted him with a stick, snatched his bag, dropped him on the roadside and fled in the auto, said the DCP. “We have recovered nine stolen cartridges and the autorickshaw that was used in the crime. The arrested persons were identified as Rajiv Kumar (28) and Umesh (22). We are on the lookout for the third suspect,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-personnel-robbed-in-sarai-kale-khan-2-arrested-101625422623932.html
04-07-2021||Other||As crowds surge, no leeway yet for Delhi’s weekly markets||With a handful of markets failing to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour and flouting safety protocols, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday decided to continue with the rule of allowing only one weekly market to operate in a municipal zone per day for at least one more week. A senior official of the DDMA said the decision was taken in the light of potential overcrowding in weekly markets, given that district administrations have cracked down on several markets in the city for alleged violation of Covid-19 regulations.A lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 in the light of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, which left the healthcare system overrun. As cases started declining, the government started unlocking the Capital in a phased manner from May 31. On June 14, the government allowed weekly markets to operate but with the condition that only one such market can operate in one municipal zone in a day. Delhi has 12 municipal zones.“We cannot take any risks. The government is preparing for a potential third wave and every now and then, cases of overcrowding in general markets are surfacing, forcing the district administrations to order for the temporary shutting of shops. Weekly markets cater to a large demography and they often witness large crowds. It would be difficult to manage more than one such market per day in one municipal zone,” said the senior DDMA official.The official further said, “Previous year too, when weekly markets were allowed to function, several of them witnessed large crowds, forcing the district administrations to crack down on them. It is better to take time (in opening markets) than to act in haste. Once markets are allowed to open, implementing a temporary suspension becomes difficult. We shall observe for at least another week and then take a call on weekly markets.”Weekly markets in the city cater to lower-income and middle-income groups, offering products that range from soaps and utensils to toys and garments. Delhi has around 2,700 weekly bazaars and they collectively engage around 400,000 people in different roles – vendors, suppliers, labourers, etc. Under the current rules, only 84 of them – the popular ones in Old Delhi, Geeta Colony, Kashmere Gate and Nangloi which operate from designated areas – are functional.Yusuf Khan, a vendor at a weekly market in northeast Delhi’s Gokalpuri, said, “It is a major relief. Last year, the government had allowed weekly markets to resume functioning after months of lockdown. This time, we have been allowed to resume business in eight weeks. We have so far ensured that all regulations are strictly followed. The government should now consider allowing more such markets to open.”Sanjay Kumar, a vendor and member of town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in the Yamuna embankment area in east Delhi, said, “Vendors have suffered huge losses during the pandemic. The weekly market is their only source of income. They should at least be given an opportunity to operate in adherence to the Covid-19 rules. The government should soon allow more markets to function.”Dhanik Chand, a vendor and a member of the town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in Mandawali locality, said: “In one year, the traders have also learnt what all precautions to take. Today, most of them are aware of Covid-19 protocols, the importance of getting tested, vaccines, etc. Restrictions on weekly bazars should be scaled down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-crowds-surge-no-leeway-yet-for-delhi-s-weekly-markets-101625422564557.html
04-07-2021||Other||BJP made a mess of municipal schools, tarnishing Delhi’s image: Sisodia||New Delhi: Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled civic bodies have made a “mess” of the municipal schools citing the Unified District Information System for Education Plus (UDISE+) report for 2019-20, adding that it was “tarnishing Delhi’s image”. The report released on July 1 was put together by the Union education ministry. According to the report, only 50% of the schools operated by Delhi’s municipal corporations are following the pupil, teacher ratio (PTR) as mandated by the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Comparatively, 98% Delhi government schools maintain the RTE mandated PTR, Sisodia added. According to the RTE Act, the PTR at primary and upper primary levels should be 30:1 and 35:1, respectively.The report stated that Delhi has 55,486 primary teachers for over 1,811,723 students enrolled across public and private schools -- an overall PTR of a little over 32. “The BJP government at the Centre has corroborated that the party ruled MCDs have made a mess of the municipal schools in Delhi. The mismanagement is so stark that MCD schools are considered the worst in the country. This is tarnishing the image of Delhi...While 98% of the Delhi government schools have maintained the RTE mandated PTR, 58% of East MCD schools, 46% of North MCD schools and 39% of South MCD schools are not following it. This establishes the fact that the BJP-ruled MCDs haven’t been able to provide teachers to their students. This is putting Delhi’s reputation at stake,” Sisodia, who is also deputy chief minister of Delhi, said during a press conference, citing findings of the report. Sisodia said Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi government is building world class infrastructure and providing all the basic facilities in its schools, recruiting teachers and sending them to foreign countries for training, and launching a new-age curriculum for holistic development of students. “However, the BJP hasn’t been able to provide teachers and basic facilities in the MCD schools,” the deputy chief minister said.The BJP blamed the Delhi government for not releasing funds to the civic bodies leading to the shortage of teachers. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the BJP are locked in a war of words over the alleged corruption and financial mismanagement of the municipal corporations. Though the BJP leaders maintains that the Delhi government was deliberately depriving the civic bodies of funds, the AAP has said that it owes nothing to the MCDs. Municipal elections are due in Delhi next year. “BJP leaders need to look beyond the ‘WhatsApp University’ and feel ashamed of the deteriorating conditions of MCD schools due to 20 years of their mismanagement. The Delhi government has left no stones unturned in improving the conditions of its schools which is also reflected in the UDISE report. But BJP leaders keep falsely accusing Arvind Kejriwal rather than focusing on improving the MCD schools,” Sisodia said.Responding to Sisodia’s allegations, BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor cited “financial problems” and “lack of funds” as the main reasons behind the problem. “The central government’s report which Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia has cited to say that MCD Schools have a poor PTR, has many other aspects where MCD schools are performing better than the Delhi government schools. With every passing year, the number of students in MCD schools has been increasing. Compared to this, the number of students in Delhi government schools has been going down every year. This clearly shows which schools are performing better,” Kapoor alleged.“As far as low PTR is concerned, the Delhi government is withholding funds of MCDs as a result of which teacher recruitment is suffering,” he added.The UDISE which was initiated in 2012-13 by the education ministry is one of the largest management information systems on school education, covering more than 1.5 million schools, 8.5 million teachers and 25 million children. The UDISE+ is an updated and improved version of UDISE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-made-a-mess-of-municipal-schools-tarnishing-delhi-s-image-sisodia-101625422563943.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ensuring 8-hour power supply to farmers: PSPCL||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Sunday said it was ensuring eight-hour power supply to agriculture tubewells for paddy sowing in spite of steep increase in demand across domestic sector. In a statement, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of the corporation A Venu Prasad said the PSPCL’s priority was to fulfil the requirements for the agri sector in view of ongoing paddy season and farmers across the state are being provided minimum of eight hours of uninterrupted power supply. Citing data of electricity time supplied to agriculture operations on Saturday, Prasad said that average supply hours for border zone comprising Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran was 12.4 hours, while Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar districts of the north zone received an average 10.3 hours of supply. “Similarly, farmers of Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Rupnagar and Mohali districts that constitute the south zone got an average of 9.6 hours of supply during the same period,” a PSPCL spokesperson said. Areas of Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar and Ferozepur got 8.9 hours of supply. Overall, the average power supply hours to the agri sector on the same day turns out to be 9.8 hours, the spokesperson added. Power to be restored to industry Prasad said industrial units, except those dealing in essential services, will be allowed to operate at 30% capacity from Monday. Units dealing in essential services, including poultry, rice shellers, telecom and call centres have been exempted from these restrictions and are allowed to operate fully.  “The power supply is satisfactory despite a fault in the second unit of the TSPCL, which is being rectified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensuring-8-hour-power-supply-to-farmers-pspcl-101625422505369.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Hope to transform Lucknow into one of India’s three best cities, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday inspected the development projects initiated by him for his Lucknow Lok Sabha constituency. He said he hoped to transform the state capital among the country’s three best cities. During the inspection, he sat with officials at the construction sites as they briefed him about the likely completion time of the projects. “I want to develop Lucknow among the three best cities of the country and work is on in that regard,” he said. The ongoing projects include the 104-kilometre Outer Ring Road project, initiated in September 2016. It is being completed in phases.“Along with the ongoing projects, I have more in mind for Lucknow, but I will discuss all of that only after the present projects are completed,” he said in the presence of Uttar Pradesh urban development minister Gopal Tandon, law minister Brajesh Pathak, lawmakers and Lucknow Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Mukesh Sharma among others. “Once the Outer Ring Road project is complete, and that is going to happen very soon, it would be immensely helpful in decongesting the state capital,” Rajnath Singh said. He also said five of the nine flyovers sanctioned at high traffic points in the state capital were completed and work on the rest was on. Of these, work on the Bansmandi-Lalkuan, Rajajipuram, Tedhipulia and Kukrail flyovers had been completed and these projects were already open for the public now, officials said.He also inspected the 2.5-kilometre- long two-lane flyover stretch at Imambara, Phoolmandi and Haiderganj tri-section. It was expected to be complete by July-August, Rajnath said. “I keep on interacting with officials to ensure that there is no let- up in development work,” he said. “When ready, this will help decongest Victoria Street and increase tourist footfalls at the Imambara,” officials told the defence minister.He also visited the eight-lane 12 kilometre stretch of the Outer Ring Road project from Bakshi Ka Talab to Gomti river. It is part of the 30-km section which would link Sitapur Road, Hardoi Road, Mohan Road and the Agra Expressway. “A 27-kilometre stretch of the project from Sultanpur Road, Kursi Road is already completed and open for the public,” Rajnath’s Lok Sabha representative Diwaker Tripathi said.Earlier in the day, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, numerous organizations and prominent people from different walks of life met Rajnath Singh at his Dilkusha Colony residence.Intervention soughtMembers of the Lucknow Chikan Handicraft Association met Rajnath Singh to raise the issue of families of such traders registered under GST and who died due to Covid-19 not getting the financial benefit under the Vyapari Durghatna Bima Yojana or the traders’ accident insurance scheme.They urged his intervention in ensuring that the scheme covered financial compensation for those traders who died of Covid-19.Prominent doctors meet RajnathSome prominent doctors of the city, including renowned pulmonologist Dr BP Singh of Midlands Hospital, Dr Sushil Agarwal (cardiologist), Dr Sanjay Niranjan (paediatrician) and Dr Puneet Mehrotra (gastroenterologist) also met Rajnath. They were part of the delegation that comprised JP Singh, head of Sanskrit Bharti Nyas, Awadh region. Vimal Shukla of Meghdoot Khadi Gramodyog Seva Sansthan was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hope-to-transform-lucknow-into-one-of-india-s-three-best-cities-says-rajnath-singh-101625422445447.html
04-07-2021||Other||2 held for stealing vehicles in Delhi, selling them in J&K||The Delhi Police have arrested two members of an interstate gang of auto-lifters who stole vehicles in Delhi and sold them to prospective buyers in Jammu and Kashmir. The gang members have sold more than 100 stolen cars in Kashmir since 2015, said police. The two members have been identified as Showket Ahmad Malla from Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir and Mohammad Juber from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh. Police said Malla flew to Delhi and then drove the stolen vehicles to Jammu and Kashmir. Juber worked for Noor Mohammad alias Rinku, a habitual auto-lifter from Loni in Ghaziabad. “Rinku, Juber and their three associates--Zahid, Wasim, and Yakoob--allegedly stole vehicles, changed their registration number plates and delivered the stolen vehicles to Malla and Wasim Sheikh, another recipient of stolen vehicles in the Valley,” said deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh.On July 3, the DCP said, the district anti-auto theft squad (AATS) received information that Malla was coming to Aaram Bagh Colony in Paharganj to receive a stolen car from Juber. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the two were caught with a stolen Baleno car and a pistol with two cartridges.“Their interrogation led to the recovery of three more stolen cars, 100 fake number plates, 120 duplicate keys of cars along with tools used for making duplicate keys, and 10 engine control modules (ECMs) of cars,” said Singh.During interrogation, Malla revealed that he works as a civil contractor for the state government but was not satisfied with his earnings. He wanted to become rich and live lavishly. Malla confessed he was brought into the illegal trade by Waseem and has himself sold more than 10 stolen cars in Kashmir in the last few years, the DCP added. “We are now looking for other members of the gang,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-for-stealing-vehicles-in-delhi-selling-them-in-jk-101625422385972.html
04-07-2021||Other||AAP, BJP lock horns over increase in trade licence fee||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday said tens of thousands of traders in the city have joined its signature campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for increasing taxes and trade licence fees imposed by the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) during the Covid-19 pandemic.The state’s BJP leadership has slammed the AAP and called their campaign “misleading”.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls in 2022.“The Aam Aadmi Party has launched a signature campaign against BJP-ruled MCDs. We have received widespread support for the campaign from traders. The BJP-ruled MCDs have exploited traders by increasing taxes even during the Covid-19 pandemic. The signature campaign has started in all the 272 municipal wards from 1st July,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.  “Lakhs of traders are joining this signature campaign against the BJP-ruled MCDs. As we are going ahead with the campaign, we are seeing a lot of anger among traders against the BJP,” said Pathak. Reacting to Pathak’s comments, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “It is an entirely misleading campaign. The AAP leaders know it well that an increase in trade licence fees has come into effect after over 10 years and the BJP leadership in the MCDs is already reviewing the increase,” he said. “We, at the BJP, don’t do lip service for traders but do ground work to benefit them. The latest example is the inclusion of traders as entrepreneurs under the MSME announced by the central government. The AAP should stop its misleading campaign,” said Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-lock-horns-over-increase-in-trade-licence-fee-101625422384005.html
04-07-2021||Other||Smriti Vatika: Yeida, Noida authority hold plantation drives in memory of Covid warriors||Greater Noida The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) and the Noida authority held plantation drives on Sunday to “honour Covid warriors for their sacrifice and service to the people”. Both the authorities named the dedicated green areas, respectively, as ‘Smriti Vatika’.Yeida held the plantation drive at a 10-acre vacant area along the Yamuna Expressway in Sector 28, which will be developed as Smriti Vatika. The Noida authority, meanwhile, has decided to develop three parks — one each in sectors 62, 94 and 137 — to honour Covid-19 warriors.“With Smriti Vatika, we want to honour the fallen Covid warriors. We planted at least 2,000 saplings at the memorial park, and seven areas in Sector 28. We have planted 11,000 saplings at seven sites during this plantation drive,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CMO), Yeida.The Yeida has appealed to the people to plant a sapling in memory of the Covid warriors at the Smriti Vatika. The authority will provide saplings and other facilities for the same. “The drive to plant a sapling in the memory of Covid warriors will continue during the monsoon. We will distribute saplings to the people for free,” Singh added.The Noida authority, meanwhile, planted 258,000 saplings at 39 locations, including three parks in the city during Sunday’s drive. “We distributed 10,000 saplings to the locals, who joined us in the plantation drive, for free,” Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority, said on Sunday, adding that the authority has decided to plant at least 70,000 saplings this monsoon.The Uttar Pradesh government has set a target to Yeida to plant as many as 50,000 trees the monsoon.Unique plantation drive in Greater NoidaDuring a special drive on Sunday, the Greater Noida authority planted as many as 10,000 saplings. It has appealed to the people to plant saplings in the memory of senior citizens who lost their lives due to Covid-19, in the green belt of sectors 10 and 12, along the city’s roads. The authority aims to plant 100,000 saplings during the monsoon this year. “We will provide free saplings to people who want to plant a sapling in the memory of family elders. We have not dedicated this park to the Covid warriors,” said to a spokesperson of the Greater Noida authority.The UP Government had a target to plant 25 crore trees across the state this year. Gautam Budh Nagar had a target to plant total 887,000 plants in the district. The district forest department planted 300,000 saplings and other agencies together planted 924,000 saplings on Sunday, following state governments order.“We conducted tree plantation at 826 different sites across the district and all departments joined hands to achieve that target,” said Pramod Kumar, forest officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smriti-vatika-yeida-noida-authority-hold-plantation-drives-in-memory-of-covid-warriors-101625422263907.html
04-07-2021||Other||Noida: Work on golf course project to begin soon||NOIDA: The work on the 18-hole golf course project in Sector 151A will start in a week, officials of the Noida authority said on Sunday. The ₹90-crore project will be made operational by July 2022, they said. “The work should start at the site within a week. And the process of providing membership should also be started simultaneously,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. On Sunday, Maheshwari reviewed the progress of this project. The authority had last month hired a private agency to develop the golf course, which will be the second such facility in the city. The authority had developed first 18-hole golf course in Sector 38A in 1990s. In its 197th board meeting held on September 27, 2019, the Noida authority had approved a proposal to build a 90-acre golf course, 20-acre adventure sports facility and a heliport spread on 10 acres in Sector 151A.“The authority has taken a decision to develop a heliport on public-private partnership model and the same has been approved by the board. Now, we are likely to issue a request for proposal to select a developer for the development of heliport that will boost connectivity. We have sent the proposal to state government for approval. The bell 412, bell 407 and MI-172 helicopters will be available at this facility,” said Maheshwari.Some sectors such as 150 and 151, which are located near Sector 151A, are hub of luxurious condominiums and these facilities will fuel development in this region, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-work-on-golf-course-project-to-begin-soon-101625421544532.html
04-07-2021||Noida||Six held for running prostitution ring in Noida||Noida: Six people, including a hotel owner, were arrested on Sunday morning for allegedly running a prostitution ring from the hotel in Noida’s Sector 62.According to police officials, a raid was conducted at the hotel following a tip-off. “We had information that the suspects were running a prostitution ring from the hotel. Customers would come in through online advertisements,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.The hotel owner was identified as Manoj Kasana, a resident of Ghaziabad. Kasana, along with his Delhi-based associates Devesh and Shankar Kumar, was running the illicit operation, the officials said. Besides, a female manager of the hotel and two customers were also arrested after the raid, they said. According to the police, earlier the hotel was operating legitimately, but it started the illicit operation two months ago due to the lockdown losses. Shankar would arrange the women to come to the hotel and use the owner’s vehicle to bring them. “The women were brought from states such as Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. During the raid, five women were found at the spot who were being forced in the work. They were sent to a shelter home. Two customers were arrested from the spot,” said Verma. The women were being taken care of by the female manager who took her commission from the operation, the police said, adding that the first two floors of the hotel were being used for the operation. Police have recovered the car which was used to bring the women, 12 mobile phones, ₹37,675 cash, one laptop, and used contraceptives from the spot. The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 at Sector 58 police station, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-held-for-running-prostitution-ring-in-noida-101625421487990.html
04-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Traffic cop dies as his car hits truck on Eastern Peripheral E-way||Greater Noida A 30-year-old traffic constable died after he hit his speeding car with a stationary truck on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Gautam Budh Nagar’s Badalpur on Sunday. The victim, Gaurav Singh, a native of Mathura, was posted with the Ghaziabad traffic police department.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Badalpur police station, said that Gaurav was travelling from Dadri to Ghaziabad in his Maruti Zen car. “There was a stationary truck near Rajatpur village in Badalpur, which Gaurav could not spot, and hit his car with the truck around 12:30pm on Sunday,” Kumar said.Gaurav got injured, and his car was damaged.Security personnel of the expressway control room admitted him to a private hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Police said that the truck was empty, and the driver had fled the spot. “We have seized the truck and are trying to track down its driver. Gaurav’s family has not filed a complaint yet,” Kumar added.Another killed in Yamuna e-way accidentIn a separate accident on Sunday, a 50-year-old man, Rakesh Mishra, died, and his 25-year-old son Atul Mishra got injured when their car hit the divider, and overturned on the Yamuna Expressway in Dankaur. They were residents of Alawalpur village in Gorakhpur.Arvind Pathak, SHO, Dankaur police station, said that the two victims were travelling in a car from Gorakhpur to Noida. “Atul, who was driving the car, lost balance of the vehicle, and hit the divider. The injured duo was trapped inside the car,” he said, adding that they were admitted to a private hospital, where Rakesh died during treatment. “Atul is undergoing treatment and is out of danger. Police have not received any complaint in this regard yet.”Total 4,956 accidents, 718 deaths, and 7,671 critical injuries were reported on the Yamuna Expressway between August 2012 and March 31, 2018, according to an RTI reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-cop-dies-as-his-car-hits-truck-on-eastern-peripheral-eway-101625421487318.html
04-07-2021||Other||‘Arbitrary’: Gauhati HC slams Mizoram govt for restrictions on unvaccinated people||The Gauhati High Court held on Friday that restrictions imposed by the Mizoram government on the movement and work of people who are yet to get vaccinated for Covid-19 are arbitrary and violates the Constitution. A division bench of justices Michael Zothankhuma and Nelson Sailo passed the order while acting on a petition against standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued last week by the state government restricting the movement of unvaccinated persons. “The restrictions placed upon unvaccinated individuals vis-à-vis vaccinated individuals are arbitrary and not in consonance with the provisions of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution,” the order read. “Allowances available and given to vaccinated persons in the above clauses shall also be made equally applicable to unvaccinated persons,” the order added while directing the state government to issue a corrigendum of the SOPs declared on June 29, at the earliest. The next date of hearing in the case is on July 14. The SOPs issued on June 29 by the Mizoram chief secretary, had included a provision which stated, “only vaccinated individuals of the family members may be detailed for errands within and around localities having significant Covid-19 active cases”. They also stated that only vaccinated persons should be engaged in manning stores, shops or undertaking any works. Store attendants and other employees should be able to produce proof of vaccination. It further added that only those drivers and conductors of commercial passenger vehicles who had been vaccinated should be allowed to operate public transport. “A perusal of the above clauses implies that all persons would require to be vaccinated or else they cannot leave their houses or earn their livelihood. The question that would arise… is whether a person can be vaccinated against his will and whether the non-vaccination of the said individual can debar him from earning his livelihood,” the court observed. “Though the state can make a law imposing reasonable restrictions in the exercise of any of the rights under Article 19, so long as the said restriction is a reasonable restriction… the above-mentioned clauses do not appear to be reasonable,” it added. In his submission before the court, the additional advocate general of Mizoram stated that 519,452 persons (67% of eligible persons) had been administered the first dose of Covishield in the state against the target of 775,106 people. He, however, couldn’t say how long it would take to vaccinate all the targeted eligible persons with the first dose. “There is nothing to show that vaccinated persons (first dose) cannot be infected with Coronavirus or they cannot be spreaders. As the vaccinated and unvaccinated persons would have to follow the Covid proper behaviour protocols as per the SOP, there is no justification for discrimination,” the order read. “The unvaccinated citizens of the state can’t be faulted due to the state’s failure in not completing the vaccination of the targeted population,” it added. Mizoram is witnessing over 200 new Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days and the test positivity rate (TPR) on Saturday was recorded at 6.75%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arbitrary-gauhati-hc-slams-mizoram-govt-for-restrictions-on-unvaccinated-people-101625421485605.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Petition in Bombay HC challenges Information Technology Rules, 2021||Another petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the recently notified Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 issued under the Information Technology (IT) Act. The petition by a digital news portal states that the IT Rules are arbitrary, illegal and contrary to the fundamental rights under article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, ultra vires to the IT Act, by unlawfully delegating judicial powers to the executive and attempting to overrule a long line of precedent established by the Supreme Court. The petition claims that IT Rules curtail and unconstitutionally restrict the freedom of press, and hence should be set aside. Journalist Nikhil Wagle has also filed a public interest litigation (PIL) on similar grounds on Friday. Both petitions are expected to come up for hearing in due course. The online news portal which has moved the petition through its company and former journalist Ashish Khetan states, “IT Rules curtail and unconstitutionally restrict the freedom of press in India.” Elaborating the reasons, the petition states that the rules give pervasive powers of control to state over published content, over-regulation and excessive burden on press through onerous obligations that will financially and operationally drain resources and capacity. The petition also alleges that the rules will result in usurpation of judicial powers by executive bodies that violate constitutional norms for exercise of quasi-judicial powers. It further states that the above reasons are compounded by the fact that the rules do not have the sanction of the Parliament. Referring to the large cost of compliance burdens, the petition states that the implementation of IT Rules will cause chilling of the freedom of speech of reporters and journalists working with the petitioners. It added that while a request for a meaningful consultation was requested with stakeholders, since they did not receive a response from the authorities, the petitioners approached the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-in-bombay-hc-challenges-information-technology-rules-2021-101625421486088.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police nab 265 accused in Operation All Out||The Mumbai Police carried out Operation All Out from Saturday night till Sunday morning and arrested more than 265 people. The police raided 252 places across the city to trace 1,036 accused who were out on bail or have been externed, of whom 383 accused were located. The police also carried out nakabandi at 201 spots during which 75 motorists were booked for drink and drive. The police also took action against 1,759 others for other violations. In addition, around 99 people were arrested under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, while 35 were arrested with weapons during the operation. The police also arrested 38 absconding accused wanted across the city.The police also arrested externed criminals during combing operations, organised to ensure law-and-order situation in the city. Police officers said the combing operation was started to maintain law and order situation in the city as well as to deter habitual offenders from committing crime. Police officers also checked 895 hotels and lodges and carried out raids at 43 locations, during which they arrested 93 people who had non-bailable warrants issued against them. Operation All Out is carried out every month across the city before any major festival or occasion, under the guidance of the Mumbai Police commissioner. “Under the supervision of police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, maximum manpower from each police station across the city was deployed to take action in order to ensure peace and law and order,” read a press statement from the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-nab-265-accused-in-operation-all-out-101625421424437.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body: Need four to five years to stop pollution of drains||With most of the city’s sewage treatment plants (STPs) being out of compliance with environmental standards and sewer lines currently servicing only 68% of the city’s population, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it would need another “four to five years” to entirely free city’s drains, creeks and coastline of pollution from untreated sewage.This was revealed in a recent audit report prepared by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), pursuant to instructions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). A copy of the audit report is with Hindustan Times). NGT had, in October 2020, rapped the civic body over continued pollution of city’s creeks and water bodies, following which MPCB issued a set of compliances for the latter to adhere to in December 2020.A review of the MPCB report shows that none of the terms have been complied with by BMC. Senior officials in the civic body’s sewage and stormwater drains departments attributed the delay to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and protracted tendering processes for various related infrastructure works.Meanwhile, environmentalists expressed concern over the glaring inadequacies which the report has brought to light. For example, only one out of eight operational sewage treatment plants (STP) — the 37 million litres per day (MLD) one in Colaba — in the city is compliant with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) latest discharge standards. The remaining STPs in Worli, Bandra, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Versova, Charkop and Malad, some of which were constructed more than 20 years ago, are currently not fully equipped with the required sequencing batch bioreactor (SBBR) technology and continue to discharge polluting effluents into creeks, showed laboratory analyses by MPCB. “BMC has plans to upgrade their existing STPs, and one new STP will be installed at Dharavi. At present, tendering process for modification and expansion of the existing and new STPs are completed. It will take four to five years for completion of these STPs,” BMC submitted in a written response to MPCB. The tenders were expected to be awarded by April this year. “This has not yet happened due to delays caused by the pandemic,” said Atul Rao, chief engineer, BMC.However, fully-functional STPs are not the only solution to the problem. To prevent dry weather flow of untreated sewage in city’s creeks and rivers and to prevent the flow of waste into rivers, Mumbai also needs a well-connected system of sewer lines. The existing 2,025-km-long network services only 84% of Mumbai’s developed area and 68% of the city’s population, as per BMC.Due to these shortcomings, there are still 93 openings across the city and suburbs which continue to discharge untreated sewage directly into creeks and drains. “Sewerage infrastructure development… to provide 100% sewer connectivity is being implemented under the Mumbai Sewerage Improvement Program (MISP). It will require four to five years’ time for completion,” BMC has noted in recent submissions to MPCB.The civic body has, however, proposed to finish laying around 93 kms of sewer lines in developed parts of the city by 2023-24. Environmentalists say this will not address the sewerage needs of nearly a third of the city’s population that lives in about 250 slums clusters. The sewerage requirement for these areas runs into an estimated 143 kms, which, BMC says, “will be laid as and when slum rehabilitation schemes are effectively implemented in these areas.”Other compliances that BMC has not yet implemented include bio-remediation of city’s rivers and drains to mitigate ecological damage caused by untreated sewage that has already been discharged, in violation of environmental safeguards.MPCB had also directed the civic body to “install nets in stormwater discharge drains to prevent sewage from entering the sea along with solid waste”. Despite being a mechanically simple, inexpensive stop-gap measure, the move has not yet happened.“Installing nets is a simple, cost-effective way to reduce some of the burden on our creeks and coastline. Even if it takes five years to set up an STP or lay sewers, this is a quick solution that can make a huge difference. It is baffling that the corporation has made no steps toward getting it done, six months after they were told to,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, which had petitioned in NGT in 2017 that led to the October 2020 order. In addition, BMC is yet to pay environmental compensation to the tune of at least ₹34 crore to CPCB, as directed by NGT in October last year.In its compliance report, the pollution control board notes that BMC’s reason for the same is a Civil Appeal (No. 293/2021) which they filed before the Supreme Court in March, challenging NGT’s order. This was after a review petition filed before NGT was rejected in January this year.Confirming the details, Rao said, “It is up to the Supreme Court to now decide whether the amount is to be paid. We are doing our best to ensure compliance with all the other terms given by NGT. But as we have also conveyed to the pollution control board, it is bound to take some time.”Other officials, however, disagreed. “The Supreme Court has not stayed NGT’s directions. If the aggrieved party wants to seek legal recourse, they are welcome to, but the order of the court should be complied with,” said an MPCB official requesting anonymity. “The penalty for violation, as directed by NGT, is roughly ₹4 crore per month after December 2020. So now the total amount payable by BMC comes to nearly ₹58 crore up to June 2021. The money is to be used directly for environmental restoration works, and should be duly paid up as per the law. It is surprising that BMC has money and time to expedite projects like the Coastal Road, but not enough to pay for or to fix the pollution it is wittingly causing,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-need-four-to-five-years-to-stop-pollution-of-drains-101625421425030.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders police protection to rape survivor for collecting compensation||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the police station concerned to provide protection to a minor rape survivor and her parents after it was informed that the accused was granted bail and hence the survivor and her family were not willing to come to Mumbai to collect compensation under the Manodhairya scheme. The survivor had approached the HC through her father, seeking termination of her 32-week pregnancy under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, but the same was disallowed after the panel of expert doctors suggested against it. The minor delivered the child who, as per HC order, was handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) for adoption. Thereafter, the family went to their hometown. The bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Prithviraj Chavan, while hearing the interim application of the father on Saturday, was informed by advocate Ashley Cusher that as per the June 19 order of the court, the compensation amount under Manodhairya scheme was not disbursed to the survivor as she had not shown up at the district legal service authority (DLSA) office. Cusher said that as the accused was out on bail, the survivor and her parents feared for themselves and hence were not willing to come forward to accept the compensation. The survivor and her family, who lived in a slum at Govandi, had approached the HC in March after it came to light that the minor, a Class 7 student, was 31-weeks pregnant. The father stated that he had the eldest of his three children suffered from epilepsy and was cured by a man. Following which the man started frequenting the house as the family trusted him. But later he started stalking the survivor and raped her on two occasions on finding her alone at home. He also threatened the minor against informing her parents about it. The case came to light when she was found pregnant, and a case was subsequently filed with the police, leading to the arrest of the accused. The father then approached the court seeking termination of the pregnancy. Government pleader informed the court that the DLSA was ready to disburse an interim amount of ₹30,000 to the survivor. After being informed about the potential threat to the family and their apprehension of being harmed if they come to collect the compensation, the court said, “We direct that the survivor and her parents inform the Secretary of Mumbai District Legal Services Authority about the date of their visit and on such date, they should be provided adequate security by the jurisdictional police station, so that interim compensation is disbursed to the victim.” The court also directed for the appointment of a para-legal volunteer to assist the minor and her family and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-police-protection-to-rape-survivor-for-collecting-compensation-101625421423844.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Picnic turns tragic: 2 drown in Vasai||Two people, including a 13-year-old boy, drowned in the Arabian Sea near Vasai on Sunday afternoon. The duo — Ajit Mahipal Vishwakarma, 13, and his relative Ranjit Shivkumar Vishwakarma, 20, both residents of Nallasopara (East) — had come down to Suruchibaug beach in Vasai with three family members for a picnic and entered the waters during high tide around 1.45pm. Strong currents and big waves swept them away. “They did not know swimming,” said an officer from Vasai police station. The family then contacted the police. “We informed the Vasai fire brigade and after four hours of search, we found the bodies. We have sent the same for post mortem to Petit civic hospital and reports are awaited,” the officer added. Police have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating further. The two also violated Covid-19 norms as the Palghar collector has banned people from crowding beaches, waterfall and other areas in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/picnic-turns-tragic-2-drown-in-vasai-101625421364580.html
04-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Cis-Hindon localities account for more deaths during second wave||Ghaziabad: In the second wave of Covid-19, the top five residential segments with the highest death rate were located in the Cis-Hindon area, an analysis by the Ghaziabad health department has found. As per the analysis, the case fatality rate (CFR) was below 1% in all the residential segments across the district during the first wave, but it ranged from 1.44% to 2.66% in top five segments during the second wave. The health department compiled the figures for the first wave from March 1 last year to March 31 of this year, while it took into account the death figures for the second wave from April 1 to May 31 this year.The Ghaziabad city has two major areas separated by the Hindon river, namely Trans-Hindon on the west and Cis-Hindon on the east. The Cis-Hindon area includes localities such as Raj Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Gandhi Nagar and Shastri Nagar, while localities such as Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara come under the Tran-Hindon area. For instance, during the second wave of the pandemic, the Raj Nagar segment reported 1,956 Covid cases and 52 deaths, with a CFR of 2.66 which was the highest death rate in Ghaziabad. The other four segments with high fatality rate were also from the Cis-Hindon area. These include Nehru Nagar/Gandhi Nagar segment with 1.81% CFR; Ghookhna with 1.61%; Vijay Nagar with 1.57% and Carte (Shastri Nagar, Govindpuram and others) with 1.44%. “The death rate analysis of the first and second waves indicates that it was high in Cis-Hindon segments as compared to Trans-Hindon segments of Sahibabad, Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara which were high caseload areas. It could be due to better availability of private hospitals in the trans-Hindon area,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “We are also waiting for the sero survey report. It will help determine the segments where more sero conversion took place after the first wave. We are trying further to make micro-analysis of the available trends with us to know the exact reasons behind the trends of death rate in different segments,” Dr Gupta added. As per the figures, Indirapuram having 2,718 Covid cases reported 32 deaths at 1.18% during the second wave while Vaishali with 1,909 cases reported 18 deaths (0.94%). Similarly, Vasundhara reported 15 deaths out of 1,483 positive cases (1% CFR). Experts are of view that early detection was the key in minimising deaths in the Trans-Hindon area. “It could be a factor that trans-Hindon localities have a number of private health care facilities, and the testing facilities were also easily available to residents. So, the treatment in such areas started early which led to reduced number of deaths. Besides, trans-Hindon is close to Delhi and Noida, so it is also possible that patients might have taken treatment in these cities as well,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). According to the state health bulletin of July 4, the Ghaziabad district has 55,553 total cases, which include 461 deaths and 25 active cases. As per the analysis, the first wave of the pandemic resulted in 102 fatalities while 359 deaths took place during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-cis-hindon-localities-account-for-more-deaths-during-second-wave-101625421363908.html
04-07-2021||Other||Editorial piece by BJD MP triggers another political storm in Odisha||Three days after Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLA Soumya Ranjan Patnaik started a political firestorm by accusing his government of underreporting Covid-19 deaths in his editorial piece, BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab today added fuel to the fire by making a veiled attack on the way the party is being run.Though he did not name BJD in the editorial piece carried in his Odia daily Prajatantra, the reference to BJD was clear in his edit piece titled “Is difference of opinion tantamount to opposing the leader”.“Is dissenting in the party being construed as opposing leader? An elected representative may be an MLA or MP, they are forced to give an opinion on any issues as per the direction of the party high command. An intellectual discussion cannot be held inside the House even if a member wants to discuss freely. They are forced to present some points in the House, keeping in mind the party’s interest only,” he wrote.“If that party is in government, it is only a matter of time before some of the Pandit officers decide on the government’s policy. Most of the political parties are running in the same way as a company, with some of the loyal managers of the company owner and clerks running the organization. It is useless to expect democratic behaviour from a political party in which discussion or debate has stopped,” he further wrote.Mahtab did not respond to repeated calls and messages for clarification on whether his opinion piece was directed at the way the BJD was being run, however, political analysts said there is little doubt about that.“It’s no secret that many senior leaders, including Mahtab, have little say over the way the BJD is being run. But it has been happening for the last several years. One has to see why is he voicing his dissent after Soumya Patnaik wrote his dissenting editorial on Covid deaths in the state,” said Rabi Das, a political analyst.On Thursday, BJD’s Patnaik who edits leading Odia daily ‘Sambad’, had written a front-page signed editorial accusing the state government of under-reporting deaths due to Covid-19 and demanded the government issues a white paper on Covid-19 deaths.“The data of Covid deaths was manipulated due to a desperate race to be on the top and an attempt to cling onto past glory. In the present scenario, what the left hand is doing is not known to the right hand of the administration. Whether chief minister Naveen Patnaik is aware of it or not, we do not know for sure,” said Patnaik, arguing that a white paper on the deaths was a necessity. “People of the state will love him (Naveen Patnaik) more if he displays courage by releasing the white paper”.None of the BJD spokespersons was willing to speak about Mahtab’s editorial. BJD leader and transport minister Padmanav Behera said it would not be appropriate for him to make any comment on the matter.However, Congress leader and MLA Suresh Routray said the editorials by Patnaik and Mahtab shows that not everything was fine in the BJD. “There are so many BJD MLAs and MPs who are displeased over the party’s affairs. Naveen Babu is perhaps unaware of all these happenings. If this trend continues, the BJD would collapse in near future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/editorial-piece-by-bjd-mp-triggers-another-political-storm-in-odisha-101625421064348.html
04-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 deaths at 900: Men aged 61-80 worst affected||With the Covid-19 death toll reaching the 900 mark earlier this week, patients aged 61-80 years accounted for almost half the total deaths in the district since the start of the pandemic, according to the data available with the district health department till June 2. Further, men in this age group accounted for almost 32.8% of the 906 deaths reported till June 2.Of the 906 Covid-19 deaths till July 2, about 619 were men and 287 were women, according to the data.On Sunday, two more deaths were confirmed, which took the death toll to 910, of which 66.1% (599) had co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension and other diseases, while 311 had no co-morbidities.The health department lacked specific data on deaths reported during the second Covid-19 wave, especially in April and May, although it did show that most of the deaths were reported in these two months. As per the data, almost 541 deaths were confirmed between April 1, when the death toll was 365, and July 2.“The death toll may have increased this time, but the fatality rate among different age groups has been similar to 2020, highlighting that people in all age groups were equally impacted by the pandemic,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19.According to the health department data, over 28% of the 906 people who succumbed due to the coronavirus infection in the last 15 months of the pandemic outbreak were aged between 41 and 60 years, while only 10% of the total deaths were of patients aged between 21 and 40 years. There were no deaths reported among patients under 21 years of age.As per the data, in April and May, at the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19, as many as 116,933 new Covid-19 cases were confirmed. Of these cases, about 29,364 people were aged between 41 and 60 years, while 8,575 were in the 61-70 year age bracket and 4,270 in the 71 to 80 year age bracket.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “The district and state-level data clearly show that mortality rate has been almost similar during the first and the second Covid-19. Due to the explosion of coronavirus variant in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), the number of deaths might have increased, but those above 40 years continued to remain most affected.”According to the data, 180,713 people have been detected positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district so far, with people of all age groups being affected. On Sunday, the district reported eight new cases of coronavirus infection, which took the active case count to 107. Of the active cases, at least 11 people are critically ill and undergoing treatment at private hospitals, while 96 are under home isolation. Cases decrease in JuneAccording to the district health department data, there has been a steady decline in active cases, and subsequently, deaths, from June 15. In the first week of June, as many as 397 new cases were detected and 25 Covid-19 deaths were reported, while in the second week, 172 new cases were confirmed and 21 Covid-19 deaths were reported. As many as 1,200 and 486 patients recovered in the first and second weeks of the month, respectively.However, the number of deaths continued to decline thereafter, with a steady fall in the case positivity rate.As per the data, 78 cases and 13 deaths were reported from June 15 to 21, with the case positivity rate falling to 0.29% from 1.1% and 0.6% recorded in the first and second weeks, respectively, of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-deaths-at-900-men-aged-61-80-worst-affected-101625421005003.html
04-07-2021||Gurugram||Crime teams train lens on robbers targeting senior citizens||After more than 10 cases of robberies in which senior citizens were targeted over the last two months, the police formed four crime teams to identify the gangs, following requests from senior citizens.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that senior citizens living alone are soft targets and it is unlikely they would resist a robbery attempt. “We have formed four crime teams who are scanning CCTV footage of the areas from where cases were reported. We have found some leads and teams will question a few motorbike mechanics in this regard,” he said.Despite several steps taken by the police to curb crimes against senior citizens, at least one incident of robbery is reported in a month. The police also prepared sketches based on the robbery victims’ descriptions. On June 18, two armed men allegedly, on the pretext of renting a room, robbed a 72-year-old woman of cash, jewellery and other valuable items at her residence. The woman, Omwati Yadav, was held captive for over two hours. On July 1, four unidentified men held an elderly couple in Sector 10 captive for over one hour, assaulted them, and robbed them of cash and jewellery worth ₹10 lakh between 2pm and 3pm. Fraudsters are also engaging in cybercrimes by calling senior citizens on the pretext of offering Covid-19 vaccinations and asking for their personal details, posing as officials from medical institutes. The police said they are alerting senior citizens not to fall prey to such callers. “We have alerted them not to share OTP or other sensitive details,” said Rao. “We have taken several initiatives for the safety of senior citizens from time to time. Last year, we had started sending teams from the nearest police stations to meet the elderly people, and also to introduce beat officers concerned for further communications. The police (from the nearest station) also texted and called them regularly to ensure their well-being,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/crime-teams-train-lens-on-robbers-targeting-senior-citizens-101625421003754.html
04-07-2021||Gurugram||Serological survey to include more children, details yet to be finalised||The third round of a statewide serological survey, which has been postponed by the state health department, will now include over 30,000 participants across the state instead of 8,800 people, according to senior health officials. It will cover a large number of individuals aged below 18 years to study the prevalence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus among lower age groups (6-17 years). The date for the survey is yet to be finalised.“The sample size for the survey has been increased to almost 30,000, which was earlier 8,800 across the state. Children will be included in large numbers to check the presence of IgG antibodies in their blood. A state-level meeting is scheduled on Monday to finalise the age-wise coverage and final dates for the survey,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid-19.A serological survey is done to detect the body’s immune response to coronavirus infection. Blood samples collected to check IgG antibodies provide information on the proportion of the population having antibodies even if they did not have symptoms or receive a diagnosis of Covid-19. Earlier, over 3,520 children aged six to 17 years were to be covered in the third round of the serological survey scheduled on June 15 and 16. Across the state, a total of 8,800 participants were to be tested for antibodies, of which, 5280 were to be adults, 2,640 children of 10-17 years and 880 children of six to nine years. Meanwhile, as part of a nationwide serological survey that covered 4,509 participants across the country, Faridabad’s Translational Health Sciences and Technology Institute covered 1,059 people in Ballabhgargh. This included 189 individuals younger than 18 years and 870 aged above 18 years.The survey, which was released in June, showed that 61.4% of children younger than 18 years and 58.8% above 18 years had antibodies to fight the infection. Officials said that as per the results of the survey, children and adults will be equally impacted.“The infectivity data of the first and the second wave shows that infection has been prevalent across all age groups. Even the nationwide serosurvey predicts a similar result. The state-level survey will give us further evidence,” said Dr Chaudhary.To prepare for a possible third wave, the district health department has set up a 20-bed paediatric unit at Polyclinic in Sector 31, private hospitals have been directed to strengthen their paediatric intensive care units and neonatal care units, and almost 100 beds have been reserved for children at a makeshift Covid care facility in Sector 67. Hospitals have been given till July 10 to submit details on the beds and medical facilities in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/serological-survey-to-include-more-children-details-yet-to-be-finalised-101625420944445.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body preps to give vaccination at doorstep for the ill||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to citizens to submit data of their family members who are bedridden due to health complications for at least six months and require Covid-19 vaccination at their doorstep. According to BMC officials, they will just collect data for door-to-door vaccination for now, and that administration of it will start after a go-ahead from the state government.The Maharashtra government had informed the Bombay high court (HC) last week it would soon commence home administration of vaccines for citizens, who are immobile or bedridden, on an experimental basis, starting from Pune district. Hence, the BMC is preparing itself for the same in the coming days.According to BMC officials, they currently do not have exact data on how many such beneficiaries will have to be given vaccine at their homes. They do have data from the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ drive, wherein they had conducted door-to-door screening. However, health conditions do change from time to time and hence they would want citizens to submit their data, officials said. Citizens can submit the names of such family members to their local health officer in the respective ward offices. The civic body may make available an email address for the same in the coming days. The BMC officials added that there are several challenges involved in door-to-door vaccination and it will require specific guidelines from the state health department. For example, one vial has 10 doses and after vaccinating three people at their doorstep, they need guidelines as to what has to be done with the pending seven doses. Further, BMC officials said there also needs to be guidelines on what has to be done in case of adverse effects post immunisation. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “Currently, we are just collecting data for door-to-door vaccination. We will start it only after a go-ahead from the state government.”The BMC aims to vaccinate three million citizens in July. According to BMC officials, around 550,000 citizens in the 45+ age group took their first dose in April 2021 from civic centres, and assuming all these will turn back to civic centres for their second dose, the BMC will require a considerable amount of doses.A BMC official said, “Apart from maintaining a stockpile of 550,000 vaccine doses, we also need to administer vaccines to the 18 to 44 age group and for those taking the first dose in the 45+ age group. Hence, we will require maximum vaccine doses in July, compared to the past six months.”The BMC received a stock of 688,470 vaccine doses, up from the 523,440 in May. Further, it got 947,950 doses (the highest) in April, 810,950 doses in March, 571,000 in February and 265,000 in January.Kakani added, “In our meetings and communication with the state government and central government, we have been asking for maximum possible doses, considering we have adopted an aggressive vaccination drive. Going by this, we would like to administer 100,000 doses daily.”Meanwhile, the BMC has 285 vaccination centres, where it has vaccinated a record 80,000+ beneficiaries in a single day. Overall, the civic vaccination centres have administered 2,966,432 vaccine doses out of the total 5,654,345 administered cumulatively in the state and private vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-preps-to-give-vaccination-at-doorstep-for-the-ill-101625420223679.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid during pregnancy: In rare cases, infants face complications||Several recovered Covid-19 pregnant women in the city have given birth to children with in-built antibodies against the virus, while in some rare cases, doctors have observed that such newborn babies are developing complications including multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). However, paediatricians associated with paediatric Covid-task force believe that the presence of seroprevalence is not the reason, rather it is believed that antibodies protect against the virus. Amrita Sundareswaran contracted Covid-19 during her first six weeks of pregnancy along with four of her family members. The 36-year-old recovered completely from the infection without any post-Covid complications. She delivered her first child at Nanavati Max Superspeciality Hospital on April 26. But soon, the child developed a breathing problem that worsened within 24 hours and the newborn was put under a ventilator for artificial breathing support. Her treating doctors however had no answer for the sudden development of pulmonary hypertension in the infant. Dr Tejal Shetty, consultant paediatrician and neonatalogist at the hospital who was one of her treating doctors said that Amrita underwent an emergency caesarean section at night on April 26. Within half an hour of delivery, the newborn started developing breathing problems. Considering, 50-60% of newborns after a caesarean section has such complications, he was put under oxygen. But the next day, his breathing declined further and he was immediately put on Continuous positive airway pressure therapy (CPAP) support. On the same day, out of curiosity, the doctors performed an antibody test on the infant and to their surprise, they found seroprevalence in his blood. “We did a 2D ECHO test that showed the infant had developed pulmonary hypertension and the pulmonary pressure was high (66mm Hg). He was immediately kept under a ventilator as he wasn’t maintaining his oxygen on his own. After six days, we again did a 2D ECHO which showed that the pulmonary pressure had come down to 35mm Hg. The child was on a ventilator for 21 days,” she said. “It wasn’t proportionate medically and we didn’t have the answer why it was happening. Considering the medical history of the mother with Covid-19 infection, we did the antibody test,” she added. The infant was finally discharged after 33 days on May 30. He is still on medication for the pulmonary pressure but is stable. “The child might have got exposed to the virus in the first trimester of the pregnancy when organogenesis (mass of cells turn into complete organs in the developing embryo) takes place. So, there is a possibility that during the formation, the premature lungs got exposed. This virus is just 17 months old so, maybe two years down the lane, we would have a better answer,” Dr Suruchi Desai, senior consultant, obstetrics and gynaecology who treated Amrita. “But we have observed that when mothers who are exposed to the virus at any point of the pregnancy, babies develop some complications including minor ones,” she added. ‘MIS-C cases among new born babies’This is not the only case where such ‘unexplained’ complications have been observed among babies with inbuilt antibodies after birth. Dr Samir Sheikh, consultant neonatologist from Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road was involved in the birth of two babies who developed complications after delivery which pointed towards a multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). Conventionally, children after 4-6 weeks of recovering from Covid-19 develop this condition where different body parts can become inflamed, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs. As per doctors, though it can be deadly, most children get better with timely medical care. “It is proven that the antibodies produced in the Covid-19 recovered mothers can be transmitted to the newborn babies. But in some cases, we have seen that it doesn’t work as a protective shield. Rather, it is detrimental for the newborn babies which leads to the development of health complications,” he said. Dr Biraj Thakkar, a neonatologist at Akanksha Hospital and Research Institute (AHRI) in Anand who had witnessed similar cases, stating same said while Covid-19 antibodies protect adults from the virus, they can impair the immune system in newborns. However, Dr Bakul Parekh, past president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and part of the paediatric Covid task force has refuted the claims stating that such presence of antibodies in newborn babies has no role on their health. “Newborns with inbuilt antibodies developing complications after birth happens in the rarest of rare cases. Also, it can’t be attributed to the antibodies present in their bodies. Antibodies help to fight against the pathogens, so, it is assumed that it helps in building the immunity,” he said. Though some medical experts indicate a possibility of vertical transmission where the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, transfers from the infected mother to the foetus in the womb. However, due to a lack of scientific data, doctors aren’t certain if the newborn babies are getting infected and developing the antibodies by themselves. “Several studies are going on but it would take time to get the answer. It took years to know that HIV can be transmitted from mother to the foetus in the womb and through breastfeeding,” said Dr Desai. Now, the hospital has started testing newborn babies with ‘unexplained’ health complications post-delivery if the mother had a history of infection. Also, placentas are being tested to find any abnormalities. In some hospitals like the Wadia Hospital and the government-run JJ hospital, newborn babies after 7-8 days of delivery are being diagnosed with MIS-C. Dr Bela Verma, head of the paediatric department of the hospital and former president of Mumbai Association of Paediatrics said there are two possible ways that the newborn is contracting the infection— through horizontal transmission (post-delivery) or vertical transmission (pre-delivery). “Though there hasn’t been any official confirmation on vertical transmission, development of MIS-C indicates the possibility of infection in the uterus. We have got 2-3 such cases where babies have developed MIS-C within a week of delivery,” she said. A study—‘Single-Cell RNA-seq Identifies Cell Subsets in Human Placenta That highly Expresses Factors Driving Pathogenesis of SARS-COV-2’, published jointly conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH) at Parel and Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc), revealed that Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can infect the placenta in pregnant women. However, it was not established if a pregnant woman can pass on the infection to her child. “We need more studies to establish and scientifically prove that the fetus can get infected from the virus through the placenta or any other way in the womb,” added Dr Verma. To understand the epidemiological characteristic of the virus that is continuously mutating, researchers require data in bulk. The phenomenon of infants with Covid-19 antibodies was yet to be studied. HT found out that several civic-run hospitals that receive the most number of pregnant mothers with Covid-19 haven’t started conducting antibody tests among newborns. Dr Sushma Malik, head of paediatric department, BYL Nair hospital where over 1,000 deliveries of Covid-19 infected mothers have been done said, “We haven’t done antibody tests on newborn babies yet.” Similarly, Dr Arun Nayak, head of department, gynaecology from Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, known as Sion Hospital said, “We are contemplating to test babies with mothers who have been immunised to check if the antibodies are passing on the newborn. But, so far, we haven’t tested the newborn of infected mothers.” Case study: ‘Vivaan—full of life’ Amrita Sundareswaran, 36, gave birth to her first child on April 26. But before she could even hold her baby, he was put under a ventilator. For 33 days, the infant fought for his life in the hospital before going home on May 30. For his parents, Vivaan – it means ‘full of life’ – is a warrior. Last September, while the city was under the first wave of the pandemic, Amrita got the happiest news that she was pregnant. But her happiness didn’t last long. Only six weeks into her pregnancy, the Chembur resident along with her family members contracted Covid-19. She lost her father-in-law to the infection. “Those were the scariest days. I was so worried about my child. What calmed me down was being told that the virus doesn’t pass on to the foetus and the infection rate among children was less in the first wave,” she said. Amrita recovered without any complications and delivered Vivaan on April 26. But within 30 minutes, her nightmare came true when her baby was kept on oxygen support and later shifted to ICU. Amrita was unaware that the antibodies developed in her body in reaction to Sars-Cov-2 could be transmitted to her son. “We were shocked when doctors told us that he has antibodies of the virus. We had already gone through a lot, and this broke us. We didn’t even know exactly why antibodies that saved us would harm my son,” she said. For almost three weeks, she saw Vivaan through a glass door. “I couldn’t hold my baby. I would pump my breast milk thrice a day at home, and travel back to the hospital,” recalled Amrita. “Vivaan is completely healthy now. My son is a fighter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-during-pregnancy-in-rare-cases-infants-face-complications-101625420163724.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body acts against hotel for holding exhibition, violating lockdown norms||An exhibition organised at a renowned hotel in Juhu was stopped by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday afternoon after several complaints by the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA).The association said that while on weekends non-essential shops are not permitted to stay open, such exhibitions in star hotels violated the Covid lockdown rules. BMC said that the same was stopped as they were operating without permission.According to FRTWA, an exhibition named Indian Wedding Expo was organised on Sunday at a five-star hotel in Juhu between 10am and 8pm. FRTWA also tweeted about the same to BMC.To this, BMC in a tweet said, “The location is inspected by our team and stopped immediately. Further action is being initiated against the organisers and hotel management.”Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s K-West ward confirmed the action.Viren Shah, president of FRTWA, said, “This is a gross violation of the Break the Chain order of the Maharashtra government. Maharashtra falls under level 3 restrictions wherein non-essential shops are permitted to stay open only till 4pm on weekdays.”Meanwhile, repeated attempts to get a comment from the hotel didn’t elicit any response. An email query by Hindustan Times did not yield any response either..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-acts-against-hotel-for-holding-exhibition-violating-lockdown-norms-101625419983678.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: MD of company that owned tugboat applies for bail||Rajesh Shahi, the managing director of Glory Ship management private limited, which owns the Varaprada tug boat, which capsized during Cyclone Tauktae and resulted in the death of 11 crew members, of 13 onboard, has applied for anticipatory bail in the sessions court. The police officers said that they have got a notification about anticipatory bail applied by Shahi from the court and will be opposing his bail in the court.The Yellow Gate police had registered a case against Shahi and his company Glory Ship Management on June 24 under the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and common intention, based on the statement given by the complainant, Francis K Simon, a second engineer of the Varaprada tug boat, which sank on May 17. Of the 13 onboard, 11 died, while two, including Simon, were rescued by the Indian Navy.“We have recorded the statement of Shahi and five employees of the Glory Ship Management earlier and further investigation is on,” said an officer.During the investigation, a team went to Kerala and recorded the statement of Simon who alleged that the company did not carry out the required maintenance and repair works, and their irresponsible act resulted in a tragic incident in which 11 people died. Simon, who was the second engineer of the boat and one of its only two survivors, also alleged that the boat was not seaworthy and the owner was well aware of the boat’s defective conditions, said a police officer.According to the police, on the instructions from Afcons Infrastructure Limited on May 14, Varaprada started tugging barge Gal Constructor back to safety from near an oil rig in the south field of Bombay High, around 90 nautical miles from the Mumbai shore.Due to the cyclone, both started drifting on May 17 while they were on the way to the coast in the wee hours and in the afternoon Varaprada sank, leading to the death of 11 crew on board including the captain and two including Simon jumped before it sank and they were later rescued by Navy. The Gal Constructor was carrying 137 people on board drifted over 100 kilometres and ran aground at Palghar. All crew members were rescued by the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. The police have been conducting an investigation and will soon arrest the people responsible for the incident, added the officer.In another case, the Yellow Gate police on Friday night arrested three persons -Prasad Ganpat Rane, Nitin Dinanath Singh and Akhilesh Tiwari who are key management members of Papaa Shipping Company Pvt Ltd, Vile Parle, in connection with accommodation barge Papaa305 (P305) that had capsized in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae on May 17, resulting in the loss of 75 lives.During interrogation in their statement, the three revealed that officials of the companies that had hired the barge were responsible for the sinking as they did not send in a tug boat in time to take the barge (P305) and bring it near Mumbai coast, said police officer part of the investigating team. But Rane, Singh and Tiwari were well aware of the serious warning issued by the authority concerned in the connection with Cyclone Tauktae. They were appointed to get daily progress reports of the employees, said senior inspector Suhas Hemade of the Yellow Gate police station.The trio neither called back their employees as well as other agencies like the Indian Navy and ICG to take the barge to a safe place. There are other responsible people of the company and a detailed investigation is going on to fix responsibility, said Hemade.Initially, a first information report (FIR) in the matter was registered on May 21 against the master of the barge Rakesh Ballav and some others based on the statement of Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of the maintenance crew of the vessel. Shaikh had accused Ballav and others of overlooking the weather alerts and for failing to take appropriate care despite knowing that the lapse could result in the loss of lives.Rane, Singh and Tiwari have been arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, endangering life or personal safety of others and common intention and the trio are in police custody till July 8. Rane is the manager of Papaa Shipping, while Singh and Tiwari are the director and technical superintendent, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-md-of-company-that-owned-tugboat-applies-for-bail-101625419923621.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel price hike: Petrol now at ₹105.58 per litre, diesel ₹96.91||Fuel prices surged in the city again on Sunday. One litre of petrol was priced at ₹105.58, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹96.91 in the city.As diesel inches closer to ₹97 in the city, an increase of 34 paise and 19 paise were witnessed on petrol and diesel respectively.Fuel prices remained constant in the city on Saturday after petrol crossed ₹105 per litre on Friday. One litre of petrol was available at ₹105.24, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹96.72 on Saturday.In neighbouring Thane, diesel crossed ₹97 on Sunday and was available for ₹97.03 per litre. One litre of petrol was priced at ₹105.70.Petrol price crossed ₹100 per litre mark in Mumbai on May 29. Fuel prices in the city have been on an increase since May 3.Diesel is priced the highest in Maharashtra with one litre at ₹98.37 in Amravati and one litre of petrol is priced highest in Parbhani at ₹107.89 on Saturday.In other metro cities in India, petrol was priced highest in Mumbai while diesel was highest in Hyderabad on Sunday. A litre of diesel was priced at ₹97.40 in Hyderabad on Sunday.In the national capital Delhi, a litre of petrol inched closer to the ₹100 mark. One litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.51 in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fuel-price-hike-petrol-now-at-105-58-per-litre-diesel-9691-101625419683629.html
04-07-2021||Jaipur||‘Society can’t decide how individuals live...’: Rajasthan HC grants protection to live-in couple||The Rajasthan High Court has ruled that society cannot dictate terms on couples in live-in relationships by terming such a relation as unsocial. The court was dealing with a protection plea filed by a couple.The court observed that society cannot determine how individuals live their lives, even when such a relationship may be termed as unsocial.The bench of Justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal observed, “The girl being a major is entitled to reside with the person of her choice.”The court was told that the society where the couple was residing was threatening them as it was not happy with their relationship. In view of this, the couple sought police protection.The court was also told that since an FIR was registered against the man, police protection cannot be extended to the couple.Hearing this, the Court observed, “...the society cannot determine how individuals live their lives, especially when they are major, irrespective of the fact that the relation between two major individuals may be termed as unsocial. Thus, life and personal liberty of the individuals has to be protected except according to procedure established by law, as mandated by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”It added, “Further, as per Section 29 of Rajasthan Police Act, 2007 every police officer is duty-bound to protect the life and liberty of the citizen.”The Court disposed of the petition saying that a copy of the petition should be sent to the SHO of the concerned police station who shall take necessary preventive measures to ensure the safety and security of the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/society-can-t-decide-how-individuals-live-rajasthan-hc-grants-protection-to-live-in-couple-101625419445618.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh says BJP should send Yogi Adityanath to Uttarakhand to resolve issues||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying that it should consider sending Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to Uttarakhand hours after Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in as the new chief minister of the state.Akhilesh said that this solution will help Uttarakhand get rid of the ‘daily problem of leadership change’ while democracy in Uttar Pradesh would be relieved of its ‘injuries caused due to Yogi Adityanath’.“In Uttar Pradesh, democracy has been ‘injured’ because of the chief minister (Yogi Adityanath), and in Uttarakhand, democracy has become a ‘victim of instability’. In this situation, it will be better if the BJP transfers the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to Uttarakhand, so that the hill state gets free from the daily problem of change of leadership,” Akhilesh was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.In Uttarakhand, a change in leadership happened as BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Rawat replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. Pushkar Singh Dhami will now lead the state. He was elected as the leader of the BJP legislature party on Saturday.Akhilesh criticised the BJP-led government in both states saying that both suffered from law and order problems. He said that women feel insecure in both states and political manipulation has affected investments in both the states. “Unemployment, inflation and corruption is on the rise since the BJP came to power in these states,” Yadav further added.Yadav said that healthcare in both states have deteriorated under the regime of the BJP. The SP chief added that women find it difficult to live with honour and injustice is being meted out to farmers in both states.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-says-bjp-should-send-yogi-adityanath-to-uttarakhand-to-resolve-issues-101625418776997.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Chirag’s ‘Ashirvad Yatra’ to start from July 5; LJP leader plans another political trek from October||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan will, on July 5, begin his Ashirvad Yatra from Hajipur, the Lok Sabha constituency his father late Ram Vikas Paswan nurtured and represented eight times since 1977.The constituency is currently represented by his (Chirag’s) uncle and leader of the rebel LJP faction Pashupati Kumar Paras.The move is significant as this is the first time since the split in the LJP that Chirag, who is fighting a legal battle with his uncle for his claim over the party, will visit the state to test political waters in the face of a hostile atmosphere and without the presence of his father, on the late leader Ram Vilas Paswan’s birth anniversary Monday.Politics in Bihar has already been on the boil ever since RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that the Nitish government could fall in 2-3 months and growing murmuring from within the NDA.Chirag said, “We have a small programme to observe the birth anniversary in Delhi and after that, I will fly to Patna and go directly to Hajipur from the airport. This Ashirvad Yatra is to seek the blessings of the people. In Hajipur, everyone knows how passionate my father was about Hajipur’s people. I will seek their blessings to kick start the yatra. I will be at my father’s karmbhoomi to embark on a new mission to do whatever I could for my state. I had presented my vision for Bihar even during assembly elections and got good responses despite not getting seats, and I will continue doing so.”The first leg of Ashirvad Yatra will cover 12-13 districts. It will be the beginning of a new politics by Chirag, often accused of operating from Delhi and not spending much time in the state. “After the first phase, there will be a second phase and in the next one and half months, I will cover the entire state and it will culminate as a National Council Meeting in Patna,” he said.From October 8, Chirag said he would undertake another Yatra on foot to crisscross the state to connect directly with the masses and see the ground reality. “Now I will spend more time in Bihar and strive to fulfil the dreams of my father. I have chosen the difficult path for myself, as I have some objectives in mind that certainly do not include the yearning for the chair. I will stick to my plans,” he added.Party leaders said Chirag’s political move was aimed at finding a bigger political space for the LJP in a state where politics has been dominated by the RJD, the BJP and the JD-U and despite late Ram Vilas Paswan’s political stature, his party had to remain content with the fourth player and a vote splitter.During the assembly election, the LJP remained an enigma all through due to its posturing, which seemed to be clearly targeted at Nitish Kumar, which no other leader did in the past.“How he goes about his Yatra will be interesting to watch. He has shown that he can carry himself well in politics, though he does not have the experience and the protective cover of his father anymore. Whatever happened in the LJP after Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise may have given a lifetime lesson to Chirag, which could galvanise him to throw his hat in the largely vacant Dalit politics with greater maturity and energy. The legacy of his father will remain with him and it is for him to take it forward. Sometimes, jolts are good in politics,” said former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies DM Diwakar.Diwakar said that Chirag’s father was acceptable to all parties. “He could get along with all, nobody was ever unhappy with him. Now Chirag will have to show political maturity like his father,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirags-ashirvad-yatra-to-start-from-july-5-ljp-leader-plans-another-political-trek-from-october-101625418063600.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Floods take toll on train movement in Bihar||After inundating a vast stretch of plains in north Bihar, swollen rivers have begun to take a toll on movement of trains in north Bihar. On Sunday, the East Central Railways (ECR) suspended operation of trains on Muzaffarpur-Samastipur section after a gushing stream originating from Burhi Gandak touched the girder of a railway bridge between Sugauli and Majhaulia stations, officials said.ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said operation of trains on Muzaffarpur-Paniyahawa section was snapped owing to safety reasons. “The ECR has cancelled running of Narkatiaganj-Muzaffarpur special train due to floods and diverted route of seven trains to avoid flooded zones. Three express trains are being short terminated,” he said.While water level of all major rivers originating from Himalayan regions in Nepal kept on rising throughout their course, small rivers such as Parmar and Nona are wreaking havoc in Araria districts. A teenage boy was reportedly drowned in a stream of Kamala river near Rajaur village under Madhepur police station area of Madhubani, as per reports on Sunday.According to water resources department (WRD), rivers Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kamla, Kosi, Mahananda, Adhwara, Kamla, Khiroi, Parmar were flowing above the danger level (DL) at different places in their courses. “All embankments on major rivers are safe, even as swirling water in the rivers have kept officials on their toes to avert any mishap with support from local volunteers,” said WRD minister Sanjay Jha.Flood threat became more pronounced in Muzaffarpur on Sunday, as Bagmati was flowing around 2.40cm above the DL at Runni Saidpur. The river was flowing on the DL at Benibad in Muzaffarpur and Dheng in Sitamarhi. The Gandak, which had already topped the DL at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj by 1.25m, has jumped the red mark at Rewaghat in Muzaffapur.According to reports, water gushed out of Nona river and has engulfed dozens of villages under Sikti block of Araria, leaving hundreds of families marooned. The flood-hit people have been waiting for relief measures, as there was sever scarcity potable water and essential eatables.Heavy rains in catchment areas of Gandak, Burhi Gandak and Bagmati are likely to complicate miseries of people. Incessant rains have already damaged major interdistrict roads in North Bihar areas, which led to disruption of vehicular movement. Officials said they were facing difficulties in rushing relief material due to disruption in vehicular movement.The disaster management department (DMD), however, is yet to issue any press statement to officially declare the impact of floods in the state and relief being provided to the affected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/floods-take-toll-on-train-movement-in-bihar-101625417164096.html
04-07-2021||Other||Man shot dead in Ara||A contractor was allegedly shot dead on Sunday morning when he had gone for a walk near Sapna cinema crossing situated under Ara town police station. The victim has been identified as 35-year-old Raju Yadav. He sustained multiple injuries on his arm. Following the incident, family members rushed him to a private clinic at Babu Bazar, but he died on the way.According to a family member, the incident took place at Sapna cinema crossing, where three bike-borne miscreants with their faces covered shot at Raju from a close range. The body was sent to Ara Sadar hospital for autopsy. SHO of Ara town police station Shambhu Kumar Bhagat said that the victim was engaged in several businesses. He was a contractor, a property dealer and was engaged in other businesses too, like fisheries. “It seems that he was killed over some dispute in business,” SHO said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-in-ara-101625417163350.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Will meet Bihar CM and seek justice, says social welfare minister Sahni||Lying low for the past few days after threatening to resign from the cabinet, social welfare minister Madan Sahni on Sunday said he would meet chief minister Nitish Kumar soon to seek justice regarding the issues raised by him earlier.Sahni, who was in New Delhi on Saturday, said he was there for some urgent work and rubbished the speculations of meeting ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad. “I did not meet Lalu Ji, neither I am in touch with him. This is all rubbish,” he said while talking to reporters in the national capital.The minister, who is hogging the limelight after threatening to resign alleging high handedness of officials in his department a few days back, said he was still firm on his decision to tender his papers but would first meet the chief minister to apprise him of the situation. “I have offered to resign because I am miffed with the work culture in the bureaucracy. I will explain everything to the CM and leave it to him to address the issue. I expect the CM to say who is wrong. If I do not get justice, I will make a decision,” the minister said. The minister, who belongs to the JD(U), said his recent outbursts were aimed at highlighting how bureaucrats were calling the shots and not paying much heed to ministers.However, Sahni sounded a bit softened in terms of his relationship with the chief minister, indicating there could be some back-channel talks going on by his party to mollify the CM. “Nitish Kumar is my leader. If I have reached such heights in my career, it is because of him,” he said. A few days back, Sahni had said the chief minister should probe the assets of bureaucrats close to him, which fuelled the speculations that the minister’s relationship with Kumar had strained. “I have always had faith in our chief minister. He listens to all. I am confident he would listen to me and do justice,” the minister added.Meanwhile, JD(U) national president R C P Singh underplayed the belligerent stand taken by the social welfare minister against top officers and the questions he raised on work culture in the state administration. “Our party is like a house where such acts of expression of anger by some members often happen. Sahni Ji must have aired some views out of anger,” he said.Singh also took potshots at the leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for reiterating that the present government led by the NDA would fall soon. “He keeps saying such things to console himself. Our government is stable and will complete its full term. Nobody should be in doubt about it,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/will-meet-bihar-cm-and-seek-justice-says-social-welfare-minister-sahni-101625417103469.html
04-07-2021||Patna||3 Patna teenagers drown in Ganga||Three teenage boys drowned in River Ganga while taking a bath at Kangan ghat under Chowk police station on Sunday, police said, adding that NDRF teams were pressed into service to recover the bodies.According to police, nine boys left for Kangan ghat around 11am to take a bath in the river. “Six of them jumped into the river. A woman at the ghat also asked them to not do so due to the water current,” officials said.Three of them came out, however, the rest ignored the warning. “They were engaged in taking selfies. Within a few minutes, the three boys suddenly disappeared. One of their friends jumped into the river and tried to save them, but to no avail,” police said.On getting information, sub-inspector Sudheshwar Paswan reached the spot and pressed NDRF teams into service. The search operation is underway. But, the team is yet to recover the bodies, said the sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-patna-teenagers-drown-in-ganga-101625417104054.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga blast: NIA takes third accused to New Delhi for investigation||National investigation agency (NIA) on Sunday took Mohammad Kafeel, an accused in the Darbhanga blast case, to New Delhi for further investigation. The other two accused, Nasir Khan and Imran Malik, were sent to New Delhi late Saturday evening.The fourth accused, Haji Salim was sent to judicial custody at Beur jail after producing him before the NIA Court. He was earlier admitted to the IGIMS after he complained of prostate problems. Now he is getting treatment at the Beur jail hospital. All four accused said to be associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).NIA PP Chaya Mishra said, “A case has been lodged with NIA based on the documentary evidence against the accused. We will take the help of ED as it is also a case of money laundering. LeT Iqbal Kana from Pakistan is allegedly providing funds against the country. We also came to know that the accused had visited Pakistan for bomb-making training,” she added.The blast took place on June 17 at Darbhanga railway station. However, no one was injured in the incident. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-blast-nia-takes-third-accused-to-new-delhi-for-investigation-101625417043431.html
04-07-2021||Patna||In Patna, plastic exchange kiosks to give decorative items in return||In an initiative to make the city plastic free, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday set up plastic exchange kiosks across the state capital for bartering plastic wastes with decorative items.The civic body has set up makeshift stalls in all six circles of the city--Kankarbagh, Bankipore, Patliputra, Azimabad, New Capital, and Patna City -- to exchange handmade carry bags, cushion covers, doormats and other decorative items with plastic wastes which will be functional every Sunday.“We are accepting plastic bags of milk, bottles, carry bags, containers and furniture at different rates. People can select any handmade product worth the price of deposited plastics for exchange. More than 100 people visited kiosks on the first day. Total plastic collection is yet to be ascertained,” said a PMC official. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma, said, “A team has been formed under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) to make attractive and reusable bags. The initiative is also providing employment opportunities to women along with tacking plastic menace in the city. The deposited plastic materials will be recycled at a waste processing unit.” As per PMC officials, various projects have been launched under solid waste management project to check pollution level.Sharma said a waste segregation plant with a capacity of 150 tonnes per day will be set up soon at an expenditure of ₹30 crore for segregating all types of waste through manpower and machines. “At present, a five-tonne waste processing unit is operational at Gardanibagh. Besides, two more processing units of capacity of five tonnes and eight tonnes is being established by central institute of petrochemicals engineering and technology,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-patna-plastic-exchange-kiosks-to-give-decorative-items-in-return-101625416924788.html
04-07-2021||Other||40-year-old killed in Bihar||The body of an electrician working at Chunapur Air Force Station, who was allegedly shot dead on Saturday night, was recovered from Chunapur Power Grid on Sunday morning, police said. Station house officer (SHO) Krityanand Nagar police station Mithilesh Kumar said, “We have registered a case against unknown persons based on a written complaint by the victim’s son Ravi Kumar Yadav.”“The victim was posted at Chunapur Air force station as a fourth-grade staff.” SHO did not rule out the possibility of enmity behind the incident.The victim, identified as 40-year-old Surendra Yadav, was returning to his home on Saturday around 9 pm when the incident took place.“When he didn’t reach home the whole night, we started searching for him in the morning and found his body bearing a gunshot wound in his throat,” a local, identified as Babloo Yadav, said while ruling out any enmity angle behind the incident.Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Anand Kumar Pandey, “We are investigating the case from all angles and we’ll soon nab the killers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40yearold-killed-in-bihar-101625416864001.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Private facilities in Bihar clueless on vaccine availability after making advance payment||At least 10 of 76 private health facilities empanelled with the state government for Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar are yet to receive vaccines despite having made advance payment through the government channel, officials said on Sunday. Among facilities awaiting vaccine supplies are Ruban Patliputra hospital, Kurji Holy Family hospital Netaji Subhash Medical College hospital (NSMCH, Bihta), SS hospital, Mediversal hospital, Mahavir Vatsalya, Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Medipark Healthcare Pvt Ltd, KP Sinha Super Specialty hospital and Shri Murlidhar Nursing Home. Some centres like SS Hospital have placed requirement for only 10 doses of Covishield, as per government data, which is effectively one vial of the vaccine. The NSMCH-Bihta, and Medipark Healthcare have sought 50 doses only. Dr LB Singh, medical superintendent of Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, said the institution had applied for 100 doses of vaccine initially on an experimental basis. “We had initially applied for 3,000 doses earlier, but government authorities asked us to procure vaccines in small quantity. We then decided to take only 100 doses on a trial basis,” said Dr Singh. “We administered 3,529 doses of vaccine between February 1 and April 29, when the government was supplying them free of cost,” he said. Later, the government changed its policy from May 1 and again from June 21, when the Union government decided to purchase vaccines centrally and distribute them free of cost among states and Union Territories and charge private players, while acting as an aggregator. Manoj Kumar, executive director of State Health Society, Bihar, admitted that none of the 76 private institutions empanelled on CoWIN portal with the state government have received vaccines through the government channel after June 21. “The Centre Saturday sent revised guidelines on vaccine procurement wherein the minimum consignment size for state supply has been fixed at 6,000 doses of Covishield and 2,880 doses of Covaxin. For each private facility, the minimum consignment order should be 500 doses of Covishield and 160 doses of Covaxin,” said Kumar. “In light of this, we will talk to some private players that want as low as 10 to 500 doses,” he said. Kumar, however, said he received no communication, either from the Centre or vaccine manufacturers, over the delay in supply to private players. Besides, Ruban Patliputra Hospital applied for 1,250 doses, 1,000 Covishield and 250 Covaxin, and also made advance payment last week, but was in the dark about their availability status. “We have completed all formalities and paid in advance for 1,250 doses of vaccines, but do not know when we will get them,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director, Ruban. “Additionally, we are also trying to get 500 doses of Sputnik V through private channel,” he said. BIG Apollo Spectra hospital, Paras-HMRI and Jai Prabha Medanta are the only three private hospitals in Patna inoculating people after procuring the vaccine through private channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/private-facilities-in-bihar-clueless-on-vaccine-availability-after-making-advance-payment-101625416863401.html
04-07-2021||Other||Bihar: After Bankatwa, entire 18+ population of Raxaul municipal council, Piprakothi block receives first dose of vaccine||Close on the heels of completion of first dose in Bankatwa block, East Champaran’s Piprakothi block and Raxaul Municipal Council too have now inoculated the entire eligible target population above 18 years of age with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while fighting against alleged hesitance by minority groups, district administrative officials said on Sunday.In a tweet, health minister Mangal Pandey said, “Covid-19 vaccine has been given to all people above 18 years in Raxaul Municipal Council of East Champaran (Motihari) district. Raxaul Municipal Council became the first city council in the state where everyone was vaccinated.”In Piprakothi block, the first dose was given to as many as 31,591 people above 18 years of age in six panchayats spread over 20 revenue villages of Piprakothi block, which has a total population of 77,089 as per Census 2011, said officials.It took over two months for the vaccinators’ team, comprising UNICEF personnel and local health workers, to achieve the feat. The development came barely few days after Bankatwa, another block in East Champaran, became the first in the state to administer the first dose to all eligibles. East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said, “The number of migrants are relatively high in the block. We are keeping a tab on migrant workers and other non-residents, and efforts are on to ensure that they get vaccinated.” They will be administered the vaccine as and when they come, said the district magistrate. Speaking to HT over phone, Piprakothi block development officer (BDO) Manoj Kumar described the challenges they faced in convincing residents to get the vaccine. Vaccinators faced refusal in over a dozen Mahadalit and minority dominated wards across the block, he said. However, the members of minority groups now believe in the importance of vaccine. Kunti Devi, 60, a resident of Mahadalit Basti at Belajagatiya village in Piprakothi block of East Champaran said she had misconceptions about the vaccine . “Merely the mention of the jab would unnerve me. I dodged over a dozen of attempts to be inoculated,” Devi said. She, however, yielded to persuasion on June 25 after Motihari SDM and other officials reached her doorstep.Similarly, the gravest worry of one Vinod Manjhi, 38 and his wife Malti Devi, 33, residents of ward number 4 of Belatal village in Piprakothi block, was the bleak future for their five children if the vaccine rendered any harm. “With the rumours that spread, I too had disbelieved in vaccination,” said Manjhi, who took the jab during a mega camp.Lalu Manjhi, a member of Mushar Vikas (MVM), said it wasn’t easy for the organisation to convince people to take the jab. “Owing to sheer illiteracy and misconception about the vaccine, it took several meetings and awareness programmes by officials and local representatives to build up a popular opinion among Mahadalit community,” said Manjhi. The minority group have a population of about 3,000 in the block, he said. Officials also administered the vaccines to residents of other villages in a bid to boost confidence further, said Priyaranjan Raju, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Motihari (sadar). Of those vaccinated in Piprakothi, 18,726 were in the age group of 18-45 years and 12,865 above 45 years of age of the total population of 31,650. “The remaining 59 are pregnant women who will be inoculated later,” said the block development officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-after-bankatwa-entire-18-population-of-raxaul-municipal-council-piprakothi-block-receives-first-dose-of-vaccine-101625416743493.html
04-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees new Covid-19 cases touch nadir in over three months||New Covid-19 cases in Karnataka have fallen to its lowest levels in three-and-a-half months. The state on Sunday reported 1,564 fresh cases and 59 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,53,643 and toll of fatalities to 35,367, the Health Department said. "New cases in Karnataka fall to the lowest levels in three-and-a-half months," Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted while sharing details of the day's Covid bulletin. The state witnessed the beginning of the second wave of Covid during the second half of March had peaked in early May with daily cases going above 50,000. Today, 4,775 people got discharged thereby continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. The total number of recoveries so far is 27,73,407. Out of the 1,564 new cases reported today, 352 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 1,742 getting discharged and only three deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 44,846. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.02 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 3.77 per cent. Out of 59 deaths reported during the day, nine were from Mysuru (8), Ballari (7), Dharwad (5) and Davangere (4) followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 352, Mysuru 162, Dakshina Kannada 154 and Kodagu 150 followed by the rest. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 12,15,661 followed by Mysuru 1,67,786 and Tumakuru 1,15,452. Among the number discharged too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,81,974 followed by Mysuru 1,61,780 and Tumakuru 1,13,117. Cumulatively, 3,48,88,644 samples have been tested in the state so far. Out of those, 1,53,083 were tested today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-new-covid-19-cases-touch-nadir-in-over-three-months-101625416078930.html
04-07-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot blames Centre for rising inflation; says no 'concrete step' taken in last 7 years||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday blamed the Centre's policies for the rising inflation in the country and said the government has taken no concrete step in the last seven years to bring it down.It has become difficult for the common man to run his household due to the high inflation, he said.According to the labour ministry, the year-on-year retail inflation for industrial workers stood at 5.24 per cent in May as against 5.14 per cent in April and 5.10 per cent in May last year.Similarly, food inflation stood at 5.26 per cent in May as against 4.78 per cent in April and 5.88 per cent in May last year, the ministry had said.Gehlot said the central government has failed miserably in controlling inflation. It neither has the right policy nor a clear intention. Everything from petrol, diesel, cooking gas to daily-use items has become expensive.Citing the government data on inflation, he said, "It shows how fast the prices of goods have increased in the market."The chief minister said the high inflation clubbed with reduced income due to the coronavirus pandemic is making it difficult for the common man to run his household.Increasing the price of mustard oil to ₹180-190 per litre is like snatching food from the common man, he said.Gehlot claimed the Modi government has increased the price of LPG cylinders by ₹255 in the last 14 months."Gas subsidy has also been completely stopped now," he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-blames-centre-for-rising-inflation-says-no-concrete-step-taken-in-last-7-years-101625414723116.html
04-07-2021||Other||Amritsar civil hospital without specialised staff for vaccination||Amritsar The civil hospital in the historic holy city is struggling to vaccinate its targeted number of persons against Covid-19, with no specialised staff hired to conduct a task that is a national priority today. The already working staff has been asked to pitch in with vaccinations as well, which has led to the relatively slow pace of the inoculation drive. The major burden has fallen on ward nurses, who are already loaded with their routine work. “The hospital has no post for handling the work of Covid-19 vaccination. We require at least two people, working only on vaccination, to meet our daily target. On Saturday, we vaccinated 762 persons against the assigned target of 1,000,” said Rajesh Sharma, president, Employee Welfare Association, at the hospital. Another issue plaguing the vaccination drive is nurses working in the mother-child ward are also put on vaccination duty. This a grave risk for the newborns. Sharma added, “If we are given more staff, we can vaccinate almost twice the number of people we’re vaccinating now.” Before the Covid-19 virus struck, the hospital had been getting people on deputation to tide over staff strength issues. Assistant civil surgeon Amarjeet Singh said, “We’ll resolve the issue by arranging more staff and meet our daily targets. Even with such challenges, we have vaccinated 54% of the city’s population. On Friday, we conducted 45 mega camps in the city and vaccinated around 45,000 people, which was more than the target given to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-civil-hospital-without-specialised-staff-for-vaccination-101625415064510.html
04-07-2021||Other||Three KTF operatives arrested in Moga; extortion plan foiled||Moga Police arrested three Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) members near Smalsar village on Sunday, foiling a major conspiracy to form another extortion and target killing module by the terror organisation. Canada-based operative Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh Dala, was supposed to be the kingpin of the new module. Those arrested are Yadvinder Singh, alias Yadi, of Eena Kheda in Muktsar, Talwinder Singh, alias Mintu, of Majha Patti village in Muktsar and Racchpal Singh of Chakk Walian village in Tarn Taran. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “Dala is the main accused in extortion and targeted killing that the Sukha Lamme gang has carried out. He was, now, trying to create another module with three history-sheeters.”“We had information that Dala had made threatening calls and texts to a sweet-shop owner at Talwandi Bhai in Ferozepur district, asking for ₹30 lakh. The three arrested were to collect the money from this businessman. Finally, a joint team nabbed the trio,” the SSP added. The trio have confessed to be acting on the directions of Arsh Dala and were tasked with extorting ₹30 lakh from the sweet-shop owner. The SSP added that Yadvinder Yadi was a close aide of slain gangster, Vicky Gounder. A grey Chevrolet Cruze car (DL3CAE4302), a .32 bore pistol with live cartridges and 20gm heroin have been recovered from their possession. A case has been registered against them under Sections 21/61/85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Arms Act at the Smalsar police station.Recently, Moga Police had busted a targeted-killing module with its arrest of Lovepreet Singh, Ram Singh and Kamaljeet Sharma, after it emerged that they had acted on the direction of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar. They also arrested gangster Hardeep Singh, alias Suraj Raunta, an accomplice of the KTF operative. “The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into targeted killings; thus, we have also shared these inputs with it,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-ktf-operatives-arrested-in-moga-extortion-plan-foiled-101625414223884.html
04-07-2021||Other||Bijli Sakhis collect power dues worth over ₹49 lakh from villagers in UP district||Bijli Sakhis have taken the road to empowerment in rural areas of Prayagraj district in Uttar Pradesh, taking up the job of reading electricity meters, generating bills and collecting the billed amount. Ranjana, 30, a mother of two children aged 10 and seven years, is one such Bijli Sakhi. A resident of Dhokari village in Phulpur development block of the district, she goes off on government business every morning after quickly completing her household chores.Every day, from 10 am, Ranjana visits home after home. She walks long stretches under the scorching sun, reading electricity meters and generating bills using a smart device hanging around her neck. She quickly collects the billed amount and then deposits it at the local power department office.Having completed her BA from a local degree college, this is the first time Ranjana has ever stepped out of her home to work and support her household. Like her, dozens of other women too have been employed as Bijli Sakhis in Prayagraj. They too visit rural homes, take readings of electricity meters and collect the due amounts.“The experience is new but empowering. Till now, the home was my world and looking after the needs of my two children and my husband Shauki Lal, a vegetable seller, was all I have done for the past 11 years now. In 2012, I completed my BA but never worked,” said Ranjana. After taking the job of a Bijli Sakhi, she underwent brief training on reading meters and generating power bills before she started working in August 2020.This move to rely on women to realise power dues from villagers by the state electricity department seems to be paying off. Engaging rural women of self-help groups (SHGs) as Bijli Sakhis as part of a state government initiative under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) has resulted in power bills worth over ₹49 lakh being collected by them from the rural areas of Soraon, Koraon, Phulpur, Meja, Karchana, Mauaima and Pratappur development blocks in Prayagraj district of eastern Uttar Pradesh between February 1 and June 15, 2021, despite the pandemic—a fact testified by officials.These 102 women working in 10 groups have managed to realise this amount from 5,274 consumers, surprising even senior power department officials and earning a total of ₹2.5 lakh as commission for themselves.“Many a time, people distrust while other times they just do not want to pay the power dues. There are also cases where people have not paid up, owing to genuine issues like past payments not getting reflected in the bills. You have to sort out all these issues and only then people pay up. But the fact that we are women, remain calm and patient even under pressure and many a time move in groups, all seem to make even those people pay the power dues who had not done so earlier,” said Sanju Maurya, a housewife and a part-time Bijli Sakhi working in the Soraon area of the district.“This work has also earned me a lot of respect among all villagers,” she added.“These women have ensured that collection of electricity dues from rural areas, even during the peak of the pandemic’s second wave, remained healthy in Prayagraj. We are now planning to encourage more rural women to join this mission aimed at empowering them and also doing a noble national service,” said chief engineer of Prayagraj division, Vinod Kumar Gangwar.NRLM’s district mission manager Amit Shukla, too, expressed happiness over the performance of the rural women, most working for the very first time. “We had trained 115 women to work as Bijli Sakhis in Prayagraj and 102 of them have already started working by reading electricity meters, generating bills and collecting the due amounts. The fact that in less than five months they have earned a commission of ₹2.5 lakh for themselves despite the Covid-19 is pandemic is really worthy of applause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bijli-sakhis-collect-power-dues-worth-over-rs-49-lakh-from-villagers-in-up-district-101625413923795.html
04-07-2021||Other||Five trees axed in Sangrur; forest dept orders probe||SANGRUR The state forest department has ordered a probe into axing of five trees, standing on the banks of the Rajwaha canal in Dhuri town on Saturday, in the dead of the night. Ajay Kumar, councillor from ward number 8, said the felling was illegal. “We have filed a complaint with the police as the forest department is repeatedly failing to stop such illegal axing of trees. Two trees were axed two months ago as well in the same clandestine manner,” he claimed. “This time, the trees were axed with the help of a cutter, but the miscreants left these on the site itself. They also tried to cut a big tree, but failed,” Kumar added. Sangrur divisional forest officer (DFO) Khushwinder Singh admitted that five trees had been axed by unidentified miscreants. “A probe has been ordered and the department will act, based on its findings,” he added. SANGRUR RESIDENTS CONTRIBUTE  ₹1.1 LAKH FOR SAPLINGSLocals and environmentalists have collected ₹1.1 lakh to plant saplings from the Sangrur bus stand to the Shahi Samadhan road. Jasinder Kaur Sekhon, an environmentalist, said the public works department had axed 66 trees to widen the road. but had not planted new trees. “We collected funds and planted three trees with guards for it as well, on the road. We aim to plant over a hundred trees on the same road with guards,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-trees-axed-in-sangrur-forest-dept-orders-probe-101625413864671.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of UP polls, Priyanka Gandhi asks party workers to share people’s grief||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday urged party workers to stand with the people of the country and share their pain and grief and use it as a tool to rebuild Congress’ organisation ahead of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly elections.“Congress party workers should stand with the people of the country, and share their pain and grief. For this, the work of building the organisation is most important,” Priyanka Gandhi said. The Congress leader was addressing a two-day training programme of party workers of Lucknow and Mathura via videoconferencing, Congress’ state party-in-charge told news agency PTI.Priyanka also asked Congress workers to stage protests against the BJP government over inflation, unemployment and continuous increase in the price of fuel and cooking gas. She asked party workers to unravel the ‘anti-people policies’ of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre as well as in Uttar Pradesh. “People are crying due to inflation, government jobs are falling prey to corruption and the candidates selected for jobs are moving from pillar to post to get appointments,” Priyanka said. She also said that the opinions of the party workers will be very important for the assembly elections. She asked party workers to revamp the booths while maintaining active participation on social media.Priyanka highlighted that Congress workers helped migrant workers, arranged oxygen cylinders, concentrators, medical and ration kits for the people who were in need of these during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Congress always derives unseen power from serving humanity during an emergency. This shows our association with the interest of the public,” Priyanka said. She asked party workers not to stray from the path of the ‘seva satyagraha’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-up-polls-priyanka-gandhi-asks-party-workers-to-share-people-s-grief-101625411602716.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Two held, one on the run after caught stealing LPG||Two men were arrested while one slipped away from the police while stealing from an LPG tanker near Indori toll plaza in Yewalewadi are of Chakan. The arrested men were identified as Gurudeep Mahalsingh Sandhu (31), a resident of Jalna in Amritsar in Punjab; Ramesh Thakkaram Manju (21), a resident of Yewalewadi area of Khed while the police are on a lookout for one person. The third person slipped under the cover of night, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a policeman at Chakan police station. The police have recovered stolen cooking gas and equipment used for stealing, collectively worth ₹34,61,000, was recovered by the police. The men allegedly aimed to illegally sell the gas for personal gains, according to the police. A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 7with4 of Essential Commodities Act; along with Section 4 of Explosive Substances Act, 1908 was registered at Chakan police station. Police sub inspector S Gosavi of Chakan police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-one-on-the-run-after-caught-stealing-lpg-101625412122811.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana panchayat polls: Jind farmers resolve to boycott BJP-JJP||Scores of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) attended a mahapanchayat called against the three contentious agricultural laws at the Uchana cotton market in Jind district on Sunday. BKU district president Azad Palwan presided over the meeting, in which the farmers passed nine resolutions moved by him.Besides resolving to push for the revocation of farm laws, legal guarantee on the minimum support price, loan waiver for farmer and farm labourers, and cancellation of four labour codes, the mahapanchayat decided to vote against candidates backed by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and Jannayak Janata Party coalition in the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. The farmers also sought the cancellation of law that allows recoveries to be made for damages to property from protesters, and demanded ₹50 lakh compensation and government job to the next of kin of those who died during the ongoing agitation. Other resolutions concerned power crisis and crimes against women in Haryana.Azad Palwan said the Union government is hatching a conspiracy to defame farmers in an attempt to break the agitation.“The BJP should know that every section of society has been supporting the farm stir, because everyone has been hit hard by inflation, crime, unemployment and electricity issues, and people are forced to fight for their livelihood at every front. Farmers have been waiting for one call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for several months, but he is yet to invite them for dialogue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-mahapanchayat-held-at-haryana-s-jind-district-101625411403904.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown, allows CA, army exams||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown till the morning of July 12 along with the existing restrictions and relaxations allowed in the previous weeks. While the ban on the movement of wedding processions and closure of swimming pools and spas will continue, the government allowed the conduct of chartered accountants and army examinations.The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India has been allowed to conduct the examinations from July 5 to 20 with the directions to follow preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The army can also conduct the common entrance exam at the military station in Hisar, subject to strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour. In his order extending the lockdown till 5am on July 12, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said it is being done as per the earlier guidelines to contain the pandemic though the positivity rate and the number of new cases has declined. The state government has continued the relaxations permitted earlier, such as shops will open from 9am to 8pm and malls from 10am to 8pm. Restaurants and bars (including in hotels and in malls) will continue opening from 10am to 10pm with 50% of the seating capacity and adopting requisite social distancing norms. Home delivery is also permitted up to 10pm. While religious places have been allowed to open with 50 persons at one time, the gatherings in weddings and funerals remains capped at 50. The government had earlier also allowed gyms to open from 6am to 8pm with 50% capacity. The universities can open for research scholars, practical classes in laboratories and remedial classes. All production units and industries will function as per the already existing guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-allows-ca-army-exams-101625409183203.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Common platform formed for saving Vetal tekdi from tunnel construction||After the Vetal tekdi tunnel construction received a green signal from the state government, citizens and NGOs in the city held a meeting to create a common platform to oppose the project called “Save Vetal Tekdi”. In its first meeting held on June 27 in Panchavati, the forum invited people to join the movement to save the hills. Several forum members raised their concerns with the project and the serious ramifications, the project may cause if allowed. During the meeting, various citizens’ forums, NGO’s, environmentalists presented the impact of the proposed tunnels on the area and the tekdi. “The tunnel project has serious ramifications. It will have a disproportionate impact on the environment by irreversibly damaging one of the largest urban aquifer complexes - the Vetal tekdi hill range. This will result in growth of tanker lobbies in the areas that presently have no problems of water scarcity,” said Manoj Bhagwat, researcher, ACWADAM (Advanced Centre for Water Resources Development and Management). He further added that the tunnel will permanently impact the capability of the city to sustain development in the future. “It also has a large socio-economic impact especially on the densely inhabited areas of Kothrud and Gokhalenagar. The tunnel project will not solve the traffic congestion problem as is proposed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), instead it will result in serious health risks,” said Pradeep Ghumare, resident and member of the Save Vetal tekdi. The forum representatives also felt that such a project should not be taken up by PMC particularly in the wake of the ongoing pandemic. “With Covid hitting hard on our economy, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should be more judicious with its resources and focus on completion of Metro project that, according to PMC’s own account, will ease traffic congestion problem significantly,” said Sarang Yadwadkar, architect and urban planner. “The tunnel project is unnecessary and wasteful expenditure of public money, particularly when PMC is already facing a massive financial crunch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/common-platform-formed-for-saving-vetal-tekdi-from-tunnel-construction-101625408762414.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Balewadi-Baner residents face frequent power cuts, MSEDCL blames smart city project||Residents of Balewadi and Baner have been facing constant power failures of more than eight hours for the past week. The power cuts have directly affected professionals with work from home duties, and students having online classes.According to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), the power cuts are a result of damaged lines during road digging. A number of complaints were registered at the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), however, there has been no reprieve from power cuts. “This has become a recurring theme for people who are living in Balewadi and it has become a bane of our life to find ourselves in darkness four to five times in a week,” said Vijay Varasgaonkar, resident who is fed up of the consistent power outages. “We are suffering for the past eight to 10 years as there is no proper planning when it comes to making a proper duct for the repairs to be conducted. Every now and then, the road is dug up and every time it is us who suffer. There should be a proper duct for allowing MSECDL or any other user to make repairs and not dig up the newly laid roads,” he said. Dheeraj Bangad, who lives in Regency Cosmos on Baner road experienced being in the dark for more than eight hours during the week. “The officials have been digging up the road under the name of smart city project and accidently hit / damaged the electrical lines. We have been in the dark for more than eight hours, then the electricity came around for an hour around 2 am, only to be gone again for another six hours. After constant complaining, we got to know that the people working on this project damaged the lines. I find that there is no coordination among the authorities and we are suffering because of them,” said Bangad. According to the residents, who have begun their own way of recording the number of complaints via social media said that cables have been damaged three times but the MSEDCL team is busy in attending the fault one after another. This damage of cables due to indiscriminate digging should stop. The residents have also made it a norm to question the authorities whether power supply will be intermittent whole day before they begin planning their day. “We communicate with the smart city officials daily and inform them to work diligently around the cables even the officers are cooperating and together we also do site inspections but those working at ground level create a problem and sometimes in a day, they are damaged in three to four sites along Baner-Balewadi. We are in fact asking to write to smart city officials about this ongoing,” said MSEDCL executive engineer on the condition of anonymity. “During excavation, there are no markings on the cables and sometimes they are accidently damaged, if it is damaged, we immediately rectify it, nobody does it deliberately and we penalize the contractors,” said a smart city official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/balewadibaner-residents-face-frequent-power-cuts-msedcl-blames-smart-city-project-101625408643458.html
04-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP chief passes diktat on movement of MLAs, raises question||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators from West Bengal cannot travel without informing the state leadership, state present Dilip Ghosh said at a workshop organised for its 75 MLAs on Saturday. This immediately raised questions as no party in Bengal has imposed such a restriction on their leaders in recent history.“Ghosh told us that no MLA is above the party. They are part of an organisation and hence cannot visit any place they like without informing the leadership,” a newly-elected MLA, who attended the workshop in Kolkata, said on condition of anonymity.While Ghosh’s mandate was described by party leader’s as “an effort to enforce discipline” some of them felt it reflected Ghosh’s displeasure over Suvendu Adhikari’s recent visits to Delhi where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other top leaders. During his last trip, Adhikari triggered a controversy by visiting the home of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Though Mehta and Adhikari said they did not meet because the former was busy in a meeting, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has demanded the Solicitor General’s removal citing ethics.The ruling party has said that since Adhikari is an accused in the Narada sting operation case and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in court, they cannot meet. Two TMC MPs, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to seek Mehta’s removal.On earlier occasions, as well as on Friday when the controversy emerged, Ghosh said he was not aware of why Adhikari was in Delhi and who he met. Ghosh, in fact, stirred up the issue by asking why questions are not being raised about TMC leaders who were seen accepting bribes in the Narada sting videos recorded in 2014. Adhikari, who was a TMC MP, MLA and cabinet minister and joined the BJP in December last year, was among those seen in the videos.Significantly, Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, was not present at the workshop when Ghosh passed his diktat on the movement of MLAs. Adhikari arrived after Ghosh left. Neither of them commented on the issue before the media.In the recent polls, Adhikari defeated Mamata Banerjee and retained the Nandigram seat in the East Midnapore district. Of the 75 BJP legislators, 71 were elected for the first time. The party won 77 seats while the TMC bagged 213 of Bengal’s 294 seats. Two BJP MLAs later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats.BJP national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash addressed the MLAs at the workshop. He asked them to focus on their performance as people’s representatives and not to get demoralised by the defeat in the elections in which the party targeted 200 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-chief-passes-diktat-on-movement-of-mlas-raises-question-101625407562961.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man kills four family members of daughter’s lover in Punjab||A man from Punjab’s Gurdaspur on Sunday allegedly murdered four family members of a boy with whom his daughter was in a relationship. The accused has been identified as Sukhjinder Singh who hails from Batala’s Balarwal village. Sukhjinder got enraged after becoming aware of his daughter’s relationship with Germanjeet Singh, a resident of the same village.Sukhjinder allegedly reached the farm belonging to Germanjeet Singh’s family on Sunday morning. Germanjeet was with his father Sukhwinder at the farm. Sukhjinder got into a verbal altercation with both of them and allegedly fired at them killing Sukhwinder on the spot and injuring Germanjeet, the police told news agency PTI.Germanjeet’s grandfather Mangal Singh, uncle Jasbir Singh, cousin Babandeep and another relative Jashan reached the spot shortly after the incident. Sukhjinder Singh also fired at them resulting in the deaths of Mangal Singh, Jasbir Singh and Babandeep.Germanjeet Singh and Jashan are out of danger according to the police. Batala superintendent of police Gurpreet Singh said a case has been registered and all efforts are being made to nab Sukhjinder Singh, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-kills-four-family-members-of-daughter-s-lover-in-punjab-101625406954727.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Woman involved in murder of estranged husband on the run||Three people were arrested, while one woman is at large for the alleged murder of her estranged husband whose body was found in Pune on Saturday morning. The deceased man was identified as Anand Gulab Gujar (43), a resident of a society along Spine road in Raje Shivajinagar area of Chikhali, Pune, according to the police. The arrested people were identified as Ramesh Vilas Kumbhar (46) a resident of Walhekarwadi area of Ravet; Yash Yogesh Nikam (19) a resident of Nigdi; and Aniket alias Amol Ramdas Baddum (22) a resident of Chinchwad, according to police. The body was found near Jambhulwadi bridge along road connecting Pune with Satara around 6am on Saturday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sunil Gujar (36) a resident of Bhosre village in Khatav area of Satara. The complainant told the police that the estranged wife of the now-deceased man had sold a piece of agricultural land he owned in Dapoli. After selling the land the two got separated and the Gujar family alleged that she kept the proceeds that were earned from the sale before asking for a divorce. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. Police inspector (crime) Prakash Pasalkar of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-involved-in-murder-of-estranged-husband-on-the-run-101625407382369.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Labourer loses ₹1 lakh. Delhi Police constable finds and returns it||A Delhi Police constable turned out to be a saviour for a labourer who forgot his bag containing ₹1 lakh in cash at the Shivaji Bridge railway station’s platform and left on the train for his home in Uttar Pradesh.Vijay Kumar, a labourer in the city who lives in northwest Delhi’s Shakur Basti, is the only breadwinner of his family. Vijay had withdrawn ₹1 lakh from his bank account in Delhi and brought 55kg worth of ration items. He was returning to UP’s Khurja where he was planning to build a home for his children.Vijay, unfortunately, left his cash bag behind on a bench at the platform and loaded the two bags of ration in the Bareilly-New Delhi intercity express, according to a report by news agency PTI.Constable Narender Kumar who was posted with the New Delhi Railway police station was on duty at Shivaji Bridge station and was making rounds at the platform after the intercity express train left the station. Narender found a carry bag on the bench and enquired if the bag belonged to any passengers on the platform.“I decided to keep the unclaimed bag with me. On checking it, I found two cash bundles amounting to ₹1 lakh with some rotis packed in a foil paper, water bottle, cheque book, bank passbook along with an Aadhar and ration card,” Narender was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Narender immediately informed his seniors about it and tried to contact Vijay Kumar but was unable to reach out to him. He decided to wait until someone came asking for the money.Vijay returned to Shivaji Bridge station around 6.30pm and was safely handed over the bag with ₹1 lakh by the constable after due formalities. “Vijay Kumar left his carry bag at the station. Our constable Narender found the bag unclaimed and returned the belongings to Kumar along with his cash of ₹1 lakh,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said.Vijay later recalled the day and said that when the train arrived he boarded it in a hurry and left his ‘thaila’ on the bench. He said it was when he felt thirsty at Anand Vihar station he realised that he misplaced the bag containing the money. He said he was in tears as he had ₹1 lakh in cash and the money was necessary as he was saving it to build a small house for his children.Vijay said that he asked people at the Anand Vihar station to look after his ration for a few hours so that he can go look for his money but no one agreed. “I lost all hopes but Narender babu was a saviour. He handed over my belongings and also got me boarded in the next train safely,” a relieved Vijay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/labourer-loses-rs-1-lakh-delhi-police-constable-finds-and-returns-it-101625401753186.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Freecycling trend catches on in Pune||Not everything in life is transactional. Some of the most uplifting experiences in life are cost-free. This is probably the sentiment fuelling the global movement of freecycling, which seems to have become the new buzzword in Pune.For the uninitiated, freecycling involves giving away things that are of no use or are a surplus at home. These are items that are in a good and usable condition, and can find purpose in another house.Helming the freecycling movement in the city is the husband-wife duo of Anupam Barve and Maitra. Anupam is an independent filmmaker, film educator, and associate professor of film direction at the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). Maitra, an alumna of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), is a social worker, counsellor, and writer.Speaking about what led them to start a WhatsApp group for freecycling, Anupam explained that back in 2009, he used to live in the United Kingdom, where he spent about four years. At that time, he was a part of a group dedicated to freecycling. As a student, and later as someone who had just started a teaching stint, there would be financial constraints. He stressed, “At that time, freecycling seemed like a real godsend. It also helped me embrace a more eco-conscious and minimalist way of life. The idea of freecycling is not originally mine; it is, in fact, a worldwide movement.”For Anupam and Maitra, an additional boost to launching a freecycling forum came from the fact that for about six years, Maitra has been running an activity called ‘Jhini.’ Under its aegis, old clothes are collected from people, and are reused or repurposed depending on their useability. “The idea of freecycling is very much in tandem with Jhini’s core philosophy, and this has given us all the more reason to launch the freecycling initiative in Pune,” added the duo.The couple has formed a WhatsApp group, titled Pune Freecycle, to facilitate free transactions of goods. The central idea is to make the fullest use of a manufactured commodity, especially something non-biodegradable or made in plastic before it ends up in landfills. Phone chargers, table lamps, books, extension cords, biking gloves, helmets, utensils, cycles, and old yet functional electronic gadgets, and so on: there’s tremendous room for freecycling.“If you are going on a trek to the Himalayas and need a warm jacket, chances are that you wouldn’t be needing it post the trek. So why buy, when you can freecycle? It’s a more convenient, prudent and sustainable alternative,” suggests Maitra.The operative word of the movement is “free.” It is critical that there is no financial exchange involved in freecycling, and it is a matter of ethics that the items offered are in a clean and usable state. The modus operandi for using ‘Pune Freecycle’ is very simple. People who wish to give something away, as also commodity-seekers, post on the group and inform what they wish to offer or receive. And as informed by Anupam, in most of the cases, their requirements are met in no time.Sharing an anecdote, he added, “There was a really old and non-usable cane sofa that was lying at home. It was partly broken, and in such a bad shape that even the garbage disposal facilities had refused to accept it. I thought of taking a chance and put it up for freecycling in our group. To my surprise, within ten minutes after the post, I’d already found a taker for it. It was a girl living close-by, who was running a venture of handicrafts made from recycled cane.” Evidently, one man’s trash is another man’s treasure.We are usually guilty of hoarding a range of things that we don’t use. “Typically, during festivals, or any other festival, people clean and organise their homes, and there are a bunch of workable things, which are not required. Since they’ve not gone bad, people don’t want to throw them away, but at the same time, they also don’t need them. Or sometimes, we get some home appliances as gifts, but the old ones may be perfectly functional. In such scenarios, freecycling is a great choice,” said Maitra.What is freecycling?*Freecycling involves giving away things that are of no use or are a surplus at home. These are items that are in a good and usable condition, and can find purpose in another house.*It is critical that there is no financial exchange involved in freecycling, and it is a matter of ethics that the items offered are in a clean and usable state.Pune Freecycle groupAt present, ‘Pune Freecycle’ is brimming over with more than 250 members. To maintain seamless activities and for better practicality, recently, eight locality-specific communication groups (for Aundh-Baner-Pashan-Bavdhan, Kothrud-Warje-Vanaz and so forth) have been created by Anupam and Maitra (on the app—Telegram).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/freecycling-trend-catches-on-in-pune-101625401322880.html
04-07-2021||Kolkata||50% applications for cyclone Yaas relief in Bengal binned as 'bogus': Report||The West Bengal government has declined almost 50 per cent of the applications, which were filed seeking compensation for the Cyclone Yaas damage, as "bogus", after spot verification, PTI quoted a senior official as saying.The state government last month received 381,774 applications at the camps set up under its Duare Tran (relief at doorstep) programme, the official said, reported PTI.Also read | ‘Waiting for nod from PM’: Mamata on delay in dates for bypolls in Bengal"After due verification of all applications, done between June 18 and 30, at least 1,86,815 were rejected - mainly by block development officers or heads of urban local bodies - as they were found to be fake," PTI quoted him as saying.More than 162,000 applications seeking relief were filed in South 24 Paraganas district, of them over 75,000 were rejected. In Purba Midnapore, 72,878 applications of total 117,654 submissions were rejected."We found out that 12,000 of the 14,000 applications filed from Nandigram-I block were bogus. In Egra II, only 52 of 6,874 submissions were found to be genuine," PTI quoted him as saying.Cyclone Yaas struck Bengal and its neighbouring state Odisha in May and left with massive destruction in the coastal regions.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while rolling out the relief programme in May, had asked those affected by the cyclone to personally apply in writing and not in bulk as she sought to avoid any controversy after the relief distribution at the time of cyclone Amphan.Learning from the past mistakes, the state government thoroughly cross-checked the applications this time, unlike after cyclone Amphan when relief was distributed by treating all the applications as authentic."This time, the administration verified every claim before giving its approval," the officer said, reported PTI. He added that the genuine claimants have started receiving compensation from July 1.The chief minister had earlier claimed that the state incurred a total loss of over ₹20,000 crore due to the natural disaster.The government notified that someone whose agricultural land suffered damaged due to the cyclone would get between ₹1,000 and ₹25,000 and any farmer cultivating betel leaf and a person who lost his cattle will be able to draw a compensation of ₹5,000 and ₹30,000 respectively.Further, ₹5,000 compensation was notified by the state government for partially damaged mudhouses and ₹20,000 for the fully damaged ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/50-applications-for-cyclone-yaas-relief-in-bengal-binned-as-bogus-report-101625399792692.html
04-07-2021||Dehradun||Week after Jammu attack, drones banned in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir administration has banned possession and use of drones in the summer capital Srinagar, officials said. The move comes around a week after two blasts, believed to be drone strikes, rocked an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in winter capital Jammu.Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Mohammad Aijaz on Saturday imposed restrictions on the sale, possession, storage, use and transportation of drones and similar unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in the district.Aijaz, in an order under section 144 of the criminal penal code, said that the decentralized airspace access has to be regulated in view of the “recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure as reported by the media and other reliable sources”.“With a view to secure aerial space near vital installations and highly populated areas, it is imperative to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to life and damage to property,” he said.Drones are being increasingly used in aerial photo and videography by filmmakers, tourism stakeholders, professional landscape photographers and photojournalists. Of late, security forces say that drones are being used by militants from across the line of control to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money into Jammu and Kashmir.On June 27, for the first time, drones were apparently used to target a building of the IAF in Jammu by improvised explosive devices. Two blasts that had taken place within minutes of each other damaged a building and injured two personnel at the technical airport in Jammu in the early hours of June 27.Since then, security forces have reported many sightings of drones in the region.“Keeping in view the security situation apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles wander around in skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar,” the Srinagar DC’s order said.Srinagar is home to a number of strategic places and buildings, including Srinagar International Airport whose airstrip is under the control of the IAF, and cantonment area with headquarters of Army’s Chinar Corps besides a number of security installations.Before the ban in Srinagar, district administration Rajouri also imposed a ban on storage, sale, possession, use and transport of any drone or small flying objects on June 30.Those possessing drone cameras or UAVs in Srinagar have been asked to ground the devices in their respective local police stations under proper receipt.“The government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in the agricultural, environmental conservation and disaster mitigation sector shall inform the local police station before undertaking any such activity in public interest,” the order said.Drones are governed by aircraft act 1934 and civil aviation rules 2021 already restrict flying the UAVs in prohibited areas like within a distance of 3 kilometres from the perimeter of any civil, private, defence airports, military installations and facilities and state secretariat complex. The prohibition also implies within 2 kilometres from the perimeter of any strategic or vital installation besides around national parks and wildlife sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/week-after-jammu-attack-drones-banned-in-srinagar-101625399523899.html
04-07-2021||Dehradun||Pushkar Singh Dhami takes oath as Uttarakhand CM; PM Modi sends his 'best wishes'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday took oath as the eleventh chief minister of Uttarakhand, a day after he was elected as the leader of the BJP's legislature party in the hill state, thus paving the way for his elevation to the state's top post. Dhami was administered oath of office by governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhavan in Dehradun.BJP MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn-in as the next Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, at a programme in Raj Bhawan, Dehradun pic.twitter.com/FFQcbU0gQ0BJP MLAs Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Yashpal Arya, Bishan Singh Chuphal, Subodh Uniyal, Arvind Pandey and Ganesh Joshi were also sworn in as ministers in the new state cabinet.Bishan Singh Chuphal, Subodh Uniyal, Arvind Pandey, and Ganesh Joshi sworn-in as ministers in the new State Cabinet pic.twitter.com/WHZ6hvqYacAlso Read: Many veteran BJP leaders upset over being side-lined for Uttarakhand CM postSoon after the ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the new chief minister and his cabinet of ministers. "Best wishes to this team as they work towards the progress and prosperity of Uttarakhand," PM Modi tweeted.Congratulations to Shri @pushkardhami and all others who took oath today. Best wishes to this team as they work towards the progress and prosperity of Uttarakhand.At 45, Dhami, the lawmaker from the Khatima assembly constituency, is the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand, which came into existence in November 2000 after being carved out of Uttar Pradesh. Dhami, who had never held any ministerial position before being elevated as the chief minister, succeeds Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday. Rawat himself succeeded Trivendra Singh Rawat, and was in office for only around four months.Also Read: RSS cadre to youngest Uttarakhand CM: Dhami’s rise through ranksDhami was a "unanimous" choice of all 56 members of the BJP's legislature party, according to former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. "We're sure that Uttarakhand will attain new heights of development in the coming period under his leadership," Rawat said.Also Read: 5 key challenges before new Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh DhamiEarlier, Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation came amid uncertainty over the bypolls he was required to win to continue as the chief minister. According to rules, he had six months from his swearing in, which took place on March 10, to be elected as a member of the legislative assembly to continue in the post. However, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has the option to not conduct bypolls if the term of the assembly is expiring in less than a year. Under this scenario, Rawat would have become ineligible to stay in office.Also Read: Why Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's 2015 tweet is going viral nowAssembly elections in Uttarakhand are likely to take place in early 2022. In the previous elections, in 2017, the BJP won 56 of the state's 70 assembly constituencies. BJP leader Trivendra Singh Rawat was then sworn in as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/pushkar-singh-dhami-takes-oath-as-eleventh-chief-minister-of-uttarakhand-101625397374954.html
04-07-2021||Dehradun||Many veteran BJP leaders upset over being side-lined for Uttarakhand CM post||With the elevation of two-time party MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami to CM designate, BJP had hoped to end the political crisis in Uttarakhand on Saturday. However, it didn’t seem to be the case as hours before his swearing-in on Sunday evening, reports of many party senior leaders expressing their displeasure over the move started making rounds in the city, HT has learnt. Among those who were reportedly not happy with the party leadership’s decision of choosing Dhami as the new CM were state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and state forest and environment minister Harak Singh Rawat.Both had reached the residence of state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat in Dehradun along with another senior party leader and minister in ex-CM Tirath Singh Rawat’s cabinet, Bishan Singh Chufal. Among the four mentioned leaders, Dhan Singh and Maharaj were among the frontrunners for the CM post.A party MLA privy to the development, on condition of anonymity, said, “The upset leaders had reached Dhan Singh’s residence on Sunday noon. Among them, Harak Singh and Maharaj who are both senior leaders in the party after defecting from Congress, were the most upset.”“Dhan Singh and Chufal were, however, pacifying them that they should put their part before the state leadership instead of being upset. Later, Dhan Singh and Chufal reached the residence of party state president Madan Kaushik where a high-level meeting was being held in presence of party-state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, party state general secretaries Ajay Kumar and Kuldeep Kumar to decide on how to pacify the upset leaders,” said the leader.However, party senior leader Bansidhar Bhagat, who has also been former party state president and parliamentary affairs minister in ex-CM Tirath Singh Rawat’s cabinet, refuted the reports on discontent among party leaders.“All these are rumours. All the leaders are supporting the decision of party leadership as they are the party’s soldiers. Nobody is upset with Dhami being elected to be the next CM. We all are with him to continue the development works and win the next assembly elections to be held in 2022 with a thumping majority like in 2017,” said Bhagat.On the meeting held at party state president Kaushik’s residence, he said, “We are a political party, hence such meetings are nothing unusual. A new development has taken place in the state leadership, hence there are many issues to be discussed on how to take the party forward. The meeting is regarding that only.”Party leader Maharaj too denied reports of him being upset with the leadership change.Speaking to the reporters at his residence in Dehradun, he said, “I am not at all upset and fully support the leadership’s decision. The new CM designate is a young leader and we will fully support him to bring new development to the stage under his leadership.”Opposition Congress and political experts, however, said that the discontent was “bound to come up in BJP after Dhami’s elevation.”Congress state president Pritam Singh, accused the BJP of hurting the public mandate in the 2017 elections. “The public handed it a thumping majority but it had hurt the mandate by working only to bring political instability. After forming the government, they only made tall promises but delivered on none.”“Amid this political instability, they changed two CMs in a matter of four months and appointed a third one who is also not expected to do much for the state considering the small period of tenure before next elections. Now, the factionalism in BJP has also come out in the open which is only rubbing salt on the wounds of the public which gave them the majority in 2017,” said Singh.Political analyst and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University, MM Semwal termed the expression of discontent by senior BJP leaders as inevitable.“The biggest challenge before Dhami would be to work in coordination with the senior leaders of BJP who were overlooked for the CM position,” said Semwal.“By electing Dhami, BJP leadership did a surgical strike on its own senior state leaders which include the likes of Bansidhar Bhagat, Harak Singh Rawat, Satpal Maharaj, Dhan Singh Rawat, Harak Singh Rawat and Yashpal Arya. Dhami would have a tough time working in coordination with them ahead of next year’s assembly elections,” he said.Earlier on Sunday, Dhami met ex-CMs Tirath Singh Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat and Maj Gen BC Khanduri (retd) at their residences in an effort to garner support.Later in the day, amid reports of some leaders being unhappy with his election as the new CM, he also went to meet Satpal Maharaj at his residence which was seen as an attempt to pacify him ahead of his swearing-in on Sunday evening at 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/many-veteran-bjp-leaders-upset-over-being-side-lined-for-uttarakhand-cm-post-101625397722235.html
04-07-2021||Bangalore||DK Shivakumar challenges Karnataka govt to vaccinate 80% population in 90 days||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar challenged the state government to vaccinate the state’s 80% adult population with both doses by the end of September in order to save people from the probable third wave of Covid-19.“Experts are predicting that the third wave may hit us by October but if we fully vaccinate at least 80% of the population by the end of September the third wave may not hit us or its impact will be mild. Hence, I want to ask the Karnataka government if they are up for this challenge?” Shivakumar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Shivakumar pointed out that the Karnataka government has been able to only vaccinate 7% of the eligible population with both doses.Shivakumar asked the government to stop talking about the number of doses and focus on administering both doses. He said that both doses are needed for high protection. He said that there are several studies from different cities which show both doses have saved people. Shivakumar also expressed concern that the third wave may affect children, even though the medical experts have said that there is no evidence to support the argument. He said he will also submit a memorandum to the government in this regard.The Karnataka Congress president said that the government will be held accountable for the third wave if it fails to vaccinate 80% of the adults before the end of September. He also said that the target is not an impossible one. He said that if Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) do not ‘obsess’ over doing ‘small scams with private vaccination’ the target can be easily achieved. He also accused the BJP of spreading vaccine hesitancy so that it can avoid questions regarding the lack of vaccines.“We are doing our bit in persuading people to get vaccinated and we will do more. The problem is not one of demand but supply. The central government is also supposed to be providing 75% vaccines free of cost to the state. If BJP leaders don't obsess over doing their own small scams with private vaccination, we can easily achieve it,” Shivakumar said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dk-shivakumar-challenges-karnataka-govt-to-vaccinate-80-population-in-90-days-101625396674897.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s active Covid-19 cases fall below 1000-mark; city sees 94 fresh infections and 7 deaths||Delhi now has less than 1000 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the number of active Covid-19 cases in the national capital has fallen to 992, the latest health department bulletin on Sunday showed. Till a day ago, there were 1016 active cases in Delhi, according to government data.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 4th July 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/tMz2RuG5mwIn the last 24 hours, 94 new coronavirus cases were detected in the Capital – up from 86 a day ago – as its cumulative infection tally rose to 1,434,554, the bulletin showed. The daily toll due to the viral disease also witnessed a rise, as Delhi recorded seven new Covid-19 related fatalities, as against five from the previous 24-hour bulletin. With this, the city’s coronavirus-related death toll has reached 24,995, just five short of topping the dubious 25,000-mark. The total number of recovered cases, meanwhile, is at 1,408,567 with the addition of 111 recoveries, up from 106 on July 3.Recoveries, deaths and active cases constitute 98.19%, 1.74% and 0.07% of Delhi’s overall caseload, respectively.The number of new Covid-19 tests conducted in this period stood at 75,133, down slightly from 76,619 on Saturday, taking the number of tests conducted till now to 21,709,756. Thus, the latest positivity rate was recorded at close to 0.13% while the corresponding figure for July 3 was 0.11%. The total number of vaccinations has reached 8,379,658 as 161,110 more beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, of whom 121,222 received their first dose while 39,888 received their second and final dose. Overall, 6,471,818 and 1,907,840 beneficiaries have been administered first and second doses respectively.Earlier in the day, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced further relaxation measures which will come into effect from Monday and mark the beginning of the sixth phase of Delhi’s unlock from its Covid-19 induced lockdown. The lockdown came into effect on April 19 and witnessed several extensions before the city began unlocking from May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-city-sees-94-fresh-infections-and-7-deaths-101625396937358.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Have had coffee with BJP leader openly: Sanjay Raut amid speculations of MVA trouble||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut responded to reports of him meeting Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Ashish Shelar at a private meeting on Saturday and said the more such rumours do the round the stronger the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will become."We may have political and ideological differences, but if we come face-to-face at public functions, we will cordially greet each other. I have had coffee with Shelar openly," Raut told news agency PTI on Sunday.Reports of Raut meeting Shelar ahead of the monsoon session of the legislative assembly caused a stir in political circles. Very little is known about the meeting which allegedly took place at Nariman Point. Both Raut and Shelar have denied meeting each other on Saturday. However, BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that it was an “informal and friendly” meeting and there was reason to read into it.“Both of them are good friends. Such types of meetings keep happening. There is no question of us extending an invitation to Shiv Sena to join hands,” said Patil.Also Read: Sena’s Sanjay Raut, BJP leader Ashish Shelar tight-lipped about their meeting in MumbaiThe MVA government will be holding a two-day monsoon session from Monday, where the government is expected to pass a resolution against the three new farm laws brought by the Union government last year, state minister Nawab Malik informed reporters on Saturday.Raut urged BJP to allow the monsoon session to happen without disruptions so that the government can hold discussions on the issues affecting common people."Pandemonium is not the way to corner the government. Such tactics can be adopted by the other side as well. This will not solve problems of vaccination (against coronavirus), Covid-19, unemployment and economy," ANI said quoting Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-had-coffee-with-bjp-leader-openly-sanjay-raut-amid-speculations-of-mva-trouble-101625392680041.html
04-07-2021||Patna||Bihar Police accuses public prosecutor of suspicious conduct in minor rape case||A senior Bihar police officer has written to the state government seeking a probe into conduct of Gaya’s special public prosecutor for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) who allegedly let off a senior suspended police officer accused of raping a minor Dalit girl twice off the hook during court hearings.Suspended deputy senior superintendent of police (DSP) Kamlakant Prasad, accused of raping a 14-year-old Dalit girl in 2017 at his official quarter in Gaya, was let off twice as the court first didn’t issue an arrest warrant against him and later protected him from coercive action due to the public prosecutor’s alleged failure to state relevant facts during argument, CID (weaker section) additional director general (ADG) Anil Kishore Yadav claimed in a letter written to the additional chief secretary of home department Chaitanya Prasad on June 28.An FIR was lodged against Prasad with Women’s police station in Gaya on the direction of Bihar’s Crime Investigation Bureau (CID) on May 27 this year after the accused officer’s wife approached the state police chief disclosing her husband’s alleged involvement in the four year old rape incident, the letter said.ADG Yadav said, on June 14, he asked Patna and Gaya senior superintendent of police (SSPs) to arrest the DSP. However, he could not be arrested as he was then posted as an officer on special duty in the Central Selection Board of Constables. He was finally suspended on June 15 due to the allegations in the rape case, the letter said.Yadav alleged that following the suspension, the investigation officer (IO) of the case sought an arrest warrant against the accused DSP on June 16, which was turned down by the special court (in-charge) of additional district judge Neeraj Kumar, as the special public prosecutor Syed Qaiser Sharfuddin didn’t appear before the court to support the investigation officer.Later on, June 21, the court ordered that no coercive action should be taken against the accused police officer while hearing his anticipatory bail petition. The ADG wrote that this time, the special PP didn’t tell the court that the victim was a Dalit as atrocities on scheduled castes mandate stringent action under the law. Yadav also wrote that the special PP also didn’t mention that in support of the allegations in the FIR, the rape survivor and her brother had already recorded their statements under Section 164 of the CrPC, which is considered a strong piece of evidence in a court of law and could have impacted the court’s decision in the matter.ADG Yadav said he suspected a conspiracy behind the “unsupportive attitude” of the special PP which he alleged to have resulted in failure to obtain even an arrest warrant against the accused DSP. The ADG urged for deputation of a dedicated additional advocate general to argue the prosecution’s case against the bail application of the accused, to be heard in the special Pocso court on July 5.The letter also sought security for accused officer’s wife Anand Tanuja, who filed the rape complaint against her husband and is said to be a key witness in the case. The ADG said Tanuja had sought protection for herself and her children from a senior retired IPS officer, who she said, had sheltered her husband while he was posted as an OSD in Central Selection Board Of Constables.A former member of national SC/ST commission Yogendra Paswan said that this was the first time that a police officer had raised the issues of alleged unprofessional conduct against a public prosecutor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-police-accuses-public-prosecutor-of-pocso-court-in-gaya-of-suspicious-conduct-101625392382919.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||72 waste collection centres found violating e-waste management rules: DPCC||As many as seventy-two e-waste collection centres in Delhi have been found violating E-waste management rules. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has been urged to take action against the violators, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) informed on Sunday, as per a PTI report.As per the DPCC, the degree of non-compliance by the waste collection centres is "very high". The pollution control body has also been asked to cancel the Extended Producer's Responsibility (EPR) authorisation granted to the producers attached with these violating centres.Also read: Stadiums and sports complexes to reopen without spectators in Delhi from MondayEPR authorisation is one of the primary features of E-waste management rules under which the brand owners and importers are required to receiver the material placed in the market for safe disposal at their cost. These waste collection centres need to comply with the CPCB guidelines related to the minimum area required for particular e-waste quantity, pollution control measures to be taken etc."The CPCB is the competent authority to take action against such non-compliant collection centres. We have issued letters requesting it to cancel EPR authorization of the producers attached with these non-compliant collection centres," PTI quoted the official as saying.The DPCC as the state pollution control authority in Delhi conducts periodical inspections to check compliance of terms and conditions laid down by the apex pollution control body.The DPCC conducted inspections of the CPCB-authorised collection centres under EPR last week and of the 83 centres inspected, 72 were detected not complying with the rules, PTI quoted an official as saying.Meanwhile, 185 illegal e-waste handlers operating in residential areas have been shut down in over two years.The lack of proper awareness amongst stakeholders has led to "certain slackness" in the implementation of e-waste management rules, according to the DPCC.Most of the e-waste handling is done in non-conforming areas of the national capital which caused a lack of control and compliance.Despite the issuance of public notices for awareness about provisions and mandatory compliances from time to time, the degree of compliance is "far from satisfactory", the DPCC added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/72-waste-collection-centres-found-violating-e-waste-management-rules-dpcc-101625389123872.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Congress can fight UP polls without alliance with SP or BSP: Ajay Kumar Lallu||Days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Sunday expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either of them and form the next government on its own.He also said the Congress would fight the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.In an interview with PTI, Lallu said the Congress has emerged as the main challenger to the "oppressive" UP government and claimed that his party with just five legislators has proven to be a more effective opposition than the Samajwadi Party (SP) which has 49 MLAs in the 403-member assembly.He said "winds of change" were blowing in the state and added, "Badlav ki aandhi hai, jiska naam Priyanka Gandhi hai (There is a storm of change and its name is Priyanka Gandhi)."The UP Congress chief asserted that the Congress organisation has been strengthened at various levels in the state under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership.Asked if Priyanka Gandhi should be made the chief ministerial face by the party for the UP polls, Lallu said it is the party's national leadership that would decide on who should be the chief ministerial face.Pressed on whether Priyanka Gandhi would be the party's face in the run up to the polls, Lallu said she is the state's in-charge and the elections will be fought under her supervision."The people of Uttar Pradesh are looking at the Congress with hope. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the workers and under her (Priyanka Gandhi) leadership, the Congress government will be formed in UP," he said.His remarks come at a time when the party has shifted gears for the assembly elections with the state unit organising zone-wise training camps of block presidents, district presidents and other office bearers to prepare workers for the polls.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is likely to visit several districts this month with an aim to enthuse the cadre and prepare the party for a pitched electoral battle with the ruling BJP.Whether the party would fight the polls on its own or in alliance with the SP or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Lallu said the Congress will forge an alliance with issues of the people, farmers, poor, women and the oppressed.The Congress will go to the people with this alliance and is confident they will bless it, he added.Asked if the Congress has the capacity to fight the polls on its own, Lallu said, "Yes, definitely it has the capacity to fight."His remarks assume significance as they come days after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties, while BSP supremo Mayawati later asserted that her outfit will not enter into any alliance for the UP polls.On whether votes could get divided if the SP, the BSP and the Congress contest separately, Lallu said the people had given opportunity to all the other political players in the state but they were not able to stay true to the faith shown by the people and now it was the Congress' turn.About SP and BSP leaders' statements on the polls, he said it reflected frustration and disappointment as people have rejected them and are standing with the Congress.On many political pundits not considering the Congress the main challenger to the BJP in UP and the party's poor showing in the panchayat polls, he alleged that an "oppressive" BJP government is in power and said if any party is raising its voice against the Yogi Adityanath dispensation on the streets, it is the Congress which has emerged as a "strong opposition"."Be it for farmers, youth or poor in rural areas, Congress has raised its voice on issues such as unemployment, law and order situation, saving lives during the Covid pandemic, on deaths due to spurious liquor, jungle raj and other problems," he said."When tribals were killed in Sonbhadra, when injustice was done to Hathras' daughter, when injustice was done to daughters of Unnao and Shahjahanpur, Priyanka Gandhi raised her voice and fought against injustice. When it came to hitting the streets to oppose the farm laws, it was Priyanka Gandhi who did it," Lallu said.Asserting that Congress workers had taken the fight against the state government to the streets, he claimed that over 1 lakh party workers were have been and cases filed against thousands of them at different points in time."I myself have been detained more than 80 times in a year, over 40-50 cases were filed and I went to jail four times," Lallu said.Talking about the Congress' performance in the panchayat elections, Lallu said 271 of the party-backed candidates were elected, 571 came second while 711 were third.The Congress got 50 lakh votes in Lok Sabha polls and in the assembly elections, it got 51 lakh votes, but in zila panchayat polls, it got 1,52,00,000 votes, he said, alleging that the SP only "grabbed headlines" by putting their name on winning candidates despite losing out."There is frustration and disappointment in BJP and SP, the Congress with its determination is going to make a comeback in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. We have full faith in the people," he said, stressing that Congress was the BJP's main challenger in the polls.Pointing out that the party has been strengthened at various levels under Priyanka Gandhi, Lallu said a capable organisation was in place with the appointment of zila committees, block presidents, and setting up of nyaya panchayats and gram sabha units."We have 840 block presidents, 8,145 nyay panchayat presidents and in 59,000 villages, we have gram sabha units. We are strengthening booths, training programmes are going on. In light of these developments and on the basis of raising people's issues, we will definitely make a comeback in UP," he said.Claiming that the three farm laws were a big issue in the state, Lallu said the Congress stood against the laws, and farmers would support the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-can-fight-up-polls-without-alliance-with-sp-or-bsp-ajay-kumar-lallu-101625388605443.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||'Sarkari shuttler': Saina Nehwal's congratulatory tweet on BJP win in UP local polls stirs row||Badminton player Saina Nehwal has congratulated Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the BJP's "thumping victory" in elections to the posts of the zila panchayat chairperson, prompting a sharp reaction from Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party won 67 of the 75 seats in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls on Saturday, after losing the zila panchayat ward members’ poll in April to the Samajwadi Party (SP). The BJP won 21 of these seats unopposed after many of the opposition candidates joined the ruling party and withdrew from the contest.Only the SP and ally RLD could show some resistance. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) boycotted the elections, citing misuse of official machinery while the Congress lost the only seat it contested in the Lok Sabha bastion of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Rae Bareli."Hearty congratulations for thumping victory in Zila Panchayat Chairperson election in UP @myogiadityanath sir," Sania Nehwal tweeted on Saturday.Also read | 'Credit to Yogiji': Modi's praise for CM after local polls amid 'power struggle'Chaudhary tweeted over an hour later with a sharp comment. "Sarkaari shuttler recognises BJP skill in smashing peoples' verdict! I think voters need to play a subtle drop shot on celebs trying to influence their decisions!" Chaudhary posted on Twitter.सरकारी shuttler recognises BJP skill in smashing peoples’ verdict! I think voters need to play a subtle drop shot on celebs trying to influence their decisions! https://t.co/6rlxDk5I6LAfter the BJP's claim to have swept the zila panchayat chairperson elections the SP alleged that the ruling party "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to stop them from voting. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his party, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief.Also read | UP’s local polls and the distortions in decentralised governanceZila panchayat chairpersons are elected from among the elected members of zila panchayats in Uttar Pradesh. The panchayat polls or district Zila panchayat chairpersons elections are not held on a party basis but candidates enjoy the tacit support of various parties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted to praise Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath after the BJP's big show in zila panchayat chairpersons elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/saina-nehwal-s-congratulatory-tweet-on-bjp-win-in-up-local-polls-stirs-row-101625387263966.html
04-07-2021||Other||5 more human skeletons found at the archaeological site near Madurai||Five more skeletons were found at the excavation site in Keezhadi in Tamil Nadu, where excavation work is being conducted by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The site, 12 kilometres from Madurai, is in Sivaganga district.The discovery of skeletons was reported by Tamil daily Dina Thanthi on Sunday.The excavation work was stalled due to Covid-19-induced lockdown in the state. As the state government relaxed the lockdown in a phased manner, the work resumed at Keezhadi and its surrounding areas like Konthagai, Agaram, and Manalur.More than 10 burial urns were excavated in Konthagai recently in which human skeletal parts were found.Archeologists unearthed a complete human skeleton on Friday. The excavation works continued on the same spot on Saturday as well when five more skeletons were excavated. The archeologists at the site said that the skeletons will be studied further to ascertain their age and gender.The sleepy village of Keezhadi and its surrounding areas in Sivaganga district came to limelight after the ASI began its excavation work in the year 2015. After three phases, the state archeological department took over the next phases in 2017. The seventh phase of excavation, which commenced in February 2017, is in progress at present. Thousands of artifacts, dating back to 580 BCE and some of them with graffiti similar to those of Indus Valley script, were found in these phases of excavation.The findings of the excavation from Keezhadi and surrounding areas are significant since they provide proof of the Sangam period of Tamil literature which is considered the golden era of Tamil civilization. The material evidence found also pushes the age of the Sangam period back to around 600 BCE since the previous estimation was marked between 200 and 400 BCE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-more-human-skeletons-found-at-the-archaeological-site-near-madurai-101625386283109.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh hospitalised, Yogi Adityanath pays visit||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday morning visited Lohia Hospital to take a stock of the condition of senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh who has been admitted to the hospital.As per sources, "Kalyan Singh was admitted to hospital yesterday night after reporting a swelling in the body."Last year, on September 14, the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Singh was admitted in Rajdhani Corona Hospital, SGPGI after testing positive for Covid-19 and tested negative on October 12, 2020.Singh first became the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in June 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-hospitalised-yogi-adityanath-pays-visit-101625385568422.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar asks Tihar Jail authorities for a television||Jailed wrestler Sushil Kumar has requested the prison authorities of Tihar Jail for a television so he can keep up with real world updates on wrestling, reported news agency ANI.“In a letter to jail authorities, wrestler Sushil Kumar has asked for a TV. He expressed that if he gets TV, he will get updates on wrestling,” ANI quoted Tihar Jail officials as saying.Kumar, who was nabbed by the Delhi Police on May 23 along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, has been charged for murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping of wrestler Sagar Dhankar. According to the police, Kumar is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and that that there is electronic evidence of him and his associates assaulting Dhankar and two of his friends, Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar, on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 with hockey sticks, baseball bats and other blunt weapons over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar eventually succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment.Also Read: Sushil Kumar's arms license suspended, says Delhi PoliceAlong with the Olympian, a total of 12 accused have been arrested by the Delhi Police so far. They have also issued non-bailable warrants against six more suspects, who are reportedly evading arrest.Kumar had previously requested a Delhi court for special food and supplements in order to maintain his strength and physique, as he wished to pursue wrestling in the future. The court rejected his request citing that he has not disclosed details of any upcoming competition for which he has qualified nor has he mentioned any competition he will be participating in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-asks-tihar-jail-authorities-for-a-television-101625385656231.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Stadiums, sports complexes to reopen in Delhi from Monday without spectators||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday further scaled down restrictions, imposed since April due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, by allowing stadiums and sports complexes in the city to open from Monday morning for general public’s use but without the presence of spectators.“Stadia/sports complexes will be permitted to open without spectators subject to strict compliance [of] SOP... as well as strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing, use of sanitiser etc,.) to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus (disease),” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.Last month, the DDMA allowed state-level and national level athletes to access stadiums and sports complexes for their training. But, beyond that, they were closed to the general public.While the DDMA also allowed gyms, fitness centres and yoga centres to operate from last week, all swimming pools in the city still remain out of bounds for general people.This week’s order essentially brings no other change. Public transport in the form of buses and metro will continue to operate at 50% passenger capacity; weekly markets are allowed to operate on one market on one day, per municipal zone; restaurants to function with 50% dine-in capacity and banquet halls can organise marriages with maximum 50 guests.Schools, colleges, educational institutes, coaching centres, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, spas, amusement parks, entertainment parks, water parks and business-to-business exhibition arenas remain closed. Any kind of gathering and congregation -- which could be religious, cultural, political, social, academic or related to sports -- is prohibited, and auditoriums and assembly halls cannot open.A full lockdown was implemented in Delhi on April 19 in the light of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases which left the city’s health infrastructure overwhelmed. The government eventually started implementing relaxations in a phased manner starting May 31 after the number of infections came down substantially.Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore, said: “The government should be very meticulous about the phased relaxations. Hundred percent mask compliance should be mandatory not just on paper but [should be] enforced efficiently as more public spaces open up. The government should keep a close watch on Covid-19 trends and large gatherings of any kind should not be allowed at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stadiums-and-sports-complexes-to-reopen-in-delhi-from-monday-101625385481570.html
04-07-2021||Bangalore||Education in mother tongue: West Bengal on top, Karnataka leads southern states||Karnataka has topped the list of states where students are being given education in their mother tongue in South India, according to the latest survey report by United District Information System For Education (UDISE). West Bengal leads in the country with 89.9% enrolment in Bengali medium, where only 5.3% opted for English medium, Udayavani reported citing the UDISE report.Odisha, which has just 1.20% Bengali speaking population, also has 80% students studying in Bengali medium. The report of UDISE has been submitted to the central government. UDISE is an application created by the education ministry for collecting information from all the recognised and unrecognised schools in the country which are imparting formal education from pre-primary to Class 12.The UDISE report stated that 53.5% of students still prefer Kannada as their medium of instruction despite the increase of 20% students in English medium schools in Karnataka. It also said that in comparison to Karnataka, English medium education has been on the rise in other southern states.For instance, in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, there are less than 25% students are studying in Telugu medium, while 73.8% of children are learning in English. In Andhra Pradesh, 35% of children study in Telugu medium schools.Tamil Nadu has also seen a decline in the strength of Tamil medium students. In the last five years, the percentage has come down to 42.6% from 57.6% in 2016, according to the survey’s findings. Even Kerala has registered only 35% students studying in Malayalam medium schools.Many Kannada activists organisations have been fighting with the government for increasing Kannada-language schools in the state besides strengthening Kannada learning facilities in the border areas of Goa, Kerala, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. There is a substantial Kannada speaking population in the border regions like Kasargod (Kerala), Hindupur (Andhra Pradesh) and Krishnagiri (Tamil Nadu). On account of this, the activists have stressed the need to enhance the education medium in Kannada in these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/education-in-mother-tongue-west-bengal-on-top-karnataka-leads-southern-states-101625384929862.html
04-07-2021||Kolkata||Private buses refuse to ply, WB minister to meet syndicates over fare revision||Amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in West Bengal, private buses in Kolkata refused to ply on Sunday, adding to the hassle of daily commuters, reported HT Bangla. This comes even after the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state warned of strict measures if private buses refused to hit the roads.Private buses are refusing to hit the streets without a revision in the existing fare structure keeping in view the increasing fuel prices.West Bengal transport minister Firhad Hakim acknowledged on Saturday the trouble that commuters are facing and said that the government will have to strict measures if the private buses keep refusing to resume operations. He also promised to make the entire fleet of the state government buses -- 800 buses in Kolkata and 3,000 more in the rest of the state -- operational to bring the transport issue under control.However, reports said that daily commuters are facing trouble adhering to Covid-19 appropriate protocols when they travel in crowded government buses.State minister Firhad Hakim is set to meet the joint council of bus syndicates soon, the HT Bangla report said. The resumption of private bus services will expectedly bring relief to passengers, some of who have had to pay more than five times in fares travelling to their offices in cabs.Bus transport services remained suspended in West Bengal till mid-May in view of the Covid-19 situation. However, the restrictions have recently been lifted, albeit with a 50% limit.Meanwhile, auto fuel rates rallied on Sunday as state-run oil companies raised petrol prices by 35 paise and diesel by 18 paise a litre in the 34th hike in two months, making the two fuels costlier by over 10% since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. With the latest hike, petrol rates in Delhi and Kolkata have inched closer to the ₹100 a litre mark at ₹99.51 and ₹99.45 per litre respectively. New rates of diesel in Delhi and Kolkata are ₹89.36 per litre and ₹92.27 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/private-buses-refuse-to-ply-wb-minister-to-meet-syndicates-over-fare-revision-101625381906319.html
04-07-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa urges Stalin to not to oppose the Mekedatu project||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has written a letter to his Tamil Nadu counterpart MK Stalin, asking him not to oppose his government's Mekedatu project on the Cau, arguing that it would immensely benefit both states."Both states are bound to get benefited by Mekedatu project," Yediyurappa said in the letter.He further said that the project, stipulated to meet the drinking and domestic water needs of the people of Karnataka, including the whole city of Bengaluru, in no way affects the interests of the farming communities of Tamil Nadu.Yediyurappa said in the letter that the project will be taken as per the directions of the Supreme Court which includes lifting of 4.75 TMC water for the use of Bengaluru city and also constructing a hydel power project of 400 MW."Karnataka will only take its share of water from the project and nothing more," Yediyurappa said in the letter.The Karnataka chief minister has appealed to Stalin that both states should go hand-in-hand and reap the rich dividends for their people in terms of water and agriculture. He has also recommended that official level talks must be arranged at the earliest to thrash out differences.Tamil Nadu has opposed the project, claiming that it will lead to a reduction in the state's quota of water from the Cauvery river, as awarded by the Supreme Court, and that it will be harmful for the state's farmers. The Stalin government has filed an appeal in the top court against the project.The Karnataka government, too, has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court seeking a study on the environmental impact of the project.Yediyurappa, in his letter, has reminded Stalin of the projects planned by Tamil Nadu government - at Kundaha and Sillahalla - on the main river below Mettur for which it hasn't consulted Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-urges-stalin-to-not-to-oppose-the-mekedatu-project-101625383367982.html
04-07-2021||Noida||Fine for flouting speed limit, crash barriers on Yamuna Expressway soon||Authorities have said several measures, including monitoring vehicle speed and installing crash barriers, will be implemented to curb accidents on Yamuna Expressway. "Work is being done to boost safety measures on Yamuna Expressway. Whatever is better will be done. Right now the work of installing crash beam barriers on both sides of the divider is going on," Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), was quoted as saying by Live Hindustan.The Yamuna Authority is now preparing to set up time booths at zero points on both sides of the expressway from Greater Noida and Agra, according to Live Hindustan, HT's sister publication. Authorities will get to know the time vehicles enter the expressway and their speed will be monitored through these time booths. If someone crosses the expressway in less than the stipulated time, they will be fined. At present, most of the challans are based on the speed limit between the toll tax.Also read | Two killed, six injured as car hits truck on Yamuna ExpresswayLight vehicles can travel at a speed of 100 km per hour on the Yamuna Expressway. Yamuna Expressway Management fines motorists based on the distance between two tolls and if someone covers the distance at a higher speed than the fixed limit, they are fined. This invoicing is done online.Under the new system, if motorists cross the 165km long expressway in less than the stipulated time, they will be fined. Experts say once the time booth is set up, people will travel within the prescribed limit and accidents can be curbed.Also read | FASTag on Yamuna Expressway begins functioningLive Hindustan reported that crash barriers are being installed on both sides of the Yamuna Expressway divider by a Gujarat-based company. The barriers will prevent a vehicle from getting into the other lane in case of an accident and can reduce the magnitude of the accident.Vehicles that are involved in an accident on the expressway will also be put on display as a reminder to people about the dangers of overspeeding, according to Live Hindustan.There have been thousands of accidents and hundreds of deaths and serious injuries on the Yamuna Expressway. The alarming number of accidents on the Yamuna Expressway has prompted experts to call for the effective intervention of the Centre and state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fine-for-flouting-speed-limit-crash-barriers-on-yamuna-expressway-soon-101625382152493.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock: Stadiums, sports complexes open; movie halls to remain shut||In a fresh order issued on Sunday, the Delhi government allowed stadium and sports complexes to open without spectators from Monday as the city will enter the sixth phase of the unlock process, news agency ANI reported. The order, issued by the Department Of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), also said that cinema halls, multiplexes, banquet halls and swimming pools will continue to remain shut in the national capital, it also reported.The new relaxations will come into effect from 5am on Monday and the prohibited and restricted activities are extended till 5am of July 12.Social and political gatherings, auditoriums, schools, colleges, spas, amusement parks are also prohibited throughout the National Capital Region (NCR), according to DDMA order. There must be strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs) and other guidelines of the government, and compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour while opening the stadia and sports complexes, DDMA also said in the order.Public transport including buses and Metro will continued to function under 50% capacity limitation due to concerns of overcrowding.Delhi is reopening the economic and social activities as the Covid-19 situation in the city improves significantly. Last week, DDMA allowed the reopening of gyms and yoga institutes with 50 per cent attendance. Banquets, marriage halls and hotels were also allowed to host weddings with 50 guests only.While the city reopens gradually the district authorities are also working to ensure that the Covid-19 norms are being followed without fail. On Saturday the Citing local administration, news agency PTI reported that around 6,000-7,000 challans have been being issued over violation of DDMA orders to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks, maintaining social distance, not spitting at public places, among others. Delhi reported 86 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Saturday, the state health department said in a daily bulletin. It was thrid consecutive day when the number of daily cases was less than 100 cases since April.In more positive development, the positivity rate of the national capital dipped to 0.11 per cent and now 1,016 active cases are there in the city.The total tally now stands at 14,34,460, while the death toll has gone up to 24,988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-stadiums-sports-complexes-to-open-movie-halls-to-remain-shut-101625381677536.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Thane district reports 475 new Covid-19 cases, 13 more deaths||Thane has added 475 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 534,011, an official said on Sunday. Besides these new cases reported on Saturday, the virus also claimed the lives of 13 more people, pushing the death toll in the district to 10,733, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Thane stood at two per cent, he added. Details of recovered and under-treatment patients were not provided by the district administration. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count has gone up to 117,222, while the death toll has reached 2,603, another official said. PTI COR GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-thane-district-reports-475-new-covid-19-cases-13-more-deaths-101625380095151.html
04-07-2021||Dehradun||Pushkar Singh Dhami: From student politics to the top post in Uttarakhand||Pushkar Singh Dhami has been chosen for the top job in Uttarakhand after two chief ministers were replaced less than a year ahead of the assembly elections in the state. The 45-year-old Dhami, a two-time legislator representing the Khatima constituency in the Kumaon region of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar, faces a crucial challenge as the state."My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in the border district of Pithoragarh to serve the people. We will work on people’s issues with the cooperation of all. I will carry forward the work done by my predecessors," Pushkar Singh Dhami said after being named Uttarakhand chief minister.Also read | 5 key challenges before new Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh DhamiUnion minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who was one of the central observers at the BJP’s Legislature Party meeting on Saturday, Tirath Singh Rawat and party state president Madan Kaushik proposed Dhami’s name. “Other senior leaders Trivendra Singh Rawat, Satpal Maharaj, Yashpal Arya, Harak Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Ritu Khanduri, Dhan Singh Rawat and others agreed. As per the party's democratic process, we as observers asked the members of the legislative assembly on any other proposal, but none came. After that, Dhami was elected as the new leader of legislature party unanimously,” said Tomar.  Dhami will take oath as the Uttarakhand chief minister later in the day.Here are 10 things to know about Uttarakhand’s eleventh chief minister:10. Dhami is a law graduate in human resource management and industrial relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/pushkar-singh-dhami-from-student-politics-to-the-top-post-in-uttarakhand-101625365970228.html
04-07-2021||Dehradun||BJP's Pushkar Singh Dhami to take oath as Uttarakhand CM today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pushkar Singh Dhami will take his oath as the 11th chief minister of Uttarakhand on Sunday, a day after being elected as the leader of the BJP legislature party. He will be the third chief minister of the state in nearly four months. An MLA from Khatima, a town in the Udham Singh Nagar district of the state, Dhami rose through his ranks in the party after serving his tenure in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), as well as a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the Bharatiya Yuva Morcha (BYJM), of which he was the state president for six years.Also Read | RSS cadre to youngest U’khand CM: Dhami’s rise through ranksUttarakhand went into a tizzy after the state's erstwhile chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who had replaced his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat earlier in March, resigned on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. Amid talks of a change of guard, two-time BJP MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami was elected on Saturday as the legislature party leader in the state and thus became the chief minister-elect. The consensus was reached after the party met on Saturday afternoon in Dehradun to discuss the issue.At 45, Dhami will be the youngest yet chief minister of Uttarakhand. He takes over at a time when the state will be facing the assembly polls next year. He, however, said that he will take the challenge of the 2022 Uttarakhand assembly polls and "turn it into an opportunity".Also Read | 5 key challenges before new Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh DhamiMeanwhile, Congress alleged that the BJP is creating political instability in Uttarakhand by "changing ministers again and again like toys". The grand old party's chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed that by indulging in a "chair-changing game", the BJP has betrayed the "devbhoomi" (holy land; a moniker for Uttarakhand) and its people who elected the party back in 2017.Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat also pointed out that with Pushkar Singh Dhami, the BJP will now have eight chief ministers in Uttarakhand, three of who saw their tenures in the last four-and-a-half-years of the party's rule in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjps-pushkar-singh-dhami-to-take-oath-as-uttarakhand-cm-today-101625357542141.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Mic drop for LSR student’s efforts to empower the underprivileged||It’s been five years since Delhiite Devanshi Ranjan has been working for the cause of the underprivileged. “I was in school when I first realised the rampant sexism faced by women, especially from the low-income, marginalised communities. Having heard of and spoken to female helpers at home, I resolved to work for their cause, and since then, there was no looking back,” says Ranjan, a final-year student of Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University. Ranjan, 21, recently received the Diana Award — named after the late Diana, Princess of Wales — a prestigious accolade given to youngsters (aged 9 to 25 years) working for social or humanitarian causes. And, the recognition makes her recall the beginning of the lockdown period, last year: “I studied the increase in the number of dropouts in schools, especially of female students, due to household chores and their underprivileged background. I was aware of my privilege as a student, and understood that not many had access to internet connections. I had worked with Ladli Foundation, a non-profit organisation, for four years, and with them, I arranged study material and stationery for students in the city’s rural areas, and taught over 1,000 youngsters in slums of the Capital, during the Covid-19 crisis. We eventually expanded to 50 districts in 10 different states.” Having also worked to foster a safe space for the marginalised, in different capacities, and drawing on her personal experiences, Ranjan launched an advocacy-based and youth-led initiative, Project MicDrop, with her friends, in July last year. “I always wanted to start something of my own, and work passionately on the topics of gender and sexuality. Today, we are a team of 50 members and have over 150 contributors from different walks of life. Project MicDrop aims to provide a safe platform for people to talk about feminism, politics, gender, sex and sexuality, and empower people through art, campaigning and events. Over the past few months, we have conducted workshops and webinars, such as sessions on gender inclusive parenting and women representation in media,” she explains. The young gun has also served as a teacher volunteer at the NGO, Tamana, which helps those with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Ranjan feels grateful for the appreciation that has come her way for all her past efforts, and wants to continue working for those in need. “I do feel that I have a responsibility to work for others. I wish to work in the areas of gender equality, mental health and education, because I believe the social sector is my calling,” she concludes. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mic-drop-for-lsr-student-s-efforts-to-empower-the-underprivileged-101625346119545.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC ruling on strays’ rights emboldens feeders; RWAs up for the task||Instances of animal lovers being chastised for feeding strays in residential areas have been far too many. Recently, holding the view that ‘animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect and dignity’, the Delhi High Court said that community dogs have to be fed at designated areas, and that care-givers or feeders have the right to feed them. This has come as a relief to the pawsome individuals who have been uptill now holding fort with strong conviction.Delhi-based animal lovers and rescuers feel that this judgement will help them as they go about taking care of strays. “Every positive change towards animal welfare brings me closer to achieving my dream that no community dog sleeps with an empty stomach. Such orders give me hope that there will surely be a day when all the stray animals are treated with respect and would get the love and care that they deserve. Through this ruling , there will be thousands of dogs who would get food as people would now have the courage, strength and power to stand against those who stop them from feeding the strays. This is a huge achievement for all the animal lovers who are out there working hard each and every day,” says Vibha Tomar, a Delhi-based animal rescuer and veterinary student.Advocates for animal welfare also opine that maintaining peace between dog lovers and other members of the community will be possible if each area has designated feeding spots. “Some people have issues with dogs dirtying the locality, which can be corrected easily. But people have complaints that the dogs bark a lot. What else are dogs supposed to do? Moreover, I’ve been abused and my character has been questioned, only because I fight for the rights of the voiceless in my locality,” says Shruti Kapoor, an animal rescuer in Rohini, adding, “We take care of the dogs in our locality at our own expense, and dogs are extremely loving and understanding. The violence inflicted on dog feeders is appalling, and in that light, demarcating designated spots in each locality, keeping in mind the territory of the animal, will go a long way in maintaining peace.” The Delhi HC’s order also puts onus of vaccination and sterilisation on the RWAs and municipal corporation, and many associations say they are up for the challenge. In Vasant Kunj’s C-9 block, the residents and the RWA have formed a dog care group that tends to the needs of the strays. “We’ve 40 stray dogs, and all of them are vaccinated and sterilised. And we’ve been doing this for years now. Infact, for people who say strays are dirty, surely they haven’t seen the chaos pets create; and we are working to implement rules where every resident will have to pick up after their pet. Of course tussles happen, but we all deliberate on it together. The area belongs to the strays as much as it does to us. We welcome the Delhi HC’s decision and believe RWAs must take charge and create an atmosphere of peace for all their members,” says Mausumi Bhattacharjee, general secretary of the RWA. And this ruling has received an applause from the RWAs in NCR as well. Nazim Khan, RWA secretary, Madhuban Apartments in Noida, says, “There are many residents in our locality who love animals and like to feed them, and care for their well-being. Hence, as a responsible association, we have provided for designated spots where food is regularly provided for them. This ensures that animals don’t turn violent, out of hunger. We do have a few complaints of stray dogs biting domestic helps and kids in the locality, but I believe it can all be amicably resolved, largely without any violence.”  Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-ruling-on-strays-rights-emboldens-feeders-rwas-up-for-the-task-101625345882897.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Plan for e-carts in Chandni Chowk||Sadia AkhtarThe Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) has proposed to run electric vehicles similar to golf carts with a vintage look on the revamped stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, which has been made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles, officials privy to the matter said.SRDC is the nodal agency constituted for the redevelopment of the heritage market.According to the minutes of a June 30 meeting — attended by Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain, who is also the chairman of SRDC, corporation officials, and traffic and transport department officials — a concept note has been prepared for running low-speed electric golf carts with a maximum speed of 25-30 kmph to help the elderly who visit the market. Officials from the transport department are expected to apprise the Delhi high court about the proposal. The cart service will be free.“Commissioner (Transport) suggested that High Court may be apprised about the intent of the government to ply electric golf carts in the restricted area for elders and infirm while simultaneously making detailed deliberations,” according to the minutes, which HT has seen.During the meeting, officials also discussed that for public roads which have been made pedestrian exclusive zones, running non-motorised vehicles can be considered on lines of the restricted zone around Taj Mahal in Agra.Jain suggested that the agency could explore possible tie-ups with various traders’ associations of the market for operating electric vehicles.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said the idea is promising. “We will approach private players for CSR activities who can present innovative designs,” said Bhargava.In addition to initiatives aimed at boosting pedestrianisation, consultations with private hotel chains are underway for plantation drives in the area this month. Jain approved the horticulture initiatives and directed that they be finished by July 25.It was also decided that PWD officials will review arterial roads such as Church Mission Road and Esplanade Road for maintenance and improvement by mid-July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plan-for-e-carts-in-chandni-chowk-101625345317876.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets a break from heat||After four consecutive heatwave days, rain showers that started on Friday evening and continued on Saturday gave residents some respite from the sweltering heat.The national capital witnessed a wet Saturday afternoon as rain, accompanied by strong winds, lashed several parts of the city for the second consecutive day, bringing down the temperature by several degrees on Saturday.The maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 38.6°C, nearly three degrees below the previous day’s maximum temperature of 41. 3°C at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the Capital.“Light rain and thunderstorms are likely to continue in some parts of Delhi and NCR on Sunday as well, because of moisture carrying southwest winds. This will keep the temperatures on similar lines as Saturday. But from Monday, temperatures in Delhi will start rising again,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet weather services.He further added that there won’t be any heatwaves “for another 24-48 hours”. “Thereafter, around July 6, the heatwave might return. By July 8-9, the monsoon may start progressing over the remaining parts of northwest India,” said Palawat.An IMD bulletin said “no heat wave conditions are likely over the region during the next five days”. “Maximum temperatures over the plains of northwest India are likely to fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius today (Saturday), and no significant change is likely thereafter,” it said.For four days, the temperature had remained above 40°C, with the IMD classifying them as heatwave days.IMD declares a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C. From Tuesday till Friday, the city saw scorching hot days until rain showers brought some relief on Friday evening.Experts, however, warned that this relief was short-lived and temperatures are likely to rise again in the Capital next week, till the monsoon arrives. IMD on Thursday said the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7.As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 39°C while the minimum will touch 24°C on Sunday. As per the weekly forecast, a thunderstorm with rain is expected in the next few days.Meanwhile, the air quality in the city improved from ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category following rain over Friday and Saturday. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 139 (moderate) on Saturday, an improvement from the AQI of 245 (poor) on Friday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. Experts attributed the improvement to high-speed winds and rain.On Saturday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Rainfall observed at a few places over Delhi has led to the improvement in air quality through the aerosol wash out process. Surface winds are moderate and southwesterly. Long-range transport of dust from arid western regions and local emissions are expected to continue in the coming days. Moderate to poor AQI is forecast for next the three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-a-break-from-heat-101625344030937.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Inauguration of nine UP medical colleges by PM proposed this month, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that it was proposed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate nine medical colleges in the state this month.He also said the inauguration of nine medical colleges at one go would be historic.“All the necessary work for the establishment of the nine medical colleges is complete. Currently, the process is on to appoint a total of 450 faculty members for the nine colleges. The faculty selection should be done in a transparent manner. Merit should be the sole criterion in the selection process,” he said to the officials concerned at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting.The chief minister said though the Covid-19 situation in the state was getting better, this was the time to ensure the utmost alertness in preventing the spread of the disease.“A minor negligence could trigger a major problem,” he said.In the past 24 hours, 2.44 lakh Covid tests were done across the state and only 112 fresh cases of infection were reported in the same period during which 204 patients recovered, he said. At present, the state has 2,461 active Covid cases (number of patients under treatment).Green light for resumption of revenue courts, thana divas, tehsil divasWith a view to increasing the people’s convenience, he said activities in the state’s revenue courts should resume following Covid safety norms. Similarly, the thana divas (grievance redressal day at police stations) and tehsil divas (grievance redressal day at tehsils) should begin following social distancing, mask-wearing, and sanitisation.He said only trained vaccinators should do Covid-19 inoculation. The chief minister asked officials to encourage online registration for vaccination and run this service in the rural areas through common service centres (CSCs) and allow the pre-registered people at the vaccination centres after issuing time slots for vaccination.Nine more oxygen plants activatedHe said nine more oxygen plants were activated in the state in the last two days, taking the total number of new activated plants to 131 while work was in progress on more plants.“It is a must to have an oxygen plant for all the hospitals with more than 50 beds,” he said.CM for uninterrupted power supplyChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the officials concerned to work towards uninterrupted power supply in the state in a continuous and planned manner.“Be it a farmer, trader, industrialist or a common man, all need power. Make efficient power supply following a roster system, do not do unnecessary power cuts and consolidate the system of replacing faulty, worn-out power cables and power masts,” he said to the officials at the Covid-19 review meeting. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/inauguration-of-nine-up-medical-colleges-by-pm-proposed-this-month-says-yogi-101625343479166.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||NCP says Pawar’s comments on farm laws were meant for Maharashtra||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Saturday clarified that National Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar's reported comments on amending the farm laws were in reference to the farm laws in Maharashtra. Malik also accused the Centre of creating confusion regarding Pawar’s statement.Malik also said that all three parties of the Maha Vikas Aghadi - the Shiv Sena, Congress and the NCP - opposed the laws introduced by the Centre last year. “The central government is creating confusion about the statement of NCP president Sharad Pawar. He had come to meet some agricultural organizations and he said that agricultural laws in Maharashtra should be reformed. He did not speak about agricultural law introduced by the Centre,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Tomar had earlier said that he welcomes the reported statements made by the former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar. Tomar said the clauses to which farmers have an objection must be changed after deliberation. Tomar also said that the Centre is ready to deliberate with farmer leaders. “The agriculture reform bill is going to bring revolutionary changes in the living standards of the farmers,” Tomar said. He said the Centre is ready to discuss every aspect of the laws but is not ready to repeal them.The protests against the three farm laws are still ongoing at Delhi’s borders. The protests against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 began on November 26. Farmers believe that these laws will help the corporate sector reap profits and affect the livelihood of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-says-pawar-s-comments-on-farm-laws-were-meant-for-maharashtra-101625343280470.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area registers zero Covid deaths after 107 days||After a deadly second wave that claimed 1,100 lives in April and May, the tricity achieved the much-awaited milestone of zero Covid-19 deaths on Saturday.While either of Chandigarh, Mohali or Panchkula had been reporting zero deaths through June, it was for the first time after 107 days since March 18 that no person succumbed to the viral infection in the tricity area on Saturday.As the Covid cases started climbing swiftly in April, leaving critical care facilities overstretched, tricity’s daily deaths peaked to 38 on May 5. Thereon, it was not until June 1 that the daily toll dropped below 10.As the tricity remained under lockdown through five weeks between May and June, the figure stayed less than 10 for 24 straight days since June 9, but did not hit zero until Saturday.Having tided over the devastating second wave, in June Panchkula registered no death on as many as 15 days. Worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali recorded no casualty on three days in the month and Chandigarh achieved the milestone on nine days.Recently, Panchkula has reported no death for six days in a row and Chandigarh four, while it was after five days that Mohali once again saw no resident succumbing to the virus on Saturday.“With the decline in cases over the last few weeks, fortunately few patients are requiring hospitalisation. It takes a week to 10 days for the infection to become severe, but the number of such patients is quite low now. Also, having experienced the second wave, hospitals are now well-equipped to treat severe patients. But people must continue to adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols to avert the third wave,” cautioned Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of department anaesthesia, PGIMER, Chandigarh.32 test positive in slight uptickAgainst 23 Covid-19 cases on Friday, 32 people tested positive on Saturday. Chandigarh saw the cases rising from 12 to 18, Mohali had 12 cases against seven a day ago, while in Panchkula, the figure decreased from four to two.However, the active cases reduced from 445 on Friday to 415 on Saturday. Among them, 221 patients are still infected in Mohali, followed by 149 in Chandigarh and 45 in Panchkula.The daily positivity rate was 1% or lower across the board – lowest in Panchkula at 0.2%.The district also has the highest recovery rate of 98.6%, ahead of Chandigarh’s 98.4% and Mohali’s 98.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-registers-zero-covid-deaths-after-107-days-101625343119926.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||District panchayat chief polls in UP reveal interesting alliances, tactical moves||The zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections in Uttar Pradesh revealed interesting alliances and tactical moves. The results were declared on Saturday, the same day on which the elections were held. These polls were held about eight months before the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections that are due early next year.In Jaunpur, BJP’s ally Apna Dal withdrew from the race in support of independent candidate Srikala Reddy, wife of former MP Dhananjay Singh, and she won the election. In Ghazipur, at one stage, it was reported that two members who had won on the backing of Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), tactically supported the BJP.“AIMIM’s nexus with BJP now lies exposed,” said Congress’s Surendra Rajput. However, AIMIM state chief Shaukat Ali denied such reports. “This is completely untrue,” Ali said. Owaisi’s party is planning to contest 100 seats in 2022 UP assembly polls. In Amethi, the BJP won against the SP even as the Congress failed to even put up a candidate here. In Pratapgarh, former minister and local heavyweight Raghuraj Pratap Singh aka Raja Bhaiya’s candidate Madhuri Patel won as a nominee of the Jansatta Dal (Loktantrik). After the win, Singh said, “Ruling party candidates usually want good law and order. But, today their workers created ruckus.” He thanked Congress veteran Pramod Tiwari and his daughter Aradhana Misra ‘Mona’, a Congress MLA, for the win.Asked if his Jansatta Dal would ally with Congress in 2022, he said in Pratapgarh, “After a long time, our relations have improved and they would stay that way. But that’s on a personal level. As for a formal alliance, wait and watch.” UP minister Rajendra Pratap Singh reportedly had a heated exchange of words with Pappan Singh, husband of BJP candidate Shama Singh, who alleged lack of party support in Pratapgarh.Meanwhile, deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, ministers and lawmakers hailed the win. “Say it with heart, BJP once again in 2022,” Maurya said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh also credited the win to the policies of the Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi government in the state.“I must also congratulate party cadre who worked very hard,” he added. BJP general secretary JPS Rathore was the coordinator for these polls. How BJP fared in each region For organisational purposes, the BJP demarcated the state into six regions. In the paschim or west region with 14 districts, BJP won 13 seats and RLD one. In the Braj region with 12 districts, BJP won 11 seats and the SP bagged Etah. In the Kanpur region with 14 districts, including several SP bastions, the BJP won 12, besides the victory of a BJP-supported candidate while the SP won Etawah. In the Awadh region with 13 districts, the BJP had a clean sweep. In the Kashi region with 12 districts, the BJP won nine along with a party supported candidate. An independent bagged Jaunpur, which BJP and its ally Apna Dal didn’t contest. Former minister Raghuraj Pratap Singh aka Raja Bhaiya’s Jansatta Dal opened its account in Pratapgarh. In Gorakhpur region with 10 districts, BJP won seven seats while the SP bagged Sant Kabir Nagar, Azamgarh and Ballia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zila-panchayat-chief-polls-in-up-reveal-interesting-alliances-tactical-moves-101625342759011.html
04-07-2021||Other||Mehbooba Mufti calls ending of ‘darbar move’ insensitive decision||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday termed the ending of 149-year-old practice of ‘darbar move’ as an “insensitive” decision, adding that its economic and social benefits outnumbered the expenses incurred for moving of the offices during summer and winter.“GOIs recent decision to stop Darbar move is penny wise & pound foolish. Its economic & social benefits outnumber expenses incurred for moving the capital during summer & winter. Quite obvious that such insensitive decisions are taken by those who least care for J&K’s welfare,” she wrote on Twitter.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had last month announced that it has completely transitioned to e-office, thereby ending the practice of the biannual darbar move.The practice of darbar move - under which the administration functions in Jammu during six months of winter and in Srinagar during summer - was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape extreme weather conditions in the two regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mehbooba-mufti-calls-ending-of-darbar-move-insensitive-decision-101625342578970.html
04-07-2021||Other||Pakistani intruder arrested along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||Security forces on Saturday arrested a Pakistani intruder along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said here.The troops picked up a suspected movement along the LoC in the forward area of Gulpur and intercepted the intruder, they said.He was arrested and is being questioned, the officials said.The man has been identified as Javaid of Chopur, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pakistani-intruder-arrested-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch-101625342459064.html
04-07-2021||Other||Masarat Kar elected chairperson of Sopore municipal council||National Conference (NC) councillor Masarat Kar was elected chairperson of Sopore municipal council on Saturday around five months after the seat fell vacant. Kar bagged 12 out of the 18 votes to beat her nearest rival Irfan Ali of Peoples’ Democratic Party. “Mubarak and best wishes to chairperson Masrat Kar and vice-chairperson Mohd Yusaf Radoo, both from JKNC, on being elected to head the municipality of Sopore town. I hope they fulfill their responsibilities with diligence & honesty,” said NC vice-president Omar Abdullah in a tweet. Election to majority of the wards of Sopore municipal council was held in December and just a month after a no-confidence motion was moved against the then chairman Abdul Ahad Dar. “This is the success of the people of Sopore. It took some time,but elections were conducted, and the wishes of the people were respected,” she said. Two councillors –Riyaz Ahmad and Shams-U-Din Pir – and a policeman were killed in a militant attack in Sopore during a meeting of councilors in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/masarat-kar-elected-chairperson-of-sopore-municipal-council-101625341978298.html
04-07-2021||Other||Delimitation panel to hold 2 meetings each in Jammu, Kashmir divisions||The delimitation commission will be meeting delegations at four places, two each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions, during their visit to the UT from July 7.On July 7, the commission will be visiting Pahalgam where they will be meeting officials of the four districts of South Kashmir -- Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian. The same evening, the delegation will travel to Srinagar where they will be meeting officials and delegations of political parties of Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Bandipore, Baramulla and Kupwara.The next day, the delegation will travel to Kishtwar where they will be meeting delegations and officials of Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban districts. On July 9, the commission will be meeting delegations of Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts. The commission has asked all district electoral officers to get election-related records with them. Also, the delegations of political groups and other groups have been asked to forward request for meeting via district electoral officers (DEOs).J&K’s political parties have begun consultations on whether to meet them or not, though they haven’t got any invitation from the commission yet.Earlier, three MPs of the National Conference (NC) – Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi – had refused to attend the delimitation meeting. However, the NC seems to have changed its mind after it authorised party president Farooq Abdullah to take a call on whether to participate in future meetings or not. Most political parties have said that they will decide on the meeting only after they receive an invitation from the commission.The commission is visiting J&K after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting with 14 J&K leaders. The leaders had pressed for the granting of statehood and holding of elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delimitation-panel-to-hold-2-meetings-each-in-jammu-kashmir-divisions-101625341859093.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||SP alleges lathi-charge on party workers during district panchayat chief elections in Uttar Pradesh||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Saturday alleged that its party workers were lathi-charged in most districts of the state while the zila (district) panchayat chairpersons’ polls were in progress. For his part, chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of engaging in malpractices and rigging to win the elections. Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary claimed that the workers were lathi-charged in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and several other districts when they were protesting against the favours that the administration had allegedly extended to the ruling party candidates.In a statement, the SP chief said: “By throwing all democratic ethics and norms to the wind and turning the elections into a joke, the BJP converted its defeat in the panchayat elections into the victory in zila panchayat chiefs’ elections. The BJP held the voters (zila panchayat members) hostage, lured and intimidated them. And when SP leaders protested against the malpractices, the administration misbehaved with them.” In Lucknow, the police were seen forcibly removing the SP workers from the collectorate gate while they were protecting the “going on inside in the favour of BJP”, the party alleged. Democracy would be restored once the SP came back to power, Akhilesh Yadav said.He also said that the SP had petitioned the state election commissioner (SEC) several times, but no action was taken by SEC. These elections had exposed the autocratic face of the ruling dispensation, he alleged. It was alleged that in many places across the state, the administration provided “BJP helpers” to zila panchayat members. He said in Aligarh, despite the protest by SP, nine members were provided with helpers and in Shamli eight helpers were deployed to help the voting members. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “SP members were forcefully stopped from voting. They were beaten and threatened. There was brazen misuse of government machinery… The DMs were pressuring the zila panchayat members to vote for the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-alleges-lathi-charge-on-party-workers-during-zp-chief-elections-in-uttar-pradesh-101625341739259.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Chandigarh is now self-sufficient in handling third wave’||As the city braces for a third Covid wave, Hindustan Times talks to Dr G Dewan, the former director, health and family welfare, Chandigarh, who was at the forefront in fighting the first wave and helped administration during the second. Having spent 35 years in UT’s health department before his retirement in October 2020, Dr Dewan talks about his experience and challenges that lie ahead for the city’s health infrastructure.Covid testing has always remained a concern. What should be done to increase testing before the third wave hits the city?Testing of super-spreaders and asymptomatic people still remains a challenge, especially when new variants are spreading. The grassroots level health staff should reach every home in UT to test people.What are the lessons for UT administration from first and second wave management?Earlier, we were short on beds and ventilators, but Chandigarh is now self-sufficient in handling the third wave. However, there is always scope for improvement in any system. Efforts should be made to spread awareness among children about containing the spread.How tiring Covid-19 has been for doctors? What should be done to boost their morale?Not only the doctors, but the paramedics are also Covid warriors. Even though fresh manpower was added in hospitals, healthcare workers are now getting tired and fatigued. The staff should work in batches so that they have ample time to replenish their energy before getting into the third wave. This will avoid over-utilisation of manpower and they should also be given short rest to boost their energy levels.What are the challenges before frontline workers, especially doctors, as we gear up for the third wave?We have to be over-alert now in view of the mutation of the virus. The quality and availability of protective tools should be assured by the institutes and be readily available in the market. Patients with mild to moderate symptoms should be sent to mini Covid-care centres so that beds are available for severe patients. Doctors and staff should be trained to use ventilators. Gaps need to be bridged proactively, which have been observed in the past.Chandigarh recorded shortage of medical oxygen, ventilators and crucial drugs during the second wave. What steps need to be taken before the third wave strikes?Chandigarh is well-equipped with oxygen, which is available through multiple modes. It is time to strengthen manpower. The city can be divided into zones where state-of-the-art 24x7 vaccination centres can be set up. Mobile vans can be sent to urban slums and colonies in the evenings and nights to cater to the daily wagers who are not available in day-time. Special education should be imparted to beggars and rag-pickers as they may be asymptotic super-spreaders. People should also cooperate with the administration and follow every guideline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-is-now-self-sufficient-in-handling-third-wave-101625341679015.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dumpyard on empty plot raises a stink in Chandigarh’s Sector 43||Over the past year, an empty patch of land along the road dividing Sectors 42 and 43 (on Sector 43-A side) has turned into a dumping ground with foul smell emanating from the site.Irked over the improper disposal of garbage close to their houses, residents have called for swift action against the culprits.The site in question is not far from where Apni Mandi is organised in the sector every Saturday. While the land belongs to the Chandigarh administration, its maintenance is the responsibility of the municipal corporation (MC), according to officials.Jaswant Singh, a resident, said, “We have been living here for the past 30 years and this patch of land has never been this dirty. This started around the start of the Covid pandemic and now the whole area stinks due to the garbage being dumped and burnt here.”Another resident, JL Sethi, added, “Many garbage collectors frequently burn the garbage at the plot. It leads to a lot of smoke and foul smell in the area.”Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri, who also lives in Sector 43, confirmed said residents have only recently started complaining about the dumping of garbage here. “Debris and garbage are being increasingly disposed of here. The authorities must act swiftly and take action against anyone found dumping waste here.”Social activist LR Budaniya has also submitted a complaint regarding this to the MC commissioner with over a 100 signatures and contact details of residents facing problems due to the activity. “Since the land belongs to the administration there is some confusion over who will clean it. A similar situation is seen on the cycle tracks of the city with the MC and administration passing the buck on their maintenance,” he said.Residents allege open defecation by nearby villagersBudaniya alleged that the land was being used by some residents of the nearby Attawa village in Sector 42 for open defecation. Notably, Chandigarh has been declared open defecation free plus plus (ODF++) by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs under the Swachh Bharat mission.However, local area councillor Chanderwati Shukla said, “We are unaware about any garbage dumping going at the vacant plot, but we will get it checked and cleared. Recently, residents approached us about weeds growing tall here, and we got them removed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dumpyard-on-empty-plot-raises-a-stink-in-chandigarh-s-sector-43-101625341619363.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases dip, but govt hospitals in Chandigarh yet to start walk-in OPDs||Even though the second wave of the pandemic seems to have flattened in UT, the two tertiary-care government hospitals in Chandigarh—Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32 — have yet to start walk-in out-patient departments (OPD) facility.The physical OPDs in the city’s three government hospitals were suspended after a sudden surge in infections in April. In the last 15 days, however, UT recorded 276 cases and 4 deaths.From June 21, PGIMER had started providing physical consultations at its OPDs, but the facility was made available for only severely-ill patients with prior appointment booked through the hospital’s tele-consultation portal.On an average, only 1,200 to 1,500 patients are being called for physical consultations by the doctors, per day but the hospital holds the capacity to physically examine at least 10,000 patients daily, like in pre-Covid times. Many patients are complaining that despite requests, the doctors at tele-consultations are not booking their appointments for physical examination. Director of PGIMER Dr Jagat Ram said, “On an average, 4,000 people are consulting at PGIMER’s OPD daily and of them, 1200-1500 are being physically examined while the rest are being given consultation through telephones. We are waiting for Covid-19 cases to drop further and then we will gradually increase the per day physical consultation capacity. We cannot open a walk-in OPD at present as the crowd could lead to spreading of infection.”Dr Ram added that he has asked hospital authorities to provide treatment to emergency patients, even if they are visiting the OPD without any prior appointment. “Some patients, especially from poor classes, do not know how to book an appointment and visit the hospital directly. We take appropriate Covid measures but are providing them the treatment.”Meanwhile in GMCH-32, patients are still awaiting physical consultations.Director-principal of GMCH-32 Dr Jasbinder Kaur said, “From July 5, we will start calling patients for physical consultation but only after they book appointments through tele-medicine. We have decided to conduct Covid-19 tests for patients arriving at OPDs, but there are no plans yet to start walk-in OPDs.”On the other hand, walk-in OPD has already started at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, and over 1,000 patients are visiting the hospital daily.‘PGIMER should vaccinate people arriving at OPDs’Former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar, who is heading Punjab government’s expert group on Covid, said that PGIMER should now start physical consultation in OPDs in a phased manner. “Even if Covid patients are being treated at the hospital, PGIMER can call more than 1,500 patients daily for physical consultation. The hospital should open OPDs till late evening so that crowd management can be done and social distancing can be implemented. The number of physical consultations will double if timings are increased,” said Dr Talwar.He added, “Also, PGI can vaccinate people coming to the OPDs who have not taken the jabs so far. This will help avert the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-dip-but-govt-hospitals-in-chandigarh-yet-to-start-walk-in-opds-101625341559205.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Chance of the century||The role that chance plays in the affairs of mortals finds a dramatic resonance in the interface between humans and birds. This was underscored by the rescue of a timid little bird running around in a Jalandhar garage. It turned out that the rescued bird, the yellow-legged buttonquail, was a historical rarity for Punjab. It had not been spotted in the region for over a century.None of us would have been the wiser of this bird’s contemporary presence in Punjab had the buttonquail not got herself into an awkward spot, of all the myriad places in sprawling Jalandhar, in a house whose neighbour, Sanjiv Khanna, happens to be not only a seasoned birder but also one proficient in the rescue of distressed birds.The buttonquail’s secretive voyages to Punjab around the monsoons for breeding in fresh grasslands have been noted by 19th century British ornithologists but records have been rather sparse over the centuries. This is partly because this diminutive bird, which is the size of a house sparrow, blends amazingly into scrubland or grass and prefers to migrate at night.In other words, a proverbial undercover agent having mastered the art of hiding in plain sight! Neither is this bird much sought after or tracked down by the roving lenses of the ever-increasing tribe of Punjab bird photographers, otherwise its presence would have been recorded more frequently. Glaring city lights tend to disorient its nocturnal navigation and some befuddled buttonquails end up as fugitives in houses across India leading to astonishment (like a paratrooper landing in the proverbial lap of the householder sipping his morning tea!) and feverish updates to the buttonquail’s distribution maps.“Some modern field guides on the sub-continent’s birds had all but written off the buttonquail’s presence in Punjab as no sighting had been reported for around a century. Before Khanna’s rescue, the last authentic record (with reference to the area encompassed by present-day Punjab) had come from Hugh Whistler, the policeman-ornithologist, who shot a male buttonquail near Ludhiana way back on July 11, 1917! Whistler had noted that the buttonquail shot by him was the only record from Punjab till then! All said and done, the chance rescue from Jalandhar proves that British ornithologists rightly included Punjab in the summer distribution range of this buttonquail,” said Mohali-based professor Gurpartap Singh, a birder, who has a hawk’s eye for avian identification and backs it with a zealous devotion to historical detail and tireless thumbing of ornithological literature.Enjoying a quaint zoological nomenclature, Turnix tanki tanki, the buttonquail is not an endangered species. As Khanna’s discovery indicates, it may not be so rare in terms of numbers. But it has certainly been very smart in eluding the Punjabi eye for over 100 years! Let me get Khanna to narrate the delightful tale of his discovery.“I received an early morning call on June 23 from Satwinder Multani, who lives next door. She called to say that the common myna chick, which she had asked me to replace in its nest two days ago, had fallen again and had taken refuge inside her car garage. She wanted me to restore the chick to its nest again. For all her noble intentions, the pugnacious mama and papa mynas had in the first instance relentlessly pecked at the good Satwinder’s head! I rushed to the spot with the objective to again reinstate the chick in its nest. However, I found that the so-called myna chick was actually a very small bird running in the garage and trying to hide. My birder’s eye seized upon it as a quail-like bird. Its small size had probably led Satwinder to mistake it as the same myna chick, which we had restored to the nest two days back. It was hard to catch the quail and she had a small injury on her head. I brought the bird to my rescue shelter, Aashray. After applying medicine to the injury, I fed her grains and water. After taking feed, the bird was eager for freedom. I released the bird and much to my surprise it took a high flight and disappeared. As a rescuer of an estimated 1,300 birds since 1994, I was very happy to have saved and recorded a very rarely seen species of the Punjab,” Khanna, an engineer by profession, told this writer.The rescued buttonquail was a female, distinguished by a gorgeous orange-rufous buff collar. The female is the prettier in this species, reversing the differences of plumage in birds where males tend to be the preening queens and more justified in seeking self-gratification from the proverbial mirror on the wall. There is a very good reason for this reversal of beauty as it is the female buttonquail who philanders and wows suitors with her dazzling orange, rust and rufous colours so that she can “sow her wild oats” in a string of seduced males. This inverse version of the Don Juan legend is also slightly larger than the male. The female’s advertising call includes a series of low-pitched hoots, gradually increasing in volume and sounding in the end notes virtually like human moans.“The female is polyandrous, evidently not promiscuous but practising successive polyandry. She battles with rival hens for the possession of a cock and does the courting. After the eggs are laid, she loses interest and goes in search of a new mate. The cock settles down to incubate them (12-16 days) and later rears the chicks all by himself,” is how legendary birdman, Salim Ali, described the buttonquail’s breeding practises.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-chance-of-the-century-101625341498918.html
04-07-2021||Other||Pulwama encounter: Police identify 4 slain militants as locals, fifth a Pak national||Four out of the five Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants killed in Pulwama encounter on Friday were locals while the fifth was a Pakistani national, police said on Saturday. It was also revealed that an SLR rifle recovered from their possession, along with other weapons, had been snatched from the police in 2016. The gunfight had broken out after a team of the police, 44 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF launched a joint cordon-and-search operation in Pulwama’s Rajpora area on Thursday night, following a tip-off. The operation soon turned into an encounter when the militants opened fire on the security personnel, killing one soldier and injuring another, an official had revealed. The militants neutralised in the operation have been identified as Nishaz Hussain Lone alias Khitab, the district commander of LeT, Danish Manzoor Shiekh of Sathergund Kakapora, Amir Wagay of Hanjan Payeen, Mehran Manzoor of Jamalatoo, Srinagar, and Abu Rehan alias Tawheed of Pakistan. Lone is believed to have been active since 2018. “All five killed in Friday’s encounter were linked with the proscribed terror outfit LeT. As per police records, they were part of the groups involved in many terror crime cases and civilian atrocities,” a J&K police spokesperson said. He said arms, ammunition and other incriminating materials were recovered from the site of the encounter, including an SLR rifle belonging to Jammu and Kashmir Police that was snatched by militants in 2016 from a guard. “All recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their complicity in other terror crimes.” Army pays tribute to slain soldier The Army on Saturday paid tributes to Havildar Kashiray Bammanalli, who was killed in the operation. In a ceremony at BB Cantt, Chinar Corps Commander Lieutenant General DP Pandey paid homage to the gallant soldier. “At around 00:25 am, during search and cordon operation in the village, the militants fired indiscriminately on the search party. Late Havildar Kashiray Bammanalli showed highest level of courage and valour by returning effective fire, in which he sustained a gunshot wound in the chest and was grievously injured. His bleeding was controlled with combat first aid, and he was immediately evacuated to 92 Base Hospital for treatment where he succumbed to his injuries,” an army spokesperson said, adding that the soldier, aged 37, had joined the Army in 2006. “He belonged to Ukkal village of B Bagewadi Tehsil, Vijayapura district in Karnataka, and is survived by his wife, daughter and a son.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pulwama-encounter-police-identify-4-slain-militants-as-locals-fifth-a-pak-national-101625341439374.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: India can learn a lot from the West||In the pre-Covid days, ministers and bureaucrats would go on foreign jaunts for study tours or conferences. However, it seems little has been learnt from these trips as hardly anything has been done to make our system of working more public friendly.The inadequacies of the systems in place in India were recently thrown into sharp relief when we bought a property in a scenic Canadian town, around 300km away from our house in Vancouver. After looking at a few properties that were on sale through a local realtor, we shortlisted the most suitable ones. After returning to Vancouver, we made an offer on a property that sat on the foothills of snow-covered mountains, next to a lake. This was done online. Our realtor and lawyer confirmed the title of the property, inspections, last date for closing the deal and tendered the advance deposit through e-mails.Meanwhile, we arranged our mortgage, made the final payment through our lawyer, which included different taxes. On the closing day, the property was transferred in our name electronically in the records of local municipality (City). Once the ownership changed, we contacted the existing tenants, and signed a new tenancy agreement online. It goes without saying that the same transaction would have been extremely cumbersome in India.I noticed a similar efficiency when we bought a car. We selected a car and went to the dealership at an appointed time. An insurance company broker was also present. The payment was made through a bank draft. The insurance company representative entered all the details of the vehicle in his records, which are also made available to government agencies. He insured our vehicle on the spot and issued a new license plate, which we fitted on our car before driving home. The whole process was over in around two hours. No applications had to be filled, nor did we attach notarised copies of our Aadhaar Card, PAN Card or photographs. We only showed our driving licence, which has our address too. We did not have to visit the Regional Licensing Authority office or schedule multiple visits to get the new registration certificate, or for a high-security number plate.When my local driving licence expired, I booked an appointment for renewal. On the given date and time, I visited the licensing office where a friendly employee asked me two questions — “Have you any medical conditions ? Is there any change of address ? ” Then I was told to look into the web camera for the photograph. In no time, I was issued a printout of a temporary driving licence and told that the regular driving licence will be mailed to me within four weeks, but I got it in post within two weeks. Efficiency par excellence!Unfortunately, the same was not seen when I had to renew my passport. I could not plan a trip to India due to Covid restrictions and in the meantime my passport expired. I applied for renewal at the Indian Consulate and their outsourced agency demanded a long list of documents — an online application, a recent photo, notarised copies of my Aadhaar, PAN, Permanent Residency Card and my landing document.The last demand was absurd as the landing document is carried by a new immigrant on his first visit to Canada. On the basis of which, Canadian authorities replace it with a PR Card promptly. I haven’t needed the landing document since 2000, I wonder why the Indian Government was interested in my landing document to renew my Indian Passport, especially when I possess a PR card. After three weeks, I received an email saying that my police inquiry had been forwarded to the police station nearest to my Chandigarh home. It also said that if nothing is heard within a few weeks, I should get in touch with the local police station. Can anyone explain the rationale of this email? There is a lot to emulate from advanced countries, should bureaucrats want to make changes for the better. Meanwhile, the public keeps suffering due to primitive and cumbersome practices forcing them to engage corrupt middlemen.wcdpsbajwa@gmail.com(The writer is a Canada-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-india-can-learn-a-lot-from-the-west-101625341258230.html
04-07-2021||Lucknow||Barrier-free stadium comes up at a university in Lucknow||A barrier-free stadium stadium for divyangs has come up in Lucknow, making it possibly the first such sports venue in India to meet the needs of differently abled people, according to an official release. The facility will give divyang players the opportunity to hone their skills and showcase them at the international level. “A grand barrier-free stadium for differently abled students has come up at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMRU). Incurring a cost of ₹52 crore, the stadium has both indoor and outdoor sports facilities. It has an outdoor football field and many other facilities for indoor games like volleyball, handball, badminton court, etc,” said university registrar Amit Kumar Singh. The barrier-free stadium will allow differently abled students to take part in various sporting activities, both indoor and outdoor, he said. The registrar said this stadium for the divyangs in Lucknow will be the first such one in India. An official said floodlights had also been installed in the stadium. Arrangements will be made for sports like badminton, wrestling and basketball in the stadium. The stadium has a gym and an athletics track too. With this effort of state government, divyangs will get a new identity, an official said. International events like paralympics and Asiad can also be organised in this stadium. Medical college for divyang to be built in state capital A medical college for divyangs will be established in Lucknow. “A proposal in this regard has been made by the department and sent to the government,” an official said. There would be research and study on the causes of disability in the medical college, as well as proper treatment of the disabled, he said. CAPTION: (Photo sourced) Front view of the stadium||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/barrierfree-stadium-comes-up-at-a-university-in-lucknow-101625341201267.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Wimbledon’s magic continues to thrill||Of all the occasions to look forward to every summer, Wimbledon has pride of place in many a heart. The sheer thrill of a lightning quick serve followed by an adeptly placed volley, the sight of impeccably manicured grass, the resplendent whites and the ‘pucca’ British decorum- all make for a fortnight that becalms the senses and delights the mind.There’s more – the graceful yet boisterous audience, the courtesies and bows before the royal box, the post-match interviews, replete with candour and wittiness, the highs, the lows, the sighs and the blows. The sheer pageantry, fanfare and style of Wimbledon hold us in thrall. The meticulous eye for detail, the clockwork precision and timing — on the court and off it — the ubiquitous strawberries and cream, as well as the smart officials and blazer-clad organisers, all add to the aura, the magic, the splendour of the big W.Yet, and inevitably so, the sheer artistry, skill and stamina of the players, women and men, over the decades, has been the abiding memory of Wimbledon’s stature as the ultimate test of a tennis player’s mastery over his or her art. Legendary figures like Martina Navratilova, Chris Evert, Steffi Graf, Monica Seles, Bjorn Borg, John McEnroe, Pete Sampras, Boris Becker and Stefan Edberg, often had us gaping and gasping, as we watched their exploits on television. The Centre Court at Wimbledon was their performing arena, the real Mecca of their careers.Roger Federer, who turns forty in August, continues to defy age and injury. At the time of going to press, he is still in the battle, a champion whose dazzling best years are behind him, but who, on grass at least, is still a wizard whose pure class is like a chocolate dessert worth savouring and mooning over, later.Novak Djokovic the defending champion, and Serena Williams, Venus Williams and Andy Murray, all former champions, have turned up to showcase their skills yet again, though with contrasting results. The heartbreak of a champ’s early exit from the Oscar of all tennis tournaments is clearly as much a part of its drama as are success, victory and triumph.And for a world which has been battered and bruised by the maniacal pandemic, the very fact that Wimbledon, the Euro Cup and Test Cricket are being staged before adoring fans, provides a sense of resurgence and rejuvenation like no other. Sports is the panacea for many ills of this world, as has been pointed out by this columnist earlier too. Nations which focus their energies on sports and the arts, in order to raise the levels of consciousness of their citizens, will find harmony and happiness relatively easier to attain, than those which keep squabbling internally. Many a young girl, for instance, can be empowered much more through sport and music than she can through the arduous and exacting route of laboured studies. India’s focus in particular, needs to shift partly towards creating a culture of sports in the society, which western countries have successfully adopted for decades.Thus, when an all-Indian mixed doubles match took place at SW19, London, during this year’s edition, it was a joy to behold. Sania Mirza, Rohan Bopanna, Ram Ramanathan and Ankita Raina displayed skills, athleticism and finesse on the court, which made one proud to be Indian. Many a young lady can match up to the likes of Mirza and Raina, given the right conditions and encouragement by the establishment, the system and society at large. The masterclass that the likes of Federer, Djokovic and Angelique Kerber are dishing out before our eyes as we reach the midpoint of the Wimbledon fortnight has been matched by amazing spectacles like Richard Gasquet’s astonishing backhand winner in the face of a Federer smash.But even more endearing have been the instances of Federer humbly admitting that his English is not above par, when asked about absence, making the heart grow fonder. And Venus trying to high five her mixed doubles partner, Nick Kyrgios, only to be inadvertently ignored!For millions, the thralldom of Wimbledon’s epic drama endures. There will be champions once more, but humanity at large will have won the real battle.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-wimbledon-s-magic-continues-to-thrill-101625341199600.html
04-07-2021||Other||With 2 deaths, J&K sees lowest single-day fatality count since April||With two deaths, Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded the lowest daily Covid-19 related deaths since April 17. As many as 338 fresh infections were also reported on the day.The number of patients who were cured in the UT stood at 497 with active cases dropping to 4,048. The UT had witnessed the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13. There were 238 cases and one death in Kashmir valley. Jammu division saw 100 infections and one fatality. The last time the UT had reported two deaths was on April 16.The recovery rate has also to climb to 97.35%.Since the outbreak last year, J&K has recorded a total of 3,16,629 cases and 4,335 deaths.Officials said 61,535 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT, taking the total number of tests beyond 1.01 million.Officials said with 96 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 42 in Doda. Seven districts had no or single-digit cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.22 lakh cases and 1,964 deaths of the total. Jammu district has the highest number of 1,135 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 829 deaths.From June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below 20 fatalities on a daily basis with four each on June 19 and June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-2-deaths-j-k-sees-lowest-single-day-fatality-count-since-april-101625341199058.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Lore of Good Man Di Laaltain, other catchy colloquialisms||Those born in the decade following the end of British colonisation would be familiar with a peculiar phraseology, which was a hybrid of English and Punjabi. We found these sayings quite funny, even though we did not quite know or understand their meaning or intent. I remember a rather vicious rhyme starting with the first three letters of the English alphabet, which my brother and I would rattle out with glee: ‘ABC, kithe gayi si? Headmaster mar gaya/ pittan gayi si!’ (ABC, where did you flee? The headmaster died/ I went to mourn him). After ignoring it a couple of times, our mother scolded us for uttering such impolite verses, which were in utter bad taste. That was the end to our favourite nonsense verse, which mocked at the English alphabet and the educational system that we had inherited from the British masters.But there were other such sayings that were uttered with glee even by our respectable elders who would often say: ‘Natha Singh and Prem Singh one and the same thing.’ It meant that while the names were different yet the two were alike in their way of looking or thinking. This originated perhaps from some Brit officer in reference to the Sikh soldiers in the platoon and went onto become a part of the humour repertoire aimed at the Sikhs. Recently, I came across an interesting variation of this Anglo-desi saying in a piece of short fiction by the master storyteller Gurdev Singh Rupana titled: Nathu Ram and Prem Singh One And The Same Thing.Heart of the matterThe author, who received the national Sahitya Akademi Award this year, subverted the saying to take its context beyond one religion to point out that Hindus and Sikhs nurtured similar religious prejudices. The story made for the most hilarious account of two village elders, who were best friends, being mistakenly taken to heaven by the Yamadoot (messenger of death). When the Yamaraj (God of death) realised that theirs was a case of mistaken identity, they are returned to Earth. On their return, they relate accounts of their journey by night. However, curiously, Nathuram only saw Hindu gods, saints and freedom fighters and Prem Singh only Sikh saints, scholars, warriors and freedom fighters. Thus, making their view of life based on the religion they belonged to. When coaxed by the narrator to tell whether they saw any person of the other faith, both shook their heads in dismissal adding “I never saw them but maybe they were there in some back row!”The mysterious lantern And now to ‘Good Man Di Laaltain’, which has weathered the test of time and remains a popular axiom till date. Some years ago, celebrated lyricist-poet Gulzar, who has a penchant for unusual phrases, including Ibn Batuta bagal mein juta, penned a song on this mysterious lantern for the film ‘Soorma’ featuring Diljit Dosanjh and Taapsee Pannu in the lead, and didn’t they rock! Towards the end of militancy in Punjab, an enterprising theatre artiste mounted a comedy called ‘Good Man Di Laaltain’ and it caught the fancy of the top cop of those times KPS Gill. Thus, the government sponsored the play and it was staged in villages and towns and all over Punjab. Those were times when the state wanted the people to laugh and banish the tears. What could have been better than this magical laughing lantern which we Indians call ‘laaltain’!There are a number of theories on the origin of the saying. Those acquainted with western literature feel that it is based on a fable, in which a blind man would carry a lantern, while traversing hills and forests in the night. This seemed strange because the light could not guide him as he had no sight. When asked about the reason for holding the lantern in his hand as he walked, he replied: “This lantern is for the benefit of others so that they do not get lost!” Thus, it was assumed that he was a good man with a lantern in hand but this is not true of this desi adage. The “Good Man” comes from a company in Scotland called Goodmans, which sold solid quality lanterns that were regularly supplied to the Indian Railways in the days of the Raj. A delightful WhatsApp post is doing the rounds with a delightful picture of what the lanterns looked like.Rhymes and reasonInterestingly, this saying also found its way into the British Indian Army. Lt Gen Vijay Oberoi in a comprehensive article, ‘From Good Man Di Laaltain To Yes Man’ on the rise of sycophancy in the Indian Army and qualifies, “In undivided Punjab, a common phrase, “Good Man the Laaltain” was heard. It was obviously a hybrid phrase like many that Punjabis had formulated! It was a phrase that conveyed one’s appreciation in an informal or friendly way. The phrase was soon picked up by Army officers and often used as a pat on the back for junior officers, while the Hindustani word ‘Shabash’ (good show) was used for junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and jawans”. Come the struggle for independence from the British Raj and the phrase became a cry for freedom: “Good Man Di Laaltain, Bad Man Da Diva, 1 2 3, India is free!”. This was the retort to centuries of oppression: away with your lantern and we will be fine with our earthen lamp and hard-won freedom!nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-lore-of-good-man-di-laaltain-other-catchy-colloquialisms-101625341082843.html
04-07-2021||Other||Despite increased testing, J&K’s Covid positivity rate saw massive dip in June||There was a drastic decrease in Jammu and Kashmir’s test positivity rate (TPR) for Covid-19 in June. The month saw a TPR of 1.8% as against 8.7% in May when the second wave of the virus was raging through the country. What is TPR TPR is the percentage of tests that turn out to be positive out of the total tests conducted during the period. It helps indicate the extent of infection in the community. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a positivity rate of less than 5% indicates that the pandemic is in control in the community. Ebbing wave Jammu and Kashmir’s TPR in the second week of May stood at 10.7 %. By the last week of May, it had dipped to 5.9%, while in the second week of June, it had further gone down 2% and then reached 0.79% in the last week of June. “We are almost at the lowest end of the ebbing second wave but we shouldn’t be complacent the way we were with the first wave,” said Dr Mohammad Saleem Khan, professor and head, community medicine and nodal officer of Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Srinagar. He said the second wave came quickly and didn’t last long. “It was not expected. It saw a sharp rise, peaked for a small duration and then there was a sharp decline. Maybe Covid-appropriate behavior, SOPs and vaccination helped us,” he said. Restrictions were imposed for several weeks, starting April 29. Most of these curbs have been lifted to a large extent in eight districts and partially in the rest of the 12 districts of the UT. Number of tests went up in June Besides, the average daily tests in the month of June went up to 46,450 as against 42,000 in the month of May, again indicative of the reduction in the extent of infection when collated with the positivity rate. From a total of 1, 14,382 infections in the month of May, the number reduced to 25,197 infections in June – a drop of 78%. Similarly, the fatalities declined by 74% in June when 416 deaths were recorded against 1,625 deaths in the month of May. Dr Khan said that in previous pandemics, the world did not have vaccines. “In past pandemics, we never had vaccinations, and this is why third wave used to be severe but this time, we can alter the course of the pandemic by getting vaccinated and showing Covid-appropriate behavior,” he said. “If we are able to follow the same precautions, we may be able to thwart the impact of the anticipated third wave,” he said. However, what was intriguing in June was a slower decline in the fatalities. While for every 70 positive cases, one death was reported in May, there was one death for 60 infections in June. “Many of them were those who had been hospitalised for many days. Positivity is current but the deaths are results of previous weeks. For example, if somebody is positive today, he can get severe after a few weeks which can lead to his death. That is why the corresponding decline in death this month is less,” said Khan. The active cases in the UT had shot up to a record number of 52,848 on May 13 which fell to 4,600 by the end of June. Overall, the UT has recorded 3, 16,291 cases and 4,333 deaths up to July 2 since the pandemic began in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-increased-testing-j-k-s-covid-positivity-rate-saw-massive-dip-in-june-101625341018902.html
04-07-2021||Other||115 new cases, one death in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh logged 115 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 2,02,555 and toll to 3,466.Of the new cases, 25 were reported in Kangra, 22 in Chamba, 15 in Mandi, 13 in Shimla, eight each in Bilaspur and Kullu, six each in Hamirpur and Una, four in Kinnaur, three each in Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur and two in Solan.The recoveries reached 1,97,612 after 243 people recuperated while the active cases came down to 1,490. State gears up for inoculating pregnant womenMeanwhile, a government spokesperson said that as per the recommendations of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the Union ministry of health and family welfare has approved vaccination for pregnant women with the condition that they should be informed about the risks of exposure to Covid-19 infection along with its benefits.He said in order to help pregnant women decide on taking the jab, the health department has directed the district administration to train and orient the programme staff, frontline workers and private medical professionals.He said pregnant women should be counseled for Covid vaccination during household visits by frontline workers, antenatal check-up at health facility, outreach immunisation sessions, village health and nutrition days (VHNDs) and urban health and nutrition days (UHNDs), facility visits by pregnant women for other reasons and any other site where there is interaction with the pregnant woman.He further said the pregnant women who decide to get vaccinated should be helped in the process of registration by the staff of health department.In case of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) in a pregnant woman, AEFI committee should be notified in the districts. The committee should have obstetrician and gynecologist, pediatrician or neonatologist, members of local FOGSI chapter and IAP, all the medical officers, private practitioners and frontline health workers properly trained on their role in AEFI surveillance related to Covid-19 vaccination of pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/115-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-101625340779058.html
04-07-2021||Other||Priyanka helps woman reunite with missing son||VARANASI: A woman was on Saturday reunited with her differently-abled son, who went missing 20 days ago from Varanasi, following sincere help from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.Following the help from Gandhi, the youth (20) reached his home in Kashi from Bundi in Rajasthan where he was found roaming three day ago. Congress leader Ajay Rai said that Rajesh Sonkar, a resident of Aurangabad area in Varanasi, went missing from his house over 20 days ago. Rajesh’s father died over three years ago. Rajesh is mute since childhood. He lives with his mother Mita Sonkar. Rai said that Mita Sonkar was very sad and appealed to the people to help find her son. A local person video recorded her appeal and put the same on social media. The clip went viral and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi saw it. She asked her party workers to make efforts to search for the youth. Rajesh’s name was tattooed on his hand. Rai said that Rajesh was found roaming in Bundi of Rajasthan. When Priyanka was informed about it, she immediately instructed the Rajasthan government to provide proper care to Rajesh Sonkar. The party general secretary asked the Rajasthan government to make arrangements to send the boy to his home in Varanasi. She also instructed Congress’ migrant support team In-charge Charmesh Sharma to look after the boy. Rai said that Sharma called Sonkar’s mother Mita Sonkar to Rajasthan where she met her son and became emotional. Thereafter, Sharma, at the expense of the party, along with Rajesh and his mother arrived in Kashi today and dropped the duo at their home in Aurangabad in the presence of former minister Rai and other party workers. Rai said, “We are proud of our leader Priyanka Gandhi for her sensitivity, compassion and helping nature. She is always there to help people of every section of society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-helps-woman-reunite-with-missing-son-101625340359422.html
04-07-2021||Other||HP’s new electric vehicle policy aims at sustainable, eco-friendly mobility solutions||Himachal Pradesh government has proposed a new Electric Vehicle Policy-2021, aiming to promote sustainable, safe, eco-friendly, inclusive, and integrated mobility solutions, and establish Himachal as a model state for electric-vehicle (EV) adoption among hilly states.The primary objective is to make battery electric vehicles (BEVS) form at least 15% of the new vehicle registrations by 2025, said transport director Anupam Kashyap.He said the government would incentivise the adoption of EVs across segments and also create a network of public charging stations. At least one charging station would be made available within every 1km x 1km grid in major cities and towns, and at least one slow-charging station (on each side) will be created every 25km on state highways. At least one fast-charging point (on each side) every 50kms on busy national highways will also be deployed.He said the policy aims to make three cities-Shimla, Baddi, and Dharamshala- model cities for EV readiness and adoption. Besides, it also envisages the electrification of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses and cabs.“The government aims to create employment opportunities related to the development of the EV ecosystem in the state,” he said.Funding and implementationKashyap said an umbrella state EV fund will be created using a ‘feebate structure’, where fees are applied to ICE vehicles to raise funds that are returned as rebates in the form of incentives.The state EV fund will be capitalised from sources such as additional road tax and/or registration fees charged to ICE vehicles, green tax on ICE vehicles registered in the state, pollution cess on petrol and diesel vehicles sold in the state.Apart from it, the funds will be generated from air-quality parking surcharge applicable to ICE vehicles and penalties levied on vehicles entering or idling in low/zero-emission zones during time periods decided by urban development agencies.The policy also proposes to constitute a state EV secretariat to ensure the effective funding and implementation of the policy under the oversight of the high-power committee.He said the government will also hold regular consultations with industry and other stakeholders to ensure smooth implementation of the policy and its provisions.In addition, an awareness drive will be launched to promote EVs and their benefits.Tax and non-tax exemptionsUnder the policy, all electric vehicles have been exempted from payment of road tax under the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation Act. Commercial EVs have also been exempted from requiring permits.The director said that at least one low/zero-emission zone in each of the three model cities will be created where only EVs, walking, and cycling will be permitted. Tourist spots, eco-sensitive areas, and reserve forests will be identified by the urban development agency and timings and regulations will be notified accordingly.Also, a reserve percentage of parking slots for EVs (with charging infrastructure) in high-volume parking spaces will be provided.He said the strategy is to promote demand creation for EVs through the provision of fiscal and non-fiscal incentives, the creation of dedicated infrastructure for charging of EVs through the provision of capital subsidies and mandatory the use of EVs at the institutional level, starting with public transport and government entities.The state has more than 18 lakh registered vehicles (both private and transport) of which 233 are battery operated.HRTC is currently operating 50 electric and 75 electric buses. Fifty buses run in Shimla and 25 are on the Manali to Rohtang Pass route.The state has been sanctioned 100 e-buses under FAME II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hps-new-electric-vehicle-policy-aims-at-sustainable-eco-friendly-mobility-solutions-101625340358905.html
04-07-2021||Other||In a first, Himachal rears trout in warm water||The department of fisheries in Himachal Pradesh has successfully reared high-value “trout” in warm water in Gobind Sagar reservoir and Kol dam reservoir of Bilaspur district.For the first time, about 500 fingerlings of Rainbow trout, a coldwater fish from the Dhamwari trout farm in Rohru subdivision of Shimla district, were stocked in high-density polyethylene (HDPE) nets at Gobind Sagar reservoir in 2019 on experimental basis.The results were highly encouraging and worth emulation in other parts, said Virender Kanwar, minister for animal husbandry and fisheries.After much research and development, experts also installed 24 fish cages for Rainbow trout in Kol dam reservoir at Kasol on pilot-basis under CSS-Blue Revolution in 2020. Showed accelerated growth in warm waterAround 30,000 fingerlings of the average weight of 10-12 grams of Rainbow trout were stocked in September and October 2020 in Kol dam. The results of this experiment were encouraging as the fish gained a body weight of almost 1kg in just eight months, which usually takes two years or more in coldwater regions, thus showing accelerated growth.The successful experiment has paved a way for culturing the trout fish in warm districts also when the water temperature is congenial, the minister said.Trout available for discounted rates Kanwar said the department produced around eight metric tonnes of trout fish from Kol dam with average weight of 300grams while the maximum weight of 1kg was recorded. Out of the total fish produced, around 490 fishes, weighing around 224kg, have been sold in the market so far. The department has a stock of around 26,794 fish, weighing around 8,000kg, at its Kol dam reservoir, ready for sale in the market.The department has offered one-time relaxation for sale of trout fish at discounted price of around ₹350/per kg instead of the market price of around ₹550/per kg to boost the trout fish sale in the state and metropolitan cities, he said. Livelihood generation Approximately 850 metric tonne trout will be harvested in the state both in private and government sector, out of which 100 metric tonne will be harvested in newly created race ways in coming years. There are around 12,347 registered fishermen operating with 3,000 fishing boats whereas 5,574 households are directly dependent on fisheries as the main source of income.One ice plant and three landing centres have been constructed under blue revolution in the state for fish growers and more post-harvest facilities will be developed under Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampda Yojna in the state in coming years. Earlier, the trout was being reared in 600 kms riverine length at higher altitude of cold-water streams in snow-fed rivers of Beas, Sutlej and Ravi.The state has recorded 688.05 metric tonnes trout fish production valuing ₹3,096.22 lakh during the year 2020-2021 while a target has been set to harvest 849.70 metric during the year 2021-22.In order to develop basic infrastructure for fish cultivation, 29 hatcheries, 13 feed mills, three retail outlets, smoked trout canning units, trout cage culture are being developed in the reservoirs Blue Revolution scheme.There are eight departmental trout farms where quality seed is being produced and supplied at subsidised rates to trout growers. Trout feed is also provided from departmental farm Patlikuhal district kullu, said Kanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-himachal-rears-trout-in-warm-water-101625340179128.html
04-07-2021||Other||15 Ludhiana students bag top positions in PU exams||Fifteen students from the district have secured top positions in the Panjab University bachelor of commerce (Bcom) first semester examinations. As many as 11 students are from Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College, Hussainpura, two from Government College for Girls and one each from Arya College and Kamla Lohtia SD College. Nandan Jain bagged first position in the varsity with 95.47%, while the second position was secured by Divyansha Jain with 95.31%. Both students are from Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College.The third position was clinched by Abhinav Gupta with 95% while Gurleen Kaur came fourth with 94.8%. Hardeep Kaur and Sahil Malik shared the fifth position in the varsity with 94.53%. The sixth position was shared by four students - Solani Maheshwari, Harsh and Vinit Sharma. All of them scored 94.37%.Three students -Tanya Chhabra, Yogya Madaan and Ankita secured the seventh position with 94.22%.Sukhmanpreet Kaur came eighth with 94.06% and Prachi Kapoor stood ninth with 93.91%.Principal of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College, Sandeep Kumar, congratulated the students and the members of the faculty for the performance.Savita Uppal, principal of Arya College, praised the students for adding another feather to the cap of the institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-ludhiana-students-bag-top-positions-in-pu-exams-101625340118150.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana fake call centre case: Police nab 11 more accused from Delhi, Mohali||Investigating a fake call centre case, the police here have arrested 11 more accused, including kingpins of the racket, in different raids conducted in Sahibzada Ajit Singh (SAS) Nagar and Delhi.The accused, hailing from Gujarat and Delhi, were providing financial and technical support to run the fake call centre, which was involved in duping US and UK citizens. A total of 38 accused, including four African nationals, have been arrested so far in the case.The police have seized cash and property worth ₹1.52 crore from the gang, besides recovering ₹27 lakh hawala money and freezing ₹39.80 lakh lying in the bank accounts of the accused. Apart from this, 516 grams of gold worth over ₹17 lakh, 12 laptops, 26 mobile phones and two cars have been recovered.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said joint teams of the cyber cell and CIA-1 conducted raids at Mohali and Delhi, leading to the arrest of 11 more accused, including the kingpins of the module. Out of them, 9 were apprehended from a rented apartment in Kharar, SAS Nagar. They belong to Gujarat and include kingpins — Pratik, Peenak, Dhruv Mehta and Jigar.The accused provided fake bank accounts, hawala channels, contacts of US, UK and Canada citizens and training to the Ludhiana-based module.Agrawal added that a similar modus operandi was being used at the Mohali-based fake call centre, where the accused, posing as tax, insurance authorities, used to call unsuspecting citizens in UK, US and Canada and commit financial frauds. The victims were asked to transfer money to local bank accounts which would be rerouted to India through hawala channels or using cryptocurrency like Bitcoins. Bitcoin wallets of the accused are also being confiscated and frozen.In another raid conducted in Chattarpur area of Delhi, accused Vaibhav Gupta was apprehended. He was the technical backbone of the module and provided software, servers for VoIP calling, call dialers, calling minutes, troubleshooting support to the Ludhiana-based module.“Accused Vaibhav used to receive regular monthly payments for his services. Since the majority of payments by the accused were made and received through hawala channels, raids were conducted at hawala dealers’ premises in Ludhiana which led to arrest of one Sachin Patel, a Gujarat native, from Sham Nagar near Ludhiana bus stand. Around ₹27 lakh hawala money was recovered from him,” said Agrawal.As per investigation, the accused have bought multiple flats in posh localities in Ahmedabad using the proceeds of the crime. A thorough financial and technical investigation will be done to account for the proceeds of the crime and reveal pan-India forward and backward links of this module and unearth the complete racket, said the police commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fake-call-centre-case-police-nab-11-more-accused-from-delhi-mohali-101625340058796.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||R-Day violence: Court extends interim protection to Sidhana||Saying it would “not intervene in things where fundamental rights are involved”, a Delhi court on Saturday extended the interim protection given to alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day.Additional sessions judge Kamini Lau directed Delhi Police to not arrest Sidhana till July 20. The court also said it does not want a jail bharo andolan to start. Sidhana, who was earlier granted protection till July 3, has been directed to join the probe.On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Fearing arrest, Sidhana, through his advocates Jaspreet Singh Rai and Jasdeep Dhillon, moved Delhi’s Tis Hazari court seeking anticipatory bail in the case. His counsel asserted that he has no role to play in the incident.Public Prosecutor Pankaj Bhatia, representing the police, told the court that Sidhana had invited the protesters to the Red Fort and is one of the main conspirators in the case.The prosecutor said he stayed outside the fort area when the violence took place, to which the judge said, “If his presence is not there, then we cannot do anything about it. Interim protection extended till July 20.” Sidhana had earlier denied involvement in the Republic Day violence. According to the police, he has almost 20 cases registered against him, including that of robbery, murder, and assault on police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rday-violence-court-extends-interim-protection-to-sidhana-101625339878970.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir alleges illegal mining in Mukerian||Three days after conducting a raid on the Beas riverbed in Amritsar district, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal along with senior party leader Bikram Singh Majithia and supporters made a surprise visit to sand mining sites at Mukerian in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday.The SAD chief alleged that illegal sand mining was being carried out in the vicinity of Dhamia, Sandwal and Kulian Lubana villages in Hajipur and Talwara blocks. Alleging that illegal mining was taking place under the patronage of Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and certain other Congress leaders, he dared the mining department officials to register a case against him as they had done earlier following his raid in Beas.Sukhbir said that brazen excavation of sand had ravaged nearly 10 villages in the area, adding that the land mafia had dug trenches to stop his convoy from reaching the illegal mining sites. He alleged that the local police informed the mafia about his visit to enable them escape in time. He said that where mining was permitted up to 10 feet, the said mafia had done excavation till 200 feet.“Operators have complained that goonda tax to the tune of ₹10,000 per truck was being collected from them,” he alleged. “When I exposed illegal mining in Beas, the government justified the activity. Will it also justify what is going on in Mukerian and Talwara? questioned Sukhbir, asserting that he would not be intimidated by false cases against him.Meanwhile, ridiculing the raids by the SAD president, activist Dharminder Singh, who has been fighting against illegal mining for years under the aegis of Khanan Roko Zameen Bachao Samgharsh Committee, asked why Sukhbir did not act when his party was in power.Sarkaria trashes SAD chief’s allegations CHANDIGARH: Punjab mining minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on Saturday lashed out at SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal saying he was making desperate attempts to gain lost political ground in the state. In a statement, the minister said the mining sites visited by Sukhbir in Hoshiarpur district were auctioned during the Akali regime. He said the SAD chief was trying to mislead the people as no illegal mining was taking place at these sites. The mining department has already initiated actions against illegal sites in the area, he added. Hoshiarpur mining officer said the quarries shown by Sukhbir were allotted before 2016 and the department had taken action against these sites. He said that these sites were auctioned by the Punjab government between 2008 and 2011. The department had served the recovery notices of ₹14,54,400 in Jiwanwal village, ₹40,43,400 in village Bariana, ₹2,30,010 in Dhamian and ₹2,23,050 in Sandhwal, he said, adding ₹1,11,990 has been recovered from Bariana, ₹1,92,000 from Sandhwal and ₹3,03,407 from Jiwanwal, he said, adding that a recovery notice of ₹1,56,35,760 has been issued at Baringali village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-alleges-illegal-mining-in-mukerian-101625339759041.html
04-07-2021||Other||New platform for e-hearing of cases in Allahabad HC from Monday||: In order to streamline the virtual hearing of cases, the Allahabad High Court has introduced a new platform for virtual hearing through a web app named webex from Monday. Initially, it will be for five courts only but from next week onwards, more courts would be added in the new system. Gradually, within a month all courts will be added to the platform. There would be no video conferencing link henceforth for all those courts which are connected with this new mode of virtual hearing, the notification added. Lawyers will have to feed his case number, right slash and name in the new web app. When a case comes, the bench secretary will connect the lawyer directly and the lawyer will be brought before the court. During the waiting period one can watch the court proceedings but will not be able to participate. The device will remain automatically muted. But when lawyer is brought before the court, he has to ‘unmute’ his device manually. The webex will filter all noises like, barking of dog, ringing of phone etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-platform-for-e-hearing-of-cases-in-allahabad-hc-from-monday-101625339698126.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Class-11 student among 5 of robbery gang arrested in Ludhiana||Ending a gang’s three-month robbery spree in the district, the police here have arrested five of its members, including a student. Their eight other accomplices are on the run.According to the police, the accused executed 11 robberies at yarn and cloth factories since March 10.The police have also recovered two Honda City sedan cars, two Mahindra Bolero SUVs, one motorcycle, five bundles of cloth, 85 bundles of yarn and sharp-edged weapons from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Tarun Kumar, alias Lucky, 26, of Gagandeep Colony, Kakowal road; Maninder Singh, alias Mishu, 22, of Kuccha Malak Road, Jagraon; Vishal Singh, 20, of Giddarbaha, Muktsar; Balwinder Singh, alias Binda, 22, of Mukandpur; Agwad of Jagraon; and Tarsem Singh, alias Simu, 23, of Bajigar Basti, Samrala.Tarun is the kingpin of the gang, while Vishal is a student of Class 11.Their eight accomplices — Gaggi, Lehmbar, Kalu, Gora, Vicky of Jagraon, Laali of Kakkowal and Mulla of Tibba Road — are yet to be arrested.Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the arrests were made at a vacant plot in Phagla village on Friday night when they were hatching a conspiracy for another robbery. Their accomplices managed to escape taking advantage of the dark, he added.“Tarun is already facing trial in 13 cases of theft and snatching. He was lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail. After availing bail in November 2020, he again indulged in robberies. The accused has committed robberies at factories in Meharban, Jodhewal, Tibba and Salem Tabri,” the cop said.Modus operandi About their modus operandi, Dhindsa said, “The accused would carry out recce of the targeted factory in the day and commit the crime at night. They gangsters had also stolen pickup vans in which they used to load the yarn and fabric after robbery. Then they used to dump the same in a godown in Kakka Dhaula village. Later, they would sell it to Mulla,” he added.Police said that three days ago, the accused stole a pickup van from Samrala chowk and another from Ramgarh area about 20 days ago. A sedan car was stolen from Jagraon about a month ago, while another Honda city car from BRS Nagar five days ago. The bike was stolen about 20 days back from Samrala chowk. The accused used to steal old vehicles using duplicate keys.A case under sections 399, 402, 379 and 379-B of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at Ladhowal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class11-student-among-5-of-robbery-gang-arrested-in-ludhiana-101625339461197.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Property transfer row: Ludhiana woman attempts suicide, kin accuse cop of harassment||The family members of a woman, who attempted suicide by consuming poison, have accused a police inspector, his father and brother of forcing her to end her life.They met Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday seeking action against inspector Bittan Kumar, who has been deputed as nodal officer for recruitment of constables, and his family members.However, the accused policeman has refuted the allegations and stated that he has never met the woman and has no links with complainant family.According to the police, the woman consumed poisonous substances at her house in Chhawni Mohalla, following which was hospital. Her condition is stated to be critical.The police also recovered a suicide note from her in which she named inspector Bittan Kumar, posted at Ludhiana Police Line, his father Surinder Atwal, who is the councillor of the ward 84, Bittan’s brothers Sajan Atwal and Pawan Atwal, uncle Jaspal Singh, his son-in-law Ravinder Singh and others, for forcing her to take the extreme step.Her brother told the cops that their mother, who is illiterate, wanted to transfer the ownership of two properties in his sister’s name. But, the realtor, Jaspal, fraudulently managed to transfer a part of the property in his son-in-law Ravinder’s name, while ownership of the rest was given to Pardeep Kumar, the inspector’s uncle. The accused also made his sister sign the documents on the pretext of transferring the property in her name. Later, they started harassing her to vacate the property, which forced her to take the extreme step, her brother alleged.Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said that the woman is not in a condition to record her statement. Appropriate action will be taken after taking her version, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-transfer-row-ludhiana-woman-attempts-suicide-kin-accuse-cop-of-harassment-101625339458957.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana logs no Covid fatality for 3rd day in a row, 26 new cases reported||A day after logging a seven-month low of 12 cases, the district reported 26 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, while no fatalities were reported for the third consecutive day. The district’s cumulative case count now stands at 87023, of which 2,086 people have succumbed to the disease, and 84,655 patients have recovered, leaving 282 active cases. The recovery rate of the district has touched 97.28%. The fresh cases included 12 patients with influenza-like symptoms, six patients from outpatient departments, and three contacts of those who had previously tested positive. As many as 10,384 samples were sent for testing.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently. One more person diagnosed with black fungusA fresh case of mucormycosis (black fungus) was reported in the district, while no casualties the were reported due to the fungal infection. The number of confirmed cases in the district reached 146, of which 19 patients have succumbed to the disease till now. Around 30 cases remain active in the district. Of the confirmed cases, 82 are locals, of which eight have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-logs-no-covid-fatality-for-3rd-day-in-a-row-26-new-cases-reported-101625339398913.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mega vax drive: Record 82,677 Ludhiana residents jabbed in a day||A record 82,677 residents were inoculated across the district during a mega vaccination drive on Saturday. With this, Ludhiana has become the first in the state to vaccinate as many people in a single day. The previous single-day vaccination record was 26,483 jabs on April 13. As many as 81,567 jabs were administered at the 308 camps organised by the district health department, 711 were administered at private hospitals and 399 at camps organised by the industry. So far, 12,47,887 residents have been inoculated in Ludhiana. The milestone of administering 1 million doses had been achieved on June 19, five months after the drive was initiated. At 35,605, the highest beneficiaries were in the 18-44 age group and received their first jab, while 10,231 people were administered the second dose. A total 30,779 beneficiaries received the Covishield vaccine, while 1,318 were given Covaxin.In the 45-60 age bracket, 12163 residents received the first dose while 15,382 people were administered the second dose; while in the 60-plus group, 4,337 beneficiaries received the first shot and 4,542, the second shot. Two frontline workers received the first jab, while 468 got the second jab. Hailing the efforts of healthcare workers and social, religious organisations in achieving the goal of securing the top position in the state during the mega vaccination drive, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ludhiana Varinder Sharma said that this rare feat would further motivate our teams to continue with the same zeal and passion. He added that it is need of the hour to take up vaccination drives at war footing so that herd immunity can be built to combat the impending third wave.No mega vaccination camp todayHaving received around 83,000 doses of vaccines, the administration had planned to hold a two-day mega camp but as almost the whole stock was used up on Saturday, the camps scheduled for Sunday have been cancelled. Around 7,000 more doses were received on Saturday. “There are around 9,000 doses available in the district. Thus, routine camps will be organised on Sunday, and free Covishield vaccination camps for all eligible residents will be organised at 35 sites in the district,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mega-vax-drive-record-82-677-ludhiana-residents-jabbed-in-a-day-101625339344980.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Record 801,000 get vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday registered a record 801,847 vaccinations, the highest by any state in a single day, even as it reported 9,489 new Covid-19 cases. The total doses administered in Maharashtra have now reached 33,911,029.“Yet again, we surpassed our previous best, in terms of Covid-19 vaccinations. We have been maintaining top position in the country for more than three months,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health department.Dr Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital at Byculla, said private hospitals have played a pivotal role in the drive. “We have tied up with private organisations, housing societies and have boosted the whole drive,” said Dr Mehra, “We will be able to maintain this momentum only if we get regular supply of vaccine doses,” said Dr Mehra.The previous highest number of inoculations was on June 26, when 738,708 people were vaccinated across Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Mumbai on Saturday recorded 571 new cases and 18 deaths, with its toll reaching 15,520. There were 224,374 tests done across the state on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,395.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 117,575, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 122,724.There are currently 117,575 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,106 patients, followed by Thane with 16,630 active patients.The death toll has now reached 122,724 with Pune leading with 16,863 deaths, followed by Mumbai clocking 15,520.Also, the traders in Kolhapur have decided to open their establishments from coming Monday onwards defying the lockdown. Kolhapur has not been allowed relaxations due to the surge in cases. However, traders in the urban pockets of Kolhapur have asserted that the cases are in the rural pockets and they have been unfairly targeted. The Pune Municipal Corporation, in order to boost the vaccination drive, has decided to visit the shops and vaccinate the staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/record-801k-get-the-covid-shot-in-maharashtra-101625339342690.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two back-to-back blazes break out in Ludhiana||Two back-to-back fires broke out in the city on Saturday morning, ravaging a tyre manufacturing unit on RK road near Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, and a hosiery unit in Kirpal Nagar near Tibba Road. While there were no workers at the tyre manufacturing unit, Hindustan Tyres and Tubes, owing to the two-day off imposed by the state government to deal with the power crisis, around 12 workers narrowly escaped the flames at Shivani Oswal Hosiery. No casualties were reported at either site. The fire department promptly responded to the back-to-back calls. It took around 30 firefighters and 16 fire tenders to bring the simultaneous flames under control at both the units. Fire station officer Jaswinder Singh said 13 fire tenders were deputed at the tyre manufacturing unit and three were sent to Kirpal Nagar. It took six hours to control the flames at the tyre factory, while the fire at the hosiery unit was contained in two-and-a half hours. The blaze in the tyre factory was reported around 4am. The flames rapidly spread to other parts of the unit due to strong winds. Thick smoke could be seen billowing from the unit from afar. Security guards raised the alarm and the fire brigade was informed around 4.20am. A shed of the factory had collapsed and goods and machinery worh crores had perished by the time the flames could be doused. Short circuit to blame Officials said a short circuit in the main electric panel of the unit was responsible for the fire. Chief security officer of the unit Madan Lal said four security guards had been deputed at the unit. “Soon after the fire broke out, the guards tried to douse the flames using the fire extinguishers, but to no avail as the fire kept spreading due to the strong winds,” said Lal. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said the firefighters faced trouble dousing the flames as parts of the iron and steel shed were collapsing during the operation.A second fire was reported soon after around 5.30am at the hosiery unit. The blaze broke out when a short circuit took place when power supply in the area was resumed in the morning. The owner of the unit, Sanjeev Kumar, said the unit falls under the small scale category and had been operational when the fire broke out. The workers were able to exit the building safely. We have not ascertained the losses as yet. No fire safety arrangementsOfficials said fire safety was lacking in both the units. “Only a few fire extinguishers were installed at the units, which were not sufficient. As there were no fire hydrants or even a water tank at a tyre manufacturing unit, we had to arrange water from a nearby hospital to save time. If not for the hospital, the fire brigade would have had to fill the tenders from a nearby municipal corporation tubewell,” a fire official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-back-to-back-blazes-break-out-in-ludhiana-101625339341979.html
04-07-2021||Other||Five injured as bus overturns in Chamba||Five people were injured -- two of them critically -- when the private bus they were travelling in overturned at Tikrigarh in Churah subdivision of Chamba district.The bus was on its way from Chardha to Bhanradu, Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said.The two critically injured women have been referred to Chamba Medical College. The others were provided first aid at Tissa hospital. There were more than 25 people on board.As per initial reports, the driver had lost control over the wheel due to a snag in the vehicle.Police launched the rescue operation with the help of locals. A case has been registered and further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-chamba-101625339158851.html
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Police use water cannon to disperse protesting AAP workers in Punjab||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Punjab police clashed outside the farmhouse of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Siswan. The AAP workers were protesting against the frequent power cuts in Punjab. The clash escalated following which police used a water cannon to disperse the AAP workers who were trying to gherao the house of the chief minister.The police booked 23 AAP leaders for violating Covid-19 protocol. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann and MLAs Harpal Singh Cheema, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Kulwant Singh Pandori and Baldev Singh were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the Disaster Management Act. These lawmakers were also briefly detained by the police.The police booked 200 unidentified persons also for violation of Covid-19 preventative measures. The AAP workers led by Mann protested against the Congress government over the power shortage. Police already set up barricades that were put up on the road which led to the chief minister's farmhouse. The protesters broke the first layer of security but were met with water cannons before they approached the second layer.The protests come at the backdrop of severe power shortage in urban and rural areas which has led to long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat.Punjab government in order to tackle the power shortage ordered reduction in timings of state government offices. It has also reduced power supply to industries which consume high energy. The government also faced criticism from the opposition as they claimed that the government has also failed to provide sufficient power supply to paddy growers.The AAP lawmakers said that at ₹10 per unit, rates of electricity were highest in the country. AAP MP Mann said that the chief minister was sleeping while citizens were being forced to sit on a dharna in the scorching heat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-protesting-aap-workers-in-punjab-101625337347038.html
04-07-2021||Other||Power woes in Punjab: Multiple circulars creating confusion, coordination problems, say industrialists||Fresh power curbs for continuous process industries announced on Saturday, multiple circulars and extension of orders that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued for general industry has led to confusion and despair among industrialists. In a virtual meeting with PSPCL managing director A Venu Prasad on Saturday evening, industry representatives suggested that the government should make one announcement and impose 50% curbs, than shutting down different categories on different days in a week.In the first circular dated July 1, industries located in the Central Zone (Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khanna, Amloh and Sirhind) and North Zone (Jalandhar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur) of the state were asked to close their units compulsorily for 48 hours from 2 pm on that day, and resume operations only after 2 pm on Saturday. Industrial units in these areas constitute 90% of the state’s units. In these initial orders, continuous process industries were exempted.In fresh orders issued on July 2 evening, Category 4 (continuous process consumer) industry of all zones was directed to close their units from July 5-8. In another set of orders, already existing curbs on Central and North zone were extended by a day with an additional weekly off day announced for these.Avon Cycles chairman and managing director Onkar Singh Pahwa said repeated orders only exposed the state government’s mismanagement. “As Avon cycles falls under Category 4, we will be shutting down the unit from Monday to Wednesday. Already facing tough times due to Covid restrictions, our production will again take a hit. The labour will also be free for three days and will lose their earnings. We can only pray that the dry spell gets over soon,” he said.Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOSPIA) said, PSPCL’s repeated circulars were uncalled for. “First, they do not have enough power and were unprepared for the crisis. For the general industry, the weekly-offs were extended from two to three days. Continuous process industries have also asked to shut down now. How will units coordinate for smooth functioning, with different offs announced for different set of industries?” he said.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) vice-chairman Amit Thapar said, “In the crisis before Punjab, we stand with the PSPCL and efforts it is making to save our farming sector. We would highlight some confusion caused by multiple circulars, with little time given to industry to understand and interpret those circulars. It is better to allow Category 2, 3, 4, all general industry, to operate at 50% total sanctioned contract demand. This will help us in running our factories partially, and keep labour engaged.”He added, “If this is not done, the labour will roam around on these three days and mix in heterogenous groups, giving an easy invite to Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-woes-in-punjab-multiple-circulars-creating-confusion-coordination-problems-say-industrialists-101625338320644.html
04-07-2021||Other||At 5.14 lakh jabs on Saturday, Punjab creates daily record||Chandigarh Punjab administered a record 5.14 lakh jabs of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, creating a new daily record. To date, 78 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered to people over 18 years of age, besides the priority groups. For the next couple of days, however, the state is left with only 75,000-odd doses as there is no word from the Centre about providing more vaccines. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “On July 1, we received around 6.85 lakh doses of Covishield and 61,100 doses of Covaxin in one instalment. This was the first time the Centre supplied such quantities to Punjab.” “From June 27 to July 2, the vaccination coverage of the state fell to an average of 17,000. After getting supply, we quickly moved to 5 lakh vaccinations, and that too in a day,” he added. Sidhu added Ludhiana, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Kapurthala and Pathankot districts exceeded their targets and if the supply was sufficient, the government planned to launch a ‘Mega Vaccination Drive’ to cover a minimum of 5 lakh persons in a day. Ludhiana administered over 82,000 vaccines; Hoshiarpur (around 78,000) and Jalandhar (over 62,000). “Punjab has received lower number of doses than Haryana and Rajasthan,” Sidhu claimed, adding that Punjab received around 80,000 doses on June 24; around 80,000 on June 25, with the figure dropping to 31,580 doses of Covaxin on June 29. The stock of Covishield remained almost nil from June 27 to July 1, which slow down the vaccination drive. Principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal said, “The spread of the Delta Plus virus strain is a concern. Studies show that a person administered with the two doses of vaccine experiences fewer effects, whereas a person without even a single dose suffers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-5-14-lakh-jabs-on-saturday-punjab-creates-daily-record-101625338018914.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal reviews measures to augment power supply in Capital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday convened a review meeting with officials of the electricity department and power distribution companies and directed them to identify areas that need new transformers to augment electricity supply, the CM’s office said in a statement.“Had a review meeting with the officials of the electricity department and power distribution companies today. Discussed in detail the current status of power supply in Delhi amidst the peak demand for electricity in the capital,” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.Power minister Satyendar Jain, additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, CEOs of all power distribution companies, and officials of the power department were present in the meeting.The national capital recorded a peak power demand of 7,323 mega watts (MW) – the highest in two years -- on Friday, with officials saying that they managed to meet the demand “without any constraints”. The highest peak power demand ever in the Capital was 7,409 MW, recorded on July 2, 2019.A government spokesperson said that the CM also asked department officials to insulate or make high-tension wires underground for the safety of people. In the next year, the Delhi government is preparing to meet peak power demand of over 8,500 MW, he added.“Every year, Delhi goes through an average 4-5% rise in demand for electricity due to increase in consumption because of new customers and increased prosperity. We have successfully been able to meet the growing demand until now and are supplying 24x7 power to all the residents of Delhi,” Kejriwal said.“The discoms that are facing issues in fixing transformers in certain areas due to lack of space shall intimate the government about the locations. The government shall assist them in fixing transformers in those areas. The overhead cables shall be either made underground or insulated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-reviews-measures-to-augment-power-supply-in-capital-101625336697981.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||As Delhi govt cracks down, Covid-19 challans nearly double||Daily prosecutions for violating Covid-appropriate behaviour in Delhi have nearly doubled as compared to a month ago, though most districts in the city have been unable to meet the target of issuing 1,000 challans per day, government data seen by HT showed. Intensifying its crackdown, the government on Saturday ordered the closure of two markets in Punjabi Basti and Nangloi till Tuesday over violations.The seven-day average of challans issued in the first week of June was 3,476, which increased to 6,449 prosecutions in the last seven days till July 2.Delhi prosecuted the most number of people -- 6,775 -- on June 29 for offences including not wearing masks, lack of social distancing and spitting in public. This was followed by July 2 when 6,731 challans were issued.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the 11 districts in the Capital, only southeast Delhi managed to meet the daily challan target, recording 1,125 challans on June 29 and 1,055 challans on June 30.While there is no official order setting target for issuing challans, the districts have set an “unofficial target” of issuing 1,000 challans per day in order to better ensure adherence to Covid protocols in the Capital.“We are intensifying the crackdown on violators and are also spreading awareness again about proper mask wearing and vaccination. Special focus is being given to markets and transit hubs such as railway stations and inter-state bus terminals,” said a senior revenue official.After reports of violations came from various markets, the authorities have deployed more teams in markets and crowded places. “Over 149 teams have been deployed across all the districts now,” said a senior official.On Saturday evening, the SDM of Punjabi Bagh ordered complete closure of the entire Punjabi Basti market and Janta market in Nangloi after shopkeepers and visitors were found not following the necessary protocols. The order, seen by HT, stated that all shops in these two markets will remain completely shut from Sunday to Tuesday.On June 29, the Delhi government ordered the closure of markets in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and adjoining areas until July 5, over alleged violation of Covid-19 protocols. However, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed reopening of the Laxmi Nagar market and surrounding markets from Saturday, provided Covid-appropriate behaviour is strictly followed. The order to re-open was issued on Friday, following a meeting between DDMA (East), Delhi Police, the MCD and the market association.Apart from the district administrations, the Delhi Police is the key enforcement agency to check adherence to Covid-19 protocols.According to the data shared by the force, Delhi Police is issuing at least 1,500 challans a day.On Friday, 1,520 challans were issued, of which 1,369 were for mask violations and 151 were for not following social distancing, while two were for consumption of liquor, pan or gutka in public.Since the lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19, the Delhi Police has issued 162,562 challans, of which 137,872 are for not wearing masks, the Delhi Police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-delhi-govt-cracks-down-covid-challans-double-101625336639090.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Police begin public hearings, discuss security for I-Day||Assistant commissioners of police across the city held the first ‘Jan Sunwai’ -- the public meeting initiative announced by the new Delhi Police commissioner Balaji Srivastava -- on Saturday, drawing people from all walks of life who discussed their grievances with the senior police officers.Besides public safety issues and filing new complaints, the participants sought status of their complaints, senior police officers asking not to be named said. The meetings were held between 4pm-6pm.Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “It will be a regular practice now. The police commissioner has directed all officers that members of the public who come to the Jan Sunwai must be attended to and properly heard for appropriate action on their complaints. All ACPs of the sub divisions must be available during the notified public hearing time.”Most of the meetings were held in the open lawns of police stations to ensure Covid protocols were followed.Assistant commissioner of police, Ram Sunder, who is in charge of Sangam Vihar and other police stations, said, “We held the public hearing today. In between meeting residents and listening to their suggestions, we also mediated in some long-running disputes over petty issues and helped residents resolve them.”Sangam Vihar is one of largest unauthorised colonies of Delhi.Guptesh A, a resident of Sarita Vihar, B-block, said he was passing by Apollo hospital when police officers told him about the public hearing. “I was curious and went there just to see what was happening. I was asked by a senior officer, if I wished to express my problem or grievance. I did not have any problem as such but asked them to increase night patrolling in the area.”Covid measures, I-Day security discussedSrivastava also met senior officers on Saturday to discuss arrangements and enforcement of protocols to curb the spread of Covid-19 and the security preparations for the Independence Day next month.“In view of a probable third wave of Covid-19, the commissioner told all district deputy commissioners of police (DCP) to not let their guard down and ensure that steps are taken to implement Covid-appropriate behaviour in all public places. Against the backdrop of reports of crowding in some prominent markets, he directed the DCPs to seek proactive involvement of the stakeholders such as markets and residents’ welfare associations to implement the DDMA guidelines,” Biswal said.During the meeting, the preparations for the Independence Day celebrations were also discussed. “All district DCPs have been directed to focus on anti-terror measures such as checking of hotels and guest houses, verification of tenants and domestic helps, car-dealers and cyber cafes, and reactivating the ‘eyes and ears’ scheme for information gathering and vigil over suspicious and nefarious activities,” Biswal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-begin-public-hearings-101625336637955.html
04-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Panels to investigate plaints of hefty bills||With the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi abating, district administrations have started investigating complaints of overcharging by hospitals during the pandemic and will take action as per law against establishments found guilty of charging more than the capped rates, said senior government officials on Saturday.Government records seen by HT show so far, there have been at least 76 complaints of hospitals overcharging patients for Covid-19 treatment. Only about eight of these complaints have been disposed of till now. Explaining the slow rate of case disposal, district magistrate of central Delhi Akriti Sagar said each complaint is being investigated by a dedicated district-level committee, which is meeting at least once a week and conducting hearings. “All matters are currently under consideration, so we cannot comment on any case as such,” she said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to data seen by HT, maximum complaints (18) came from the northwest district, followed by the southeast district (11) and the south district (10).Dr. Nutan Mundeja, director general of health services (Delhi), through an order dated June 15, directed that district-level committees be constituted to check overcharging by hospitals administering Covid-19 treatment. The order stated that each such committee will have an additional district magistrate or sub-divisional magistrate as its chairperson. Among the four other members will be a specialist (medicine) from a Delhi government office, a medical officer and a pharmacist from the CDMO’s office, and an accounts functionary.Ankita Chakravarty, DM (south), said in case a hospital is found overcharging after investigation, the DMs, after approval, have to initiate action as per the provisions of Clause 18 of the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 regulations, Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws.On June 20 last year, the Delhi government had reduced Covid-19 treatment charges by 60-67%.Malini Aisola, co-convener of All India Drug Action Network, an outfit that has helped several patients file such complaints in Delhi, said, “Overcharging was the norm rather than the exception. The government order states that the capped rates must be applicable to 60% of the beds reserved for Covid-19, but if you actually see, a minuscule percentage of the people, probably 5%, must have been charged the government rates. The government dashboard did not give any breakup of the number of beds available as per the capped prices and otherwise. Most people were also unaware that there was a price capping in place,” she said.Dr Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “The order initially issued by the government was not clear on who will enforce it. We want representatives from bodies like IMA to be a part of the committee. Also, as per initial discussions, the capping wasn’t supposed to be applicable on insured patients. The pre-negotiated payments coming in from insurance companies were to cross-subsidise the other cases, but the insurance providers were only paying the government rates and hospitals had to charge the difference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-govt-launches-probe-into-overcharging-by-delhi-hospitals-101625336517989.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Providing free shelter, food will increase population of homeless: Bombay HC||Providing free shelter and meals to the homeless, beggars and pavement dwellers will only increase such persons if they are not asked to work in return for the country, the Bombay high court (HC) observed on Saturday and disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the HC that it had undertaken various measures to provide food packets, potable water and sanitary pads to homeless girls with the help of various NGOs.The observation came while the court was hearing a PIL filed by Brijesh Arya, founder president of NGO Pehchan which works for the homeless, through advocate Kranti LC, seeking directions to the state and civic authorities to complete construction of shelter homes for the homeless and provide cooked meal thrice a day, clean public toilets and bathrooms for use by homeless and urban poor for free, potable water, soaps and sanitary napkins for women during the pandemic.While making oral observations, the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni said, “The homeless should also work for the country if they are provided with shelter. There is employment or livelihood provided for them under government schemes. Everything cannot be provided by the government; otherwise it will increase their numbers. You are just encouraging increase of such a population.”On Saturday, the counsel for BMC submitted a document by the assistant commissioner (planning) which disclosed the number of food packets being distributed by the civic authority, Ness Wadia Foundation, Ramkrishna Mission and others to the homeless in the city and distribution of napkins to 1,300 homeless women. The civic authority also submitted that a project aimed at resolving the concerns of homeless persons and reliefs sought by the petitioner would be provided through it.The court, while appreciating the initiatives by the authorities, also asked the state and civic authority to decide on making use of public toilets free as some homeless and beggars cannot afford to pay the amount.Additional government pleader for the state informed the bench that various steps had been taken during the pandemic to provide free meals to the homeless through Shiv Bhojanalay initiative where free food was being distributed.After hearing the submissions, the bench pulled up the petitioner for not providing sufficient data with regards to the homeless in the city and state. The court then expressed satisfaction at the initiatives taken by the state and BMC and said, “We are of the considered opinion that the state and the corporation are taking steps in the right directions for food, water, napkins etc for homeless within the limits of their capacity and no direction is required at this stage from this court for augmenting the distribution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/providing-free-shelter-food-will-increase-population-of-homeless-bombay-hc-101625334059164.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||Close relatives can adopt a child under provisions of JJ Act: Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has held that adoption under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 cannot be restricted to abandoned, orphaned or surrendered children, and added that a person can adopt the child of a close relative under the Act.A single judge bench of justice Manish Pitale on Wednesday struck down an order passed by District Judge-1, Yavatmal, rejecting an application filed by a local couple to adopt the daughter of the man’s sister. The district judge rejected the application saying the minor girl was neither a child in conflict with the law or one needing care and protection, and therefore the proposed adoption cannot be allowed under provisions of the JJ Act.The adoptive parents then moved the HC. Their counsel advocate Ira Khisti pointed out that the district judge erred in taking an extremely strict view and submitted that a proper appreciation of the provisions of the JJ Act and Adoption Regulations, 2017 would show that the legislature has consciously made provisions for adoption of a child by relatives.Amicus curiae KT Mirza supported her by pointing out that certain additional provisions are made in the JJ Act which provide for adoption by a relative and also brought to the notice of the court the schedule to the regulations, laying down specific formats for consent etc. in cases of adoption by relatives — maternal or paternal uncles or aunts or grand-parents.Justice Pitale accepted their contentions and said, “A perusal of the provisions of JJ Act shows that an elaborate procedure is laid down and contemplated for adoption of a child by relatives, who are also specified under the said enactment.”“If adoption under the JJ Act, 2015 was to be restrictively applicable only to children in conflict with law or those in need of care and protection, such elaborate provisions governing the procedure for adoption by relatives or step-parents would not have been provided for,” the court added.Justice Pitale said that under the scheme of the JJ Act and Adoption Regulations, “adoption cannot be restricted only to children in conflict with law or those in need of care and protection or only those children who are orphaned, abandoned or surrendered,” and therefore, the application filed by the applicant couple could not have been rejected.HC said, in the present case, the child is sought to be adopted by the maternal uncle and aunt of the child and they are clearly covered by the definition of “relative” as appearing in section 2(52) of the JJ Act, 2015 and directed the district judge to decide the application jointly filed by the couple seeking to adopt the child as well as the biological parents for adoption the girl child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/close-relatives-can-adopt-a-child-under-provisions-of-jj-act-bombay-hc-101625334057802.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Pune’ Spruce Up tech to do the dirty work||Spruce Up believes it is a disrupter; not just in terms of the technological landscape of Indian manufacturing, but also in the socio-development milieu where the millennial Indian startup likes to be positioned.Cleantech, hardware, technology, manufacturing, are all the cue words that Spruce Up founder, Abhishek Shelar has banked on to make the Forbes Asia 30- under-30 (Asia Entrepreneurs) list.Shelar, an IIT Bombay alumnus, Shelar hails from Aurangabad city and first came to Pune in 2008, to study at Fergusson College.He then went on to IIT Bombay in 2010, where he was awarded an Undergraduate Research Award for his work in finding a low-cost method for manufacturing titanium dental implants.He set up his first company in 2013, Siddheya Precision Works in Shendra MIDC, Aurangabad.Shelar than got accepted at Harvard for a Master’s programme in Technology, Innovation and Education. At Harvard, Shelar incubated as a consultant for the start-up U-Doodle.org at the Harvard Innovation Lab under the Venture Incubation Programme (VIP).His course ended and he decided to come back to India to start a new venture.In the beginningAfter coming to India, Shelar set-up Spruce Up Industries, a company to provide value innovation solutions to key societal problems.Says Shelar, “I don’t come from any industry or manufacturing business background. My dad is an orthopaedic surgeon and we have a hospital in Aurangabad. I wanted to do something better for the country and I feel connected to nature and the environment a lot. In 2015, the Indian start-up ecosystem was very thriving. Along with Startup India scheme, the Swacch Bharat programme was also going on. I had seen tourist places where there is always trash, litter and I always thought why there isn’t a big vacuum cleaner. The monumental Swacch Bharat Mission is being run by a “jhadu” (broom). There was a technology mismatch and so I thought this space requires mechanisation.”Jatayu – Scavenger of nature With these goals, within nine months of his homecoming, Shelar successfully invented patented technologies and developed a prototype of the first machine. This machine was robust, stronger, and suitable for harsh Indian circumstances, capable of handling wet and dry garbage of varied types. It was developed at less than half the cost of machines available worldwide.As a tribute to vultures - scavengers of nature- he named his machine Jatayu, after a mythological king of vultures.Surviving cancer On a separate note, amidst everything that was going on with the company, Shelar was detected with cancer in 2016, and had to undergo chemotherapy for four months. Those four months he would take chemo every alternate weekend and would have to work extra. Bearing all its side effects, he kept working to make the machine efficient and best suited for India. Today he is cancer-free.Bootstrapping Spruce Up Spruce Up was financed from Shelar’s father’s retirement funds and life savings, and further, putting the family house on mortgage. Shelar recalls, “I was operating out of a small room in Pune. After a year, I had two more people join me. The team grew systematically over time. There were a lot of challenges and a lot of learning went into doing this.”B-to-G: Business to GovernmentSays Shelar: “We are operating in one of the toughest spaces because we are operating in Business to Government (B2G) domain. The waste sector, heavy machinery and hardware sector is also hard to do. We have to visit government offices several times to sell the product. Also, this is not a very fundable space. Investors like to invest in explosive ideas. This is by no means an explosive idea from an investor’s point of view. So, we had to invest and become very sharp and shrewd about bootstrapping. Doing this kind of a complex endeavour on a bootstrapped budget was big challenge for us. That forced us to focus on fundamentals. Over the five years, our product quality and conduct became very sharp and we were successfully able to deploy 100 machines from Nagaland to Jamnagar and Uttar Kashi to Chennai. One machine was sold in New Zealand also,” he said.Product design learnings The first machine – Jatayu HD – was, by Shelar’s own admission, the most compact, modular and powerful machine. The prototype was made in six months, but minimum viable product took two years.Setting up of production, distribution and vendor network took time. The actual production started in 2017 and the first sale happened in 2018.“After deploying 40 machines which ran for 15,000 hours we understood a lot of small things. We realised that India needs a truly fully contactless machine. There is a lot of garbage and worker hygiene is a very big concern. Hence, we launched a new model called Jatayu Super,” said Shelar, adding, “Wherever possible we use top Indian brand products of international repute. Second preference is international products, but made in factories within India. Last preference is fully import for materials where there is no substitute. So, we try to reduce the import and have kept it at only 10 per cent of the product. Another problem is that the acid content in solid waste builds up over time and it corrodes the vehicles. So, we had to make our machine body out of aluminium, while other parts are made out of stainless steel,” he added.An OEM Explaining the structure of the Spruce Up team, Shelar says, “We are an OEM (original equipment manufacturer). We develop and maintain the technology. We have all the protection rights, trademarks, copyrights, licences. We ensure the machines are regulated. We set all prices, we give service. We have a research and development team, vendor development team, sales and marketing and after sales. We have production partners who do our production.”The Indian challenge Says Shelar, “With any air machine, filtration is required. India, as compared to US or Europe, is a very dusty country. The fine dust chokes all filters and reduces the machine performance. The filtration technology is very difficult because there is very severe dust loading. Many competitors use this cartridge filters to clean, but they are not so effective. European companies use a water sprinkler (fine mist which captures the dust). In India, we get hard water supply and don’t have enough water supply. We have managed to overcome these challenges using very Indian condition-specific modifications in our design. We have looked at some technologies from military and defence applications and used such technologies.”Politically correctSanitisation workers are a political constituency in Indian politics. Explaining that the contactless machine does not replace humans or employees, Shelar says, “There are three million workers in the waste collection sector, and still 30 per cent of garbage doesn’t get collected. Waste pickers are not willing to put their hands in rotten garbage. They are requesting for contactless machines to do their job in a safe way. Especially in the post-Covid scenario, garbage has become even more dangerous from the health point of view. We believe that the more garbage is being lifted, more lives are being saved and more skills are being upgraded. A ‘jhadu’ equipped worker gets upskilled as a machine operator. Besides, all the garbage is being tracked and hence, there is accountability in the workspace. The workers are given more dignified work. New technology is a force of nature. It will come, it will find its balance. That is how we see it.”“Civic bodies, at present, are using our machines only for uncollected garbage. Also, cleaning is just one part. Post cleaning, there is maintenance, washing and beautification. So, the sanitisation workforce can be utilised for this hygienic work. I believe humans are not replaced, but they are uplifted and upskilled due to contactless machines like Jatayu,” Shelar added.Future plans Shelar said, “We will have three variants of four models – a product suite which can handle various kinds of requirements. We are also launching an electric litter picker-cum-disinfection system-cum-corner sweeping machine-cum-air blowing machine. We are bringing our super powerful vacuum in the small form factor which many universities, SEZs, corporates can use and keep their premises clean. It’s a multi-utility machine which lot of entities can use. It’s more accessible. Especially during Covid-times, many people want mechanisation, more cleanliness, there is more focus on that.”Clean city campaign While Shelar refuses to name the city, he revealed a data-based clean city campaign which will be launched soon with the help of the Jatayu machies. “We have a partner company specialised in cleaning cities. The project includes geotagging garbage points and reporting the frequency of garbage generation, tonnage expected at a given location. The control room at the civic body office will be able to come up with a systematic plan of eradicating garbage.”Customer feedback“Jatayu has made cleaning highways very easy for us. We can now clear dumpsites near cities and toll nakas safely and hygienically and monitor the work remotely to ensure maximum productivity. These machines have powerful suction pumps which have the capacity of removing garbage in substantial quantities in one go,” said Vijay Oswal, director, Markolines. Markolines, a Mumbai-based company involved in corridor management and maintenance services, is using the Jatayu machine for road cleaning and maintenance in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-pune-spruce-up-tech-to-do-the-dirty-work-101625321221244.html
04-07-2021||Pune||Your Space: Crackdown on Covid violators must||Covid-19 is showing us many shades of humanity – while we all are fighting against the deadly virus by following protocol-appropriate behaviour, there are some who are “break the rules” and leading us to a blunder. Politicians, irrespective of any party, is in the race of breaking rules. We have been told that a leader is one who knows the way, goes the way and shows the way. However, by breaking rules framed by their party members itself, which way (path) are they showing to the people? A path that leads to disaster? I believe that leadership is the action and not the position. Politicians love to take the name of Mahatma Gandhi, but no one follows his principles - Remember he called off the non-cooperation movement due to violence which was against his principles. Do our politicians have the guts to call off their protest if it’s breaking the rules made by themselves? It might be politicians or individuals, laws should be equal for all and the government should take action against anyone who breaks the law. Government should know that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. People will always support the right because truth never damages a cause that is just. Apurv Londhe Popular figures should set ideal examples While the Parliament is not in session because of the pandemic, the political leaders are not expected to gather crowds and conduct rallies. They have many responsibilities to fulfil during the Covid times. But the biggest responsibility of all is to spread the right information and encourage people to follow safety norms and maintain social distancing. The right precedent must be set by the political leaders, political parties, the election commission and the honourable courts by punishing those who flaunt Covid related norms. Political leaders are known as public figures, people imitate their actions. They have to be very cautious about their conduct during the pandemic. If leaders don’t comply with the norms then the people will not feel any accountability. India has witnessed unprecedented numbers of deaths during the pandemic. Anyone who doesn’t take Covid related norms seriously, should be punished and a right message must be given to society. Any negligence will amount to many deaths. Many celebrities and influential figures across the world are urging people to follow Covid norms strictly. What celebrities and political leaders say or do have a great impact on society that is why they need to walk the talk. All the important leaders of all political parties fundamentally promote wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. While saying that, the political leaders also have to completely avoid public gatherings. All the respected authorities should make virtual gatherings and virtual meetings compulsory. That will certainly solve the major issue of public gatherings. Santosh Bhagat Covid exposed partisan politics, judiciary Maharashtra and Gujarat along with the Capital were put to ablaze into the second wave of corona; for east of India Bengal witnessed a bitter battle between two strong leaders. In the dance of democracy - so called election; followers, members of party and leaders thrashed Covid-19 related guidelines. Showing utter disrespect and not paying any heed to the public health. While I paid a Rs500 fine for accidentally not covering my face with a mask for a few minutes. Then, I thought it was okay as it was my mistake and I got punished but what are authorities doing when there was blatant violation of rules? Why are they being punished for their selfish deed? Rule of law is sine qua non for democracy. Article 14 puts everyone equal before the law, but why is this case of “some people are mere equal“ kind of? Does the judicial system of India have the courage to punish people sitting at upper places? Police authorities behaved as mute spectators of the event. What stopped them from taking action?. Its courage, both mental and physical, in the words of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw that lacks and held them back from taking action. Sympathisers of them and their top brass may try to defend them in the name of lack of training, equipment, low salary and political interference. But none of it should come in the way of an individual to perform his/her duty; that’s the show of ‘leadership’. Instead, some of them are busy writing on Twitter or writing columns in newspapers. But what they should actually do is come down to the street - boost moral force, uphold rules of law without fear of consequences. Then only the “Ram Rajya” will be established. And they themselves need not to encounter for clarity of society. Kedar Telang Self-awareness must during the Covid times In May 2021, WHO report says that there were several factors contributing to the increase in Covid-19 cases in India. Two of these reasons are that a large number of people came together for political and religious events. Public rules were not adequately followed. When there are rules, it is for all the citizens and public representatives. Yet, since 2020, we have seen many examples of political rallies, protests who violated the rules of Covid 19. Farmers’ protests in Delhi, Bengal election rallies, MPSC student protests in Pune, are such examples where people came on the street and violated rules. The purpose of the protest is used to find the answer to the problem or to force the government to change or make decisions. But do we really find success from that protest all the time? Maybe not! Maybe yes! It is also seen that many parties are working to ignite the agitation and fulfil their hidden political agendas. The number of corona cases increased dramatically after the agitation or campaign. In April 2021, the Madras high court held that only the EC was responsible for the second Covid wave in India. But in my opinion, mutual coordination between political parties, political leaders, government officials and citizens are needed rather than holding each other accountable. If there will be an increase of self-awareness, there will be no need to take strict penal action against anyone. In the worst case, governmnet of India (GOI) also should update the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897. The sanitation workers in Pune showed that the protest can be carried out by following all the rules and regulations of Covid. On the day of protest, only 50 workers were there for the protest as per rules. They followed social distancing by keeping distance from each other. No one removed masks during the protest. If this happens all over India, there will be no need for penal action. But for that, self-awareness should be awakened in everyone. Aishwarya Swati Balkrishna Take steps to avoid public mass protests Public representatives take public opinion to the forefront. Both sides of coin are fair with their respective reasons to protests. Covid norms are like daily routines and many of us have crossed these norms already. One basic theory is there, if the masses are protesting, rules or laws not only get violated but get vanished also. One important point to be noted - almost negligible corona positive cases resulted because of these protests. All leaders have supported corona-fighting solutions and continued with it. So, instead of penal actions, the basic causes of these protests should get resolved. Vidya Desai Leaders must set an example Even when there is an apocalyptic life-threatening pandemic all around us, elected persons, politicos and their supporters miss no opportunity to draw attention to their own selves by holding public rallies, campaigns, meetings and gatherings all this while throwing social norms to the winds. If the public think that politicians have concern for our health and well-being, then we need to do a re-think. Their only thought is to gain political mileage by using us, the voters until the next elections. What is of greater concern and most disheartening is that the enforcement agency in most cases is a pliant bystander. If penal action as per the government’s orders, can be taken against members of the general public, why not ‘netas’ ? Everyone must remember that in India we drool over politicians, cricketers and film stars and follow them blindly. So, if the public sees these people flouting norms and no action being taken against them, then it is left to the discerning reader to decide what happens next. And why we have the uncontrolled increase in Covid cases without reason. Qaneez Sukhrani||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-political-leaders-to-set-the-example-101625319777046.html
04-07-2021||Mumbai||3 held in connection with barge tragedy during Cyclone Tauktae||A manager, director, and technical superintendent of a shipping company were arrested on Saturday on charges of negligence in connection with the capsizing of accommodation barge P305 in the Arabian sea during Cyclone Tauktae on May 17.Seventy-five people died in the tragedy while the Navy rescued 186 of the 261 people on board the barge.The three—Prasad Ganpat Rane, Nitin Dinanath Singh, and Akhilesh Tiwari—have been arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, deputy police commissioner (port zone) Ganesh Shinde said.A local court remanded them into police custody until July 8.There were around 23 crew members of the Papaa Shipping Company on the barge along with other employees.Suhas Hemade, a senior inspector, said the three accused were aware of the serious warning issued by the concerned authority in connection with the cyclone. “But despite this, they neither called back their employees from the barge nor did they ask them to shift to a safer place,” he said.Hemade said another director of the company, Shilpa Kanojiya, is also accused in the case but she has not been arrested yet.The case was initially registered in the matter on May 21 against the master of the barge, Rakesh Ballav. It was filed on the basis of the statement of Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of the maintenance crew of the barge.Shaikh accused Ballav of overlooking the weather alerts and of failing to take appropriate care despite knowing that the lapse could result in the loss of lives.As per the police complaint in the case, the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields. At about 11.00 pm on May 16, wind speed started increasing. An hour later, the wind speed almost doubled. At about 2 am, two of the eight anchor cables of the barge gave way and the captain send a distress message to a tugboat, which was supposed to be in the vicinity. The boat was about 16 nautical miles away and could not move in the stormy weather.Police have recorded statements of over 100 survivors rescued by the Navy and the Coast Guard from the barge.Afcons Infrastructure, which lead the consortium that had chartered the barge along with its marine crew, has said that the master of P305 chose to stay in the sea, near the platform where it was working, despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai harbour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-held-in-connection-with-barge-tragedy-during-cyclone-tauktae-101625311737649.html
