05-07-2021||Mumbai||No decision on post of Maharashtra Speaker||The monsoon session of the state assembly did not witness the much-anticipated election for the post of the Speaker, which would have signalled the strength of the ruling coalition government that has seen a rocky year, including a high-profile resignation of the state home minister – even as 12 BJP legislators, including former ministers Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Girish Mahajan, and Jaykumar Rawal, were suspended on Monday for alleged misbehaviour.The election was expected to take place during the two-day monsoon session which ends on July 6, but neither a meeting of the state cabinet on Sunday nor those held by various leaders of the coalition last week, was able to reach a unanimous decision. While the Congress, a junior partner in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, was keen to hold the election soon, the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were not.Also Read: Maharashtra politics heats up ahead of Assembly Speaker poll on July 6“Eleven legislators from the treasury benches are absent as they have been affected by Covid-19. In such a situation it was not advisable to hold the poll,” Congress legislator Balasaheb Thorat said.The post has been lying vacant after Nana Patole resigned to head the state Congress in February. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal has been presiding in the absence of the Speaker. As per the power-sharing pact between the three allies, the post would be held by a Congress legislator.The election is held via a secret vote and is a bellwether of the strength of the government as it indicates how many MLAs are in support of the ruling party – or, in this case, the MVA coalition.“The election to the post of Speaker is held by secret voting, making it difficult to avert the cross voting. Proving the majority would not be an issue, but keeping the votes we received during the confidence motion in 2019 intact is important,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader on the condition of anonymity.The MVA government won a floor test in 2019 by polling 169 votes in 288-member House. Besides the strength of 154 MLAs from three parties the ruling alliance, 15 MLAs from smaller parties and independents also supported the government. The BJP, which has 106 seats, claimed to have the support of nine MLAs from smaller allies and independents.Former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi this week, led a section of BJP leaders to speculate on the longevity of the state government.In the past few days, the Shiv Sena and the BJP have made overtures towards ending the impasse, prompting political experts to contend that it was likely that the Shiv Sena deferred the Speaker election because of talks between the two parties whose political alliance dates back to 1995 and broke only prior to the formation of the current government.Shelar met Sanjay Raut of Sena this past Saturday; a day later, Fadnavis also said that Sena and BJP may have differences of opinion but they were not enemies. “We have parted ways due to some differences but we are certainly not enemies. Sena and BJP’s fight is not a long- standing traditional war.”On Monday, the legislators were suspended during the resolution moved by state government to seek empirical data from the Centre in order to restore reservation granted to members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) which stands to be abolished following a Supreme Court order. There is 27% reservation in local self-government body elections for this category.As the discussions became heated, Opposition legislators approached the seat of presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav and tried to snatch the microphone and remove the mace on the table. Jadhav announced the passing of the resolution. He later told the assembly that the MLAs hurled abuses at him and tried to manhandle him.The BJP, however, refuted Jadhav’s claims. “Our legislators did not abuse the presiding officer. In fact Jadhav used filthy language which I cannot mention. We apologised to Jadhav, despite which they suspended our MLAs without discussion,” said Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-decision-on-post-of-maharashtra-speaker-101625508993130.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||PU panel suggests no change in fee structure for affiliated colleges||A 17-member special panel of Panjab University, headed by the dean university instruction (DUI), has recommended that the fee structure of affiliated colleges not be changed for the 2021-22 academic session.The panel constituted by the vice-chancellor made the recommendation during an online meeting on Monday, with the aim to provide relief to students amid the pandemic. The suggestion is subject to the V-C’s approval.A varsity panel had in May recommended putting the annual fee hike on hold for the second year in a row for teaching departments, regional centres and constituent colleges for the upcoming session.Last year, the syndicate had put on hold the 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants for the 2020-21 academic session.Moreover, the varsity had in 2020 also allowed students to pay the semester fee in instalments and helped many students who were not able to pay.Usually, the recommendations on change in fee structure are taken up in syndicate for approval and PU senate takes final call. However, in the absence of the senate and syndicate, it will be taken up by the vice-chancellor for approval, in anticipation of the approval of the governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-panel-suggests-no-change-in-fee-structure-for-affiliated-colleges-101625509151537.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Time to hit the gym, but safety first!||As gyms and fitness centres opened in the state capital on Monday, after a gap of over two and a half months, fitness enthusiasts flocked to them. Partial corona curfew was clamped in May, but gyms had voluntarily downed their shutters on April 15 in the wake of a second wave surge. This time customers and fitness centres are leaving no stone unturned to ensure full safety measures. “We all know vaccination is the key, so all gym owners have got their trainers, staff members and cleaning staff vaccinated. Besides, thermal checking, pulse monitor and hand sanitation has already become a way of life. Gyms have already suffered a lot due to fixed expenses, rent, electricity, staff salary so now it’s time for some action but safety first,” says Sajid Ahmed Qureshi, president of UP Fitness and Body Building Association. Tanveer Ahmad, a fitness freak, says, “I was going to Gomti Riverfront and Lohia Park but for me weight training is important. Now, it’s time to pump iron. I have taken both doses of the vaccine so I am a little tension-free.” Establishments like Fusion Fit Gym are providing vaccination discounts to inspire people to take the jab. “People have put on weight sitting at home and now want to work out. After the first wave, the turnout was slow and we started to packed batches with 50% capacity as per floor size. Most of them have taken a jab and the vaccination discount is to inspire others,” said Vikas Singh.Some who contracted Covid-19 in this wave and have to wait for three months after recovery before they can take the vaccine, will be allowed, said Sashwat Keserwani of Fitness Habit Gym. “After a month, we won’t allow anyone without vaccination. Since we have a two-tier system where strength training is on one floor while aerobics and Crossfit set-up on another, we have divided patrons in batches of 20 people each.” However, Gold’s Gym Hazratganj has adopted a ‘no-vaccine, no-entry’ policy. “We have started with hourly slots of 20 persons. Only vaccinated people are allowed for everyone’s safety. For the closure period we are carrying forward packages of our members,” said Ritesh Tiwari. Currently, most gyms are functioning between 7 am to 9 pm on weekdays due to on-going partial corona curfew on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/time-to-hit-the-gym-but-safety-first-101625509091411.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: IMD issues heatwave warning till July 8||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heatwave in the city till July 8.Relief is expected from July 9, once monsoon resumes and covers more parts of Punjab and Haryana this time.According to the IMD, a heatwave is declared in the plains if the maximum temperature is more than 40°C and at least 4.5°C above normal, or if it crosses 45°C. Last week, it had been declared on Wednesday and Thursday, when maximum temperature had gone up to 40.6°C and 40.8°C, respectively.IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “In the next three days, mercury is likely to go above 40°C. Due to high humidity and temperature, light rain and thunder in isolated areas is a possibility. The temperature will cool off once it rains from around July 9.”A yellow warning for heatwave has been issued till July 8. From July 9, the yellow warning will continue, but for thunderstorm and gusty winds, which will continue on July 10.A yellow warning is the second of the four level warnings issued by the IMD, asking people to keep watch and stay updated.The period between June and September is considered as monsoon by the IMD and it is 23% deficient in the city as of now. Against a normal of 166.6 mm, the city has received 127.8 mm of rain since June 1. As per the IMD, easterly winds which had stopped blowing when the monsoon system had subdued, will start again by July 8 and light to moderate rain up to 30mm is likely. With a low-pressure area forming over Bay of Bengal around July 11, more spells of rain can be expected.Maximum temperature in the city rose from 37.5°C on Sunday to 38.2°C on Monday, while minimum temperature also went up from 27.6°C to 29.4°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 38°C and 40°C and minimum temperature between 29°C and 30°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhimd-issues-heatwave-warning-till-july-8-101625508972238.html
05-07-2021||Other||Teacher-student ration at civic schools in line with RTE rules, say MCDs||New Delhi: A day after Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, citing a union ministry report, said that municipal schools under the BJP-ruled civic bodies have a poor pupil-teacher ratio (PTR), the three corporations -- north, south and east -- shared data on the number of students enrolled in their schools and the teachers engaged to state that their PTR is in accordance with the Right to Education (RTE) Act.Implying that the discrepancy in numbers is the result of leaving out contractual teachers in the data, they said that all civic bodies have such teachers and that recruitment process for hiring more regular teachers is underway.On Sunday, Sisodia, citing the Unified District Information System for Education Plus (UDISE+) report for 2019-20, said that only 50% municipal schools operated within the RTE mandated PTR of 30:1 and 35:1 in primary and upper primary levels, respectively. The minister further said that while 98% of the Delhi government schools have maintained the RTE mandated PTR, 58% of East MCD schools, 46% of North MCD schools and 39% of South MCD schools are not following it. However, the data shared by the civic bodies showed that their PTR is more or less in accordance with the RTE Act. As per data shared by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), schools under it have a total of 4,764 teachers for 159,550 students enrolled across its 357 schools. “The overall student-teacher ratio at present is 34:1, which is fine and very close to the RTE mandated PTR. Of the total number of teachers, 868 are those engaged on a contractual basis. We have already renewed the contracts of these teachers for this year,” said a senior EDMC official, who did not wish to be named.EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal said that municipal schools have a good PTR even with the financial constraints being faced across the three corporations. “I am yet to see the report in detail. I don’t know what the Delhi education minister has seen... The ground reality is that at present we have an adequate student teacher ratio. Also, the number of students enrolled in our schools has been on the rise over the past two years,” said Agrawal.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which shared data till November 2020, said that its PTR is 42:1, “only slightly behind the RTE mandate”. The South civic body has 6,044 teachers for 254,303 students enrolled across its 581 schools. Of the teachers engaged, 414 are contractual while 108 have been hired under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.“The contractual teachers will be renewed once schools reopen. At present, classes are going on in the online mode. Also, the process of recruitment of regular teachers is underway,” said a senior South corporation official.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that at present around 75%- 80% of the enrolled students are taking classes under the online system while some have left the city to go back to their home states because of the pandemic. “The PTR of our schools is good enough given the limited resources, and will be improved even further. Besides, the recruitment process of over 750 regular teachers is in process. Their documents are being verified for due appointment,” said Suryan. The North corporation has 7,700 teachers for around 240,000 students enrolled across its 780 schools. “Our student teacher ratio at present is 31:1. The schools have a capacity to enrol around three lakh students and the civic body is in the process of hiring around 350 regular teachers this year,” said a North corporation official, who did not wish to be named.A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teacherstudent-ration-at-civic-schools-in-line-with-rte-rules-say-mcds-101625508970709.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Worker held for theft at jewellery workshop in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police have arrested the man who had fled with 1.5-kg gold, diamond ornaments and ₹3 lakh after sedating his co-workers at a jewellery workshop in Sector 23 on the night of June 26. Accused Akash Majhi was nabbed from West Bengal, his home state, on Sunday, said police. He was brought to the city on Monday and produced in court, which sent him to seven-day police remand. A “substantial part” of the stolen valuables has been recovered, said a senior crime branch official, while more seizures are expected after quizzing the accused.Police had made a breakthrough in the case after they arrested Arjun, Majhi’s friend who worked at a wholesale shop in Sector 23 and had gone missing the same day. He was also arrested from West Bengal on July 2, and his questioning led police to the main accused. “We will also try to find out how Majhi planned the theft and whether anyone else had aided him,” said the official.Majhi, who used to polish diamonds at the jewellery workshop, had been working there for two years. After spiking the drinks of his colleagues on the pretext of hosting a birthday party, he broke open the safe and fled with the valuables. According to police, he left behind his mobile phone to avoid being traced and also cut the wires of the CCTV recorder before fleeing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worker-held-for-theft-at-jewellery-workshop-in-chandigarh-101625508852749.html
05-07-2021||Other||Delhi Skill University to start admission process from today||New Delhi: The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) will begin the admission process for its first-ever batch from Tuesday for various courses which are designed by industry experts and involve mandatory entrepreneurship components. The admission process will remain completely online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The university will offer 12 job-oriented undergraduate courses, including BA prgrammes in Digital Media, Business Management, Data Analytics, and Aesthetics and Beauty, in addition to six B.Tech courses, 15 diploma courses, and two post graduate courses, across 13 campuses in Delhi. The university will initially admit 6,000 students. In a statement issued on Monday, the university said that students enrolling for the undergraduate programmes (excluding B.Tech) are required to take a test, PEGTM (Personality, Entrepreneurial mindset and General ability Test Mindset), to know where their interest lies. Admissions to the diploma courses will be conducted through an online proctored common entrance test to be conducted in August, and candidates applying to degree courses will have a merit-based admission on the basis of their Class 12 scores, performance in vocational subjects, and extracurricular activities.During an online press conference on Monday, University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Neharika Vohra said, “The university aspires to support entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship directly. Our courses are industry embedded; there are partnerships and linkages in diploma and undergraduate degree programmes where we will prepare each student to face the world and in gaining employable skills for the industry.”“We want the student to go and make a career in the industry. For this, we would like the student to ascertain their interest and then take admission, so that later they do not feel stuck in a vocation,” she said.The University has launched a helpline number (011-41169950) and a toll free number (18003093209) for admission-related queries and for technical assistance in filling the forms which are available at http://www.dseu.ac.in/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-skill-university-to-start-admission-process-from-today-101625508850568.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Ex-IAS officer freed after finishing jail term in Haryana teachers recruitment scam||Former IAS officer Sanjeev Kumar, who blew the whistle on the Haryana Junior Basic Trained (JBT) teachers recruitment scam and was convicted along with former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, has been released from Tihar jail, prison officers aware of the development said on Monday. Chautala was also released a few days ago.Kumar was released after he completed 10 years of his sentence awarded to him and 53 others by a special CBI court in January 2013. Prison officers, privy to Sanjeev Kumar’s release, said, “He is the second person to the released in the case. He completed his 10-year sentence. He was lodged in jail number 1. Inside the jail, he was working in the legal section, helping prisoners with their cases. He was released on June 28.”Kumar, a 1989 batch IAS officer, was the former director of primary education in Haryana, when he filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court alleging that Chautala, the then chief minister, resorted to corrupt practices in the hiring of 3.208 JBT teachers. He had accused the senior politician of forcing him to change the names of over 2,000 teachers during the recruitment. But Chautala accused Kumar of indulging in corruption by changing the 2,000 shortlisted names. They were both charged in the case by the CBI.When contacted, Kumar said he was wrongly incarcerated: “Had I not spoken about the scam, nobody would have come to know about it. As a responsible citizen and officer, I raised the alarm. Yet I was sent behind bars for 10 years. Rightly or wrongly, I have done my time. Now I will work towards raising awareness about the Whistleblower Protection Act. Also, I would like to move the higher courts to put in place systems to ensure that other prospective whistleblowers are not discouraged by the vagaries and distortions of the system.”Chautala was out on parole on medical grounds since March 2020 and was admitted to a hospital in Gurugram when prison officials wrote to him on June 22, informing that his sentencing was over. On Friday morning, he reached the jail complex and completed the release formalities after which he was formally freed. Another prison officer, who asked not to be named, said that Chautala’s son, Ajay Chautala, could also be released in a few months. Ajay could not meet the remission criteria - the benefit that Chautala got as he had less than six months of his sentence left. Last month, the Delhi government has issued an order granting remission to prisoners who have less than six months of their sentence left. Like Chautala, at least 20 other convicts, who qualified for remission, have been released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exiasofficer-freed-after-finishing-jail-term-in-haryana-teachers-recruitment-scam-101625508790631.html
05-07-2021||Other||DMRC uses new tech to speed up Metro Phase-4 work||New Delhi: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has introduced a new technology -- a specially designed system to launch a U-girder -- to expedite work on the Phase-4 Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg line. The Metro on Monday used the state-of-the-art launcher attached with a transporter to launch a U-girder on its elevated section. DMRC officials said that till now, U-girders were placed using two high-capacity cranes, which needed to be transported to each pier location with the help of a trailer approximately 42m long. This used to be a big problem in congested areas, especially elevated corridors, which discourged the use of U-girders. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “In a congested urban area like Delhi, it used to be very challenging to find adequate space for positioning these heavy capacity cranes which occupy lot of space. In addition, transporting the U-girders of 28m length with such long trailers was also a herculean task as roads in the NCR are either too congested or have massive traffic volumes even during the night time.” He added, “This new state-of-the-art launcher with transporter is fully electric, with much higher output in comparison to the conventional launchers or cranes.. Such a technology is being used for the first time in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrcuses-new-tech-to-speed-up-metro-phase-4-work-101625508791295.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Sector-24 flat owners decry ₹100-cr land enhancement cost||Residents of Sector 24 in Panchkula, most of them elderly with no source of income, are spending sleepless nights as the government has asked around 15 societies here to pay nearly ₹100 crore as land enhancement cost.General secretary of the Sector-24 resident welfare association, Upender Pathak, said that most of the flats were owned by senior citizens and retired personnel: “The present scenario of continuous and unwanted load of interest charged by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has caused mental agony to all those who opted for flats as they could not afford independent houses.”Enhancement is the increase in compensation paid to a farmer/landowner for the acquisition of his/her land, which is decided by a court in case the farmer or land owner is not satisfied with the price of land being offered by the state government or its agency. The residents of plots/group housing societies built on that land then have to pay the cost of enhancement.The societies in Sector 24 have been built on either 1 acre land or half acre land. In 1-acre societies, where around 40 families live, the land enhancement cost is ₹10 crore. In societies built on half acre land, where around 24 families, it is ₹5 crore.Pathak said that on average, the amount due to be paid by the residents is around ₹100 crore without availing any last and final settlement scheme (LFSS). There are seven societies of 1-acre each, and five societies of half-acre each. “Per family, around ₹25 lakh are to be paid. Even if we get a 50% rebate, the amount to be paid per family comes around ₹13 lakh. How can an elderly person, who bought a flat for ₹10-15 lakh around a decade ago, arrange ₹25 lakh?” a member of the RWA said.Final settlement scheme ended on June 15A public notice was issued by the HSVP on extension of availing LFSS up to June 15, wherein it was intimated that allottees can represent for correction of their plot and property management (PPM) account statement before June 6 to the respective estate officer.In June, the members of Sector-24 RWA and individual petitioners of the group housing societies of Sector 24 wrote to the chief controller finance, HSVP, to “recalculate the additional price on account of land cost enhancement.”“The residents, who are staying here for over 10 years cannot even think of paying this huge amount, which cost around ₹25 lakh per flat owner, which is all attributed due to the disproportionately large addition of common area in Sector 24,” Pathak said.The association members said that the amount was so high because the authorities had added 76 acres of Ghaggar land to Sector 24. They said that the Sector was only 44 acres, out of which 19 acres was saleable and other areas were common. But now, with the addition of 76-acre Ghaggar land, that too after 20 years of land acquisition, was adding a huge financial burden on them.The residents, who have been representing against this inclusion, have time and again requested the authorities to recalculate the additional price, so that they could deposit the amount to HSVP and avail the LFSS and avoid increasing interest burden.HD Sharma, one of the owners of a society, said that he bought a 1-acre plot for ₹1 crore. “In 2013, the cost enhancement was ₹2.5 crore with 15% interest. Then in 2018, a second enhancement was announced wherein the amount was increased to over ₹3 crore. It means the land was bought for ₹1 crore in 1999, and now we have to pay ₹6 crore on that land, which comes out to be around ₹25 lakh per family.”‘Extra costing by executive order is illegal’Advocate Harmanjeet Sethi said, “Extra costing by virtue of executive order is illegal. Executive has no right to charge an extra amount from people on the basis of the executive’s instructions. If they do so, any person aggrieved can challenge the same. As per the provisions of HUDA Act, the enhanced cost of land is passed on to the allottees, proportionately. However, HUDA Act does not contemplate that in case extra land is added or acquired subsequently then HUDA can charge extra amount from land owners.”HSVP estate officer Mamta Sharma said she had written to the development authority’s chief controller of finance on June 6, requesting that necessary decisions be taken and conveyed to the office at the earliest so that the societies may avail benefits of the LFSS accordingly. In the letter, the estate officer had stated that residents want HSVP to exclude the 76-acre Ghaggar land and recalculate the amount. Sharma said no decision has been taken on the representation and the scheme is closed now. “We have done what was right. Moreover, it is not in my hands to decide on their representation,” she said. The chief controller of finance, HSVP, was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-sector-24-flat-owners-decry-100-cr-land-enhancement-cost-101625508671939.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Govt panel backs red-category industry in Mohali’s Sector 101||Ruling out objections by residents of several villages near Sector 101, where the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is acquiring 500 acres of land to set up an industrial sector, a three-member committee has decided to assign it the red category, though recommending strict adherence to norms set by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). The Centre has developed the criteria of categorisation of industrial sectors based on their pollution load. The red category industrial sectors, with pollution index of 60 and above, are the most polluting. The other categories, in the ascending order of pollution load are white (up to 20), green (21-40) and orange (41-59).In November last year, GMADA had issued a public notice inviting objections from residents over the amendment in the master plan of the area to change the category from green to red. During a public hearing in March this year, the locals had unanimously objected to the change, following which a three-member committee was constituted. The committee comprised principal secretary, industries, Punjab; chairman, PPCB; and director, town and country planning. It will be submitting its report to the minister for housing and urban development, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, for approval, and later the report will be tabled in the board of directors’ meeting scheduled this month.A senior officer of the industry department, who did not wish to be named, said as Sector 101 is located near the airport, many multinational companies are interested in setting up their units there. The committee has recommended to categorise the industrial sector as red, as suggested by the PPCB, with strict adherence to all PPCB norms, the officer said.While GMADA has already started the social impact assessment to acquire 500 acres of land for industry in Sector 101, no decision has been taken to acquire land in Sector 103 as yet.Gurpreet Singh, sarpanch of Durali village that is located near Sector 101, said that according to the master plan of 2005, both Sectors 101 and 103 fall under the green category.“We have already given in writing not to change the master plan of the area, as all villages are located in close proximity to the sector. It will impact the health of villagers. We will not accept this and will hold protest,” he said.Bhagat Ram, sarpanch of Saneta village that is located near Sector 103, said: “Though GMADA is still to decide on acquisition here, we will not allow any red category industry to come up in the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-panel-backs-red-category-industry-in-mohali-s-sector-101-101625508371297.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power connection transfer: Major relief for Chandigarh residents||Giving major relief to thousands of power consumers in Chandigarh, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has decided to do away with additional security deposit sought from new consumers in case of transfer of the power connection.The new provision will apply to the connection transfer in the case of both legal heir and other cases of change in property ownership.Amending the Electricity Supply Code Regulations, the JERC stated: “... and no additional security deposit shall be taken if consumer continues with the same load.”Before the amendment, security deposit lying with the licensee (electricity department) in the name of original consumer was transferred to its legal heir to whom the connection is to be transferred and the shortfall in security deposit was to be paid by that person. The additional security deposit could even run into lakhs of rupees.The amendment in the regulations came on the application of Kulbir Singh Brar, a resident of Sector 36. “The house was transferred in my name as its legal heir. The estate office charged the procedural charges for the transfer. When I requested for transfer of the power connection in my name, the electricity department imposed ₹76,000 as additional security fee,” said Brar. It was then that he approached the JERC with a petition seeking changes in the provision, “which were unfair to the consumers”.“The electricity department was charging additional security on the basis of average consumption deposit, which has increased over a period of time. My contention was that the increase in consumption had nothing to do with the change in ownership of electricity connection,” he said. No NOC needed from previous ownerSimplifying the transfer of connection, the JERC has also dropped the condition of a no objection certificate from the previous property owner. In case it was not submitted, an application form for change of name was entertained only if the security deposit was paid afresh. Now, the security deposit in the name of the preceding consumer will stand transferred in the name of the applicant and no additional security deposit will be taken if consumer continues with the same load.The latest JERC amendment has also clarified that if the property has been transferred in the name of multiple owners, the connection will be transferred in the name of the first owner.Also, if other co-owners, up to two, want to add their name for electricity connection, they will have to apply jointly for name change. In other cases of change of property ownership, if the connection is requested to be transferred in the name of second co-owner, then it will be accepted on the receipt of an NOC from other co-owners.Timelines, procedures to be suspended during lockdown The JERC has added lockdown as one of the force majeure conditions during which the timelines and procedures specified in the regulations will remain suspended. Force majeure conditions are unforeseeable circumstances that prevent someone from fulfilling a contract. Electricity Supply Code Regulations already include war, mutiny, civil commotion, riot, flood, cyclone, lightning, earthquake, lockout and fire as the force majeure conditions that may affect the electricity department’s installations and activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-connection-transfer-major-relief-for-chandigarh-residents-101625508131677.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati slams RSS chief’s DNA remarks||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Monday criticised RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement that the DNA of all Indians was the same and said the comment hadn’t gone down well. Addressing a press conference here, Mayawati said, “There is a big difference in what the RSS says and does, especially in cases of casteism, communalism and religion. They do exactly the opposite of what they say. It is known to everyone. The BSP is opposed to the parochial policy and working of the RSS.” The RSS chief, in his address at an event ‘Hindustan First Hindustani Best’ organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, had said the DNA of all Indians was the same and those asking Muslims to leave the country could not call themselves Hindus. She said the RSS chief’s statement was like “Muh me Ram, bagal me chhuri”, a Hindi proverb that roughly translated to showing a two-faced nature. She also alleged that the BJP governments at Centre, Uttar Pradesh as well as in other states were running on a narrow mindset and agenda of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) instead of the Constitution, due to which there was a sense of unease, anarchy and tension in the country. She further said, “The religious conversion by terrorizing a person, allurement is unlawful as well as illegal. Under a planned strategy and conspiracy the BJP is deliberately making it a Hindu-Muslim issue to make a case against the whole Muslim community which is not proper.” The former chief minister also alleged that the BJP government in UP was working with casteist, religious and political vendetta. “The drive launched by the state government to confiscate and demolish the properties has affected the Muslim community people the most. Its creating insecurity among the Muslims which is not proper. It is raising question mark over the functioning of the state government. BSP condemns the act of the BJP government,” she said. Earlier in a series of tweets Mayawati said, the news of a judicial inquiry set up by the French government on allegations of corruption in the purchase of Rafale fighter jets by the Indian government has made headlines again and is the subject of public discussions. It would be better if the central government also takes proper cognisance of it. “However, the allegations of commission in defence deals and its investigation are not new. It is an old burning issue since the time of the Congress government. The BSP believes that it would be better if the present government at the Centre puts an end to this issue by settling the Rafale dispute according to public satisfaction,” Mayawati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-slams-rss-chief-s-dna-remarks-101625507474086.html
05-07-2021||Other||If Morcha wins in UP, there will be 5 CMs, 20 Dy CMs in 5 years: SBSP chief||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Omprakash Rajbhar on Monday said if Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha that is a grouping 10 parties, including Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, forms government in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, there will be five chief ministers and 20 deputy chief ministers of different castes in five years.“The formula has been made in order to ensure that every party, which is part of the morcha, gets participation in the government,” said Rajbhar while addressing a press conference in Sarnath. Rajbhar said the SBSP had been demanding division of 27% OBC reservation into three categories as pichda varg (backward class) at 7%, ati pichda (most backward class) at 9% and atyant pichda (extremely backward) at 11%.He said the social justice committee that was formed by the state government submitted its report three years ago recommending the division of 27% OBC reservation into three categories.Rajbhar said soon after coming to power, the report will be implemented immediately. Rajbhar also said the BJP government had failed in controlling inflation due to which people were facing a lot of problem and struggling to meet their expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/if-morcha-wins-in-up-there-will-be-5-cms-20-dy-cms-in-5-years-sbsp-chief-101625506992811.html
05-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC rolls out dos and don’ts for MLAs in wake of fake vaccination scam probe||Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislators cannot make statements on important issues without consulting the state leadership or attend any public meeting without checking the backgrounds of people organising and attending it, West Bengal’s ruling party on Monday told its 213 legislators while conducting a workshop at the state assembly building. The same rules will apply to what the MLAs post on social media. The new set of dos and don’ts, party leaders said, was rolled out in view of various campaigns being carried out by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as the recent fake vaccination scam in which the main accused, Debanjan Deb, an imposter, dropped the names of several heavyweight TMC leaders and ministers to cheat people. He was exposed after TMC Lok Sabha member Mimi Chakraborty got a job at a camp that Deb held in Kolkata and informed the authorities when she did not receive any certificate. Posing as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer working for the Kolkata civic body, Deb held at least two camps in Kolkata last month where more than 800 people were allegedly given shots of Amikacin, an antibiotic. His name even appeared below the names of TMC ministers and MPs in a plaque placed below a recently installed bust of Rabindranath Tagore in central Kolkata. The government hurriedly removed the plague and Kolkata Police started a probe. Deb and several of his associates have been arrested. The BJP has started a campaign using photographs in which Deb can be purportedly seen with some TMC leaders. “We have been told to do a background check before attending any public event. Also, the party has said that we cannot make any statement on crucial issues or react to allegations raised by the BJP before consulting our state leaders and knowing what the party’s official stand is,” said a first-time TMC MLA who did not wish to be named. The workshop was held by four senior TMC leaders, Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who all are ministers, and former party general secretary Subrata Bakshi. “The MLAs have been told not to make any statement inside or outside the assembly on any issue without the party’s clearance. They have been asked to attend assembly sessions on a regular basis and keep track of the proceedings,” said Partha Chatterjee. “The MLAs cannot do anything that affects the democratic atmosphere,” he added. The BJP, too, imposed some restrictions on its MLAs last week. On Saturday, they were told not to travel without informing the leadership. State present Dilip Ghosh said this at a workshop held for 75 BJP MLAs. This immediately raised questions as no party in Bengal has imposed restrictions on the movement of their leaders in recent history. While Ghosh’s mandate was described by party leader’s as “an effort to enforce discipline” some of them felt it reflected Ghosh’s displeasure over MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s recent visits to Delhi where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other top leaders. During his last trip, Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, triggered a controversy by visiting the home of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Though Mehta and Adhikari said they could not meet because the former was busy in a meeting, the TMC has demanded the Solicitor General’s removal. The ruling party has said that since Adhikari is an accused in the Narada sting operation case and Mehta is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in court, they cannot meet. On earlier occasions, as well as on Friday when the controversy emerged, Ghosh said he was not aware of why Adhikari was in Delhi and who he met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-rolls-out-dos-and-don-ts-for-mlas-in-wake-of-fake-vaccination-scam-probe-101625506333085.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG shops made available for purchase||Shop tenants operating out of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) buildings in prime areas of Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Sikanderpur, Sadar Bazar and Badshahpur, among others, for a minimum of 20 years, are now eligible to become property owners, officials of the civic body said.In an official release on Monday, the MCG said that under the Haryana government’s Mukhyamantree Shaharee Nikaay Svaamitv Yojana, also known as the chief minister’s Urban Body Ownership Scheme, “any tenant, who has continuously rented or leased a shop from the MCG for a minimum period of 20 years, as on December 31, 2020, is eligible to purchase the building or shop space at a discounted collector rate”.For the application process and other detailed information, eligible parties can visit http://ulbshops.ulbharyana.gov.in, a portal started on July 1.MCG officials said that the rationale behind the move is to generate a sizeable one-time revenue and end the arduous mechanism of keeping a monthly tab on collections. The development comes at a time when the MCG is facing a massive financial crunch. This fiscal year, the MCG recovered only 7% of its projected target of ₹235 crore through property tax collection till July 1, even as property tax amounts to 85% of the MCG’s total annual revenue.“Under this scheme, people who have rented or leased a building are eligible to get the right of ownership of land or shop-cum-office (SCO) space from the MCG, and they will be able to possess the property for 20 years or more as on December 31, 2020. The occupier will get the ownership rights at a price lesser than the collector rate,” said Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer (ZTO), MCG.A person possessing the rented municipal property will get a 20% rebate on the collector rate if he or she has occupied it for a minimum of 20-year period, 30% for 30 years, 40% for 40 years, and so on, according to the MCG officials. After application, a potential buyer will have 15 days to deposit 25% of the final collector rate, and the remaining 75% within 45 days.As per Kumar, it is mandatory for a potential buyer to have a family identity (ID) card for the application process, under this scheme, and he/she will have to fill in necessary details on the online portal.“There are around 400 MCG-owned shops operating in Sadar Bazar alone, including the much-sought after Sabzi Mandi area. Most tenants would avail this scheme as it will give them an opportunity to stop paying a monthly rent, and they can also become property owners after paying heavily discounted rates of 30-40% lower than the market rate,” said Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association (SBTA).As many as 1,020 tenants are eligible to be beneficiaries in the MCG area under this scheme, as per the MCG officials. “At present, the MCG is massively low in income for the 2021-22 fiscal year. Such a scheme has hence been promoted so that the MCG can earn a high amount of revenue and tide its financial dip,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-shops-made-available-for-purchase-101625506275818.html
05-07-2021||Other||Punjab approves ₹430cr projects for agriculture, allied sectors||Chandigarh To boost agriculture and its allied sectors in the agrarian state, the Punjab government on Monday gave nod to projects worth ₹430 crore. The approval to these projects was given at a state-level sanctioning committee meeting of the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) scheme that state chief secretary Vini Mahajan chaired. The approved projects include five projects in agriculture; six in horticulture; five in Punjab Agro, two in Markfed; three in dairy development and nine projects of Punjab Agricultural University etc. The chief secretary added that wheat seed replacement, diversification of agriculture, and research project in relation to crops and animals besides plant health clinic were among the major projects to come up in the state. She added, “States have been empowered to take forward agricultural development by preparing projects as per their requirement under the RKVY scheme, which is running at 60:40 ratio. The Centre has assured us that funds will be released early to fast-track implementation of these projects, after we made a request.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-approves-rs-430cr-projects-for-agriculture-allied-sectors-101625506273829.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Three illegal colonies demolished in Sadhrana||An enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) carried out a demolition drive in Sadhrana village, on the outskirts of the city, on Monday, during which three illegal colonies, developed over 15 acres, were razed.The developments were illegal, and no permission to change the land use or a licence to build a colony was obtained from the department, DTCP officials said. RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said two earth moving machines were used to demolish six under-construction houses, four shops, and around 20 plinths there.Residents of the colony gathered and allegedly opposed the enforcement team’s demolition drive. According to them, the property dealers had told them that the property was being developed legally, and they were eligible to build houses there.“The residents also asked us to help them in getting the money back from the dealers. We have asked them to submit a complaint in this regard, so that we can take suitable action,” Bhath added.Earlier this year, a case was registered against illegal development and sale of plots, under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban areas Act 1975, at the Sector 10A police station, as per the DTCP officials.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), MCG, said that they repeatedly warn buyers not to invest in such illegal colonies. “We are trying to create awareness, but it will take some time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-illegal-colonies-demolished-in-sadhrana-101625506274284.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori: 16 booked for illegal plot sales; on the run, say cops||The Faridabad police registered 25 cases against 16 property dealers for illegally selling plots on government land and defrauding Khori residents over the past 20 years. However, no arrest has been made so far.The police are investigating the complaints and requested more villagers to give their accounts of the plot purchase. All suspects have been identified but are on the run, the police said.According to the police, as many as 10,000 families were duped and were clueless that the plot they purchased was owned by the government and that they were undertaking construction illegally.OP Singh, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said one of the suspects, identified as Rajdeep, whose name is mentioned in most of the cases, died a few years ago and was involved in selling most of the plots. He was a native of Anangpur in Faridabad.Singh said property dealers were using the fake power of attorneys to sell plots. “The victims here are mostly poor and the plots were sold to them at cheap prices, in easy instalments, and at a lower rates of interest. They bought the plot and got their ration cards and voter ID cards made on these addresses with the help of suspects who developed this area,” he said.According to the police, the suspects are mostly from neighbouring villages and duped residents by claiming that registration of properties would take some time as it was under development.“The cost of plots was not too high. So, no one bothered to check the revenue records and bought it, starting at ₹1 lakh for 30 gaj (270 square feet). Illegal electricity meters, water connections and sewerage connections were done and these dealers made money,” a senior district administration official said, requesting anonymity.More than 20 property dealers were allegedly involved in the nexus and targeted to sell nearly 12,000 plots, ranging from 270 to 900 square feet, for ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh. “They sold the plots that they had no rights over and minted money. There was no registry done as it was illegal sales. People bought them without verification and started construction,” said Kuldeep Singh, station house officer of Surajkund police station.Parul Biwi, who moved to Khori seven years ago, said that her family bought a 315 square-foot plot for ₹1 lakh and spent another ₹3 lakh on construction. “We had taken a loan from relatives and friends to construct our house. We had to sell our ancestral house as we all started working here and the plot was much cheaper compared to other places. We have paid around ₹1 lakh to property dealer to get our IDs made and during construction, they used to charge extra to get the construction material passed from the police check post,” she said.Biwi alleged the authorities were also in collusion with the property dealers.Ram Lakhan who moved from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh to Khori in 2004 said he paid ₹1 lakh and constructed his house on around 450 square feet. “I only bought construction material and bricks with the help of the dealer. He had to pay for every vehicle which ferried the material. We were told it goes to all officers and once constructed, the colony will be registered. I have four children and have nowhere to go,” he said.The police said they are compiling a list with details of monetary transactions and the people involved in selling plots and providing power and water connections. “The suspects, fearing arrests, are on the run from nearby villages,” said Singh.The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad owns around 150 acres in Khori village, on which these illegal houses have been built over the last 20 years. As per revenue records, the land was declared a ”forest” in 1992 under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900. The land also comes under the definition of “controlled area”, as per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act.“We are preparing a list of property dealers who had sold plots in the area. We have asked people to come forward to complain against the persons involved in selling plots and getting construction done. People who bought the land here are mostly from other states and were working here. They spent all their savings and took loans to construct these houses. We will take strict action against those found guilty,” Singh said.The cases have been registered under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code at Surajkund police station over the past seven days, police said.More than 150 police personnel continue to remain deployed in the area, covering checkpoints at all entry and exit points of the village to ensure the safety and security of villagers.The Supreme Court, in an order on June 7, had directed the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to “take all essential measures to remove encroachments on the subject forest land without any exception,” giving the civic body six weeks to complete the task.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that a survey was carried out by MCF and nearly 5,158 houses that were built will be razed in the demolition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-16-booked-for-illegal-plot-sales-on-the-run-say-cops-101625506272584.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||19-year-old opium smuggler held near Kherki Daula toll||A 19-year-old man was arrested in the early hours of Monday from the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway on charges of drug peddling. The police said that they recovered 1.84 kilograms of opium from him.According to the police, the suspect, identified as Ram Singh, of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, used to smuggle opium to different parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab from Madhya Pradesh. He was arrested near the Kherki Daula toll plaza, following a tip-off. Singh used to purchase a kilogram of opium for ₹2 lakh from Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh and sell the same for ₹10 lakh in Rajasthan, Haryana and Jharkhand, among other states, the police said. He also used to sell it in small packs of five grams for ₹2,000 each.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect was arrested when he was on his way to deliver the small packets in the city, at MG Road and Golf Course Road. “We are yet to identify the dealers who had paid for the drugs in advance,” he said. The police said he used to sell two kilograms a month and worked with two close contacts in the region, who are yet to be identified. The accused used public transport to smuggle the narcotics to different districts of Haryana, including Gurugram. The Sector 10 crime investigation team received a tip-off about the drug delivery, and that a man would arrive by public transport around 3am. Four members of the crime team led by inspector Arvind Kumar were deployed near the toll when they spotted the man carrying a shoulder bag. Sangwan said that the teams kept a close watch on him and after tracking him for half an hour, took him into custody. “The team found four packets of opium hidden in his clothes and the bag. The accused is a smuggler and was peddling opium for the past five years,” he said. “The bank accounts and various other means of monetary transactions of the accused are being examined and we are also in the process of finding out how much money they (Singh and his associates) made in a month,” Sangwan said. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at Kherki Daula police station on Monday. The police said on July 2, the suspect’s sibling was also arrested by the Jodhpur Police for possession of two kilograms of opium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/19yearold-opium-smuggler-held-near-kherki-daula-toll-101625506271013.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Domestic help booked for stealing valuable worth ₹35 lakh||A domestic help employed by a retired airlines employee allegedly made off with cash and jewellery worth ₹35 lakh from his place of work, a residence in South City-1, on Sunday, the police said. The employer, a senior citizen, hired the help in March. On Sunday, he went to visit a relative in Delhi and left the house under his care. However, he found the house ransacked upon his return, with cash, jewellery and other valuables missing. The domestic help was also missing and his phone was switched off. The complainant, 64-year-old Ravi Handa, lives with his family. The domestic help, identified as Vinod Saud, stayed with the family in the house, the police said. The family came in touch with Saud through an acquaintance and hired him as a full-time help. On Sunday, Handa and his family left their house around 5.30pm and asked Saud to lock the house. They returned at midnight and found that the main gate of the house was open. Upon entering, they found that cash, jewellery and other valuables worth ₹35 lakh were missing, including ₹20 lakh cash, jewellery worth ₹10 lakh and imported watches worth ₹5 lakh, among other items. Saud was missing from the house and his mobile phone was switched off. A case under Section 381 (theft by servant or employee) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 40 police station against the domestic help on Monday. “We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to find out if he was alone or someone else was also involved in the crime. Along with this, the police is trying to track him through technical surveillance and other means,” said KK Rao, the commissioner of police. Officials urged people to ensure that police verification of domestic helps is done by local police stations before they are hired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/domestic-help-booked-for-stealing-valuable-worth-35-lakh-101625506270444.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Vaccination drive to be suspended at govt health centres today||With the district facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, the Gurugram health department will not be holding first dose vaccination drives at government health centres, except for the Huda City Centre Metro station, on Tuesday.Officials of the health department said that 1,350 doses, for second dose vaccinations, will be made available at 12 health centres. The vaccination process, however, will continue uninterrupted at 23 private hospitals.Over the past week, the district health department administered nearly 22,000 vaccine doses per day. On Monday, as many as 13,628 doses were administered, including 7,116 at government health centres and 6,512 at private hospitals. These included mobile van vaccination of 162 slum dwellers, 265 Metro users at the Huda City Centre Metro station and 60 foreign-bound residents at the Sector 31 polyclinic.“The Haryana health department is yet to allocate additional doses for holding the vaccination drive. Therefore, vaccination sites are limited at present. Only the second Covishield dose will be administered to the people at seven government vaccination centres, while Covaxin will be administered at five government centres. Only 100 slots will be available at each centre. As many as 200 slots will be available at the SGT College in Chandu Budhera, and 50 at the polyclinic in Sector 31 for people planning to travel abroad,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram.Officials said that the second Covaxin shot will be administered at community centres near Chauma health centre, Manesar health centre, Tyagiwada Chaupal health centre in Badshahpur, SGT Medical College, and Tigra health centre. The second dose of Covishield will be administered at Fazilpur government school, the community health centre in Farrukhnagar, subdivisional hospitals of Sohna and Pataudi, Sector 31 polyclinic, Ambience Mall and Civil Hospital in Sector 10.Dr MP Singh, immunisation officer (IO), Gurugram, said, “A mobile vaccination van will be operational, and 100 first doses of Covishield will be administered to people in slum areas. Also, 100 first doses and 50 second dosages of Covishield will be administered at the Huda Metro station. Vaccines may become available in a day or two, following which first doses will be provided at all health centres.”So far, 1,494,647 vaccine doses have been administered in the district, of which over 1.2 million were first doses, while the rest have completed their vaccinations. More men have been vaccinated than women, with 900,000 having received their first doses, compared to 590,000 women.As per the data, the pace of Covid-19 immunisation increased in Gurugram in the last 10 days of June. On June 21, over 104,178 inoculations were done in a day as part of a mega drive, with 228,000 doses being administered till July 5. From June 28 to July 4, more than 22,000 doses were administered daily, an increase from the previous average of 12,000 inoculations per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-to-be-suspended-at-govt-health-centres-today-101625506213139.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Private hospital pulled up for charging vaccine beneficiaries without administering jabs||The district health department on Monday served a notice to Chiranjivi Hospital in Jharsa for allegedly charging vaccination fees from beneficiaries while asking them to take the vaccine shot at government health centres. The police also filed an FIR under sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), health department officials said.Officials alleged that even as the hospital had no vaccine stock since May 1, it opened at least 53 slots in the last week on the Co-WIN portal. However, the hospital refuted all claims.On July 3, the department received a complaint from a vaccine beneficiary, who alleged that the hospital showed the availability of vaccine slots on the Co-WIN portal. However, when the beneficiary reached the hospital, he was asked to take the vaccine shot at Civil Hospital in Sector 10.The district immunisation officer, Dr MP Singh, said that the hospital, however, asked the complainant to make the payment for the dose.“It is still unclear as to how the hospital opened the vaccination slot on Co-WIN without having any vaccine stock. Secondly, even if they procured the vaccine stock, why was it not being shared with the health department? Initial investigations have shown that the hospital sent people to multiple vaccination centres in Gurugram and Delhi but charged money from them,” Singh said.According to Singh, the private hospital was empanelled with the health department when vaccination was opened for front-line workers and the elderly population until April 30, when the health department provided vaccine stock to empanelled hospitals.Dr Amrish Soni, the director of Chiranjivi Hospital, said, “Slots were opened on Co-WIN as we wanted to upload details of front-line workers who could not be documented in April. Since access to Co-WIN was granted recently, the vaccination team decided to upload the pending details. Also, we asked the people to take vaccine shots at government centres as we had no vaccine stock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospital-pulled-up-for-charging-vaccine-beneficiaries-without-administering-jabs-101625506211575.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Active cases at 101, lowest since May 2020||The count of active Covid-19 cases in the district dropped to 101 on Monday, the lowest in over a year, with four new infections reported on the day.Officials said that it is for the first time since May 19, 2020, that Gurugram has reported its lowest active case count. The district had active cases in the 300-500 range in January and February, which increased manifold in March and reached almost 39,000 in May, during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave.According to the district health department data, of the active cases, at least 12 are critically ill patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals, while 89 are in home isolation. Also, two deaths were confirmed on Monday, taking the death toll to 911. Of these, 599 had co-morbidities while 312 did not have any co-morbidity.It is for the second time in a week that the district reported four new cases, a low since May 14, 2020, when the number of new Covid-19 cases in a day was at four. The district reported a drastic decline in active cases during May-end, from a peak of almost 39,682 active cases on May 6, according to the health department data.“Active cases have reduced as daily cases are on a constant decline. To keep a check on the prevalence of the infection, rapid antigen tests are being conducted in areas like mandis (markets) where there are chances of super spreading. Private hospitals have been directed to conduct more tests before undertaking other processes, including surgeries. Also, people are getting vaccinated, which will also show its impact in lowering the infection,” said Dr Jai Prakash, the district surveillance officer for Covid-19.The daily health bulletin data shows that in the last seven days, only 50 new cases have been detected, which has reduced considerably from the last few weeks. As many as 74 new cases were reported the previous week (June 22-28), 78 cases between June 15 and 21, 172 cases between June 8 and 14, and 397 cases between June 1 and 7.With the decline in cases, weekly tests have also reduced to almost 25,000 from 35,000 done over the last month. The test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, is currently at 0.19%, down from the rates of 1.10% and 0.60% reported in the first and second weeks of June, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19active-cases-at-101-lowest-since-may-2020-101625506211051.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Mild tremors in Delhi after 3.7 magnitude earthquake in Haryana's Jhajjar||Mild tremors were felt in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) late on Monday a medium intensity earthquake hit Jhajjar in Haryana, the National Centre of Seismology said. According to the centre, the epicentre of the 3.7 magnitude earthquake was 10km north of Jhajjar and that it struck at 10:36pm at a depth of 5km from the surface. "Earthquake of Magnitude:3.7, Occurred on 05-07-2021, 22:36:54 IST, Lat: 28.70 & Long: 76.65, Depth: 5 Km ,Location: 10km N of Jhajjar, Haryana," the National Centre of Seismology tweeted.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.7, Occurred on 05-07-2021, 22:36:54 IST, Lat: 28.70 & Long: 76.65, Depth: 5 Km ,Location: 10km N of Jhajjar, Haryana for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/9csmviZyai pic.twitter.com/89Jl1AVWUfSeveral people tweeted about the earthquake and many said the tremors shook their houses. A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.1 hit Delhi's Punjabi Bagh area on June 20.The National Capital Region and its surrounding areas witnessed minor and small magnitude earthquakes from April to August 2020. The epicentres of these earthquakes were located in areas of northeast Delhi, Rohtak, Sonipat, Baghpat, Faridabad and Alwar.According to news agency PTI, the National Centre of Seismology has deployed additional earthquake recording instruments for close monitoring of seismic activity in and around Delhi after NCR witnessed a series of tremors between April and August last year. Signatures of active faults have been observed in areas like Wazirabad, Timarpur and Kamla-Nehru-Ridge in Delhi, Jhunjhunu and Alwar districts of Rajasthan, Haryana's Sonipat, Sohna, Gurugram, Rohtak, Rewari and Nuh districtsand Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh based on the analysis of satellite imageries, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mild-tremors-in-delhi-after-3-7-magnitude-earthquake-in-haryana-s-jhajjar-101625505837381.html
05-07-2021||Other||Pune mountaineer Zirpe on CM’s panel to conserve and protect forts in state||PUNE Uddhav Thackeray, chief minister of Maharashtra, has constituted a 24-member committee under his authority, to look after the conservation and protection of six historic forts of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is the vice-president of the committee, while noted mountaineer Umesh Zirpe has been appointed as a member of the committee. A number of experts and specialists have also been appointed to the committee. Umesh Zirpe, president, Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh, and committee member said, “Mountaineers are not just about climbing but also about conserving the mountain and the forts as well. We have already formed a state-level fort conservation committee, and I believe the CM is personally interested in conserving forts that we have. I believe that I will help in preserving the ecosystem in and around the fort, and also look at the measures for proper protection and conservation of our valuable forts, to retain the cultural aspect.”The state government, in June, decided to add Rajgad to an earlier list of five forts to come under the conservation plan. Rajgad is situated in Pune district and was a capital of the Maratha empire under the rule of Chhatrapati Shivaji for 26 years, after which the capital was moved to Raigad fort . The five Shivaji-era forts comprise Shivneri and Torna in Pune district, along with Sindhudurg, Vijaydurg and Sudhagad. Rajgad fort is currently under the control of Maharashtra State Archaeology Department. Historian and HT columnist Saili K Palande-Datar said, “It is a welcome move if there is a comprehensive plan to conserve and sustainably develop important forts of Maharashtra. Such a plan should prioritise conservation and maintaining the unique defence character of forts, some of which are now all set to be world heritage sites. The development undertaken should be carried in restrained manner as there could be permanent change. Feasibility studies, tourism capacity and clear development control guidelines should be formulated, taking into consideration the sensitive natural and archaeological heritage at these sites. The fort experience and interpretation should be the focus rather than infrastructure development. Monetised and consumptive tourism services should not be given priority over heritage conservation.”In October 2016, the central government had undertaken a similar initiative to maintain and develop five forts — Raigad, Rajgad, Sindhudurg, Panhala and Vijaydurg — and had appointed Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati as brand ambassador for the project. Following the move, the Maharashtra State Tourism Department (MTDC) planned to develop five heritage forts in Pune district as model monuments. The CM mooted the idea of bringing all the forts under one single department for their beautification and conservation under the CMO office. According to heritage lovers, other important forts like Padmadurg or Kasa fort in Raigad, Paranda fort in Solapur, and Arnala fort in Thane must also be conserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-mountaineer-zirpe-on-cm-s-panel-to-conserve-and-protect-forts-in-state-101625505490329.html
05-07-2021||Other||Govt readies two more Central Drug Laboratories in Pune and Hyderabad to test Covid vaccines||PUNE In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, and considering the enhanced production of vaccines, the government has decided to set up additional laboratories to facilitate expedited testing, along with the pre-release certification of the vaccines. Currently, the nation has a Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) at Kasauli, which is the National Control Laboratory for testing and pre-release certification of Immunobiologicals (vaccines and antisera) meant for human use in India, according to the Press Information Bureau (PIB).The Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India, has set up two vaccine testing facilities at its Autonomous Research Institutes National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune, and National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, (NIAB) Hyderabad, as Central Drug Laboratories (CDL), for batch testing and quality control of vaccines. Accordingly with funding support provided by the PM-CARES Fund trust, two new vaccine testing facilities have been set up as Central Drug laboratories at DBT- NCCS, and DBT-NIAB. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department of Biotechnology has been contributing to various Covid-19 related activities, including vaccine development, diagnostics and testing, bio-banking and genomic surveillance, in addition to fundamental research along with building an ecosystem for translational research. DBT-NCCS and DBT-NIAB have been the pillars for many aspects of infectious disease- related work in India and have contributed to the advancement of cutting-edge research output. “The facility at NCCS, Pune, has now been notified as the Central Drugs Laboratory for testing and lot release of Covid-19 vaccines as per the gazette notification issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on June 28, 2021.The facility at NIAB ,Hyderabad is likely to receive necessary notification shortly,” stated the PIB release. The facilities are expected to test 60 batches of vaccines per month. The facilities are geared up to test existing vaccines and other newer Covid-19 vaccines. This will not only expedite vaccine manufacture and supply, but also be logistically convenient considering that both Pune and Hyderabad are the two vaccine manufacturing hubs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-readies-two-more-central-drug-laboratories-in-pune-and-hyderabad-to-test-covid-vaccines-101625505430313.html
05-07-2021||Other||Number of property registrations drops in June post expiry of stamp duty concession||PUNE Lockdown restrictions have had an impact on the number of property registrations in the state. The department of the state’s Inspector General of Registration (IGR) has registered 207,418 documents in June, earning Rs1,831.66 crore as revenue, as compared with 243,799 documents registered in May, where earnings stood at ₹1,157.86 crore. As many as 134,922 documents were registered in April for revenue earnings of ₹807.39 crore. Credai, the apex real estate body, said that the expiry of stamp duty concession has brought down the registrations in June. In April 2020, 1,139 documents were registered for an earning of ₹275 crore, and 42,573 documents were registered for ₹516.6 crore in May 2020. In June 2020, 153,155 documents were registered for ₹1m320 crore. In April 2019, 22,848 documents were registered for a revenue of ₹2,161.6 crore, while 266,223 documents were registered in May, earning ₹2,797.5 crore; while 320,183 documents were registered in June with a revenue earning of ₹2,553.09 crore. Credai Maharashtra advisor Suhas Merchant, said, “According to the Credai, the stamp duty concession has led to registration of sale deeds and buoyancy in the market. The concession period got over in March 2021 and now 6 per cent stamp duty is being levied. We have given a letter on behalf of our organisation seeking an extension of the concession on stamp duty. Labour, steel and cement costs have gone up, along with the costs of bricks and sand. All these factors will lead to a price rise in the future and will bring down the market.” The Pune real estate sector was one of the worst- affected due to the Covid 19 pandemic, as projects were halted after migrant workers left the city. Buyers, too, lost their purchasing power. According to statistics shared by the Inspector General of Registration’s (IGR) office, between September and December 2020, 11,94,013 document registrations were reported. A revenue of Rs11,702 crore was reported for the January to December 2020 period. This was against 844,963 document registrations bringing in Rs28,989 crore in the January-December period of 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-property-registrations-drops-in-june-post-expiry-of-stamp-duty-concession-101625505371575.html
05-07-2021||Other||Maha-Metro conducts safety check on Pimpri-Dapodi track route||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) conducted a safety and technical check on the Pimpri-Dapodi stretch on Sunday.Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Pune Metro, said “It was a two-hour inspection which was done yesterday (Sunday).”The Pimpri-Dapodi stretch is termed a priority stretch, which falls under the 16.58km long PCMC-Swargate corridor.After the completion of the Sant Tukaram nagar station, work on the Phugewadi station is also approaching its final stages.As per information provided by metro officials, work of constructing a viaduct on the Pimpri-Dapodi route is complete and now setting up the respective stations is a priority.The work on stations including Pimpri, Kasarwadi Dapodi is in advanced stages, while 50% to 60% work on the Bopodi station has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahametro-conducts-safety-check-on-pimpri-dapodi-track-route-101625505370340.html
05-07-2021||Other||Hadapsar terminus ready for Hyderabad tri-weekly train from July 9||PUNE With completion of the first phase, the Hadapsar railway terminus will now host the Hadapsar (Pune)–Hyderabad tri-weekly train from July 9.The Pune railway division has made sure passengers will get the basic required amenities at the rail terminus.A budget allocation of ₹23 crore for the Hadapsar terminus was announced in 2015-16, however, the project got delayed due to a lack of funds and legal issues caused by land encroachment.In 2019 the budget was increased to ₹35 crore and development work was started in a phased manner. The project is expected to be completed in 2024.“We have made sure that passengers will get minimum required amenities when they visit the Hadapsar terminus to board the train. Since the train is starting from Hyderabad, we will have to do its secondary maintenance, with the train halting for four hour at the terminus. Everything will be managed by Pune railway division,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division.Secondary maintenance includes cleaning, mopping and filling of water.“We have completed the extension work of all three platforms which can now host trains with 24 coaches. The work of putting a 350-metre shed on platform number 1 is already done. A waiting room is also available at platform number 1,” added Jhawar.Currently, the Hadapsar terminus has only one common loop line, while two more will be added in the second and third phase.“The work has already started for constructing the stabling line and it will be completed in a few days. While work of all the required passenger amenities is in the final stage and it will get completed before July 9,” added Jhawar.In the second and third phase, two more stabling lines will be added.Once the terminus is completely functional, more trains will be shifted from the Pune railway station to the Hadapsar Terminus.The Hyderabad train, which start on its first journey on July 8 for Hadapsar, has so far received a very dull response.Hadapsar terminus timeline2015-16: Budget of Rs23 crore sanctioned for Hadapsar terminus2019: Budget increased to ₹35 crore after a delay due to lack of funds and land encroachment2021: First phase completed2024: March. Deadline set for completion of phase 3Hadapsar (Pune)–Hyderabad train detailsTrain number 07013 will leave Hadapsar at 15.30 hrs every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday with effect from July 9, and will reach Hyderabad at 03.35 hrs the next day.Train number 07014 will leave Hyderabad at 20.35 hrs every Monday, Thursday and Saturday with effect from July 8 and will reach at Hadapsar at 10.50 hrs the next day.Halts: Daund, Kurduvadi, Barsi town, Osmanabad, Latur, Latur road, Udgir, Bhalki, Bidar, Zahirabad, Vikarabad, Lingampalli and Begumpet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hadapsar-terminus-ready-for-hyderabad-tri-weekly-train-from-july-9-101625505370901.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Over 700 megaliters of untreated sewage discharged daily into 4 Mumbai rivers||A total of 747 megaliters of untreated sewage is released into four rivers in Mumbai each day, according to a civil appeal petition filed by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) in the Supreme Court. These include the Mithi River, which receives the highest quantum of dry weather flow (DWF) at 285 ML per day, followed by the Poisar river (67 MLD), Dahisar river (56 MLD) and the Oshiwara/Walbut river (17 MLD). A single megaliter comprises 10 lakh litres.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said that tenders for infra works, which will divert sewage away from these water bodies and into the municipal treatment and disposal system, are close to being awarded. Broadly, they involve laying down new sewer lines, building retaining walls, constructing small capacity sewage treatment plants and installing drainage interceptors at strategic locations. However, the commissioning of these works is still some time away.“As per the instructions of the National Green Tribunal, we have already floated the tenders. Financial packages have also been opened, and we are in fact in the final process of awarding the work to appropriate contractors. But the work, being undertaken as part of the Municipal Sewerage Improvement Program, is expected to be finished only in about three to four years,” said P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner, Mumbai.A review of the MCGM’s submission to the Supreme Court (which challenges an NGT order from October last year, which penalised the former for repeatedly polluting city rivers, creek and drains), however, reveals that the planned interventions may not be sufficient to fix the problem.“On completion of the river rejuvenation works, major DWF approximately 426 MLD will be anticipated and diverted into the existing municipal sewer lines/STPs,” stated the MCGM’s petition, a copy of which is with HT. This still leaves nearly 321 MLD of balance for which the corporation does not seem to have a clear plan of action, as per available documents.“This is a glaring problem which the MCGM has not even acknowledged before the apex court,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, whose petition in the NGT led to its October 2020 order. When asked to clarify the MCGM’s strategy for the balance wastewater, Velarasu said, “We will aim to divert as much untreated sewage as possible, as well as reduce the quantum of DWF being generated.”Meanwhile, the MCGM has proposed to carry out a range of infra works along the Mithi River in four packages. In package one, which runs from Filter pada to the WSSD garage in Tilak Nagar, an 8MLD STP is being built for the treatment of wastewater to meet revised effluent standards, as prescribed by the NGT. “The work commenced from 27.11.2018 and waslikely to be completed within the period of 24 months. However, due to the present pandemic, the same is delayed... Due to the revision of the effluent norms, the project extended further by 14 months and is scheduled to be completed by 31.12.2021,” the MCGM told the apex court. Fresh sewer lines, 1.65 kilometres in length, are also being built to channel DWF to the upcoming STP. “Also, the construction of... 24 MLD influent pumping station is in progress. The physical progress of work is till date 70%,” the MCGM’s civil appeal stated.In package two (from WSSD garage to CTS Bridge) works are further divided into four different tenders. They include building an 8-kilometre-long sewer, installing 102 drainage interceptors, building a retaining wall of about 3 kilometres, and a service road of about 9 kilometres. Though the work order for these has been issued, the MCGM has not specified the degrees of progress achieved as on date. “Time period for package-II works is 24 months (excluding monsoon),” the corporation submitted.Work on packages three and four are yet to commence. Package three (from CTS bridge to Mahim Causeway and Vakola nalla) involve the construction of fresh sewers (8km), retaining wall (also 8km) and service roads (7kms), in addition to the installation of more drainage interceptors, gate pumps, sewage pumping stations, and “beautification” of the riverfront. It is unclear whether tenders for the same have been awarded, and if so, when. The specified time period for this work is at least 36 months.Package four, finally, comprises the construction of a 6.5kms tunnel to divert 168MLD of intercepted DWF (from Bapat nalla and Safed Pool nalla) to a proposed STP at Dharavi, which will be commissioned only in 2026. Tenders are invited. The contract period for the work is four years from the date of the award. Similar interventions have been proposed along the Poisar, Dahisar and Oshiwara rivers. In all, about 17.5kms of fresh sewer lines, 16.5kms of stormwater drains, 16 drainage interceptors and 17 small capacity sewage treatment plants will be built over the next four years. Key locations for the installation of STPs include Sukurwadi and Indira Nagar along the Dahisar river; Kranti Nagar, Gokul Nagar. Durga Nagar, Poisar Subway and Sanjay Nagar along the Poisar river; and near the Hindu cemetery in Aarey Colony, which is aimed at tackling a significant quantity of wastewater that is discharged from the dairy industry there.In all, the corporation has received 10 bids from contractors. The BMC’s tendering process, their civil appeal shows, has been considerably delayed due to the pandemic. Tenders that were invited in April and May last year are yet to be awarded for works on the three smaller rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-700-megaliters-of-untreated-sewage-discharged-daily-into-4-mumbai-rivers-101625503812161.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Covid advisory panel submits plan to check spread of Delta Plus variant||The state advisory committee for Covid control has submitted a plan to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to stop the spread of Delta Plus variant in the state. Among other measures, the panel has recommended genome sequencing of 5% samples on random basis in every city. Professor Radha Krishna Dhiman, director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), heads the committee. No Delta Plus case has been reported in Uttar Pradesh so far.“Yes, the plan has been submitted as the Delta Plus variant is a variant of concern (VOC). That’s why we have recommended genome sequencing of 5% samples on random basis in every city, besides keeping a strict watch on people coming from other states either by flight , train, bus or in their own cars. For that, there is a need to strengthen ground surveillance,” Prof Dhiman said.“The authorities are better prepared to fight the Delta Plus variant as the strategy to counter the third wave is prepared. Once the mutation is detected, then containment zones would be strictly created, where no movement would be allowed in any case. Another step is promoting Covid appropriate behaviour, besides going for aggressive vaccination,” he added.Better coordination among various departments like police, airports, railways , roadways, highways , healthcare workers, doctors, paramedical workers, frontline workers , municipal corporations and various surveillance committees would be required, he said.Three major characteristicsProfessor Dhiman said, “Delta virus has three major characteristics. It possesses more infectivity and transmissibility. It also multiplies at double speed and has more virulence capacity. That’s why it caused more severe disease. The third characteristic is that it has the capacity to escape natural immunity.”Vaccination crucialThe threat posed by the Delta variant makes it more crucial than ever that more people roll up their sleeves to get vaccinated, especially looking at how people have suffered in the past, the SGPGI director said.He also said, “Vaccination is still a powerful protection against all the variants, including Delta. But the rapid spread of the variants is still raising concern because of the large number of people who remain unvaccinated. If we allow the Delta variant to spread, there would be a greater chance of even more dangerous mutants to evolve. Currently, we know vaccines work against Delta variants, but more mutations could lead to some variants that can evade vaccines. That’s why it’s more important than ever to get vaccinated now to stop the chain of infection.”“The Delta (Plus) is known as mutation variant K417N, it is presumed that it would be more virulent and smarter in escaping immunity than the Delta virus. So, it’s better that we avoid an outbreak of this variant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-covid-advisory-panel-submits-plan-to-check-spread-of-delta-plus-variant-101625503810954.html
05-07-2021||Other||Fatehgarh Sahib MP seeks stopping of trains at Sirhind station||FATEHGARH SAHIB MP Dr Amar Singh met general manager of northern railways, Ashutosh Gangal, and impressed upon the official that a stop of several trains at Sirhind railway station be restarted. He demanded the restarting of Begampura Express, Sachkhand Express, Hemkund Express, Saryu Express and Tata Jat Express from Sirhind station. “Thousands of devotees and passengers had been greatly inconvenienced by the diversion of these trains and that given the Shaheedi Zor Mela and the historical significance of Fatehgarh Sahib these trains must be restarted,” he told the GM. The MP also raised the demand of building a railway station at Sanghol, given its history. He told the GM that a Railway Over Bridge (ROB) was also needed for Dhandari Kalan in Sahnewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatehgarh-sahib-mp-seeks-stopping-of-trains-at-sangrur-station-101625503031370.html
05-07-2021||Other||PPCB engineer shifted for taking ₹15 lakh in bribe; faces inquiry||Patiala Principal secretary of the department of science, technology and environment on Monday transferred, with immediate effect, a senior environmental engineer of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), for alleged corruption. The official, Sandeep Behl, will also face an inquiry, with immediate withdrawal of work allocated to him. Ludhiana-based industrialists had submitted an affidavit detailing his alleged corrupt ways to the department on June 22. Behl was accused of collecting bribe of ₹15 lakh from a Ludhiana-based Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), Bahadur Ke Textile and Knitwear Association, for clearing the operations of Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) in the district. An SPV is a designated business body that raises funds for an enterprise and aids in smoother procedures. Industrialists had also accused him of demanding another ₹3 lakh per month. “An inquiry has been ordered, which will take some time. Meanwhile, all administrative powers allocated to him are withdrawn with immediate effect. He has been directed to report at the state headquarters in Patiala,” Verma’s order states.In its complaint, the SPV alleged, “We had been receiving continuous threats from Behl for a lump sum amount to be given to him for clearance of CETP operations. We collected ₹15 lakh among ourselves. His driver collected the bribe from us on May 26.” It added that such blatant graft in a prestigious project, meant for a cleaner environment was shameful. “It is a dream initiative of not only for the company, but is also one of the most prestigious environment projects of Punjab government. Both the Centre and the state contribute to the establishment of the CETP,” the complaint said, adding that the CETP’s trial run was completed on June 30, 2020. PPCB chairman SS Marwaha said the matter was being dealt within the government. “The official has been shifted and inquiry will be carried out at government level,” Marwaha said. An official said that CETPs were inspected some time ago, when the matter came to the fore. “Once the problem became clear, industrialists lodged a formal complaint with the department,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ppcb-engineer-shifted-for-taking-rs-15-lakh-in-bribe-faces-inquiry-101625502730805.html
05-07-2021||Other||Heroin haul in Mumbai: Two accomplices of Tarn Taran importer held from MP||Amritsar Two more accomplices of Tarn Taran-based importer Prabhjit Singh have been arrested from Madhya Pradesh (MP) by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in connection with the seizure of 293-kg heroin from Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai last week. The DRI, in coordination with the Customs, had examined two containers imported by Tarn Taran-based firm M/s Sandhu Export, from Afghanistan via Iran. The containers, which were declared as cargo of semi-processed talc stones, had 700 gunny bags. Of these gunny bags, six (three from each container) contained a cremish white substance of slightly rough texture. On close examination, these six bags were found to be filled with 293.81kg of heroin.The DRI sources said Prabhjit has a godown in Shivpuri district of MP where the consignment was to be taken from the port. “We have arrested two persons belonging to Tarn Taran district from the godown. They are accomplices of Prabhjit and had been working in MP at his behest. It is suspected that the contraband was to be smuggled into Punjab and other parts of India from the godown,” said sources. (HT has the audio recording of a DRI official). They, however, didn’t disclose the identity of the two arrested men. A case under Sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against the duo accused by the DRI’s Indore zonal office. They were also taken to Mumbai on transit remand from Indore.Sources said Prabhjit, who is on transit remand till July 12, has ‘confessed’ that he was aware that about the heroin smuggling in his consignment. “We have also identified some local suspects, who had been in contact with Prabhjit for the running of the operation. They are cunning persons and have been evading arrest. Our teams are working to nab them,” the source added.Prabhjit had ordered a similar container of talc stones in January 2020, which was taken to the MP-based godown. “We have searched the godown, but have not found anything. We suspect that there is a possibility of heroin being smuggling into the country in January 2020, via a cargo ship, which has now been removed from the godown,” the sources added.“In Mumbai, Prabhjit’s mobile phone and other gadgets have been sent for forensic examination. It has been found that he was regularly calling numbers in Pakistan and Afghanistan. It is likely that the king-pin of the racket was operating the network from Pakistan or Afghanistan,” the sources added.A senior DRI official said their investigation was in right direction and they would break the entire nexus in the coming days. The DRI has also called nearly a dozen people who had been contact with Prabhjit Singh from Chohla Sahib village.Earlier, Tarn Taran police had said they had traced Prabhjit’s links with a family of Dhun Dhae Wala village in Tarn Taran, which is notorious for drug smuggling. Tarn Taran police have also sought property details of Prabhjit and his family from the revenue department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heroin-haul-in-mumbai-two-accomplices-of-tarn-taran-importer-held-from-mp-101625502370822.html
05-07-2021||Ranchi||Activists, leaders in J’khand condole Swamy’s death||Condolences poured in for Father Stan Swamy from activists and political leaders in Jharkhand, where he had been working and living for years before his arrest in October last year. “We have been companions since 1993. For past four years, we were living under the same roof at Bagaicha. It’s a very sad day. I know he was a very strong man from within and would have lived for another 15 years had he not been arrested in this manipulated case by the NIA,” PM Tony, a close friend and colleague of tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, told HT on Monday. The 84-year-old Swamy, a Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, died in a Mumbai hospital where he was shifted from jail in May. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case from Ranchi in an early morning raid at Bagaicha on October 9 last year.He was accused of being a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and of being involved in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in the Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018.Bagaicha, a centre established by Swamy on the outskirts of Jharkhand capital Ranchi, had been his residence as well ever since it started functioning in 2006, people close to the activist said. PM Tony, a rights activist himself, had been living with Swamy at Bagaicha for the past four years.Though he was born in Tamil Nadu, Swamy has been working for the tribal rights in Jharkhand for the past several decades, his colleagues said.“His idea of life was so inspirational. He has worked tirelessly for tribals and youths in Jharkhand for past several decades. I have come across very few people like him. His passing away is a huge loss for the people of Jharkhand in general and the civil society,” said Siraj Dutta, a rights activist associated with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) who was working in close association with Swamy for past 7-8 years. Recalling some of Swamy’s work, Siraj said he brought changes in life of tribals in several ways. “Bagaicha set up by Swamy transformed into an institution of research for the causes of tribals and youth. His study work on undertrials in jails of Jharkhand was one of the major highlights,” Siraj said.Paying tribute, the JJM described Stan as a crusader of people’s rights who for decades remained a voice of the oppressed in Jharkhand. “He played a leading role in the formation and the functioning of the Mahasabha. His principles have been a source of inspiration for us and will continue to remain so. Stan lives on in our struggles and memories. His death is the result of murder by the state. We hold the NIA and the central government wholly responsible and strongly condemn their role in Stan’s death, which once again exposes the Fascist face of the BJP government at the centre,” the JJM said in a statement. Reacting to Swamy’s demise, noted economist Jean Dreze, who also has worked in close association with the former, said it was a sad day for all his friends and a tragedy for the country. “Stan was a wonderful human being and an exemplary citizen. His death is the culmination of a series of acts of abominable cruelty,” he said. Political leaders also paid tribute to the activist. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who has been vocal in his support for the activist, said the Centre was answerable for his death. “Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union Govt should be answerable for absolute apathy & non provision of timely medical services, leading to his death,” Soren said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/activists-leaders-in-j-khand-condole-swamy-s-death-101625501830150.html
05-07-2021||Other||SAD Moga chief, 160 others booked for protest against illegal mining||Moga Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) district president, Tirath Singh Mahla, and 160-odd other party leaders and workers were booked for disobeying a public servant’s order after they protested against Congress’ Baghapurana MLA Darshan Brar, accusing him of being involved in illegal mining. The protest was held on Saturday (July 3). The protesters alleged that Brar and his son were carrying out illegal mining in the vicinity of Baringali village in Mukerian. SAD president Sukhbir Badal had raided mining sites in Hoshiarpur on Saturday and had accused Brar. Besides Mahla, those booked are Tarlochan Singh; Pawan Kumar; Inderjeet Singh; Baltej Singh and 18 others with 150 not indentified. They have been booked under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Mahla said, “The FIR has been registered under the pressure of the state government and the MLA. Yes, we protested against MLA Brar, but we did not block any road. They are stealing sand and gravel through illegal mining, but instead of taking action against them, police have registered a case against us.” Former Akali minister Tota Singh said, “It is the inclination of Congress. Those running illegal mining sites are in legitimate business. Those opposing such illegal mining are being charged with FIRs.”The MLA has rubbished all allegations, adding, “We own that crusher and land; there is nothing illegal being done at the crusher.” Baghapurana DSP Jasbinder Singh, said, “We are only doing duty. There is no political pressure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-moga-chief-160-others-booked-for-protest-against-illegal-mining-101625501771429.html
05-07-2021||Patna||2017 rape case: Suspended DSP’s bail plea rejected||A special POCSO court in Gaya Monday rejected the anticipatory bail petition of suspended senior DSP Kamlakant Prasad in connection with a case of raping a minor in 2017.Additional District and Sessions Judge Neeraj Kumar rejected the bail plea after hearing both sides for over an hour.During the hearing, the victim’s lawyer submitted the girl’s statement, in which she has accused the axed DSP of raping her in 2017.However, Prasad’s lawyer argued that the DSP should be granted bail as the family members of the victim have been giving contradictory statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2017-rape-case-suspended-dsp-s-bail-plea-rejected-101625501770144.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Renowned physician Dr Bijoy Choudhary passes away||Renowned physician Dr Bijoy Choudhary passed away at a Patna hospital on Saturday after battling cancer for more than six years. Son of a famous lawyer of Patna high court late L K Choudhury, Dr Choudhary leaves behind his wife Dr Poonam Choudhary ( former professor and principal of Sri Arvind Mahila College). Dr Choudhary did his schooling at St Xavier’s High school, Patna and got his MBBS degree from Prince of Wales Medical College, Patna. He pursued higher studies in London, United Kingdom, where he worked at several hospitals for almost a decade. After coming back to India he worked at Tripolia Hospital in Patna for more than 25 years. New regional director of RBISanjiv Dayal has taken over as the new Regional Director of the Reserve Bank of India, Bihar and Jharkhand. Dayal was previously in-charge of Ranchi office. He started his career in 1988 and has also worked in various regional offices as well as the Central office of RBI. Dayal hails from Patna and did his schooling from St. Michael High school. He holds a Master’s degree in History from Delhi University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/renowned-physician-dr-bijoy-choudhary-passes-away-101625501710666.html
05-07-2021||Other||IndiGo begins flights from Darbhanga airport||IndiGo on Monday launched its flight operations from Darbhanga airport on Monday, a company statement said.“These new flights from Darbhanga to Kolkata and Hyderabad will enhance connectivity between the three states and promote trade and commerce in the region,” the statement said.Former civil aviation minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy, who has a commercial pilot licence to fly A320 aircraft, piloted the maiden flight from Kolkata to Darbhanga on Monday.Bihar water resources development minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who accompanied Rudi in the flight, tweeted: “This was a fabulous flight! How much I cherish this great news of @IndiGo6E having started its flight from Kolkata and Hyderabad to Darbhanga. Such a great delight to have taken the first flight today, and icing on the cake was that it was piloted by Hon MP Sri @RajivPratapRudy”.Darbhanga airport is connected to Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Ahmadabad by SpiceJet flights.Meanwhile, it has been decided to deploy a bomb detection and disposal squad for routine security checks at Darbhanga airport.The decision comes in the wake of June 17 blast in a parcel at Darbhanga railway station and subsequent arrests of terror suspects from Hyderabad and Uttar Pradesh. “Darbhanga airport is currently manned by Bihar Military Police,” said a senior official familiar with these issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indigo-begins-flights-from-darbhanga-airport-101625501710156.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Bihar to experience heavy rains this week, orange alert issued||Bihar is likely to experience heavy rains accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning this week, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday.South and south-east region of the state is likely to reel under heavy rains within 48 hours, as monsoon trough has shifted towards south Bihar, according to meteorologists.The weather office has also issued a yellow alert for the entire state till July 9, while an orange alert has been issued for West Champaran, East Champaran, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Purnea, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Banka and Munger for July 7.As per weather bulletin issued on Monday, Bhellar recorded 80mm rain, Jainagar and Brahmapur 40mm each, Kurshela 30mm, while Rupauli, Jamui and Gaunaha recorded 20mm each.Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted widespread to fairly widespread rain across the state till July 9.Explaining the meteorological system, weatherman Amit Sinha, said, “Southwest monsoon remained weak during past 24 hours, but weather mechanism has become favourable for high intensity rain.”“As per numerical model and weather radar, cloud cover is marked over southern districts of the state. A monsoon trough is crossing over northwest Uttar Pradesh to Tripura via Bihar while another monsoon trough lying over northeast Bihar to south coastal Odisha. Under its influence, northern districts situated in foothills of Himalaya are likely to receive heavy rain within 48 hours”, said Sinha, adding that the central focus of rain would remain over south Bihar this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-experience-heavy-rains-this-week-orange-alert-issued-101625501650777.html
05-07-2021||Other||Seemanchal: Smaller rivers wreak havoc, schools inundated||The four districts of Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia that make up Seemanchal in north-eastern Bihar are flooded with rivers rising menacingly after torrential rainfall. So far, two government schools, a mosque and an anganwadi centre, besides a dozen houses, have been devoured by swollen rivers, officials said on Monday. People started shifting to safer places after flood water entered their houses.Rivers such as Parman, Mahananda, Kankai, Bakra, and Nuna, besides several other small rivers, are flowing above danger level as on Monday morning, and traffic has been snapped in several areas, said Sikti circle officer (CO) Birendra Kumar Singh.“We have distributed plastic to about 200 families for temporary habitation after floodwater entered their houses,” said the CO, adding that they were providing all possible assistance to flood victims.Araria is the worst-affected district by floods, with its two blocks Sikti and Forbesganj completely inundated. Floodwater has reportedly submerged at least a dozen roads in Kursakanta block of Araria district, snapping road connectivity with district and block headquarters. On the other hand, floodwater of rivers Bakra and Nuna have reportedly entered about a dozen villages of Kursakanta and Sikti blocks.In Forbesganj, floodwater also reportedly entered into several areas. Forbesganj MLA Vidyasgar Keshri alias Manchan Keshri visited the affected areas on Sunday and directed the administration to expedite rescue and relief work. In Baisi subdivision of Purnia block, floods caused by Parman, Kankai, Bakra, Das and Mahananda rivers have started affecting several villages. At Tarabari village, one mosque was devoured by Kankai river, while one government primary school and an Anganwadi centre at Dahuwabadi village under Amour were devoured by Kankai river in Purnia. “We are keeping a watch over the flood situation,” said Baisi CO Prabhat Ranjan said.In Pranpur of Katihar district, one government primary school was washed away by Mahananda river and floodwater reportedly entered several villages in low lying areas of Pranpur, Kadwa and Azamnagar blocks. In these areas, Mahananda and Riga rivers showed a rising trend as on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seemanchal-smaller-rivers-wreak-havoc-schools-inundated-101625501650202.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Chirag lands in Bihar in first visit since split, gets a rousing welcome||The two factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), one led by Chirag Paswan and the other by his uncle and MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, on Monday observed the birth anniversary of its founder, late Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away last year just ahead of Bihar assembly elections, separately at two different places.While Paras group organised a function at the LJP office in Patna, where he has been regularly sitting since proclaiming himself to be the party president, Chirag chose the day to start off with a function in Delhi to pay tributes to his father and then flew to Patna to go straight to Hajipur, a constituency nurtured and represented by late Ram Vikas Paswan eight times since 1977 and presently represented by Paras. Both factions also launched a poster war on the streets of Patna. For Chirag, it was his first visit to Bihar post-split and he played the emotional card to remind people how “his own ditched him less than a year after his father’s death and how his father, too, had to face attempts to pull him back during his struggle days”. He was given a rousing reception at the airport, with a big crowd joining his cavalcade as he went to garland the statue of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar in Patna, but was not allowed to do so by the local administration. “It is strange. Babasaheb is the framer of Constitution. Why anyone should be stopped from paying respect to the leader? They can stop us from going to the statue, but they cannot stop us from cherishing his ideals,” Chirag said, shouting slogans like “Babasaheb Amar rahe, Ramvilas Paswan Amar rahe” with his supporters. Later, Chirag’s supporters sat on dharna there for some time in protest before heading straight to Sultanpur village in Hajipur quite late to launch “Ashirvad Yatra” to connect with the people across the state. He skipped the LJP office adjacent to the airport, where the rival faction was holding fort with their supporters. “People from across the state came to the office to pay their tributes to the LJP founder,” Paras said.At Hajipur, where a large number of supporters had gathered, Chirag Paswan said, “Even when my father was around, attempts were made to break the party, but LJP continued its march, so it will. But I am overwhelmed with the welcome people have accorded me. This is what I used to witness when I came here with my father. It has boosted my confidence and given a befitting reply to those who connived to break my party,” he said in Hajipur, where his journey turned into a roadshow. Selection of Sultanpur, a village in Hajipur assembly constituency having around 1700 Paswan families where late Ram Vilas Paswan often visited, demonstrated meticulous planning to launch Chirag’s yatra. Sultanpur was made “Adarsh Gaon’ in 2008. Most villagers said they saw in Chirag the true heir of his father. His cavalcade moved at a snail’s pace in Hajipur, reaching Sultanpur past 6.30 pm, by when it had already started drizzling. Still, the people waited for hours in Sultanpur. Earlier in the day, RJD, which extended its support to Chirag during the factional war in the LJP, also paid tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan. RJD chief Lalu Prasad mentioned Paswan’s relationship with him in course of his virtual address to underline the importance of the departed leader’s legacy in the Dalit politics of the state. After PM’s tweet to pay tributes to the LJP founder, BJP leaders also took to the social media to pay their respect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-lands-in-bihar-in-first-visit-since-split-gets-a-rousing-welcome-101625501590264.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Bright future for RJD, Lalu tells workers in first public address in 3 years||A frail-looking Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad on Monday addressed his party leaders and workers after a long time and attacked the governments at the Centre and in the state while lauding his younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, saying a bright future lies ahead for the party under his leadership.The former chief minister of Bihar, who had been jailed following his conviction in fodder scam cases in December 2017 and was released on bail about three months ago, was speaking at a function to mark the 25th foundation day of his party via a video conference from Delhi, where he has been convalescing at his MP daughter Misa Bharti’s residence since his discharge in April from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after treatment for various ailments. “After Ayodhya, people (in power) are talking about Mathura (temple issue), which will destroy the social fabric. Do they want the nation to be destroyed?” Prasad said in his first public address since his release from jail after more than three years. The RJD chief said the country was reeling under an unprecedented rise in prices of essential commodities and the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Joblessness has further complicated people’s miseries. Cost of diesel and petrol is all-time high and has hit the poor,” Prasad said.He attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre and said the joblessness was a result of faulty implementation of the goods and services tax (GST) and demonetization. “Both the factors had impacted the financial condition of the country so badly that the country has been pushed back by decades,” said the RJD leader.Asserting that the RJD played a significant role in giving the nation five prime ministers, he said his party would bounce back on the national political horizon.Accusing the Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar of indulging in massive corruption and patronizing lawlessness, Prasad said not a day passed in Bihar without four-five murders. “Lakhs of migrants and other people died in Bihar for want of adequate medical care during the pandemic. Situation would have been better had the government kept by its commitment to provide 19 lakh jobs,” saidRecounting the formation of RJD in 1997, Prasad said, “My party ushered in a social revolution by empowering the deprived sections with their votes and share in power. The status quoits sought to defame the RJD-led government by branding the regime as Jungle Raj.” Lavishing praise on Tejashwi Yadav, who is the leader of the opposition in Bihar assembly, for astutely helming the party during the assembly elections in 2020, he said, “Frankly, I had never expected this from him. He safely anchored the RJD’s boat (naiya paar lagayi). RJD has a bright future,” he said.RJD is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar assembly though the JD(U)-BJP alliance governs the state.Prasad also had a word of praise for his elder son Tej Pratap who, he said, made a “forceful speech” at the event.The RJD supremo also credited his wife Rabri Devi, a former chief minister, and Tejashwi for being alive.“But for them, I would have perished in Ranchi (where he was incarcerated in the fodder scam cases). Doctors at AIIMS here also took great care of me,” Prasad, who slurred at times during his half-an-hour speech, said.He promised RJD workers and leaders that he will overcome whatever remained of the illness and visit Bihar soon. “I will come to Patna soon...not only Patna, I will mark my attendance in all districts of Bihar soon. Please don’t lose patience,” he told them.In his speech, Tejashwi Yadav said the RJD might have been defeated in the last assembly polls due to misuse of official machinery, it would strive to work for ensuring economic justice to the people after accomplishing the objective of social justice. Attacking the state government, he said, “Nothing moves in the government without corruption and no one is there to listen to the people’s grievances. Massive bungling of public money was done in the name of Covid management.”Tej Pratap Yadav, former health minister in the state, said the party would continue to pursue the objective of social awakening. He, however, also aired his grievances against some senior party leaders saying the party workers’ bona fide demands were often overlooked in the organization.State party chief Jagadanand Singh, former minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, other senior leaders like Shivanand Tiwari, national spokesman Manoj Jha, Alok Kumar Mehta and Shyam Rajak were prominent among those who spoke on the occasion. Former CM Rabri Devi made an informal appearance from Delhi and was seen helping he husband Lalu Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bright-future-for-rjd-lalu-tells-workers-in-first-public-address-in-3-years-101625501530115.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 6,740 new Covid-19 cases, 51 fatalities in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Monday recorded less than 7000 fresh cases of coronavirus disease for the first time since June 28 after 6740 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the state health bulletin showed. The new Covid-19 cases have now taken the state's tally to over 6.1 million and the 51 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 123,136, the data from the Covid-19 dashboard of the state showed.More than 9000 people were detected to be infected with the virus on Sunday, as per the data. In addition to the 51 deaths reported the previous day, 55 more were reconciled to the state data on Monday. The new deaths on Monday dropped by more than half, as on Sunday 123 people succumbed to Covid-19 in 24 hours.Also read: After black fungus, 3 avascular necrosis cases seen in Covid-recovered patientsThe active caseload of the state now stands at 116,827 and the case positivity rate of the state is at 3.98 per cent, according to the data. The fall in the daily cases on Monday comes in the backdrop of reduced testing, as 169,517 tests were done in the last 24 hours as compared to 222,063 on Sunday, official data showed. Maharashtra has conducted more than 42 million tests so far since the beginning of the pandemic to detect the spread of the disease.Over 13,000 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Monday, taking the recoveries in the state to 5,861,720 so far, data showed. There has been a massive rise in recoveries since the last day, as only more than 3000 patients recovered on Sunday.Mumbai, the state capital, on Monday logged 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 10 lives were lost to the coronavirus disease, as per the data. The new fatalities pushed the death toll of the financial capital of the country to 15,554. The case positivity rate of Mumbai on Monday stood at 1.59 per cent. On Sunday Mumbai recorded more than 500 new cases and 24 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-6-740-new-covid-19-cases-51-fatalities-in-24-hours-101625500658701.html
05-07-2021||Pune||Pune reports 662 new Covid-19 cases, zero deaths in 24 hours||Pune: Pune district reported 662 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths in 24 hours. The figure took the progressive count to 1.061 million of which 1.027 million have recovered, 17,124 deaths and 16,960 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. As per the state health department, the district reported zero deaths in 24 hours for the first time in months. Pune rural reported 344 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 312,920. Pune city reported 157 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 496,213, while PCMC reported 161 new cases and the progressive count went up to 252,070. The state reported 13,027 patients discharged on Monday, totally 5,861,720 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until Monday. Recovery rate in the state is 96.02%. Also, 6,740 new cases and 51 Covid deaths reported in the state on Monday. Case fatality rate in the state is 2.01 %. Of 42,712,460 laboratory samples, 6,104,917 have been tested positive (14.29 %) for Covid until Monday. Currently, 642,253 people are in home quarantine and 4,233 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-662-new-covid-19-cases-zero-deaths-in-24-hours-101625501410157.html
05-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 2,848 new Covid-19 cases, 67 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 2,848 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28.56 lakh and the toll to 35,434. The day also saw 5,631 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,79,038. Out of 2,848 new cases reported on Monday, 520 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 3,136 discharges and only 7 deaths, the health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is 41,996. While the positivity rate stood at 1.94 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.35 per cent. Out of 67 deaths reported on Monday, 12 were from Dakshina Kannada, Ballari (9), Bengaluru Urban (7), Mysuru (6), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 520, Hassan 383, Mysuru 371, Dakshina Kannada 265, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,16,181, followed by Mysuru 1,68,157 and Tumakuru 1,15,578. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,85,110, followed by Mysuru 1,62,270 and Tumakuru 1,13,216. Cumulatively a total of 3,50,35,219 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,46,575 were done on Monday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-2-848-new-covid-19-cases-67-deaths-101625500213406.html
05-07-2021||Other||Odisha BJP alleges scam in rural housing scheme, CM urges PM to allocate more houses||Alleging gross irregularities in the allotment of pucca houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas (Grameen) Yojana, the Odisha unit of BJP on Monday announced state-wide protests from July 7-9, BJP’s state president Sameer Mohanty said.“Beneficiaries in 19 districts are being given ₹1.30 lakh per house while in rest of the 11 districts, ₹1.20 lakh is being given. We estimate corruption to the tune of ₹1,000 crore in the housing scheme in the state,” said Mohanty, alleging that the scam could be much bigger.Mohanty alleged that pucca houses were allotted to the ineligible beneficiaries in Tangi of Khurdha district. Similarly, funds under the scheme have been granted to the people in Niali block for the construction of a cowshed, he alleged.“Most of the houses are constructed with sub-standard materials with no windows, doors and toilets. Many houses are yet to get the floor and other works, he said. As many as nine districts have received no work order for the pucca houses, while Jharsuguda district got only four houses,” he alleged.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday urged PM Modi to include about 6 lakh eligible households of Odisha under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) for 16 districts. While thanking Modi for allotting 8.17 lakh PMAY (G) houses in favour of Odisha for families affected by cyclone Fani, Patnaik said Odisha has identified around 6 lakh additional eligible households in 16 districts that were not affected by cyclone Fani.These are predominantly tribal-dominated districts and cover all the Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput (KBK) areas, he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-bjp-alleges-scam-in-rural-housing-scheme-cm-urges-pm-to-allocate-more-houses-101625500031883.html
05-07-2021||Other||Gyms open, but the show is not on in Lucknow’s multiplexes and single-screen halls||HT Correspondent LUCKNOW Despite government orders allowing their reopening from Monday, multiplexes and single-screen cinema halls in Lucknow remained closed with managements saying that they were not prepared to resume operations. Some also cited non-availability of movies while a few said government guidelines were not clear. But in some cities like Kanpur, one or two single-screen cinemas did function. On the other hand, gymnasiums remained open for fitness enthusiasts during the day. “Multiplexes and single-screen cinemas were allowed to open after almost 64 days. But, we are not prepared yet as it needs a lot of manpower, availability of movies and other resources to run a multiplex. Also, the week for cinema halls and multiplexes starts from Friday to Thursday, hence we have decided to remain closed for another couple of days,” said Ashish Agarwal, president of UP Cinema Exhibitors’ Federation. The closure of cinema halls was initiated on May 1, 2021 in wake of the second wave of Covid-19. Lucknow has around nine multiplexes and 10 single-screen halls, but all remained closed. Members of the UP Cinema Exhibitors’ Federation had also met chief minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking waiver of house tax, water tax and fixed electricity charges during lockdown. “We also approached the CM, who has assured us complete support and promised a waiver in fixed electricity charges, house tax and water tax,” said Agarwal. However, this is not for the first time when multiplexes saw such a long closure. In 2020, the closure was initiated on March 15, in the wake of the first wave of the pandemic. Cinemas were allowed to reopen on October 15, with 50% gathering. The government eventually allowed multiplexes and single- screens to operate with full capacity on December 16, 2020. Gyms in Lucknow resumed services on Monday, but the turnout was negligible. “We are open from today as per government orders. We are also taking all measures to keep people safe from infection,” said Abhishek Pratap Shahi, founder of The Crossover Gym, Kathauta Chauraha, Lucknow. He said footfall in the gym would go up gradually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gyms-open-but-the-show-is-not-on-in-lucknow-s-multiplexes-and-single-screen-halls-101625497872333.html
05-07-2021||Other||5 minor girls escape from shelter home in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Five girl inmates escaped from a government shelter home at Motinagar here by jumping over a fenced wall during the wee hours of Sunday. The district administration ordered a judicial inquiry into the matter while the police lodged an FIR against seven staff members, including teachers, at the shelter home.The five inmates, aged 15-17 years, used a wash basin to climb over the outer wall of the shelter home and jumped across to freedom around 3am, said officials. According to the shelter home management, the inmates were brought to the shelter home and kept in a quarantine room. A CCTV video of the incident showed the girls fleeing through the barbed wires on the outer wall.“Four of the five girls, who had eloped from their homes, were caught by police and handed over to the shelter home. These girls stayed together in the quarantine room where they planned the escape,” said Mithilesh Pal, superintendent of the shelter home.The superintendent filed a police complaint against seven staff, including teachers and private guards at the shelter home, regarding the matter. The police registered an FIR against the accused on the basis of the complaint.A three-member team of the child welfare committee headed by Sangeeta Sharma inspected the security arrangements at the shelter home on Monday. “We have suggested that the wash basin, which the girls used to climb over the wall, be removed from there. We also spoke to the superintendent, staff and other inmates of the shelter home and discussed the issue of security with them,” said Sharma.In 2019, two other girls of the same shelter home had escaped in a similar way. The shelter home currently houses 105 girls, including orphans and those sent by the police in some case.Meanwhile, police formed a team to locate the missing inmates. The cops contacted the police in home districts of the missing girls, seeking help in finding them, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-minor-girls-escape-from-shelter-home-in-lucknow-101625497209979.html
05-07-2021||Other||Ayodhya’s Master Plan-2051 likely to be rolled out soon||LUCKNOW UP government’s town planning department is reviewing Ayodhya’s Master Plan-2051 prepared for 133sq km area of the temple town, which is a separate development plan for it in addition to the ‘Vision Document’ examined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Master Plan, which is likely to be rolled out soon, will be for areas within the jurisdiction of the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) while the vision document will also cover adjoining areas of Ayodhya and new townships. This Master Plan does not include 63 villages of Gonda, 126 of Basti and 154 of Ayodhya that were added to Ayodhya’s development plan last year. After this addition, Ayodhya’s increased area is 872.81 sq km. For this area, another master plan will be prepared. The previous master plan for Ayodhya had expired in 2001. Thereafter, several attempts were made to prepare it, but it could not be done. “After examining it, the town planning department will send Master Plan-2051 to the Ayodhya Development Authority,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya. The development authority will get it cleared through its board meeting and thereafter seek suggestions/objections from locals, he added. LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited, an international consultant, hired by the state government, had prepared the vision document with the help of Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) for the overall development of the temple town.Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects were assisting the international consultant in executing the project.According to ADA officials, the vision document was finalised after several rounds of meetings between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken the views of around 5,000 locals, saints of Ayodhya and prominent citizens. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reviewed Ayodhya’s Vision Document through a virtual meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on June 26 this year. BOX 133sq km area of AyodhyaMaster Plan-2051 is for 133sq km area of Ayodhya. It is different from the Vision Document being prepared by international consultant, LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited. Around two years ago, the state government got approval from the Centre to prepare the Master Plan of Ayodhya under the AMRUT policy of the Modi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhyas-master-plan-2051-likely-to-be-rolled-out-soon-101625496669958.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Country completely safe, armed forces have power to face any challenge, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said the country was safe and the Indian Armed Forces had the power to face any challenge.Singh was in Kanpur to condole the death of the wife of spiritual guru at Harihar Dham in Shyam Nagar.Asked about a recent attack on the Jammu Air Force Station by explosives-laden drones, the defence minister said to reporters, “We want to assure the countrymen that the country is completely safe. Our army has the power and the capability to face any challenge, whatever it is.”He said there was no question of warning anyone regarding drones coming into the country.Asked about the developments in the UP BJP, he said there was no question on the working of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, hinting the party would go to the assembly polls with his (Yogi’s) face.Responding to a query on Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement, he also said justice and humanity were the core of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) politics.“The BJP never did politics on the basis of caste and religion,” he said.Earlier, the defence minister met the spiritual guru for 45 minutes at Harihar Dham in Shyam Nagar to condole the death of Mithlesh Dwivedi, who was also popularly known as “Mamtamai Mata”. Dwivedi died a fortnight ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/country-completely-safe-armed-forces-have-power-to-face-any-challenge-says-rajnath-singh-101625496491228.html
05-07-2021||Other||BJP not planting trees,it is sowing seeds of hatred: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday took pot shots at the BJP government in the state, saying it added one more lie to its hundred lies by saying that it had planted 100 crore saplings during its term. He said the BJP, instead of planting trees, was sowing the seeds of hatred.“The chief minister claimed that during his term UP planted 100 crore trees and in a single day (on Sunday) planted 25.51 crore saplines. Now, despite all this why is UP not looking green everywhere and why forest cover hasn’t doubled or quadrupled,” said Akhilesh said in a statement issued by his party.The former chief minister said apart from putting up big advertisements of tall claims of tree plantation, the government till date could not furnish any details of the tree plantations -- where these were planted, how many, and how many trees eventually survived?“The BJP did ‘bandarbaant’ (corruption) in the name of tree plantation. Its intentions and policies are flawed. The BJP is not planting trees, it has been sowing the seeds of hatred and lies,” said Yadav.He demanded that the BJP government releases a white paper on tree plantations done in four and a half years of their term.Yadav said against the hollow claims of the BJP’s forestation drive, the SP government undertook sincere and extensive tree plantation drives and created Guinness record. “Those trees survived, which led to revival of ponds in Bundelkhand and green parks were developed,” he added.He said Lohia Park and Janeshwar Mishra Park came up in Lucknow during the SP regime. “A number of people, including those from BJP go there to take a breath of fresh air. But this government has neglected even these green spots,” said Yadav.“The BJP may play with nature as much as it wants, may lie as much as it desires; but when people get down to verify facts, then BJP will pay a heavy price. In 2022, instead of the BJP’s lies, the Samajwadi Party’s work will speak,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-not-planting-trees-it-is-sowing-seeds-of-hatred-akhilesh-101625496489863.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 infections fall to 54; active cases remain below 1000-mark||Delhi’s daily fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fell further as the Capital registered 54 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, Monday’s health department bulletin showed. The cumulative infection tally rose to 1,434,608, according to the bulletin.This is the city’s lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases since April 2020, as well as the lowest this year--59 fresh infections were reported on June 29. According to covid19india.org, a crowdsourcing initiative that collects data on Covid-19, Delhi recorded 17 new cases on April 15, 2020.Also Read: Delhi adds just 59 new cases of Covid, fewest in a day since April 15 last yearMonday’s bulletin also showed a fresh decline in the national capital’s active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 912 from 992 on July 4, staying below the 1000-mark for the second straight day. Two more patients lost their lives due to the viral disease, taking Delhi’s coronavirus-related death toll to 24,997. Recoveries, meanwhile, mounted to 1,408,699 as 132 more patients were discharged after recovery. Of the overall caseload, recoveries contribute 98.20% of cases, while deaths and active cases comprise 1.74% and 0.06% of the total tally.Also Read: Active Covid cases below 1k in Delhi for first time since April 2020The test positivity rate (TPR) also declined in the last 24 hours. With 61,405 samples tested in this period, down from 75,133 a day ago, the TPR was recorded at 0.09%, as against 0.13% on Sunday. Total 21,846,294 tests have been conducted in Delhi till now, giving a cumulative positivity rate of 6.57%. The number of beneficiaries vaccinated against the contagious infection reached 8,389,161 as 9503 beneficiaries were administered vaccine doses in the preceding 24 hours. Of these, 5651 received their first dose, while 3852 received their second jab of a Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read: Delhi govt orders closure of Lajpat Nagar market over Covid protocol violationOn Monday, Delhi entered the sixth phase of unlock from its Covid-19 induced lockdown. The lockdown began on April 19 and was scheduled to end on April 26. However, it witnessed several extensions. The city began unlocking from May 31 as fresh coronavirus infections started to fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-infections-fall-to-54-active-cases-remain-below-1000mark-101625495334949.html
05-07-2021||Pune||Pune housing sales dip by 6% amid Covid second wave: Report||Owing to the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic between April to June, Pune and four other cities across India suffered a dip in housing sales in comparison to the previous quarter of January to March 2021, according to a report by JLL India, news agency PTI reported.JLL India tracks seven Indian cities of Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad and Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR). As per the latest report, housing sales in Pune dropped by 6 per cent from 3,745 units to 3,539 units. Besides Pune, Chennai also saw a dip of 81 per cent to 600 units from 3,200 units. In Kolkata, the demand fell by 56 per cent from 1,320 units to 578 units. In Hyderabad, the sales declined from 3,709 units to 3,157 units. The housing sales dropped by 55 per cent in Delhi-NCR from 5,448 units to 2,440 units.However, of the seven cities, Bengaluru and the financial capital of Mumbai, saw a rise in housing sales during the second quarter of the current calendar year. While the sales increased by 47 per cent in Bengaluru from the previous quarter’s 2,382 units to 3,500 units, the same hiked from 5,779 units to 5,821 units.However, in its latest report the real estate consultant said that housing sales saw an 83 per cent rise on an annual basis from 10,763 units during April to June of last year to 19,635 units during the same quarter this year. Sales of residential properties in the first quarter of this year stood at 25,583 units.Furthermore, sales of 45,218 residential units were recorded in the first half of 2021 as opposed to 38,204 units of the first half of 2020 – an increase of 18 per cent year-on-year, PTI reported.JLL India stated that the “sustained levels of residential sales” present clear signs of “demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market.” “The need for secured tangible assets and aspirations to own larger homes as remote working becomes the new norm is driving sales of residential properties across the country," the consultant added, according to the PTI report.The JLL report also said that residential prices in a majority of India’s residential markets have remained stagnant in the last few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-housing-sales-dip-by-6-amid-covid-second-wave-report-101625495026158.html
05-07-2021||Bhopal||Uncollected ashes of Covid victims being used to make park at Bhopal crematorium||A park is being developed at a Hindu crematorium in Bhopal using the ashes of those who died due to Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic this year, its management committee has said. This novel idea is being implemented at the Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat using 21 truckloads of the ashes of the dead, which kept lying at the facility as their relatives failed to collect that due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions and its proper disposal posed a challenge before the management.The park will be developed on 12,000 square feet of land at the crematorium in memory of those who lost their lives due to the pandemic, an office-bearer of the crematorium’s management committee said.“Over 6,000 bodies were cremated at Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat in adherence to Covid-19 protocol during a 90-day period from March 15 to June 15. Most of the family members collected the bones and left the ashes due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions,” Mamtesh Sharma, its management committee secretary told PTI. “Due to this, 21 truckloads of ashes of the deceased were left in the crematorium. It was hard and not environment-friendly to release the ashes into the Narmada river. Doing so could have polluted the river. So, the decision about developing a park using the ashes was taken,” he said. Sharma said a land surface has been developed on 12,000 square feet of land in the crematorium by using the ashes of the dead, soil, cow dung, wood sawdust, sand, among other things, to develop the park.This garden is being developed using Japan's “Miyawaki technique”, through which about 3,500-4,000 plants can be accommodated, he said.Sharma said that under this technique, these plants will take 15 to 18 months to grow into a tree. Committee president Arun Choudhary said the decision was taken to keep the memory of the dead permanent by developing this park in the crematorium campus.“We have urged the family members of those who lost their lives due to COVID-19, to participate in the plantation work. The management committee will take care of these plants till they grow into a tree,” he said.Committee’s treasurer Ajay Dubey said the plantation on the given land will start from July 5. “The plantation activity will continue from July 5 to 7 and the people of the city can make their contribution by planting saplings during this,” he said. Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat was the only Hindu crematorium for the funeral of COVID-19 patients in Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/uncollected-ashes-of-covid-victims-being-used-to-make-park-at-bhopal-crematorium-101625494369069.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab plans to give 1st Covid vaccine jabs to college students, staff in July||Punjab on Monday announced it has plans to launch a special initiative under which all students aged above 18, and staff – both administrative and academic – of colleges, will be administered the Covid-19 vaccine, news agency ANI reported. The Punjab health and family welfare department said that it would set up special camps at colleges for this purpose so that staffers and students can get inoculated with their first vaccine jabs in this month itself. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan has asked officials to appoint a team at state and district levels for a weekly review of Covid-19 positivity data in order to alert whenever the positivity rate increases, ANI reported.She said that she has also asked the principal health secretary, Hussan Lal, to appoint a nodal officer to make sure that all Covid-associated health infrastructure is utilised in the state at the earliest. The ANI further stated that Mahajan has called for aggressive contact tracing and testing to keep the virus rise in check, and even asked her department to ensure full accuracy by districts while updating Covid-related data on Cova mobile. She added that the same accuracy should be maintained while updating data in the daily Covid-19 state bulletin too, ANI reported.The chief secretary has also instructed the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) to form a fleet of 270 ambulances, including those obtained after 2017, and scrap the old ones – which were unfit for use. According to the ANI report, Mahajan has emphasised the need for sufficient health manpower, proper training and required equipment to combat the ongoing pandemic.Mahajan further asked for ramping up amenities at the PGI Satellite Centre in Sangrur and AIIMS in Bathinda to make them robust for tackling a probable third wave of coronavirus. Punjab on Saturday administered a record 5.14 lakh Covid-19 vaccine shots to beneficiaries.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare data, as of July 5 at 7am, as many as 6,607,383 people have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 1,217,548 have been administered the second jab. The state has till now inoculated 7,824,931 people with the Covid-19 vaccine, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-plans-to-give-1st-covid-vaccine-jabs-to-college-students-staff-in-july-101625493607061.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai is an exclusive city where encroacher is given free housing: HC||Referring to rampant illegal constructions across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Bombay High Court on Monday said that the situation has gone "out of hand" and the Maharashtra government must not have policies that "permitted people to die."A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni was referring to the Maharashtra government's slum rehabilitation policies that granted statutory protection against demolition and eviction to slum tenements that have been constructed prior to January 1, 2000, and are not higher than 14 feet. The bench noted the June 9 collapse of a residential building in suburban Malwani was an outcome of "pure greed" and suggested the state authorities should draw inspiration from the "Singapore model" of housing for the poor. "It is only in Mumbai that one encroaches on government land and in return is given free housing. I asked the Chief Justice (who was earlier at the Calcutta HC) if such policy existed in West Bengal and the answer was a flat no," Justice Kulkarni said.The bench was presiding over a bunch of public interest litigations that it had initiated suo motu (on its own) following incidents of building collapse in Bhiwandi in Thane district last year. The HC had started hearing the pleas again last month following a building collapse in Mumbai's suburb of Malwani, in which 12 people, including eight children, had died. The HC had ordered a judicial inquiry into the Malwani incident and the preliminary report had said the residential building that collapsed was initially just a ground-plus-one structure. Additional floors had been added to it illegally and the original allottee of the structure was not known, according to the report.On Monday, senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who appeared for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), told the HC that most tenements in notified slum areas across the city had added additional floors illegally. "The slums are a problem but also essential for the working for the city. So even if the state allows ground plus one floor in notified slum areas, it needs to put a stop to further floors to prevent instances of collapses," Chinoy said. The bench, however, said the working population of the city needn't live in slum tenements. It said the state could draw inspiration from the "Singapore model" of housing for the poor. "The situation has gone out of control. But we can't have policies that permit people to die. We have to value human life," the HC said. "Just because people say they have no where else to live, they can't be allowed to risk their lives and stay in illegal structures," it said.As per the existing slum rehabilitation provisions for the MMR, those living in slums built until January 1, 2000, are legally protected and can't be removed without a free rehabilitation tenement. "In the present case (Malwani), there is no document to show who is the original allottee. There is no mechanism to check. It is pure greed," HC said. "The original allottee is an encroacher of government land, who received the ground floor for free. He then built more floors vertically and let them out on rent to meet his greed," it said. The HC will continue the hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-is-an-exclusive-city-where-encroacher-is-given-free-housing-hc-101625492298229.html
05-07-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi to slash taxes on fuel||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to slash taxes on fuel even while the Bharatiya Janata Party hit the streets in Kolkata violating ongoing Covid-19 restrictions to protest against her government’s alleged mismanagement of vaccines. “It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the central government on petrol and diesel be substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to common people and also to check the overall inflationary trend in the country today,” Banerjee wrote in the letter. In the letter to Modi, Banerjee wrote that the fuel prices have been hiked ever since assembly election results in five states were declared on May 2. In June it was hiked six times. “I express my deep concern and anguish to you for pursuing policies which have resulted in this significant hardship for the common people in the nation,” she wrote. Meanwhile, in Kolkata, at least four BJP workers, including two women, were injured and around 54 persons, including senior state leaders, were arrested after a scuffle broke out between the BJP and the police in central Kolkata on Monday. The BJP had organised a rally, violating the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions, to protest the alleged mismanagement of vaccines, particularly after a fake vaccination racket was busted by the Kolkata Police in June. “It was a peaceful token protest against the mismanagement of vaccines by the TMC government. But the police started a scuffle and even resorted to lathi charge. Many of our leaders and workers were arrested and four have been injured,” said Dilip Ghosh. BJP’s West Bengal unit chief, warning of more state-wide protests in future. A senior police officer said that the BJP didn’t have any permission to bring out a rally. There is a ban on political gatherings along with social, cultural, academic and entertainment gatherings till July 15 as Covid-19 restrictions are going on in West Bengal.The BJP, however, hit back saying that hundreds of TMC workers gathered outside Nizam Palace on May 17 when the daily count of Covid-19 cases was at its peak. “WB Govt imposed “lockdown like” restrictions and banned any political activity from May 16. Covid cases around 20000/day in WB at that time. Scenes outside Nizam Palace on May 17. Efficient imposition of Epidemic Act @KolkataPolice? Stop this incongruity. Rules for BJP only?” leader of opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram, Suvendu Adhikari, tweeted.The BJP has been sharpening its attack against the ruling TMC over alleged mismanagement of vaccination ever since a fake vaccination racket was busted by the Kolkata Police in June. More than 800 people, including TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, received fake jabs. “Covid-19 was declared a national disaster by the Centre. The assembly elections were held in eight phases which led to a massive increase in Covid-19 cases. We have managed to bring it down by imposing restrictions. Now, the BJP wants to increase it again to malign the state. Law will take its own course,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson. The Centre had asked the West Bengal government to file a report last week. The Calcutta high court also directed the state to file an affidavit in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-to-slash-taxes-on-fuel-101625492472357.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||BJP MLAs suspended over misconduct in Maharashtra assembly reach Raj Bhavan||The BJP legislators, who were earlier in the day suspended for a year for “misbehaving” with the presiding officer of the assembly, have reached Raj Bhavan to meet governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported. The 12 MLAs were suspended by Bhaskar Jadhav on the first day of the Maharashtra assembly’s monsoon session. Following that, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) said that disciplinary action would be taken against them. The legislators, including Atul Bhatkalkar, Sanjay Kute, Narayan Kuche, Jaykumar Gore, Bunty Bangadiya, Ashish Shelar, Yogesh Sagar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Harish Pimple, Parag Alavani, Girish Mahajan and Ram Satpute, were suspended for their misconduct and use of abusive languages against Jadhav.The row between the ruling MVA leaders and the opposition benches began over a resolution passed to seek empirical data from the central government for a political reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body polls. It was passed amid chaos in the assembly, following which some BJP legislators reached up to the chair of Jadhav and tried to snatch the microphone and the mace while the Speaker was presiding over the proceedings.After this, the 12 BJP MLAs reportedly used abusive language against Jadhav at the deputy speaker’s cabin. “I have never seen such a behaviour in my entire legislative career of 36 years,” Jadhav said, adding that Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis did not help when the Speaker asked him to calm his MLAs down.Fadnavis though admitted that the legislators did use objectionable language against the presiding officer, he also said that he apologised to Jadhav for their behaviour. Fadnavis also claimed that the ruling parties used the incident to decrease the number of Opposition MLAs in the Assembly. “The brawl started only after Shiv Sena legislators reached the cabin,” the former chief minister of Maharashtra said.State parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab moved the proposal to suspend the 12 BJP legislators, which was later passed through a voice vote by the ruling parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mlas-suspended-over-misconduct-in-maharashtra-assembly-reach-raj-bhavan-101625491201362.html
05-07-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar Police swings into action over Covid-19 norms violation in Har Ki Pauri||While Uttarakhand government is not allowing Char Dham-Kanwar pilgrimage citing the Covid-19 situation, reports of mass violation of Covid-19 norms emerge from Har Ki Pauri Ganga ghats. Officials fear, if unchecked, such incidents may make Har Ki Pauri emerge as a mini covid spreader again. In a video that recently went viral on social media, a group of youths from other states were seen partying at the Ganga ghat in Har ki Pauri. Taking cognizance of the violation, SSP Haridwar D Senthil Aboodai Krishan directed the Har Ki Pauri police post in-charge and city police station house officer to ensure no such violations take place at Har Ki Pauri. “We have lodged a case against two youths - Himanshu Vadhwa, resident of Rohini in Delhi, and Jitendra Kumar of Kasganz, Uttar Pradesh - who were partying at Malviya Ganga ghat at Har Ki Pauri. The case has been lodged under the Disaster Management Act for organising a birthday party on the intervening night of May 4. We appeal to local people and pilgrims to inform local police if they spot any such illegal acts and violation of Covid-19 guidelines at Ganga ghats,” said station house officer (SHO) city police station Rajesh Shah. The police have now started levying penalties on people for not wearing face masks. He further added that police personnel are also appealing and generating awareness about the importance and need of adhering to social distancing norms. Police have now increased patrolling at Har Ki Pauri after resentment by local priests and saint community over hurting of religious sentiments due to incidents of partying and dancing at Har Ki Pauri, Ganga ghats. Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of Har Ki Pauri Ganga ghat, has also strongly objected to the incident of partying at Ganga ghats.The Kumbh Mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27, including at least six million people in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-police-swings-into-action-over-covid-19-norms-violation-in-har-ki-pauri-101625490730226.html
05-07-2021||City||HC asks Delhi govt to respond to plea alleging delay in reopening spas||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the Delhi government and the Centre on a plea alleging inordinate delay in issuing guidelines to reopen spa centres, which were closed in April due to the second wave of Covid-19, while salons, gymnasiums and yoga institutions have been allowed to be open.Justice Rekha Palli issued notices and sought replies of Delhi government, Ministries of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare on the petition filed by owners of two spa centres here.“It is expected that respondent no. 1 (Delhi government) on the next date of hearing will be ready with the explanation as to why in light of the (earlier) order of this court, spas are not permitted to be open,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on July 22.The judge also observed that it was not for the court to direct when to open spa centres, especially when there are experts to look into it.“We are not living in ivory towers, we are aware of the situation. Hotels have opened in some states, we know. But I can’t direct them today to open spa centres. I have to hear them also,” the judge said.When the counsel for the petitioners sought advancement of the date of hearing, the judge said “don’t worry nobody is in a hurry to go to spas”.To this, the counsel said it was a question of livelihood of poor people employed in these spas and they are facing a tough time.Advocate Davesh Vashishth, appearing for petitioners Pritam Raj and Manish Upreti, argued that even though the Delhi government has permitted gyms, ayurvedic centres and salons to open in Delhi in June, they have not passed similar orders regarding spa centres.The petitioners are being aggrieved by the “arbitrary, unlawful, unwarranted and in-ordinate delay in issuing the guidelines for reopening the spa centres, and petitioners are also challenging the guidelines dated June 26, 2021, issued by respondent no. 1 (Delhi government) through Delhi Disaster Management Authority by virtue of which salons, gymnasiums and yoga institutions have been allowed without application of mind, and is highly discriminatory,” the plea said.Delhi government additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan said everyone has seen the Covid-19 situation in March, April and May and that more than four lakh people died and the issue has to be holistically examined by experts of the field.“Can they do spa by wearing PPE kits? Let them wait for some time and let the situation becomes conducive,” he said.Due to the second wave of Covid-19, lockdown was imposed and spa centres along with malls, bars, and gyms were closed on April 15 in Delhi.The plea sought quashing of June 26 order of DDMA qua spa centres and urged the court to direct for reopening spa centres in Delhi and permit their re-functioning in a time bound manner.The plea sought direction to the authorities to decide the matter relating to reopening and functioning of spas centres in Delhi within a week.“The guidelines issued by the Delhi government through DDMA have directed reopening of the yoga centres and gyms and specifically prohibited reopening of spas. It is pertinent to mention that these guidelines are without application of mind, and is highly discriminatory as similar services like masseur services through Urban Clap and Salons are operational as on date,” it said.It said that on January 14, the high court had passed an order directing reopening of spa centres which were closed during the first wave of the pandemic.It cited the high court’s order which had said that the slight difference in the nature of services and a slightly higher percentage of risk due to the proximity of the client and the service provider can be obviated by prescribing stricter measures and safeguards rather than continuing to keep such establishments closed.It also cannot be lost sight of that several salons also provide services akin to those provided in spas, the order said.“Thus, the difference between the services provided in salons and spas is very minimal. Both these services require service providers and service takers to remain in close proximity for a sufficient duration. Thus, while allowing the opening of salons, continuing the embargo on spas would be violative of the rights of these establishments and their employees,” the high court had said.The plea said the petitioners have no other means to earn for their livelihood and due to closure of their spas, their families and staff are facing acute financial crisis and are on the verge of starvation.It said the petitioners had given representation to the Delhi government for reopening of spa centres but nothing happened, after which they approached the court.It said the petitioners are directors of Ayur Thai Spa and Revive Spa in south Delhi respectively having valid licenses to run the spa centres in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-respond-to-plea-alleging-delay-in-reopening-spas-101625484030823.html
05-07-2021||Kolkata||Reduce taxes on petrol, diesel; check inflationary trend: Mamata urges PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "substantially reduce" taxes charged by the central government on petrol and diesel to "check the overall inflationary trend" in the country. "I would like to draw your attention to the government of India policy which has brought great distress among the common people of the country. Shockingly, the retail price of petrol in many states across the county has crossed an unprecedented ₹100 per litre," Mamata wrote to PM Modi in her letter."It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the Central government on petrol and diesel be substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to the common people and also to check the overall inflationary trend in the country today," she said.Also read: Petrol jumps 35 paise/litre, but diesel price remains unchangedMamata Banerjee highlighted the unprecedented hike in petrol prices surpassing ₹100-mark per litre. She noted that the petrol and diesel prices have been hiked by the Union government eight times since May 4, out of these she said prices were hiked six times in the month of June and four times in one week.Adding that the cruel rise in prices of fuel have impacted the common people of the country, Banerjee said it has also directly impacted the rising inflationary trend in the country. "Wholesale Price Index (WPI) in the country rose by 12.94% in May 2021, compared to May 2020. Similarly, Consumer Price Index rose by 6.30% where the prices of edible oils used by common people every day, rose by 30.8%, eggs by 15.2%, fruits by 12%-and health-related items, in the middle of the pandemic, by as much as 8.44%," she highlighted in her letter.Banerjee said the Centre has collected a staggering revenue of ₹371,725 crore from oil and petroleum products in the financial year 2020-21, in midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. "In fact, over the last six years of your government, Government of India’s tax collection from oil and petroleum products has jumped by a staggering 370% since 2014-15, due to constant hikes in Central Excise Duty on oil and petroleum products including cesses and surcharges, at the cost of the common people," the letter read.Mamata also lashed out at the constantly increasing cess component of central tax revenues, which she said results in denying the state its legitimate share of 42 per cent of the tax collected by the Union government since cess accrues wholly with the government and is not shared with the states. "Sincerely urge you, to desist from the anti-federalist trend developed in the last few years," Banerjee said.The Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led West Bengal government has voluntarily given a rebate to petrol and diesel as a token of empathy for the common people, she said.Meanwhile, TMC leader Partha Chatterjee on Monday announced that the party will stage a sit-in protest against the hike in fuel prices in every block and town of the state on July 10 and 11, following all Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/reduce-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-check-inflationary-trend-mamata-urges-pm-modi-101625486461797.html
05-07-2021||Other||State not suffering, says C’garh health minister amid reports of rift with CM||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo was recently in news after he raised questions over his own government’s proposal to encourage private doctors with grants to set up hospitals in rural areas of the state. Although he has never acknowledged that he has differences with CM Bhupesh Baghel, everyone in the Congress is aware about the hostility between them. Singh Deo spoke to HT about the alleged rift within the party, his stand against his own government, and Covid management.Do you think the CM post-sharing formula is media’s creation? And is there friction between you and Bhupesh Baghel? I have never said that sharing of CM’s post formula is media creation. I said that this whole issue came into focus when a TV channel said the sharing of CM post formula for 2.5 years was finalised in Chhattisgarh . This is what happened when we all were called to Delhi by the central leaders during the pre-government formation days and since then everybody has been asking this question. But the friction is visible. What is your take on these differences between two important leaders of the state ? We are working together. I don’t think any work in the state is suffering. A couple of days back, there was review of the departments which I am looking after and I think the performance was satisfactory. So, there is nothing which is affecting the work. Also Read | Doctor terminated on charge of selling hospital’s Covid vaccine in ChhattisgarhRecently there was a proposal forwarded to the industries department regarding the grants to set up private hospitals in rural Chhattisgarh. The media reported that neither you nor the health department was taken into confidence. Does this mean you are being ignored by the CM? The CM has never announced anything [in this regard]... There was a proposal that was forwarded to industries department to look into and the health department was also asked to give its views, and we will do so. There are several reports of lack of ICUs, ventilators, and other healthcare services in rural part of state. What’s the government’s plan of action to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19? Corona is a virus and the government can’t be prepared for a new virus...The only way to stop the virus before you get it is to be careful. The three cardinal suggestions are hand hygiene, physical distancing and wearing a mask. The government comes in the picture only after one is infected. You need oxygen which Chhattisgarh has sufficient supply of, we have more than 9,000 oxygen cylinders. We have already put in place more than 20 oxygen plants and 100 plants have been sanctioned in all. Lastly, vaccination is very important and Chhattisgarh has done fairly well in that regard. We are in touch with the Centre for vaccine supplies.The health department acknowledged close to 9,000 Covid-19 deaths in April-May but the Civil Registration System data shows a death toll of above 44,000 when compared to the pre-Covid deaths during the same period. Has there been any attempt to look into the excess deaths? I don’t think that there is underreporting of Covid-19 deaths in the state .. Deaths occurred, but if media is claiming that they were Covid-19 deaths-- we are ready to include them. But I don’t think that deaths were 45 times more that those reported as Covid fatalities in Chhattisgarh. Central has delegated a team citing an increase in Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh. How is the state government responding? What are your demands from the Centre?Sunday’s figures show that the infection rate is below 1%. You should be asking the Centre why they have sent a team. But we have no issues if they can come up with suggestions. Secondly, I think the epidemic should not been seen with political lens. It is a pandemic and we are part of it. But the steps the Centre is taking now should have been started in January when the vaccination drive started because they knew that the first target was 300 million [30 crore] and the next was 1.7 billion [170 crore]. You know the population of the country, you should have been more prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-not-suffering-says-c-garh-health-minister-amid-reports-of-rift-with-cm-101625488870027.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra assembly monsoon session begins: 12 BJP MLAs suspended for a year||On Day 1 of the Maharashtra assembly’s monsoon session on Monday, 12 legislators of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were suspended for a year. Ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghahi (MVA) said disciplinary action was taken over their misconduct and use of abusive language used against presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav.The suspended legislators are: Ashish Shelar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Yogesh Sagar, Parag Alavani, Sanjay Kute, Harish Pimple, Ram Satpute, Jaykumar Gore, Bunty Bangadiya, Abhimanyu Pawar and Narayan Kuche.State parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab moved the proposal which was passed through voice vote by the ruling parties. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis alleged that the ruling parties used the incident to reduce the number of Opposition legislators in the assembly.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh writes letter to ED, claims probe against him not transparentWhile admitting that the legislators used objectionable language against the presiding officer, he added that they apologised to Jadhav for their unruly behaviour. The argument between the ruling and Opposition benches started over a resolution passed to seek empirical data from the Centre for political reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government failed to acquire the data, while the latter said the resolution is unlikely to give desired results. The resolution was passed in the pandemonium following which a few BJP legislators reached up to the chair of the Speaker and tried to snatch the mic and the mace while Jadhav was presiding over the proceedings.Later, the BJP MLAs reportedly used abusive language against Jadhav in the deputy speaker’s cabin. Jadhav said, “I have never seen such a behaviour in my entire legislative career of 36 years. The legislators never carry their differences over an issue out of the House. The BJP legislators tried to corner me and used abusive language in the cabin. I requested Devendra Fadnavis, who was also present in the cabin, to ask his legislators to calm down but he did not help.”Fadnavis said, “The brawl started only after Shiv Sena legislators reached the cabin. Some of our legislators used objectionable language but I intervened and asked them to leave the place and a scuffle was avoided. I even apologised to Jadhav for their misconduct. Despite that, the ruling parties passed the resolution to reduce the number of Opposition MLAs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-monsoon-session-begins-12-bjp-mlas-suspended-for-a-year-101625488755949.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Narcotics Control Bureau arrests major drug supplier in South Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested a major drug supplier and history-sheeter Mohammed Jaman Hidaytullah Khan, alias Sonu Pathan, from South Mumbai, officials said. “Several summons were issued to Khan in last six months to join the investigation but he was evading us. Apart from drug cases, there are seven body offences registered against him at Pydhonie, Dongri, Kalachowki and Shivaji Park police stations,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, NCB.Khan was wanted in many drug cases including one in which a drug laboratory was busted by the central agency in January this year and allegedly seized 12 kilograms of Mephedrone, ₹2.18 crore in cash along with two weapons from a flat in Dongri area. Two drug traffickers, Parvej Khan alias Chinku Pathan and Arif Bhujwala, were arrested at the time of the raid.“Khan is cousin brother of Chinku Pathan and they are relatives of gangster late Abdul Karim Sher Khan alias Karim Lala. Khan was a partner in the drug factory and after the agency busted it he fled from Mumbai and was hiding out. In between, he visited Mumbai but this time we got exact information about him,” added Wankhede.“A team laid a trap once we received intelligence about Khan that he was arriving to meet his accomplice in the Pydhonie area. The team was deployed in the vicinity from Sunday evening and after getting confirmation of Khan’s presence in the locality, he was intercepted in the wee hours on Monday and was brought to the NCB office,” he added.Apart from the drug factory case, Khan was also involved in another case where a lady trafficker Iqra Qureshi was arrested along with a commercial quantity of Mephedrone in Mumbai. The agency on Sunday intercepted two persons on Mohammed Ali Road and allegedly seized 57 grams of MD from them. The arrested were identified as Mohammed Asif Iqbal Shaikh, a resident of Mohammad Ali Road, and Pranav Shah, a Borivali east resident.Both the accused were going to deliver the contraband material to local customers when they were arrested by the agency. They are active in south Mumbai and mostly supply MD to local users and peddlers in south Mumbai, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narcotics-control-bureau-arrests-major-drug-supplier-in-south-mumbai-101625488030907.html
05-07-2021||Bhopal||11 cases of delta plus, 540 cases of Delta variant found in Madhya Pradesh||Eleven cases of Delta plus variant and 540 cases of Delta variant of Covid-19 have been found in Madhya Pradesh, officials said.In a report of genome sequencing of 1654 samples sent in May and June, 77 cases of Alpha variant have also been reported in the state, a health official said. “The presence of a different variant of Covid-19 in the state is a cause of concern so we have asked all the districts to stay on alert on contract tracing,” Vishwas Sarang, minister of the medical education department, said.“Now, the district administration has been asked to trace at least 30 people who came in contact with Covid-19 positive people so that after genome testing it would be easy to locate them as we are receiving test reports in 20-30 days,” he added.The recent case of delta plus variant was found in a 45-year-old teacher of Datia. He tested positive on June 5 and was not vaccinated. He took the treatment at home. The teacher is among the five people who received treatment at home due to mild symptoms, said Sarang. Out of 11 people who tested positive with Delta plus variant, two people died of Covid-19. Among the survivors, four people were vaccinated, said the minister. As of now, the state government sends 150 samples to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in a fortnight for genome sequencing. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced to open a lab in Bhopal. Madhya Pradesh reported 47 positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. There are 479 active cases of the viral disease in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/11-cases-of-delta-plus-540-cases-of-delta-variant-found-in-madhya-pradesh-101625487553573.html
05-07-2021||Kolkata||Late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit joins TMC; thanks CM Banerjee||Abhijit Mukherjee, a former Congress Lok Sabha member from Bengal and son of former President Pranab Mukherjee, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) at the ruling party’s headquarters in Kolkata at little after 4pm on Monday. “Mamata Banerjee stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bengal. I feel that under her leadership, it may become possible in India as well. I am joining the TMC as a primary member. Had I done so earlier, people would have thought that I have an eye on some prime position. They cannot say so now. Let the TMC utilise my services in whatever way it wants. I am still active,” Mukherjee, 61, said. Mukherjee was welcomed into the TMC by minister Partha Chatterjee and the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay. Also Read | Bengal BJP chief passes diktat on movement of MLAs, raises questionChatterjee said Mukherjee had approached the chief minister through her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “I am grateful to Mamata Didi and Abhishek Babu for letting me in,” said Mukherjee. His leaving the Congress was seen as a blow to the party. However, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury did not wish to comment on his departure. “It is not a question about the Congress getting strong or weak. He is the son of the great Pranab Mukherjee. He must have thought that joining another party is the right thing to do. I don’t want to comment on his decision,” said Chowdhury. Mukherjee said, “I left my job and joined the Congress in 2011. My father never asked me to join politics. He left the decision to me. I am not holding any post in the Congress. I don’t even know whether my membership in the party has been renewed.” He had worked for Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Maruti Udyog Limited and the Steel Authority of India as a corporate executive before joining politics. Mukherjee became an MLA from Nalhati in Birbhum district in 2011 when the TMC came to power by ending the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime. The TMC and Congress contested as allies then. “My victory from Nalhati became possible entirely because of the anti-Left storm Mamata Banerjee raised in 2011. I had no role to play in that,” said Mukherjee. He subsequently won the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat in Murshidabad district in the 2012 by-poll when his father vacated the seat. He won the seat again in 2014. In 2019, he lost the seat to TMC’s Khalilur Rahaman. On Monday, he thanked some TMC leaders in Murshidabad for inspiring him to join the ruling party. Mukherjee’s sister, Sharmistha, is a Congress leader in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/late-president-pranab-mukherjee-s-son-abhijit-joins-tmc-thanks-cm-banerjee-101625487550104.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Attempts being made to destroy harmony: Lalu in first address in 3 years||Patna: Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav on Monday said attempts were on to stoke religious sentiments and destroy social harmony for the sake of power at a time the country was battling an economic crisis.In his first public address in three years, Yadav also criticised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, praised his son and Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, and recalled his fight for Other Backward Class (OBC) reservations. “After Ayodhya, people (in power) are gearing up to take up the Mathura temple issue and spoil the social balance. Do they want the nation to be destroyed?” he said at a function to mark 25 years of the RJD via video conferencing from Delhi. He was referring to legal proceedings in a Mathura court, where Hindu groups have sought the removal of the Shahi Eidgah adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex in Mathura, and transfer of the 13.37-acre land to the temple deity, Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman.The 73-year-old former chief minister of Bihar was released from jail in Ranchi in April this year after securing bail in the fodder scam. He faces corruption charges in five cases, which carry a maximum punishment of 7 yearsHe was arrested in May 2018, shortly after Kumar broke their alliance struck during the 2015 assembly polls but retained his chair as CM with support from the Bharatiya Janata Party. In a largely restrained speech on Monday, Yadav accused the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government of corruption and patronising lawlessness. “People (in power) are dishing out lies with confidence to hide the issues of governance. Lakhs of people died in the state for want of medical care during the pandemic. The situation would have been better had the government fulfilled its promise of providing 1.9 million jobs,” he said.Recalling the formation of RJD in 1997, Prasad said people ridiculed him when he started Charwaha Vidyalaya for those unable to attend formal schooling. “My party ushered in a social revolution by empowering the deprived sections to caste their votes and ask for their share in power,” said the RJD chief.He promised RJD workers and leaders that he will overcome whatever remained of the illness and visit Bihar soon. “I will come to Patna soon...not only Patna, I will mark my attendance in all districts of Bihar soon. Please don’t lose patience,” he said. He praised his younger son Tejashwi for leading the RJD to becoming the largest party in the 2020 elections. “Frankly, I had never expected this from him. He safely anchored the RJD’s boat (naiya paar lagayi). RJD has a bright future,” Yadav said.In the 243-member Bihar assembly, RJD has 75 seats and the ruling JD(U)-BJP alliance have 117. Yadav also appreciated his elder son, Tej Pratap. Tejashwi attacked Kumar’s administration. “Nothing moves in the government without corruption, and this government has no one who listens to the people’s grievances. Massive bungling of public exchequer was done in the name of Covid management,” he said. Former health minister Tej Pratap said the party would continue to pursue the objective of social awakening. He, however, also aired his grievance against some senior party leaders that party workers’ bona fide demands were often overlooked within the organisation.Prominent among those who attended the event were state party chief Jagadanand Singh, former minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, Shivanand Tiwari, national spokesperson Manoj Jha, Alok Kumar Mehta and Shyam Rajak. Former CM Rabri Devi also made an informal appearance from Delhi along with the RJD chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govts-inefficiency-pushed-nation-back-by-decades-lalu-101625486771552.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Water cannons used to disperse BYJM activists from outside Punjab CM’s house||The police on Monday lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannon to disperse BJYM activists trying to lay siege to the official residence of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh over his alleged failure to curb drug menace in the state.Leaders and several activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) - the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – were detained by the police.Protesters led by BJYM's Punjab chief Bhanu Pratap Rana raised slogans against the Congress-led dispensation and alleged that the chief minister had “failed” to wipe out drug menace from Punjab.The Chandigarh Police had deployed police personnel and put up barricades to prevent the BJYM activists from heading towards the chief minister's residence.But when the protesters tried to force their way through the barricades, police used water cannon to disperse them at sector 17 in Chandigarh. Police also used teargas shells to stop the protesters.Earlier, talking to the media, Rana slammed the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab for not being able to curb the drug trade in the state which has “flourished” under Congress rule.He said before coming to power in 2017, Amarinder Singh had promised to wipe out drug menace from the state.But he has completely “failed” in doing so, and in fact, drug trade has “flourished in the state”, Rana claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-cannons-used-to-disperse-byjm-activists-from-outside-punjab-cm-s-house-101625484400475.html
05-07-2021||Indore||MP man forges Covid-19 report to stay away from wife; booked||A 26-year-old man allegedly forged a Covid-19 report to show he was infected in order to stay away from his wife in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Monday. The man, a resident of Mhow, had got married in February this year but, in order to stay away from his wife due to some personal matter, downloaded a Covid-19 positive report of another person from the website of a private laboratory and penciled in his name, Chhoti Gwaltoli police station in charge Sanjay Shulka said. "He sent the forged report through Whatsapp to his father and wife and then disappeared from his home. However, family members got suspicious as he had not shown any symptom of the infection. When they contacted the private laboratory, the accused's fraudulent act was revealed," he said. On the complaint of the laboratory, the man was booked under IPC provisions for forgery and other offences, and he has been served a notice to appear before police as per the requirement of the probe, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/mp-man-forges-covid-19-report-to-stay-away-from-wife-booked-101625484685535.html
05-07-2021||Dehradun||CM Dhami's 1st cabinet meeting focusses on employment, 6 resolutions passed||The first cabinet meeting of the newly appointed Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s government took major decisions on providing employment to the youth of the state months ahead of the next assembly elections to be held in 2022, as per the details of the meeting shared by cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal on Monday afternoon.The decisions included recruitment in about 22,000 vacancies in various government departments in the next six months and increasing the monthly remuneration of guest teachers in schools from ₹15,000 to ₹25,000.“Under the leadership of CM Dhami, the government took many important decisions related to providing employment. The most important one was the decision to make recruitments on a total of about 22,000 vacancies as soon as possible, within next six months,” said Uniyal, adding that “the government would soon hold a meeting with the officials of Uttarakhand Subordinate Services Selection Commission on the same.”The cabinet meeting was held on Sunday evening after the swearing-in ceremony in which Dhami, along with 11 other ministers, took oath in the Governor House.Uniyal, while sharing the details on other decisions regarding employment, said, “the government also decided to increase the monthly remuneration of about 3,000 guest teachers from ₹15000 to ₹25000.”“Also, the services of the contractual employees, which were stopped in 2018, would be resumed soon. The number of such employees is about 200. Similarly, the cabinet also decided to form a committee to discuss the grade pay issue of police personnel and a sub-committee to look into the demands raised by UPNL workers to find a solution soon,” he said.The minister also informed that the government has also decided to turn the defunct district employment exchange offices in each district into outsourcing agencies to provide employment opportunities to the youth of their respective districts on an outsourcing basis.“Considering the ongoing pandemic, there would be a concession in the age limit of one year for the applicants in the vacancies,” said Uniyal.Earlier, during the cabinet briefing, Uniyal said that the Dhami government also passed six resolutions to express their commitment towards the people of Uttarakhand.“Those six resolutions include a corruption-free government, providing better employment and livelihood opportunities to youth, Dalit empowerment, effective management of Covid-19 pandemic, proper implementation of public welfare programmes and women empowerment,” said Uniyal.The Opposition Congress, however, termed the government decisions as “mere gimmick before the elections.”“After the BJP’s latest political drama, it is clear that they don’t care about the people of the state which gave them a thumping majority. Now, with these hollow promises of recruitments months before the next elections, they are again trying to befool the people. However, they are now fully aware of their tactics and would teach them a lesson in 2022 elections,” said party state spokesperson, Garima Dasauni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhands-new-cm-s-first-cabinet-meeting-focusses-on-employment-passes-6-resolutions-101625484551975.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana BJP leader Ravinder Arora passes away||Ravinder Arora, 55, a former Ludhiana district BJP chief and co-cashier of state unit, passed away at a private hospital in Delhi on Monday. He was suffering from post-Covid complications and liver cirrhosis. Arora is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. Also read: CoWIN to be open source, will be available to all countries: PM ModiAccording to state BJP spokesperson Anil Sareen, Arora was undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana for more than a month. He was rushed to Delhi after his condition deteriorated five days ago. He had suffered from Covid-19 in July last year following which his condition kept deteriorating. Arora headed a trust that played a proactive role in providing free ambulance and oxygen for Covid patients besides helping families during the cremation of coronavirus victims. In order to encourage the vaccination drive against Covid, Arora had converted his electrical appliances showroom at Haibowal into a vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-leader-ravinder-arora-passes-away-101625483950002.html
05-07-2021||Patna||10 smugglers arrested with Kendu leaves worth ₹50 lakhs in Bihar||10 wildlife smugglers were arrested with Kendu leaves worth ₹50 lakhs and 13 vehicles used in the illegal trade were seized during Saturday raids in Kaimur wildlife sanctuary by forest department and state police officials.The raids were conducted on a tip off that interstate smugglers had collected huge quantity of Kendu leaves, illegally plucked from the wildlife sanctuary in Chainpur forest range. The operation was jointly monitored by divisional forest officer (DFO) Vikas Ahlawat and superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar, officials said on Monday.The DFO and SP formed teams of forest and police officials from Bhagwanpur and Chainpur police stations under additional superintendent of police (SP) Nitin Kumar and range officer Arun Prasad. The teams raided over six hilly locations and seized huge quantities of Kendu leaves worth ₹50 lakhs, 11 pickup vans, two bikes and arrested 10 smugglers, while some others managed to flee, officials said.A case under several sections of Indian Forest Act and Wildlife Protection Act was lodged and the arrested smugglers were being interrogated for information on more people in the smuggling chain of the banned forest produce.Confiscation proceedings will be initiated for seized Kendu leaves and vehicles, DFO Ahlawat said, adding the raids against the forest mafia will continue.Kaimur forests, spread over 1,134 square km area including 986 square km of wildlife sanctuary, are the biggest in Bihar. It has 34% green cover, highest in the state. But the wildlife smugglers have ruined the forests once known for their rich flora and fauna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/10-smugglers-arrested-with-kendu-leaves-worth-rs-50-lakhs-in-bihar-101625483289874.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Ansal Housing to receive ₹89 crore from SWAMIH fund to complete project in Gurugram||Debt-laden Ansal Housing on Monday said it will receive ₹89 crore in tranches from government-backed stress fund SWAMIH to complete its delayed housing project in Gurugram.Ansal Housing is expediting the execution of the 'Ansals Highland Park' project, launched way back in 2013, in Gurugram, Haryana after getting a financial infusion under the Special Window for Affordable and Mid-Income Housing (SWAMIH) fund.It plans to deliver all the 680 units by November 2022."The total financial assistance under the SWAMIH fund for the project will be ₹89 crore, which will be in phases. ₹20 crore released in the first phase and the rest of the money will be released in quarterly tranches of ₹15-20 crore each,” said Kushagr Ansal, Director, Ansal Housing.The structure of the project has been completed already and the company has also received the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Highland Park Buyers Association to complete the project.The project is located in Sector 103 near Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram."The project is net worth positive and over 60 per cent complete. Now with the critical monetary infusion, we are beefing up the team for the execution of the project and laying a definitive plan to deliver all the units by November 2022," he said.Ansal Housing said the construction of the project was going on smoothly and at a steady pace."However, due to unforeseen and unavoidable circumstances, there were deviations from the original plan laid out for the completion of the project. The circumstances caused considerable delays," it added.In 2019, the Centre had announced a ₹25,000 crore stress fund -- SWAMIH -- to complete stalled housing projects.SWAMIH fund is managed by SBICap Ventures Ltd. The Department of Economic Affairs under the Ministry of Finance administers the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ansal-housing-to-receive-rs-89-crore-from-swamih-fund-to-complete-project-in-gurugram-101625482937042.html
05-07-2021||Jaipur||5 killed, 2 injured in road accident on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway||Five persons died in a road accident when their vehicle collided with a truck on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway near Dangiyawas late Sunday night. Two persons died on the spot, while two succumbed on their way to a hospital. One person died during treatment, while two other injured persons are undergoing treatment. All the victims were residents of Beawar and were returning from Jodhpur. The truck driver fled from the spot immediately after the collision. Also Read | V-Cs must return biography they’re asked to pay for: Rajasthan GuvSHO (Dangiyawas) Kanhaiyalal said that the accident took place around 11.45pm when the speeding Bolero tried overtaking another vehicle and collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction head on. “Two persons died on the spot, while two died in transit to the hospital. One other died in the hospital on Monday afternoon and two injured are undergoing treatment at the hospital,” he said. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed his condolences to the bereaved families terming the incident unfortunate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/5-killed-2-injured-in-road-accident-on-jodhpur-jaipur-highway-101625482331122.html
05-07-2021||Other||Monday Musings: Merger of villages into PMC makes strong case for formation of two more civic bodies||Finally, the state government completed the formality and expanded the limits of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to include 23 villages on the city’s periphery. This has made the city one of the largest in Maharashtra in terms of area. With the city growing by around 187.16 sqkm, to now 518 sqkm from the existing 331 sqkm, and an additional population of 0.5 million, the resource-crunched civic body will not be able to deal with this additional burden. The existing PMC came into being in 1950 when the city’s population was around 0.580 million. This was almost five times more than what Pune – then called as Poona – was during 1897, when city was hit by the deadly bubonic plague, killing over 6,000 people. The population of the city - including those residing in municipal limits, cantonments and suburbs –then was 0.161 million. Post-independence, Pune began to see migration that led to the rise in population. Increasing urbanisation further resulted into the formation of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in 1982. From then till now, Pune’s limit has expanded on all sides, taking into its fold over 35 villages. When the proposal for merger of these villages was put up in the 1990s, those who now pushed for it, were actually opposing the move. Maharashtra was then ruled by the Shiv Sena in alliance with BJP and the united Congress was in opposition. The merger was put on hold. In 2014 when BJP came back to power with the Sena, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnanvis initiated the merger of 11 villages in the first phase and decided to induct other villages in a phased manner. In 2019, when NCP-Congress joined hands with Sena to return to power, the Maha-Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation gave a nod for the merger of the same villages they were opposing. So what changed for NCP and Congress to now support including of villages in PMC? NCP believes the merger, just six months before the civic elections, will be beneficial to the party considering its hold in these areas. The local residents feel their woes will soon end as the PMC will be able to provide them basic amenities like sewage facilities, waste disposal, roads and water. Their hope is unlikely to be fulfilled soon. For the civic body, managing its existing area has become an uphill task. Four years back, 11 areas were included in the Pune civic limits with the hope that they will finally taste the fruits of development. Basic amenities continue to elude these 11 villages. The state of public amenities, according to locals in these villages, now a part of the PMC, has remained unsatisfactory even after three years. The latest decision may leave the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with an additional burden in terms of resources, that the civic body may find hard to deal with; especially when it is grappling with a shortage of revenue in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. While most of these merged areas have seen rapid concretisation given that land rates here are cheap and most developers build big projects, basic amenities continue to elude locals here. The unauthorised constructions will pose another challenge for PMC to carry out any development. Under such circumstances formation of new corporations will be beneficial for locals as well as the PMC, which can then efficiently govern the old limits. This will decentralise decision making and expedite the process to carry out basic development. If Delhi has four municipal corporations, Pune can have two more, on the lines of Navi Mumbai, that has shown planned development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-merger-of-villages-into-pmc-makes-strong-case-for-formation-of-two-more-civic-bodies-101625481790728.html
05-07-2021||Jaipur||Post-Covid inflammatory disease killed 17 kids in Rajasthan’s JK Lone hospital||The biggest hospital for children in Rajasthan, JK Lone in Jaipur has recorded 17 deaths in the last two months among the 155 cases of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MISC) while doctors across the state grapple with rising cases of this rare inflammatory syndrome- a post-Covid-19 complication. Dr Ashok Gupta, in charge of Centre of Rare Diseases in the pediatrics department at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College said MISC is characterised by fever, inflammation, and multi-organ dysfunction that typically manifests two weeks after the child has been cured of Covid-19. He said a large number of children exposed to Covid-19 in the second wave were asymptomatic and therefore it was hard to monitor them for post Covid complications such as MISC, which were being reported now. “The parents weren’t aware of this disease and delay in timely treatment worsens the disease,” he said. High fever for more than 24 hours, skin rashes, stomach ache, fast heartbeat, breathing difficulty, swelling on hand, lips and face etc were among the prominent symptoms of the disease, he said, and added that it was diagnosed through antibody test, inflammatory markers and clinical presentation.“Early diagnosis and treatment were the only cure,” he said. At AIIMS Jodhpur, around two dozen MISC cases and a death have been reported. Head of Pediatric department, Dr Kuldeep Singh said MISC was targeting up to 18-years old children who had been infected with Covid-19. “The antibodies developing post Covid-19 were damaging the body tissue. The impact of MISC was seen after 3-6 weeks,” he said, and added that when the immunity level increased, the antibodies started attacking blood vessels and tissues.Singh said the disease was easily treatable if timely diagnosed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/postcovid-inflammatory-disease-killed-17-kids-in-rajasthan-s-jk-lone-hospital-101625481669800.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||New excise policy to be published today on website: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi government on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that the New Excise Policy for the year 2021-22 will be uploaded today itself on the websites concerned.The petition was moved by the Delhi Liquor Trader Association seeking direction to the Government of NCT of Delhi to make public the New Excise Policy for the year 2021-22.Senior Advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for respondents Delhi government submitted that the petition is not maintainable as the concern bidding is fully facilitated with all bidding rules and bidding document having all bidding terms mentioned. Tender is enough and policy is not required for e-bid, he added.Appearing for Petitioner, Dr Arun Mohan, Senior Advocate appeared for Petitioner Association submitted that the new excise policy has been approved by the government but it not has been made public. The policy can't be kept secret and the respondent has to make it public, the lawyer argued.A bench of Rekha Palli on Monday after taking note of the submission made by Senior Advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi disposed of the matter and noted that the New Excise policy will be made public today itself. The Court also noted that the e-bidding filing last date is July 12.The petition was moved by the Delhi Liquor Trader Association through Advocate Siddharth Sharma stating on June 28, 2021, the Government of NCT of Delhi floated a tender inviting e-bids for grant of 32 zonal retail licenses for the year 2021-22 (separate tender for each zone) through the e-tendering process in the form of L-7Z/L-7V for sale of Indian and Foreign Liquor (except country liquor) in the NCT of Delhi ("Tender") on the basis of the New Excise Policy.Despite floating the tender publicly on the basis of approved New Excise Policy 2021-22 for NCT of Delhi, the New Excise Policy is yet to be made public and or available on the internet/respondent's website, the plea said.It further stated that, as per the schedule of the tender, the last date for the prebid queries is July 5, 2021. While the pre-bid meeting is scheduled to be held on July 6, 2021, and the submission of the e-bid is between July 12 to 20, 2021.The plea submitted that in order to prepare financially viable and attractive e-bids for the tender, it is absolutely necessary that the approved New Excise Policy 2021-22 should be made available to all prospective stakeholders and or the public in general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-excise-policy-to-be-published-today-on-website-delhi-govt-to-hc-101625479416762.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chance encounter with a raconteur par excellence||With a cardboard carton in his hands, he tiptoed from behind and stood before us. Before I could even figure out what was he up to, he grinned and shot a question in his Punjabi-accented Hindi: “You are from Punjab na?” This presumptuous familiarity made me a bit uneasy. Clad in faded, rust-coloured shirt and baggy trousers, he wore a Kullu cap that appeared to complement his sharp features, aquiline nose, and unkempt salt and pepper stubble. He appeared different from the herb and shilajit sellers who had been pestering us since the time we had entered the undulating meadows surrounding Khajjiar lake. The Switzerland of India seemed to have been taken over by all sorts of herbalists, following and cajoling naïve tourists to buy their aphrodisiac herbs. But this middle-aged talebearer was not like the other sellers of manly dreams. Even before I could react, with a hint of mischief in his eyes, he repeated, “You must be from Punjab.” Without waiting for my reply, he started rattling off the names of actors and politicians from Punjab who allegedly owned private bungalows in Khajjiar. Pointing towards the west, where the rays of the evening sun were struggling to pierce through the tall deodars casting giant shadows on the ground, he said, “There lives that famous comedian, and yonder that well-known politician.” Soon, he was narrating how the celebrities come on weekends with their lady loves. He went on and on, like an unbridled radio jockey. Though he lacked the cloyingly sweet voice of a radio jockey, the sheer inventiveness of his earthy idiom was enough to cast a spell. I was now at ease listening to his tales and wanting more. After regaling us with some of his anecdotes, he put his carton full of soft drinks, mineral water and potato chips on the ground and thrusting a bottle of Pepsi in my hands, asked rather authoritatively, “Would you care for Coke or Pepsi?” His peremptory manner suggested that he had gained the right to sell it to me. I looked towards my wife who seemed uninterested. Sensing that I hadn’t got the approval, he quickly picked up his carton and started moving on. But I stopped him and before I could ask for a bottle of mineral water, he quipped, “Sardar ji, aur kahaniyan sunaun kya (Should I share more stories)?” But while handing me the bottle of water, he was looking beyond me. He had perhaps found another customer, another likely audience. Taken up completely with him by now, I wanted him to continue. However, I did not want to deprive him of another customer. “Let it be some other time,” I said. Before leaving, he revealed that he was from Ambarsar (colloquial for Amritsar), which he had left 20 years ago because people there had no time to listen to his yarns. He had migrated to Dalhousie where he could find curious listeners every day. But he added that though Dalhousie does provide him food and shelter, he despises it because the tourists now want to buy just the stuff he sells and don’t want to listen to him; they remain glued to their cell phones. A raconteur par excellence, he left me thinking about a different fire, a different hunger that drives each person. May be, some other day, I will have another chance encounter with him, or someone else like him. swarajraj@yahoo.com The writer is a retired professor of English in Patiala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chance-encounter-with-a-raconteur-par-excellence-101625480830030.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Stan Swamy passes away||Tribal rights activist and an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, Stan Swamy, who was admitted to Holy Family hospital, passed away due topulmonary infection and Parkinsons’ disease. Informing the Bombay high court (HC) about Swamy’s demise, hospital medical director Dr Ian D’Souza said the Jesuit priest had suffered a cardiac arrest on Sunday around 4.30am. He was put on ventilator and efforts to resuscitate the 84-year-old proved futile. He did not regain consciousness and was declared dead at around 1.24pm on Monday. The court directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and jail authorities to hand over Swamy’s body to Fr Frazer Mascarenhes for his last rites as the deceased did not have any relatives. Also Read | ED to record Gautam Navlakha’s statement in money laundering caseThe Elgar Parishad case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon- Bhima war memorial located on the city’s outskirts.The Pune Police claimed the conclave was backed by people having links with Maoists.The NIA later took over the probe into the case in which over a dozen activists and academicians have been named as accused.Swamy was arrested by the NIA in October 2020 based on his alleged Maoist connections and was kept at Taloja jail since his arrest. However, after his condition deteriorated, an application for bail on medical grounds was moved in the high court. Through an order on May 28, the HC directed the jail authorities to shift Swamy to a hospital of his choice. Swamy tested positive for Covid and was kept in the ICU of Holy Family hospital. The court extended his stay at the hospital after it was told that though the priest had recovered from Covid, he had some heart complications and his condition had deteriorated. Chief public prosecutor for the state government, Deepak Thakare, informed the court that as Swamy passed away after a cardiac arrest [and not Covid], an inquest panchnama had to be filed and a post mortem was required. The court directed the state to conduct the same during the day and hand over the body. In Ranchi, those associated with Swamy and his work, were inconsolable. “For the past four years, we were living under the same roof at Bagaicha. I know he was strong from within and would have lived for another 15 years had he not been arrested in this manipulated case by the NIA,” PM Tony, a close friend of Swamy’s, said.Born in Tamil Nadu, Swamy has been working for tribals’ rights in Jharkhand for the past several decades. Bagaicha, a centre he set up on the outskirts of Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, was his residence since 2006.“I have come across very few people like him. His passing away is a huge loss for the people of Jharkhand in general and the civil society,” said Siraj Dutta, a rights activist associated with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha who has worked with Swamy for the past 7-8 years. Noted economist Jean Dreze said, “Stan was a wonderful human being and an exemplary citizen. His death is the culmination of a series of acts of abominable cruelty.” (With inputs from Vishal Kant in Ranchi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-stan-swamy-passes-away-101625480710667.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s mini Kashi awaits its place in the sun||Known among locals as mini Kashi because of 101 Shiva temples on Yamuna’s banks here, demand is growing to develop Bateshwar town in Agra district as a tourist destination.A pilgrimage centre and also the paternal village of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Bateshwar is surrounded by the Chambal ravines, once notorious for dacoit gangs and is situated about 70 kilometres from the Taj Mahal in Agra city. Some illustrious residents of the town say development of the long riverfront and highlighting Bateshwar’s significance in India’s cultural history will help place it prominently on the tourism map.Former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Raja Mahendra Aridaman Singh, who belongs to the Bhadawar royal family, recently wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking development of the riverfront. Bateshwar is part of the Bah assembly constituency, which Singh has represented six times. His wife Rani Pakshalika Singh is the sitting MLA from Bah.Not just that, Maharaja Badan Singh, ancestor of Aridaman Singh, had diverted the flow of Yamuna by constructing a dam here and got Shiva temples built at the ghats in 1646. With the modification in its course, the river took the shape of a crescent moon in Bateshwar, much like Varanasi, which is about 590 kilometres away in eastern Uttar Pradesh.His successors maintained the Yamuna ghats, which have 101 Shiva Temples in a series.“Some of the ghats are in quite a bad shape and proper repair leading to the development of the riverfront is the only solution. There are some repairs going on and the tourism department has forwarded a proposal for a better riverfront at an estimated cost of ₹20 crore,” said Aridaman Singh.His letter to the CM, written in June, he said Bateshwar’s glory and cultural heritage could be revived with the proposed riverfront, making it a major destination in the area besides the Taj Mahal. “Revival of maha-aarti at the riverfront would be an added attraction,” he wrote.Every year, the rural belt of Bateshwar comes to life before Diwali during October-November when it hosts the second biggest cattle fair after the one at Sonepur in Bihar. Buyers come even from south India and thousands of devotees take a dip in the Yamuna on the occasion of Kartik Purnima, which marks the culmination of the festivities.“The fair at Bateshwar dates back to 300 BC when the Mauryas ruled the country and transportation was mainly through waterways. Bateshwar was a major seat of trade and emerged as a major market of the cattle trade. Even the British army used to wait for the Bateshwar fair to buy high-quality horses. Till date, Bateshwar fair has the best market for horses just like the Pushkar fair is considered the best for camels,” said Ram Pratap Singh, a resident of the nearby town of Jarar and the Uttar Pradesh coordinator for INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage). Former Tourism Guild president Arun Dang said, “We failed to project Bateshwar’s rich heritage with the Shiva temples on the Yamuna riverbank. The region is known as the birthplace of Karna who was born to Kunti. It is land of the Ansuiya, Shabri and Neminath, Lord Krishna’s cousin, who went on to become a Jain Tirthankar. There is an important seat of the Jain religion at Shoripur near Bateshwar. In recent times, Bateshwar came to be known as the parental village of former prime minister Atal Behari Vajpayee but nothing seems to have helped Bateshwar get its due.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-mini-kashi-awaits-its-place-in-the-sun-101625479029437.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||OBC quota : Maha assembly passes resolution to seek 2011 Census data from Centre||The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Monday passed a resolution urging the Centre to provide the 2011 census data to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare an empirical data of the OBC population, in a bid to restore political reservations for its members in local bodies.The House also saw two adjournments over the issue. The BJP members trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the state government, as Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the resolution was "politically motivated and will serve no purpose". He said the apex court had asked the Backward Class Commission to conduct an empirical inquiry to ascertain political backwardness of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). The BJP leader accused the state government of doing nothing on what the court had sought. Fadnavis said the 2011 census data had "eight crore mistakes", while the (census) data from Maharashtra had "69 lakh mistakes". Hence, it was not given, he said. To this, Bhujbal asked, "If there are mistakes in the data, why wasn't the rectification and correction done? Why were you sitting over the data for six years. If the data is used for central schemes like Ujjwala gas, why isn't it being given for the OBC (quota issue)."The 2021 census has not begun due to Covid-19, then how can the state government begin an empirical inquiry for the OBC population? he asked. The minister said when Fadnavis was the chief minister, he wrote to the NITI Ayog on August 1, 2019, seeking the census data. "Why are you playing with words like empirical inquiry or data? We are pursuing the demand for census data with the Centre.The Supreme Court has asked the State Backward Class Commission to conduct an empirical inquiry, which can be done only after the census data is provided," he said. When presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav put the resolution for vote, BJP members Girish Mahajan and Sanjay Kute climbed the Speaker's podium and argued with the Chair. The Chair subsequently adjourned the House for 10 minutes. Later, when the House reassembled, Sunil Prabhu (Shiv Sena) and Nawab Malik (NCP) alleged that BJP members "misbehaved" with the presiding officer and manhandled him in the Speaker's chamber. "Action should be taken against them," they said. Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal then adjourned the House for another 15 minutes.Later, speaking to reporters outside the House, Fadnavis said BJP members had not misbehaved with the presiding officer. "Since we exposed the falsehood of the government, some new twist is being given so that the House doesn't function. Bhujbal has not given factual information in the House. The central government hasn't used census data for its schemes," he said. The Supreme Court earlier this year quashed quota for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies after observing that the total number of seats earmarked for various communities, including the SCs and STs, should not exceed 50 per cent of its total strength.Earlier in the day, Fadnavis said the SC had asked for an empirical inquiry (into the issue of OBCs population) through the State Backward Class Commission. "The apex court has not asked for census data. The resolution is time pass, face-saver and misleading, and will not yield anything. But, we will support the resolution as we want to stand by the OBCs," the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-quota-maha-assembly-passes-resolution-to-seek-2011-census-data-from-centre-101625475244327.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Unlock 4: Universities, schools, restaurants to open in Bihar||The Bihar government on Monday decided to relax Covid-19 curbs further during Unlock 4 by allowing universities and restaurants to open from July 7. The decision was announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar after chairing meeting of the crisis management group with ministers and senior officials of the state. The new set of relaxations will remain effective for a month from July 7 till August 6. “After reviewing the situation in the state, it has been decided that all universities, colleges, technical institutions, government training institutes, classes 11 and 12 will resume with 50% attendance. Arrangements will be made for vaccination of all adult students, teachers and employees,” said Kumar. However schools for classes 1 to 10 and coaching institutes will remain closed and no exam will be conducted during the period. Also Read | Bihar: Free hotel stay, cinema ticket discounts aim to boost vaccination & salesBriefing mediapersons after the meeting, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan said that the government has decided to allow restaurants, gyms, swimming pools and clubs to open with 50% capacity. The stadiums will also open but only for players to practice. Another relaxation announced by the government is with regard to weddings and last rites. The government has extended the list of guest to 50 from 25 for both these functions. However, cinema halls and malls would continue to remain closed. The government announced that all government and private offices would now function normally and visitors would be allowed after ensuring that they have been vaccinated. During the Unlock 3 period, parks and gardens were allowed to open from 6am till 12pm with proper Covid-19 protocol while the duration of night curfew has been further reduced by an hour from 9pm till 5am. There is no change in timings for shops and they will continue to operate on alternate days from 6am till 7pm. The lockdown in state was clamped on May 5 and was extended four times, the last being on June 2, to contain a record rise in Covid-19 infections in the state. The state on Sunday reported 109 new cases, with number of active cases at 1,435.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unlock-4-universities-schools-restaurants-to-open-in-bihar-101625477529550.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar allows universities, schools, restaurants to open||The Bihar government on Monday eased certain restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Chief minister Nitish Kumar said that after reviewing the situation in the state, all government and non-government offices can open normally and vaccinated visitors will be allowed to enter the offices. Last month, the state government allowed government and private offices to function in full strength till 5pm, while shops were allowed to remain open till 6pm.The state government has permitted the opening and resumption of various other activities that were earlier prohibited in the state in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Here is what is allowed:The chief minister said all universities, colleges, technical educational institutions, government training institutes are allowed to open with 50 per cent attendance of students.The state government also permitted the opening of schools for the students of Class 11 and Class 12 with 50 per cent attendance of students. Kumar said special arrangements will be made for the vaccination of adult students, teachers and staff of educational institutions."Universities, all colleges, technical educational institutions, government training institutes, schools up to Class 11 and 12 will open with 50% attendance of students. Special arrangements will be made for vaccination for adult students, teachers and staff of educational institutions," Kumar's tweet, in Hindi, read.Moreover, the state government on Monday also allowed restaurants and food shops to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity while adhering to necessary Covid appropriate behaviour. "Restaurants and food shops will be able to operate with 50% seating capacity. Caution is still needed," Kumar's tweet, in Hindi, added.On May 5, the Bihar government imposed a state-wide lockdown following a massive surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave. The state government has been lifting the Covid-induced curbs in a gradual manner like other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-bihar-allows-universities-schools-restaurants-to-open-101625474504825.html
05-07-2021||Bhopal||MP forest dept’s trick to make herbivores walk into relocated Cheetahs’ den||Madhya Pradesh forest department is going to plant special bricks to attract herbivores to an enclosure being made for African Cheetahs that will be relocated from South Africa to Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary in Sheopur district at the end of this year. Bricks made up of pulses, jaggery and salt will be used to attract herbivores such as spotted deer to the special five square kilometre fenced area where eight African Cheetahs will be kept, said PK Verma, field director. Cheetah was declared extinct in India in 1952 and it is now being reintroduced at the Kuno National Park this year. Eight Cheetahs including some females are due to arrive here in October-November from South Africa. Kuno Sanctuary, which is located in the Chambal region, is spread over an area of over 750 sq km and has conducive environment for the cheetah, MP forest minister had said in May.The idea is to ensure that for a few months, the Cheetahs get to hunt in the vicinity of their fenced enclosure, which is being made to keep them safe from about 70 leopards that live in the Sanctuary, said Verma“Cheetahs will keep in this fenced area for a few months. Forest department doesn’t want to interfere in the natural habitat so to attract spotted deers and other herbivores, they made these bricks. In the fenced area, small gates are being set up to keep these bricks,” said Verma.Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) said that the fragrant bricks were earlier successfully used in Kanha Tiger Reserve to draw herbivores from buffer to core area.“The herbivores have a habit of eating soil and by licking these bricks, they will end their craving for soil as it tastes similar and better,” Alok Kumar said.About 400 bricks will be made and used in phases. “Our target is to attract at least 200-400 herbivores in the fenced area before translocation of cheetahs by the end of this year,” Kumar added. ( With inputs from Shiv Pratap Singh from Morena)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-forest-dept-s-trick-to-make-herbivores-walk-into-relocated-cheetahs-den-101625475489357.html
05-07-2021||Other||V-Cs must return biography they’re asked to pay for: Rajasthan Guv||Rajasthan’s Raj Bhavan has directed the vice-chancellors (V-Cs) of state universities to return the coffee table books on Governor Kalraj Mishra to the publisher after a controversy erupted over the bills given to them for copies of the recently launched book. The Governor’s office also said the publisher did so on their own. An official statement of the Raj Bhavan said, “Some news has been circulated regarding the marketing of the book Kalraj Mishra - Nimit Maatra Hoon Main, which was released in Raj Bhavan on July 1. This is primarily personal information between the publisher IIME, the research institute and the buyer. The publisher had published the book and sought permission to release it in the Raj Bhavan, which was given to him. But Raj Bhavan has no role, any affiliation in the business activities of marketing the book.” Also Read | ‘Society can’t decide how individuals live...’: Rajasthan HC grants protection to live-in coupleEach of the 27 state universities received a bill of ₹68,383 for 19 copies of Mishra’s biography which was launched on July 1 at a function attended by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The copies were kept in the V-C’s vehicles, along with the bill, while the programme was still on, said a V-C on the condition of anonymity. Subir Kumar, secretary to the Governor, said, “We are not aware of any such development... If any such thing has happened, action will be taken. The V-Cs should return the books to the publisher.” However, the V-C quoted above said, “During the programme, someone took down the names and mobile numbers of drivers. We got to know later that it was for the 19 books in two cartons that were handed over to our respective drivers.” The books were kept in the vehicles reportedly by the representative of the publisher-- International Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship (IIME), Jaipur. The bill mentions 19 copies charged at ₹3,999 for each, adding up to ₹75,981. After a discount of 10%, the chargeable amount comes to ₹68,383. While it carries the names of five books -- Kalraj Mishra: Nimmit Maatra Hoon Main, Jaipur : Gem of India, The Marwari Heritage, The Heritage of Indian Tea and Pune : A City of Many Shades ad Colours, the other four books seem to have been given complimentary --no rate or number of copies is mentioned for them. The V-C said, “What is the use of a coffee table book in a university? The library and the purchase committee will take a decision on these books...I haven’t gone through it completely, but it is a coffee table book with photos related to Mishra’s family, BJP leaders etc...It is morally wrong to purchase these books if they aren’t related to academics.”However, IIME said the V-Cs ordered those books. “The Governor House has nothing to do with this. The event was organised by us and the books were given as per the order of the V-Cs. They raised a demand for the books,” said DK Taknet, who is associated with the IIME, and is the author of the book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vcs-must-return-biography-they-re-asked-to-pay-for-rajasthan-guv-101625473989205.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||BJP, Shiv Sena not enemies but will not be forming a govt, says Maha BJP chief||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil reiterated Devendra Fadnavis’s words on BJP and Shiv Sena not being “enemies” but insisted that it will not translate into both parties coming together to form a government again“Devendra Fadnavis has said that BJP, Shiv Sena are not enemies, it's 100% true but this doesn't mean that both will come together and form a government,” Patil was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Patil’s words comes amid reports of a meeting between Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and BJP leader Ashish Sehlar on Saturday. Both the parties have downplayed the significance of any such meeting, insisting that even though they subscribe to different ideologies they maintain a friendship that goes beyond politics.Also Read: BJP and Shiv Sena are not enemies, says Devendra FadnavisFadnavis, who once presided over a government formed by BJP and Shiv Sena, told reporters on Sunday, “There was no enmity between BJP and Shiv Sena. We are not enemies. We are facing ideological differences because our friend who got elected along with us left us and held the hands of those against whom they were elected.”“There is nothing like a hypothesis in politics. Decisions are made depending upon the current situation. The leaders who depend upon hypothesis can only dream,” he added.Raut on his part has insisted that he meets opposition leaders openly in public and those who are spreading rumours don't like him."I've met Ashish at social gatherings. Maharashtra's politics is not like that of India and Pakistan. Despite political differences, we're cordial. People who don't like me are spreading rumours ahead of tomorrow's Assembly session," Raut told reporters on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-shiv-sena-not-enemies-but-will-not-be-forming-a-govt-says-maha-bjp-chief-101625471519780.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||After black fungus, 3 avascular necrosis cases seen in Covid-recovered patients||After the outbreak of black fungus or mucormycosis among patients who recovered from coronavirus (Covid-19), avascular necrosis (AVN) - also known as death of bone tissues - has reportedly been detected in three patients in Mumbai.These patients - all aged under 40 - were treated at Mumbai’s PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim, after they developed AVN two months since their Covid-19 treatment.Both AVN and mucormycosis have been associated with the usage of steroids. Recently, Dr Sanjay R Agarwala of Hinduja Hospital published a paper named ‘Avascular necrosis as part of Covid-19’ in the medical journal ‘BMJ Case Studies’ wherein along with doctors Mayank Vijayvargiya, and Prashant Pandey, he detailed the course of AVN diagnosis in the three patients.He stated that one patient – aged 36 was found with AVN 67 days since the diagnosis of Covid-19, while the other two – aged 39 and 37, were diagnosed with the condition 57 and 55 days later. All the patients were administered intravenous steroids as part of their Covid-19 treatment. Besides, the patients aged 36 and 37 didn’t have any history of hip pain.“At present, avascular necrosis (AVN) as a sequalae of ’long COVID-19’ has yet not been documented. By large-scale use of life-saving corticosteroids in COVID-19 cases, we anticipate that there will be a resurgence of AVN cases,” the paper by Dr Agarwala stated.This development comes after it was recently reported that Delhi hospitals are still treating more than 750 patients with Black Fungus, cases of which rose after the fourth wave of coronavirus in the national capital from April to May, data by Delhi government revealed.Notably, cases of black fungus increased significantly during the surge of infections between April to May in India, with as many as 18 states reporting over 5,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-black-fungus-3-avascular-necrosis-cases-seen-in-covid-recovered-patients-101625469203321.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Unlock ’21 Delhi-NCR: Salons brimming with work, far from any profit||Heading back to office or meeting up friends are activities that are resuming occurrence in the daily calendars of many denizens, who are venturing out after having braved through the second wave. In this unlock phase, most of the owners of neighbourhood parlours apprise that though they are brimming with requests for appointments, but are barely able to break even since their expenditure has gone through the roof due to the Covid-19 situation. “The parlour is for sure packed, but that doesn’t mean we are making profits,” says Shikha Ahuja, owner of a unisex salon by in Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, adding, “Business has increased as customers are returning, but our expenses have increased, too. Now we have to use disposables and also arrange for regular sanitisation of the parlour. Also, we need to provide masks and face shields to our staff. All this does add to our cost of operating the business.”But, staying safe comes at a price. And in case of parlours in the city, this price is being paid by the owners. “Our regular clients have returned. However, to carefully maintain all the safety precautions, we have had to increase our expenditure on buying protective gear,” says Pamela Singh, owner of a parlour in Gurugram. And Asha Bhatia, owner of a salon in south Delhi’s East of Kailash says, “Clients themselves insist on following all Covid-19 protocols and necessary precautions. So though they have started coming in again, but that only means that we have to provide so many more disposables, which don’t come for free! And then if we hint at increasing the cost of services then again it hurts our regular clientele. So it’s a tricky situation for us. As of now, we have to be and are being very particular about following all safety measures, and therefore are bound to operate even in absence of making profits. Because if we don’t have all protective gear in place beforehand, most clients won’t even agree to take any service!” Delhiites confess that they are being careful about selecting which parlour to visit for grooming services, keeping in mind that the pandemic isn’t over yet. A south Delhi based homemaker, Surbhi Verma, shares, “I’ve resumed going to my regular beauty parlour, but I’m very careful. I only go there when I’m sure that they are taking proper precautions keeping in mind the Covid-19 norms. Like for instance, I ensure that the waxing gowns they are using are disposable, and also observe whether the staff is wearing N95 masks and face shields at all times or now. If I notice any lacks, I change gears and head elsewhere! It’s important to be careful because the second wave was very scary!”Some salon owners have accepted this as reality and say that it’s better to be safe now, and make money later. “We are in a pandemic, and the fact that we have got work and don’t have to sit idle any longer is enough to keep us spirited,” says Suman Wani, owner of a make-up studio in Pitampura, adding, “I know these things such as masks, face shields, and PPE kits, charge extra but I’m bearing all the costs from my pocket and not charging my clients extra for these. I feel that these precautions are important for the health of my clients as well as for my staff. We are certainly functioning on a no profit no loss model as of now. Par abhi sab sahi raha toh paise aage jake kama lenge.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unlock-21-delhi-ncr-salons-brimming-with-work-far-from-any-profit-101625469376957.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Virbhadra bold leader: Nadda after meeting ex-CM in Shimla hospital||BJP president JP Nadda met veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, 87, at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) in Shimla on Monday. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj and health minister Rajiv Saizal accompanied Nadda to the IGMC’s cardiology department where Virbhadra Singh is admitted. “Though I could not speak to Virbhadra Singh ji due to medical conditions, I enquired about his treatment from doctors and met his family members,” Nadda said. Also read: HPBOSE class 10 result 2021: List of websites to check HP board result“Virbhadra Singh ji is very bold and he should be well soon,” the BJP chief said after meeting the former chief minister’s wife and former Lok Sabha member Pratibha Singh and his son Vikramaditya Singh, who is the Shimla Rural MLA. Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to Himachal Pradesh, flew to Shimla from his residence at Vijaypur in Bilaspur district. Later, Nadda and Thakur flew to Kullu to attend a BJP meeting after which the BJP chief is scheduled to visit Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass. Virbhadra Singh, a six-time chief minister, was diagnosed with Covid-19 twice since he was initially hospitalised on April 12. He is under the treatment of cardiology department head Dr Parkash Negi for post-Covid complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virbhadra-bold-leader-nadda-after-meeting-ex-cm-in-shimla-hospital-101625469069089.html
05-07-2021||Bangalore||Public transport operates on full swing in Bengaluru as Covid curbs relaxed||The public transport in Karnataka's capital Bengaluru is completely functional now, as the state government relaxed Covid-19 curbs. All metro trains and Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses are running with 100 per cent capacity. However, no standing passenger is allowed in metro and buses, according to a report in leading Kannada daily Prajavani.To meet the deficit of space created by the absence of standing passengers, BMTC will run additional vehicles on every route with a one-minute gap between the schedules on the same route. This will help the passengers who would have travelled standing in the buses, according to BMTC officials.The BMTC has pressed into service 4,500 vehicles on Monday, and if needed, more buses will ply on all 450 routes inside the Bengaluru Metropolitan area. To facilitate contactless transactions, the BMTC has initiated QR coding and other e-payment modes in view of Covid-19 social distancing norms in place.BMTC services will run from 5am to 9pm, according to people aware of the developments. All crew members have been asked to mandatorily wear masks and use hand sanitisers frequently. The BMTC has also advised the passengers to refrain from using public transport if they have Covid symptoms or any other illness. The transport body will put only those crew members in service who have been Covid vaccinated.Meanwhile, the 'Namma Metro' in the city will be operational for 13 hours daily. In peak hours, there will be a train every five minutes and in lean hours there will be a train every 15 minutes. During the weekends, the number of trains will be regulated depending on the number of passengers, according to BMRCL officials. Services will begin at 7am and will run till 8pm, they added.Other tier-II cities - like Mangaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi and Dharwad - will also follow the same procedure, according to state authorities. However, in Mangaluru, private bus operators have been found carrrying full standing passengers, which is a matter of concern, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/public-transport-operates-on-full-swing-in-bengaluru-as-covid-curbs-relaxed-101625467641351.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Lajpat Nagar market shut: What Covid-19 rules were flouted||The Delhi government on Monday ordered closure of Lajpat Nagar's central market due to non-adherence of Covid-19 appropriate guideline.The decision was taken after an inspection was carried out by Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Praveer Kumar Singh along with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB) enforcement teams.The order was issued by PK Tripathi, additional district magistrate (Southeast).The enforcement teams found that social distancing norms were not being followed in one of the major markets of the national capital. Vendors were seen selling edibles without using adequate precautions "in gross violation of the social distancing norms", the order said."In view of the above, it is hereby directed that the market is closed with immediate effect until further orders," the order said.Apart from the Lajpat Nagar market, closure of shops has also been ordered in Rui Mandi (cotton market) in Central Delhi's Sadar Bazar.This comes after Laxmi Nagar market in east Delhi and some nearby marketplaces were closed by the district administration on June 30 till Monday, following violation of Covid-19 protocols there, officials said, according to news agency PTI.However, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on July 2 allowed the Laxmi Nagar market to reopen.In an order, Sonika Singh, chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (east district), had said the market association and shopkeepers in the main bazaar of Laxmi Nagar were "unable to ensure Covid protocols (compliance) on June 27 due to large footfall".However, after receiving written assurance from the market associations, Chamber of Trade and Industry and shopkeepers, the DDMA allowed to reopen the market with certain conditions.The DDMA had directed the market association and Chamber of Trade and Industry to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed by the visitors as well as vendors, shopkeepers and hawkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-lajpat-nagar-market-shut-what-covid-19-rules-were-flouted-101625464397140.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||BJP and Shiv Sena are not enemies, says Devendra Fadnavis||A day after reports of a secret meeting between Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Ashish Shelar in Mumbai, former Maharashtra chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said there is no enmity between the two parties. “There was no enmity between BJP and Shiv Sena. We are not enemies. We are facing ideological differences because our friend who got elected along with us left us and held the hands of those against whom they were elected,” Fadnavis said while interacting with media persons on the eve of the monsoon session of the state legislature beginning Monday.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh writes letter to ED, claims probe against him not transparentFadnavis’s statement assumes significance amid reports of a slew of open and secret meetings between Sena and BJP leaders last week. Sena has two partners, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state.“There is nothing like a hypothesis in politics. Decisions are made depending upon the current situation. The leaders who depend upon hypothesis can only dream,” he said, when asked if both the parties will again join hands.Meanwhile, Fadnavis denied that any meetings took place with Sena leaders last week. “There is no discussion or meeting with any party. BJP is working efficiently as an Opposition party and will do whatever it requires to fulfil peoples’ expectations,” he said.After the resignation of two ministers — Anil Deshmukh and Sanjay Rathod — from the MVA government, the BJP has sharpened its attack on the state’s ruling coalition by pointing at the alleged corruption in the auction of the sugar factories. On Saturday, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding action against the 29 cooperative sugar factories on the lines of the action taken against Jarandeshwar sugar factory in Satara, which has been linked to the relatives of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-and-shiv-sena-are-not-enemies-says-devendra-fadnavis-101625466908865.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders closure of Lajpat Nagar market over Covid protocol violation||New Delhi: The Delhi government has ordered the closure of all shops in Lajpat Nagar’s Central Market -- a bustling hub for wedding apparel, home upholstery, car accessories, and street food -- over violations of Covid-19 safety protocols.The government also closed down Rui Mandi — known for its shops dealing in jewellery and cosmetics — in central Delhi’s Sadar Bazar wholesale market citing a similar flouting of norms, weeks after commercial establishments reopened in the city with strict riders after a devastating second wave of infections.The closure of the two markets, in two separate orders issued on Sunday by the district administrations of south-east and central Delhi, now takes the markets that have been closed down in the city over the past week to six. The other four markets that were previously closed over Covid-19 violations were Laxmi Nagar and Gandhi Nagar markets in east Delhi, the Punjabi Basti and the Nangloi markets in west Delhi. The Laxmi Nagar market was allowed to reopen on Saturday (July 3).“An inspection was carried out by the undersigned in Central Market, Lajpat Nagar II, along with Praveer Kumar Singh, SDM (Sarita Vihar) and other members of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB) enforcement teams deployed in the area, wherein gross violation of CAB (social distancing within the shops as well as overall market place, vendors selling edibles without using adequate precautions, etc.) was observed. In view of the above, it is hereby directed that the market is closed with immediate effect until further orders,” said an order issued by PK Tripathi, additional district magistrate (south-east), announcing the closure of the Lajpat Nagar market.The district administration asked the Lajat Nagar market association to ensure compliance to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour within a day. “The Market Trader Association is hereby directed to ensure that all measures for ensuring adherence to Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour are in place within a day of issuance of the order, whereafter a review shall be taken regarding opening of this segment of the market. Further, the officials of MCD as well Delhi Police are hereby directed that no street side/unauthorised shops are functional within the Lajpat Nagar Market Area,” said the order, a copy of which is with HT.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) guidelines, regular markets and weekly markets have to ensure physical distancing of at least six feet among customers as far as possible and promote mask-wearing. It also rules that only asymptomatic persons should be allowed in markets.The south-east district administration has also issued a showcase notice to the concerned market association. Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, Lajpat Nagar traders’ association, said nearly 800 shops in the central market were shut on Monday. “Today [on Monday], we met the district magistrate (southeast) and submitted an affidavit stating that all protocols will be followed in letter and spirit. We also said that in case any shop is found violating Covid appropriate behaviour, the administration is free to seal those shops. But, shutting the entire market just because of those violating shops will be too much. Besides, we will also deploy 10 more guards who will patrol the market all day to ensure compliance,” he said. Sonika Tyagi, a regular visitor of the market said the closure didn’t affect her much. “Since it is just for a day, I do not think anybody will be impacted, whether it’s customers or shopkeepers. I hope people also learn a lesson and wear masks all the time,” she said. In another order, Arvind Rana, SDM (Kotwali) ordered the closure of the Sadar Bazar Rui Market citing similar safety concerns. The order stated that due to heavy footfall, shopkeepers were unable to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour which may “cause super spreading of Covid-19”. The Rui Market will remain closed till Tuesday, or until further orders, whichever is earlier. Rakesh Kumar Yadav, president of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, said following the SDM’s order, the Delhi police on Monday morning put barricades on all roads and lanes leading to the market. “We want such barricades to remain, and these lanes should be reserved for pedestrians to better manage the crowd. Even before the market was shut, we deployed at least 22 people from our team to go from lane to lane to check social distancing and mask wearing. We have to learn to live with Covid-19 now, but what can we do if hawkers and some visitors continue to violate Covid-19 behaviour,” he said. Neeraj Malhotra, a trader in the market blamed the closure on the street vendors and hawkers. “We, as shopkeepers, are in a very tricky situation. Rui Mandi is full of hawkers and they do not wear masks and spit all over the place. We try to move them out or request them to follow Covid-19 protocols, but they fight with us. Last year, the district administration deployed civil defence volunteers, but this year there were none, so people were not scared,” he said. On June 29, the Delhi government ordered the closure of markets in East Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and adjoining areas until July 5, over the alleged violation of Covid-19 safety protocols. However, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed reopening of the Laxmi Nagar market and surrounding markets from Saturday, provided Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is strictly followed. The order to reopen was issued on Friday, following a meeting among DDMA (East), Delhi Police, the MCD and the market association.On Saturday evening, the subdivisional magistrate of Punjabi Bagh ordered complete closure of the Punjabi Basti and Janta Market in Nangloi due to shopkeepers and the public not following the necessary health protocols. The order, seen by HT, stated that all shops in these two markets will remain completely shut from Sunday to Tuesday, including the weekly off on Monday.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said the actions are in the right direction. “I do not think there is anything wrong. Such actions, even for a day or two, act as a deterrent. Wearing of masks should not be given up at any cost and testing in such crowded places should also be available,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-orders-closure-of-lajpat-nagar-market-over-covid-protocol-violation-101625466549378.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC continues stay on eviction, demolition or dispossession till August 13||As lockdown restrictions are not fully eased, a four-judge bench of the Bombay high court on Monday extended the interim stay on eviction, demolition or dispossession till August 13. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Dutta and justices AA Sayed, SS Shinde and PB Varale passed the order on Monday in a suo motu petition, on the extension of protection to those who are unable to access justice because of the restricted functioning of the courts affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. After the administrative committee meeting held on July 1, 2021 was briefed by the Central Task Force, a decision to continue with virtual hearings at the principal bench, and also at the co-ordinate benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa was taken. Also Read | Petition in Bombay HC challenges Information Technology Rules, 2021“The lockdown restrictions have not been eased to such an extent that access to justice is freely available. Due to prevailing facts and circumstances, the committee of this court has decided to function in a restricted manner till the next review meeting which will be held at the end of July,” said the bench. It further directed that orders for eviction, demolition or dispossession will be kept in abeyance as per the conditions of its previous order of April 16, 2021. After the second wave of Covid-19, the Maharashtra government issued an order dated April 13, titled “Break the Chain” though which restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) were imposed in the state from April 14 to May 1. In view of that the full bench had kept interim orders in abeyance thereafter. The full bench will sit again on August 9, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-continues-stay-on-eviction-demolition-or-dispossession-till-august-13-101625466069117.html
05-07-2021||Kolkata||BJP’s Kolkata protest rally against fake vaccination racket may trigger clashes||Top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have decided to go ahead with the protest rally in central Kolkata on Monday against the fake vaccination racket in the city, even though the police have denied them permission citing ongoing Covid-19 restrictions.While the police are making elaborate arrangements to beef up security outside the Kolkata Municipal Corporation where rally is going to converge, BJP leaders have warned that police will have to face the consequences if they try to stop the rally.“It will be a peaceful protest. We don’t need permission to protest. We have already informed the police. If the police want deterioration of law and order, they can take multiple steps. In that case, they will have to face the consequences,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal.Also Read | Bengal BJP chief passes diktat on movement of MLAs, raises questionIn June, the Kolkata Police had busted a fake vaccination racket allegedly run by a man impersonating a bureaucrat. Over 800 people, including Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mimi Chakraborty, were duped into taking the fake vaccines.The racket triggered a political slugfest between the TMC and the BJP. While the BJP has alleged that the mastermind had links with senior TMC leaders, the latter has rubbished the charges.Leaders of the state’s ruling party, however, have warned of stern action if Covid-19 restrictions are violated.“Covid-19 restrictions are going on. There are restrictions on political gatherings. If they are violated, the police will take action under the Disaster Management Act,” said Atin Ghosh, out-going deputy mayor and TMC legislator.Senior BJP leaders, including the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh, leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari and MPs who head the party’s women and youth wings are going to take part in the protest rally, which will kick off from Subodh Mullick Square and converge outside the headquarters of the city’s civic body.“We have made elaborate arrangements to prevent any deterioration of law and order. Large police contingents are being deployed along with RAF and water cannons and barricades are being put up all along the route,” said a senior police official.The BJP, despite setting a target of winning over 200 seats, could only manage 77 seats in the recently held assembly polls. The TMC had returned to power with a sweeping victory and winning 213 seats out of the 292 seats where elections were held.While the BJP has been stepping up its attack against the TMC over the fake vaccination racket, the Centre had asked the West Bengal government to file a report last week. Even the Calcutta high court directed the state to file an affidavit in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-protest-rally-against-fake-vaccination-racket-in-kolkata-may-trigger-clashes-101625465468899.html
05-07-2021||Other||Doctor terminated on charge of selling hospital’s Covid vaccine in Chhattisgarh||A doctor posted at a government hospital in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district has been terminated over the charges of selling Covid-19 vaccines at his private clinic, officials said on Monday. Korba collector Ranu Sahu said a complaint against Dr Ashok Kumar Makhija, a child specialist posted on contract at the Korba primary health centre, alleged that he was selling hospital’s Covid-19 vaccines at his private clinic. Also Read | Maoists attack mining area in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur, one killed“Dr Makhija has been terminated and a directive has been issued to seal his private clinic which was being operated without any license, with immediate effect,” the collector told the media. Korba sub divisional magistrate Sunil Nayak said it was not immediately known how Dr Makhija obtained the vaccines. “He told us that he had been bringing the leftover vaccines in vials. However, official records showed no vaccine wastage was reported in the past two months in any vaccination centre in the Korba district,” the SDM said. The SDM said that an investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctor-terminated-on-charge-of-selling-hospital-s-covid-vaccine-in-chhattisgarh-101625464148701.html
05-07-2021||Other||Osho International Foundation submits clarification to governor on sale of ashram properties||PUNE A week after disciples of the Osho ashram in Pune urged the Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to launch an investigation into activities of the Osho International Foundation, a charitable trust, to stop a bid to sell two plots at the ashram at Koregaon Park, the Osho International Foundation has submitted a clarification against the memorandum to the Governor.According to Ma Amrit Sadhana, media in- charge, Osho International meditation Resort, the activity of meditation has been run by public charitable trusts over the last 30 years at Koregaon park, Pune, also known as the Osho International Meditation Resort, and earlier as the Osho Commune.“The Zurich-based International Foundation is not the owner of the Osho Commune. It is owned by public trusts registered with charity commissioner of the state of Maharashtra, namely Neo Sannyas Foundation and Osho International Foundation,” she said.The disciples in their letter had mentioned sale of a part of Osho ashram, to which the letter signed by Mukesh Sarda, trustee, Osho International Foundation said, “Recently the foundation has filed an application with the charity commissioner in Mumbai for the sale of two plots of land, which has a swimming pool and tennis court, and one small building providing lockers, toilets and changing rooms, which are part of the recreation area and 1.5 % of all of the campus built up. From 1987 to the present, the total area of the campus has increased from six acres to 28 acres. Due to Covid-19, during the last 15 months, the foundation’s premises have been closed, so there is no income. Maintenance of land and buildings costs around Rs7 crore a year. Right now the foundation is using its savings for the funds required, hence, for-sufficiency of the foundation, its trustees have decided to sell these two plots to generate a large corpus fund, the interest from which will take care of the maintenance cost and provide a strong financial base for a long time to come.”He also clarified that all the meditation activities are happening in the trust properties which are not for sale including, as per Osho’s instruction, the location of his ashes which have been kept under his bed. A majority of normal income of the foundation is from international participants, which will take a long time to return due Covid-19.The letter also points out to ‘others’ creating problems for the activities of the foundation. “They are provoking other people to file false complaints to different authorities against the trustees of the foundation and against the people whom they don’t like,” it states.The number of people coming to the resort has increased by 400% - 12-14% of those participating were Indian nationals 30 years ago. Now that figure is 67%. The remaining 33% come from over 100 countries around the world.The letter also said that this resort is an educational foundation. The development control rules of Koregaon Park would never allow a puja facility, and in any case, this would be totally contrary to Osho’s guidance. “We are in affect a meditation school that uses the techniques from India’s meditation heritage and also some new meditation techniques that Osho has created for the contemporary person,” said Ma Sadhana.The foundation also mentioned in their letter that they charge the international visitors twice the entrance fees, where Indian nationals enjoy a 10% to 40% discount for the same. In addition, for the meditation therapies, international visitors pay three times more than nationals. International visitors comprise 85% of the income of the foundation. Ashram still expandingFrom 1987 to the present the total area of the Osho campus has increased from six acres to 28 acres. This includes a model environmental public garden of 12 acres, where entrance is at no cost. During this same period, the management team has overseen an increase of built up area from 89,000 square feet to 252,000 square feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/osho-international-foundation-submits-clarification-to-governor-on-sale-of-ashram-properties-101625463428019.html
05-07-2021||Other||Cong-NCP assign corporators to deal with problems in merged villages||PUNE After the decision of the state government to merge 23 fringe villages with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), political parties have started focusing on these villages amid the upcoming civic polls. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress have come forward and deputed convenors to address the problems of the villages.The NCP has deputed 23 corporators to address the problem of villages till the system is established. The decision was taken at an NCP meeting on Sunday.Prashant Jagtap, city president of NCP said, “We have assigned work to 23 corporators of PMC to take care of the merged villages. It will take some time to set up the administration system in these villages. Till date, we have made arrangements to provide mechanisation to address different problems of these villagers. All these convenors will visit the villages and take note of the problems and try to resolve them. They will coordinate with PMC officials and villagers.”NCP has appointed corporators representing adjacent parts of these villages.On the other hand, a senior leader of the Congress party and former member of the legislative council (MLC) Mohan Joshi, has announced that the party will pursue the state government to provide maximum funds to build better infrastructure in these villages.Joshi said, “Our party workers will visit the villages and know their problems and try to resolve them. We will set an agenda to develop these villages and plan an election strategy for upcoming civic polls. We will conduct a meeting in these villages. We will plan a visit of Congress president of Maharashtra, Nana Patole, and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat to these villages.” On June 30, 2021, the state government took the final decision to merge 23 villages with the PMC. Before that, the state government had issued a notification for merger of 11 fringe areas in the corporation limits in October 2017.After the merging of villages, the PMC area has extended from 250.56 square kilometres to 331.56 square kilometres. With the merger of 23 villages, PMC’s limits have expanded to 518 sqkm from the existing 331 sqkm. As per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, a municipal corporation with a population of over 2.4 million in its area needs to have a minimum of 145 elected corporators. Pune currently has 165 and the latest merger may increase the count to 175.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congncp-assign-corporators-to-deal-with-problems-in-merged-villages-101625463368650.html
05-07-2021||Other||CFR for Pune city slightly higher than district||PUNE The case fatality rate (CFR) for Pune city concerning Covid-19 fatalities, is higher than the CFR for Pune district by a small margin. For the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the CFR, as per authorities, it is 1.80 per cent, whereas for Pune district it is 1.70 per cent. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) measures the severity of a particular disease by defining the total number of deaths as a proportion of reported cases of a specific disease at a specific time.As cases have reduced in the city, Pune has seen a drop in CFR. For Maharashtra, the CFR is around 2.01 per cent as of Sunday.Speaking about the CFR in PMC limits, Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of the health department at the PMC, said that many Covid patients who are moderate or critical, tend to come to the city for treatment.“Many patients come to Pune city for better medical treatment. As the city has better infrastructure, there is more inflow of moderate to severe Covid patients from nearby districts. This may be one of the reasons for the CFR being higher than that of Pune district,” said Dr Wavare. Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, member of the Pune city Covid task force for Social Action said that there can be two reasons.“One is that more patients come to city for better medical infrastructure. Second is that there is comparatively less testing for patients at the early stage. Due to this, many patients who are asymptomatic or show symptoms later,” said Dr Mote.He added that those cases are detected, but the cases which haven’t been tested yet are more. “So many positive cases are not recorded as complete contact tracing is not done in the city due to various reasons. And so there are more cases which are critical. There are more cases in the background which are not seen as many moderate or mild cases are not tested,” said Dr Mote.He added that in rural area, testing is more so more cases are seen. “Earlier, we saw that in the slum area, many Covid patients have already tested positive and recovered. And so mostly critical or moderate cases are detected and reflected and so the CFR is high,” said Dr Mote.He added that people who were in immediate contact of a positive patient or patients with flu-like symptoms, should get tested immediately. “Early detection will help these patients to remain mild or moderate and not get critical. If detected in the first stage, the recovery rate will improve and deaths will definitely reduce. The key is to increase awareness and reduce hesitancy. There should be more awareness among family doctors as they see many patients. This will help reduce hospitalisation as well,” said Dr Mote.He further emphasised that vaccination of the population will help to reduce CFR. “Government as well as private hospitals should be ready, infrastructure-wise, for the third wave to save more lives,” said Dr Mote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cfr-for-pune-city-slightly-higher-than-district-101625463368047.html
05-07-2021||Other||State guidelines for celebration of Eid bans congregating for prayers||PUNE The Maharashtra government, on Sunday, issued guidelines to be observed during the forthcoming festival of Eid Al Adha (Bakri Eid). Bakri Eid will be observed in the city and the state on July 21. According to the guidelines, mass congregation for prayers will not be allowed at dargahs and mosques, and people have been advised to offer prayers at home. The latest guidelines stipulate that all livestock markets will remain closed. If citizens want to buy animals, they should buy them online or via phone for delivery. “The restrictions imposed in the containment areas will remain in force. There will be no relaxation on the occasion of Bakri Eid,” the circular states. It is for the second consecutive year that the state government has cautioned citizens about the dangers of infections emanating out of Covid-19 infections through public gatherings. The decision has been welcomed by Muslim clerics in Pune, who have appealed to the community to abide by the rules, like social distancing and wearing masks when in public, and to avoid congregations for prayers. The guidelines further state: “People should not congregate on the occasion of Bakri Eid amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The guidelines issued by various departments should be followed and people should cooperate with the authorities.” Maulana Abbas Amir Hamza of the Jama Masjid in Kondhwa Budruk said, “The guidelines issued by the government are aimed at protecting the citizens from Covid-19 and the Muslim community must respond to the call just like it did last year, by offering prayers in the house. These are critical times and the community members are well aware about the health hazards due to Covid-19. Online Eid lectures and information will be disseminated to ensure that citizens don’t miss out on the tradition of sacrifice. The animals will be sacrificed as per the protocols of the health department and the guidelines of the government. The community had demonstrated its support to the government last year as Eid prayers were offered at home.” Meanwhile, the Deputy District Registrar (DDR) has issued a notice to the Kausar Baug Co-operative Housing society, to halt the goat market operating on its open plot, citing restrictions. A complaint to that effect was made by local residents. The complainant alleged that the society had illegally allotted the space for the selling of goats, putting the lives of citizens at risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-guidelines-for-celebration-of-eid-bans-congregating-for-prayers-101625463308052.html
05-07-2021||Other||EESL to help set up EV charging stations in the city for PMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has plans to set up charging stations in the city for electric vehicles (EV) with the help of the state-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL).EESL is promoted by the Ministry of Power, Government of India as a joint venture of four reputed public-sector undertakings - NTPC Limited, Power Finance Corporation Limited, REC Limited and Powergrid Corporation of India Limited.NITI Aayog had earlier selected Pune as the country’s first Urban Mobility Lab, with e-mobility as priority. PMC’s proposal on the EV adoption has advanced to the final stage of the 2021 Global Mayors Challenge, a worldwide competition that encourages and spreads most promising ideas by cities. The top 15 cities will win $1 million each as financial assistance to implement their breakthrough idea on EV.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “EESL approached us for the EV project. We have discussed it with EESL and are setting up charging points across the city. Corporation has already advanced its EV adoption. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has a fleet of 2,431 buses, with 150 e-buses. In addition to that, we are in the process of procuring additional 500 e-buses.”He added, “As per discussion, we will provide space and supply power to the charging stations. At present, PMC has made two charging stations operational for 150 EV buses, with 90 buses being charged in Bhokrainagar and 60 in Nigdi.Deepak Kokate, regional manager of EESL said, “We will develop public EV infrastructure for PMC which will include setting up charging stations in PMC areas on a revenue sharing basis. Central government will give us a subsidy to set up a charging station. One charging station requires ₹10 lakh to set up. PMC will give us prominent places like parking spots, maximum footfall areas and market places. One charging station requires to be 24 feet by 12 feet.” He further said, “We will conduct a study for setting up EV infrastructure in Pune city as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). It will take three to four months to complete. The facility will be available for PMC vehicles as well as for public vehicles. Due to the lack of EV infrastructure, there is a limitation on EVs right now.”As of March 2021, electric vehicles in the city* E-buses- 156* E-four wheelers -398* E-three wheelers-239*E-two wheelers- 3,264||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eesl-to-help-set-up-ev-charging-stations-in-the-city-for-pmc-101625463248876.html
05-07-2021||Other||Garages report increase in demand for conversion from petrol to CNG in cars||PUNE As the rising cost of petrol has been burning a hole in the pockets of car owners, garages in the city are reporting an increased inflow of vehicles for conversion to CNG.Mandar Date from Date Automobiles on DP road (near Mhatre bridge), said that 25-30 petrol cars are being converted into CNG at his garage every month. According to Date, this number almost doubled ever since petrol has crossed the ₹90 per litre mark. “Earlier we used to convert 10-15 cars in a month into CNG, but now, the number has gone up to 25-30 per month. Also, we have been receiving many enquiries related to this. Those who have to travel a fixed distance every day, prefer CNG as it is more affordable,” said Date. According to mechanics, only petrol cars can be converted into CNG and the procedure costs between ₹40,000 and ₹50,000, depending on the model. Akash Gadre, who runs Mahalaxmi Auto, a garage in Balajinagar, said that people from neighbouring districts are also coming into the city to get their cars converted. “I used to get five-six cars to be converted into CNG in a month. Now the number has gone up to 10-15. Car owners not only from the city, but also from other districts such as Satara, Nashik, and Ahmednagar, where CNG pumps are getting operational, are getting their cars converted. I have received customers from these areas. The procedure costs a lot, but car owners are left with no option as petrol prices have been increasing continuously,” said Gadre. “I converted my car two months ago, because of the high petrol prices. CNG gives better mileage and now CNG pumps have been constructed on main highways, so refilling is not an issue,” said Sunil Pote, a car owner who converted his vehicle to CNG. Car owners have to inform the Regional Transport Office (RTO) if a vehicle has been converted into CNG. Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune, accepted that a slight increase has been observed. “We will publish the guidelines related to such conversions and the approval process soon,” said Sanjay Sasane. “In pre-Covid times approximately 350 vehicles used to get converted into CNG collectively from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and rural parts. Now, gradually the number has increased up to 600 per month. It is essential to follow the safety norms while converting the vehicle,” said Sasane“First of all, it should be an RTO-authorised workshop. Check the manufacturing date of the CNG cylinder. It should be the latest. The CNG kit which is to be fitted in the car should have the approval of the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) and the International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT). Also, ensure that you get the GST bill from the workshop. Once the vehicle is converted the passing is done by RTO. You have to inform the insurance company as well about the conversion,” said Vivek Dhirange, head of Green Globe Fuel Solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/garages-report-increase-in-demand-for-conversion-from-petrol-to-cng-in-cars-101625463248044.html
05-07-2021||Other||Pune fuel price hike sees diesel cross Rs95/litre mark; petrol at Rs105.21/litre||On July 4, the price of fuel in Pune increased again, with a litre of diesel now at ₹95.07.Petrol increased by 0.33 paise per litre, to reach ₹105.21. Diesel increased by ₹0.19 to reach ₹95.07 per litre. The continuous hikes in fuel prices have caused discontent amongst transporters and commuters.It has also become a political issue in the city with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) conducting a protest against the hikes on Saturday.Over the last 40 days, fuel prices have increased by ₹5 per litre - diesel crossed ₹90 on May 25 and petrol breached the ₹100 mark on May 31. Transport associations have become aggressive and warned of protests in the coming weeks if the prices are not controlled.“We observed last Monday as a ‘black day’ in metro cities to highlight our problems that occurred due to the hike in diesel price, but the central government has not taken cognisance of it. The price hike has continued. Now we have decided to sharpen our protest further. In a meeting conducted on Saturday with nationwide members of the association, this decision has been taken,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress.As the Covid curbs have been eased daily commuters are on the roads again and fuel prices have taken a toll on the pocket. “I have to travel in the city for my business purposes. Covid has already hit the earnings and the fuel prices are adding to the troubles. It has become difficult to manage the monthly expenditure and savings. If there is a third wave, many families won’t be able to sustain,” said Amol Bharati, a resident of Dhankawadi.Meanwhile, the NCP hit the roads to protest against the hike in fuel and LPG prices on Saturday. “Common people have been struggling to survive. There has been no relief from the central government. On the contrary, prices of essential commodities have been continuously increasing,” said Prashant Jagtap, city president, NCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-price-hike-sees-diesel-cross-rs95-litre-mark-petrol-at-rs10521litre-101625463187984.html
05-07-2021||Other||J&K admin ‘selectively’ evicting PDP leaders from official homes: Mehbooba Mufti||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti has alleged selective targeting of her party’s leaders and former MLAs with the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration asking them to vacate official accommodations.In a letter to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha seeking his intervention, Mufti has also expressed concern over the alleged denial of security to these leaders in their villages as well. “At a time when militancy is on the rise yet again, they have been made to vacate their official residences in Srinagar without providing any alternate accommodation, “ she said in the letter dated July 4.Also Read | Covid-19: 13 districts in Jammu and Kashmir to see more relaxations from today“What makes matters worse [is] that even after their repeated requests to grant them security in the villages where they originally reside, these requests have been declined for reasons best known to you, “ she said.Mufti said that the administration had cited the presence of militants for their refusal to divert security to politicians. “But the same administration has no qualms in evicting them from secure government accommodations in Srinagar and deliberately putting them in harm’s way, “ she said.Mufti said elected representatives have been killed in recent times since they have become soft targets in the absence of adequate security. “It’s almost as if the administration is intentionally putting their lives at risk, “ she said.“I would like to put it on record that if anything untoward happens to any of my party men, I will hold this administration responsible, “ she said.A senior official from the security wing of the police said on the condition of anonymity, “We provide security as per protocol and as per the directions of the government. We provide PSOs [protective service officers] to categorised people and when people from districts want to move, we provide them the security,” he said.He said that the security clearance falls under respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-admin-selectively-evicting-pdp-leaders-from-official-homes-mehbooba-mufti-101625462108886.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Free hotel stay, cinema ticket discounts aim to boost vaccination & sales||A hotel in Bodh Gaya and a couple of cinema halls in Patna are offering discounts to customers who have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in an effort to boost business and incentivise vaccination at a time when hesitancy is proving to be one of the biggest hurdle in speeding up the inoculation drive.Anand International, a leading hotel in BodhGaya, is offering one day complimentary stay to guests who have been vaccinated.“There have been reports that a large number of people are still scared of vaccination. And things are worse in rural areas,” Satyaprakash, the owner of Anand International hotel said.Bihar aims to vaccinate 60 million people in six months that will require covering 10 million people per month and 300,000 persons in a day. Satyaprakash feels the general public needs to show some initiative to help the government out.“This complimentary stay at my hotel on the basis of a vaccination document is a part of this effort,” he said and explained that guests will get an extra day at the hotel on their bookings without paying extra.“It’s also an effort to woo clients. The hotel remained closed for months due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown and was allowed to open only a couple of weeks ago,” the hotelier said.Cinema halls like Mona and Elphinstone in Patna are also preparing to offer a 30% rebate on movie tickets for patrons who produce a Covid-19 vaccination certificate after the theatres are allowed to reopen post July 7 as part of Unlock-4 in the state.“While observance of all other Covid-19 norms and protocols will be similar to the first phase of Covid-19 pandemic, we will also offer 30% discount on entry tickets if movie buffs show their vaccination certificates,” Sharad Kumar, the cinema hall manager said, adding that there’s no notification so far that Cinema halls will be allowed to open in the next phase of unlocking of restrictions imposed due to the second wave of the disease.Nipurnh Gupta, media coordinator at UNICEF, Bihar and Jharkhand, said as per the official data, only 15.772 million people have got vaccinated in the state till June 28 this year.“There’s also a high gender gap in vaccination in the state. As per CoWIN portal on July 2, 2021, only 7.4969 million women in the state have been vaccinated against 9.153 million men,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-free-hotel-stay-cinema-ticket-discounts-aim-to-boost-vaccination-sales-101625461508467.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||A facelift for Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, years in the making||Until a year ago, Chandni Chowk, one of Delhi’s most popular but congested marketplaces, was a fire trap. With tangled wires draped across the streets, visitors, cycle rickshaws, and freight vehicles jostled for space as they made their way along the main stretch, filled with encroachments of various kinds. But the Chandni Chowk of last year is vastly different today. Both the market and its skyline have undergone a massive facelift since the first lockdown was imposed last year. The overhead mess of wire has become a thing of the past while pedestrianisation of the key stretch from Red Fort from Fatehpuri Masjid has been notified by the government.Steel gates plastered with posters announcing a ban on entry of motorised vehicles between 9am to 9pm and a fine of ₹20,000 have come up at the entrance of the revamped Chandni Chowk, opposite Red Fort. With the 1.3km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid becoming a no-go zone for motorised vehicles, queues of rickshaw pullers line up at the entrance, waiting for customers. With cars missing from the scene, business has improved for the rickshaw pullers.Although much-delayed, the first phase of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project is expected to be completed by the end of July. Built in the 17th century by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan’s daughter, Jahanara Begum, Chandni Chowk (which translates to Moonlit Square) is among the most popular marketplaces in the country. The market has been in the process of receiving a makeover for many years.Also Read | Electric golf carts may ply in Chandni Chowk to help elderly shoppersConceived by the Congress-led government in 2006, the work on the project finally started in December 2018 following the directions of the Delhi High Court. In December 2018, Delhi’s deputy chief minister (CM) Manish Sisodia laid the foundation stone for the project.In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric and other cables were taken underground, and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, and benches were provided. The Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) — the nodal agency for the redevelopment project — plans to improve the facade in the second phase.While the initial deadline for the project was March 2020, it was changed to March 2021, due to pandemic-induced lockdowns and delays, and legal issues in removing encroachments. The inauguration for Phase 1, scheduled for April 17, also was called off amid a spike in Covid-19 cases at the time. Work had resumed on the site after construction activity was permitted as part of the unlocking proceedings, with finishing touches being given to streetlights, CCTVs, and the signage on the main stretch.Clearing the skyline In a mammoth exercise, meshes of intertwined wires were removed and key cables were moved underground over a period of two years. The chaotic mess of dangling wires on the main stretch was cleared after intervention from multiple agencies and telecom operators, and the Delhi high court warning of contempt action against agencies such as North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), and BSES if they failed to comply with its orders for removal.A walkway for allBetween 9am and 9pm, pedestrians can now walk freely across the marketplace without having to fear oncoming traffic. As per the gazette notification issued by the transport department on June 14, restrictions on the movement of motorised vehicles will only be relaxed to allow emergency vehicles. Fire tenders, ambulances, hearses, and vehicles carrying patients will be allowed along with vehicles deployed for enforcement and maintenance services. Officials associated with the project said that pedestrianisation had been done to ensure accessibility — through tactile paths — making it friendly for people with disabilities.Looking back, moving forwardBesides benches on the central runway, small bollards for seating have been placed across the entire stretch that has been made of sandstone. The facilities have been designed keeping in mind the Mughal architectural influence. Bougainvillaeas in stone planters have been placed across the stretch along with lights. Streetlights and signage indicating various internal roads are also expected to come up as different phases of the project get completed.Ensuring safety, security and sanitationSRDC officials said the installation of streetlights along with the control room for CCTV monitoring is expected to be completed by June 30. The expansion of CCTV coverage is also expected to boost the enforcement of pedestrianisation rules and safety. In addition, marshals are expected to be roped in to check compliance with these rules.Facilities such as toilets ad ATMs will mark the revamped stretch. Toilets will be set up on four parts of the stretch. Work on all toilets is underway and is expected to be completed by July 31. The public works department has been tasked with engaging a facility management company that will look after sanitation and other aspects.Going the extra mileWhile many residents have welcomed the pedestrianisation plan, concerns around pending work and the development of inner streets remain. Deepa Mehra, a resident of Kucha Ghasi Ram, said that the area needed holistic redevelopment, not limited to the main stretch alone. “The pedestrianisation plan is good since vehicles would clog all the roads earlier, leaving little to no space for walking. However, there is a need to move beyond the mains stretch into the internal roads. The core problems remain. They should have worked on the inner streets first,” said Mehra.She added that the residents of Chandni Chowk had suffered on account of the long-drawn redevelopment process and sought that the grievances of residents are heard before the implementation of measures. Similar views are espoused by other residents. Anil Pershad, 77, who belongs to the Chunnamal family and is among the oldest residents of the locality, said that challenges were mounting for local residents in the area. “Unless specific instructions are given to security guards, residents will continue to face troubles while going in and out. We want to follow the rules but there needs to be a mechanism for residents. There are many traders who do not live here. They don’t understand the challenges of residents,” said Pershad. He said that if Chandni Chowk was being beautified, it needed to be done in such a manner that original inhabitants are motivated to return back to the locality.While traders on the main stretch have welcomed the pedestrianisation plans, owners of shops located on the arterial roads are a worried lot. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that business had improved in the area and things were expected to improve further as things fall into place. “For nearly two and a half years, this stretch was blocked due to work. Things are looking upward now. The business has only grown with pedestrianisation and customers are also embracing the new look of the market. Once the pending work is completed, the market will draw more visitors,” Bhargava said.Basant Gupta, president of Dariba Kalan market association, however, said that the traffic situation on internal roads was in a shambles. “The internal roads are choked and due to the pedestrianisation of the main stretch, movement of goods and visitors has also become difficult. Big boulders have been placed to block the entrance to Dariba. This is an existential crisis for us and we have no idea how the agencies plan to tackle the mess here,” said Gupta.SRDC officials said that work on internal roads is likely to be taken up for redevelopment in subsequent phases.Author and historian Swapna Liddle said that the development of the area was long overdue. She said echoed the sentiments of residents and stressed the need to take cognisance of the traffic flow from internal roads to the main stretch. “One needs to plan holistically. We need to take into account how the traffic flow on the main stretch will impact areas such as Dariba Kalan or other smaller streets. Holistic development is key for the historical area,” said Liddle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-facelift-for-delhi-s-chandni-chowk-years-in-the-making-101625461390324.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Maoist-hit Kaimur first in pending cases’ disposal in Bihar this year||Maoist-affected Kaimur beat capital district Patna of Bihar in disposal of pending criminal cases within the state in the first four months of 2021. Bhojpur stood second while Patna came third.Amid a rise in pending criminal cases in the state, Bihar Police headquarters had tasked the districts to accelerate the disposal from January 1.The headquarters also directed that the number of pending cases be brought down by at least three times the new cases registered in a year.Kaimur superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said that 4,425 cases were pending in the district on January 1. Most of the cases were pending the arrest of the accused or property attachment warrants. At least 1,750 cases were disposed of till April 31, the maximum in the state during the period. “We are working to bring down the number to 1,500 till the end of this year,” Kumar said.Kaimur said the force achieved the feat while tackling Maoist menace and interstate criminals working across borders with hilly terrains of Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.The state had 200,199 pending criminal cases on January 1 of which, 81,000 pending cases have been disposed of within the first four months, as per the official data.The number of pending police cases in the state has seen a steady rise in the last four years. It was 114,000 on January 1, 2018; 128,000 on January1, 2019; 168,000 on January 1, 2020; and 200,000 on January 1,2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maoisthit-kaimur-first-in-pending-cases-disposal-in-bihar-this-year-101625461208582.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Chirag to begin Ashirvaad Yatra in Bihar on Ram Vilas’s birth anniv today||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan is taking out an Ashirvaad Yatra in Hajipur, Bihar, from today to mark the birth anniversary of his father, late Ram Vilas Paswan. “I am starting this journey on my father’s birth anniversary. We got more over 2.5 million votes in the last assembly election. This was about 6% of all votes even when we fielded candidates only in 135 seats. I should have gone to people to thank them and seek their blessings. But because of Covid-19 and due to my bad health, I could not do that. Now I need to seek the blessings of people when my own family members, my uncle, have gone against me and backstabbed me when I was ill,” he said. Hajipur is significant, said Chirag, because Ram Vilas Paswan was elected to Lok Sabha several times from here, making it his “karmabhoomi”. Chirag will also be laying a wreath on Dr Ambedkar’s statue at Patna high court.The first leg of his yatra will cover 12-13 districts. “After the first phase, there will be a second phase as well and in the next one and a half months, I will cover the entire state. The yatra will end in a national council meeting in Patna,” he said.Also Read | On its 25th foundation day, RJD bets on Lalu to fire up rank and fileLJP vice-president and national spokesperson Ajay Kumar Pandey said, “Chirag ji says now that he doesn’t have the support of his family elders, after his uncle left him, people are the only source of his support. He hopes people will support him like they supported his father.”Besides the ceremonies planned by political leaders in Paswan’s memory, the late leader’s wife Reena Paswan will be launching a book written by journalist Pradeep Shrivastava, titled ‘Ramvilas Paswan: Sankalp, Sahas Aur Sangharsh’.The LJP faction led by Ram Vilas Paswan’s brother Pashupati Kumar Paras will also be celebrating the late leader’s birth anniversary at the party’ state headquarters in Patna. Currently, Paras represents Hajipur in Lok Sabha.Monday also marks the beginning of the silver jubilee celebrations of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), whose leader Tejashwi Yadav had held out an olive branch to Chirag and reminded him of the close bond between their fathers. RJD’s programme includes a special mention of the garlanding of late Ram Vilas Paswan’s portrait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-to-begin-ashirvaad-yatra-in-bihar-on-ram-vilas-s-birth-anniv-today-101625460548558.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Sunder Nursery: A garden, an escape, and a mirror to Delhi||Opened in 2018, the 90-acre Sunder Nursery, with its many gardens and monuments, has become the Capital’s great escape. Created and managed by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, it has quickly grown to contain the clashing multitudes of Delhi—the spirit of tony Golf Links and that of the freer Laxmi Nagar, the wealthy and the less so. Sunder Nursery makes a little city of its own; and like all cities, it has its landmarks, neighbourhoods, communities and social borders.To download the map, click on arrow at the top right cornerHere’s a Delhiwale mapping of Delhi’s current crushRanbeer Kapoor and other straysOn spotting a camera lens, Mowgli at once turns into a poseur. He is one of the 24 stray dogs who have found a home in the park. Some of these dogs have been abandoned by their owners, including a gorgeous Great Dane who was tossed into the garden during the first lockdown last year—he died soon after. Another much-loved dog who recently passed away was Ranbeer Kapoor (no relation to the film star). He was a hit among the park guards, warning them about snakes by sudden barks. All these dogs are well-cared, fed twice daily by the park authorities, and hospitalised whenever injured. The park’s sweetest dog is unnamed, his territory is Mirza Muzaffar Hussain’s tomb (Akbar’s son-in-law). This brown dog selects his favourites among the random visitors, sniffing them lovingly and never forgetting them, distinguishing them on their return.TikTok ghostsTheir eerie silence echoes along the stream running through the so-called Gardens of Delight. Here, young folks would make short dance videos tuned to Punjabi pop. Tensions at the Indo-China border last year led to the ban of Chinese-owned TikTok, and a civilisation was gone with the wind.Meet the introvertsFolks too possessive about Sunder Nursery might feel resentful about the garden’s wild popularity. After all, who want to see so many pesky Delhiites bunched in one place? But the introverts must realise that the garden is made of two parts. One is all pruned lawns and crowded lakesides. The other is where the track is overgrown with grass, where the wild trees stand in tight clusters, where narrow streams flow with slow-moving water. This is the 30-acre Wilderness zone. The air is full of birds and butterflies, and of secretive lives scurrying about in the dense undergrowth. And ah, that constant chirp of the crickets! Peacocks perched in tree branches too cry out non-stop, almost like human voices intoning in Hindi—“Main hoon! Main hoon! (I am! I am!)”. Which is your cue to answer back with—“Main bhi hoon! (I am too!)” The only humans you’ll spot are bird watchers and solemn-looking tree spotters, armed with Pradip Krishen’s Trees of Delhi.Bird watchingThe park recently got new dwellers. Two baby bulbuls. They are living in a nest made by mummy bulbul in a golden bamboo tree. Location withheld for the babies to stay in peace. You may, however, spot 80 species of birds in the park, including the blue ultramarine flycatcher, which has never been seen in Delhi but was spotted in Sunder Nursery for three years running: The red-naped Ibis is often seen sitting like a laat saheb on the topmost point of Sunder Burj, especially around the evening.The invisiblesScattered across the park, they are so much part of its landscape that you might see through them if you don’t pay attention. They are the park’s 150 workers—the gardeners, masons, stone craftsmen, cleaners, and guards. The women employees wear saris with glowing colours. At 1pm sharp, all workers open their lunch boxes in their working areas, turning the whole garden into a canteen.First coupleAuthor Gillian Wright and her partner, journalist Sir Mark Tully, are sighted in the park every day, walking with Soni, their dog. Being literary celebs, they are often stopped by passing Instagrammers for a photo. The couple mostly oblige, though sometimes they show impatience. Incidentally, Ms Wright is a Sunder Nursery encyclopedist. She has single-handedly recorded 40 species of the garden’s butterflies.Covid-era memorialClose to the picnic maidan, sheltered under a banyan tree, two memorial benches bearing gold coloured plaques to commemorate journalist Ashish Yechury, who died of Covid in April. The dedication was arranged at the initiative of his parents. The benches have a pre-pandemic past though, having long hosted elderly ladies with their knitting knick-knacks, and sullen-looking couples.Kabul fiza You could be at Bagh e Babar in Kabul. This slightly sloping part of the park, not far from the ticket counter, is like a little Afghanistan, alive with Delhi’s Afghani expats. They are identifiable with their dresses, their language (mostly dari), and the cozy way they gather around the picnic dastarkhan, with the men in one group and the women in another. The Afghanis not only come with their own kebabs and huge thali-sized breads, but also with chai-subz (green tea). Indeed, Afghans were the first prominent group to start coming to Sunder Nursery in large numbers when it opened. Perhaps something of the garden reminds them of their homeland. They probably also find it convenient, as most of them live in nearby Bhogal and Lajpat Nagar.People of the booksOn approaching this place, please don’t speak, don’t click. This tiny amphitheatre at the edge of the Wilderness has been the meeting point of the so-called Silent Book Club, whose members come here with their own book of the day, and where they all sit together, reading silently. Theatre types too have been sighted, rehearsing on the amphitheatre steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sunder-nursery-a-garden-an-escape-and-a-mirror-to-delhi-101625458339971.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Private healthcare facilities in Bihar clueless on vaccine availability||At least 10 of the 76 private healthcare facilities empanelled with the Bihar government for Covid-19 vaccination drive said they were yet to receive vaccines despite having made advance payment through the government channel as per the revised procurement policy.Ruban Patliputra hospital, Kurji Holy Family hospital, Netaji Subhash Medical College Hospital (NSMCH Bihta), SS hospital, Mediversal hospital, Mahavir Vatsalya, Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Medipark Healthcare Pvt Ltd, KP Sinha Super Specialty hospital and Shri Murlidhar Nursing Home are among these hospitals.Two weeks after the vaccination policy changed on June 21 with states getting vaccines free of cost from the Central government and private players getting vaccines for a fee, the Centre revised supply guidelines.“The Centre yesterday sent revised guidelines on vaccine procurement wherein the minimum consignment size for state supply has been fixed at 6,000 doses of Covishield and 2,880 doses of Covaxin. For each private facility, the minimum order should be for 500 doses of Covishield and 160 doses of Covaxin,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar.Some centres like the SS Hospital have applied for as few as 10 doses of Covishield, which is effectively one vial of the vaccine. The NSMCH Bihta, and Medipark Healthcare have sought 50 doses only, as per government data.Kumar said in light of the revised guidelines, private players that are seeking a low number of doses will be asked to revise their order.Dr LB Singh, medical superintendent of the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, said the institution had applied for 100 doses of vaccine initially on an experimental basis after the government asked them to prune their order.“We had initially applied for 3,000 doses, but the state government asked us to procure vaccines in small quantities. We then decided to take only 100 doses on a trial basis,” said Dr Singh.The Ruban Patliputra Hospital paid in advance for 1,000 doses of Covishield and 250 doses of Covaxin last week, but was in the dark about their supply.“We have completed all formalities and paid in advance for 1,250 doses of vaccines, but do not know when we will get them,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director of the hospital.“Additionally, we are also trying to get 500 doses of Sputnik V through a private channel,” added Dr Singh.Manoj Kumar admitted that none of the 76 private institutions empanelled on CoWIN portal have received vaccines through the government channel after June 21. He said there was no communication from the Centre or the vaccine manufacturers on the delay of supplies to private players.BIG Apollo Spectra hospital, Paras-HMRI and Jai Prabha Medanta are the only three private hospitals in Patna inoculating people after managing to procure vaccines from private channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/private-healthcare-facilities-in-bihar-clueless-on-vaccine-availability-101625455449534.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Partly cloudy sky with a change of thunder, lightning today||Delhi is likely to witness partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder, lightning on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The national capital witnessed cloudy skies on Sunday as well. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 26°C, and the maximum temperature was 40°C.Also Read | Delhi allows stadiums to reopen without spectators from MondayMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 149.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the Moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and westerly. Long-range transport of dust from western dry arid regions and local emissions are expected to continue in the coming days. Moderate category is forecasted for the next three days. Dust (PM10) will be the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-change-of-thunder-lightning-today-101625454067977.html
05-07-2021||Patna||Patna municipality offering decorative items in exchange for plastic waste||Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday set up kiosks across the city to encourage residents to deposit their plastic wastes in exchange for decorative pieces for households.The makeshift stalls put up in all six circles in Kankarbagh, Bankipore, Patliputra, Azimabad, New Capital, and Patna City will offer items such as handmade carry bags, cushion covers, doormats in exchange for plastic waste every Sunday.“We are accepting plastic bags of milk, bottles, carry bags, containers and furniture at different rates. People can select any handmade product worth the price of deposited plastics for exchange. More than 100 people visited the kiosks on the first day. Total plastic collection is yet to be ascertained,” an official of PMC said. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma, said the initiative was also providing employment opportunities to women artisans making reusable bags and other stuff that are being offered in exchange. “A team has been formed under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) to make attractive and reusable bags. The deposited plastic materials will be recycled at waste processing unit,” Sharma saidSharma said that a plant with 150 tonne/day waste handling capacity will be set up soon at a cost of ₹30 crore for segregating all types of waste through manpower and machines. “At present, a 5 tonne waste processing unit is operational at Gardanibagh. Besides, two more processing units of 5 and 8 tonne capacity are being established by the central institute of petrochemicals engineering and technology,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-municipality-offering-decorative-items-in-exchange-for-plastic-waste-101625452747910.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi allows stadiums to reopen without spectators from Monday: Check full guidelines here||The Delhi government has given permission to the city's stadiums and sports complexes to reopen from Monday but without spectators, according to an order issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).There will be strict adherence to standard operating procedure and other guidelines of the government, and compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour while opening the stadia and sports complexes, the DDMA said in its order on Sunday.Last week, the DDMA had allowed gyms and yoga institutes to open with half their capacity, while capping the number of guests for weddings at banquets, marriage halls and hotels at 50.Delhi now has less than 1000 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the number of active Covid-19 cases in the national capital has fallen to 992, the latest health department bulletin on Sunday showed.With a surge in Covid- 19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. The government started a phased unlock process allowing construction and manufacturing activities from May 31 with improvement in the Covid-19 situation.Check what will open from today and what will remain closed1. Cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, swimming pools, spas, schools and colleges will remain shut, and all kinds of gatherings, social, political, cultural, religious and otherwise, prohibited, according to DDMA order.2. Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses will continue to operate with 50 per cent of their seating capacity.3. Other prohibited and restricted activities will continue to be so till 5am on July 12, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-allows-stadiums-to-reopen-without-spectators-from-monday-check-full-guidelines-here-101625442806196.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Batala man on the run after killing 4 relatives of daughter’s boyfriend||A man allegedly shot dead four members of the family of a 21-year-old man with whom his minor daughter was in a relationship at Ballarwal village of Batala in Gurdaspur district on Sunday, police said, adding that the accused was absconding. According to police, the accused Sukhjinder Singh was enraged after he got to know that his daughter, a student of Class 10, was in a relationship with Harmandeep Singh, a resident of the same village. Early on Sunday, he went to the field owned by the victim’s family. “When Sukhjinder saw Harmandeep’s father Sukhwinder and uncle Jasbir Singh in their field, he opened fire at them, resulting in their deaths. He then went towards the family’s house and saw Harmandeep’s grandfather Mangal Singh and cousin Babandeep. He opened fire, killing both of them. After this, he shot Harman and his cousin Jashanpreet. Both the injured have been referred to Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev hospital where their condition is said to be stable.” The police have registered a case against the accused under IPC Section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Arms Act at Ghuman Police station.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-Batala) Rashpal Singh said Sukhjinder and Harmandeep’s families had old enmity.  “Both the families had been at loggerheads over the last Panchayat polls. Both, Mangal Singh and Sukhjinder Singh wanted to become the village’s sarpanch.” Various investigative teams, including a forensic experts, have collected the evidence from the spot, and their hunt to nab the accused is on, the SSP said. The two families also belonged to different castes. “So far, we have not found any caste angle behind the killings, but our investigation is still on,” Ghuman station house officer (SHO) Joginder Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/batala-man-on-the-run-after-killing-4-relatives-of-daughter-s-boyfriend-101625429585391.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cops to leave for Mumbai to assist in probe of state-bound heroin seizure||The Punjab Police will send a team of its various units to Mumbai to assist in the investigation into the seizure of state-bound 300-kg heroin by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at a port near the country’s commercial capital last Thursday. The team comprising senior officials of the state special operation cell (SSOC), special task force (STF), organised crime control unit (OCCU) and the Tarn Taran police will leave for Mumbai on Monday. Initially, the DRI had seized 135-kg contraband from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Raigad district of Navi Mumbai but the quantity swelled to 300kg upon further search of the container booked in the name of Prabhjot Singh (25) of Chohla Sahib village of Tarn Taran. Prabhjot, who has a godown in Amritsar and is involved in import business for the last four years, was arrested from his village on Thursday. The consignment, allegedly smuggled from Afghanistan via Iran, was declared as gypsum stone and talcum powder. It is one of the major narcotic seizures in recent times, it is learnt. The 23-year-old earlier imported various goods from Pakistan and Afghanistan via the Attari-Wagah border, a police official said.Also, teams of the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and customs will investigate the case jointly, the police official said. “Our team will coordinate with the DRI and other central agencies to trace the local links of those behind smuggling of the contraband,” the official added. The police have found that Prabhjot accumulated huge wealth in the last 4-5 years. “His links have also been traced to a notorious family of Dhun Dhai Wala village in the disrtrict. One member of the family is already in jail in a 22-kg heroin seizure case. The accused was taken to Mumbai DRI team from Ludhiana on Saturday. He is likely to be brought back on Monday. Our team will also go to Ludhiana to question him,” said the official.“We have also asked the revenue department to provide all details of the properties registered on the name of Prabhjit and his family members,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cops-to-leave-for-mumbai-to-assist-in-probe-of-state-bound-heroin-seizure-101625428325355.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s tree cover goes above national average, says Forest Survey of India report||The green cover has gone up in Uttar Pradesh, according to a Forest Survey of India (FSI) report.The increase in the number of trees in the state has coincided with a massive plantation drive in the past four years.The FSI report said the tree cover in UP was now 3.05% against the national average of 2.89% and the forest cover went up by several square kilometres, according to a press statement by divisional forest officer (Awadh forest range) RK Singh.Since 2017, saplings of different species have been planted and the total count is over 65.94 crore (659.4 million) while 30 crore (300 million) more are being planted. The state government has also ensured the safety and survival of the saplings, which has resulted in growth of the green cover/tree cover.Environment expert Sanjay Kumar said the total forest cover was 14,806 square kilometre in the state and the greenery in the state had gone up by 25% in the past four years.Soil conservation and ground water level had improved and so had the quality of soil, especially in areas in and around Lucknow, Chitrakoot, Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, besides the animal and bird species had grown, said the statement.Along with the forest department, 26 other departments are involved in the plantation drive. The forest department has a target of planting 10.80 crore (108 million) saplings and other departments 19.20 crore (192 million) this year.A total of 42.17 crore saplings had been prepared in 1819 nurseries of the forest department. Apart from this, the silk and horticulture departments have also prepared saplings in their nurseries. The departments that will plant saplings will also get the Geo tagging done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-tree-cover-goes-above-national-average-says-forest-survey-of-india-report-101625428265199.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs less than 100 cases after 111 days||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 87 fresh Covid-19 cases — less than 100 infections after a total of 111 days — taking the state’s tally to 2,02,642.Last time the state recorded less than 100 cases was on March 15, when the hill state logged 75 infections. The graph rose steadily afterwards touching the peak in April and May. Meanwhile, the death toll mounted to 3,467 after one more patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 22 were reported in Shimla, 14 in Bilaspur, 12 in Mandi, 11 in Solan, eight each in Chamba and Hamirpur and three each in Kangra, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Una.The recoveries reached 1,97,778 after 166 people recuperated. Active cases have come down to 1,365, The lone death was reported in Kangra.As per the latest data of the health department, the positivity rate has come down to 1.3% in Himachal.The positivity rate had hit the grim high of 28.9% in the week from May 10-16.It was at a low of 0.67% in February and started rising in March when the second wave hit the state.Mandi district has the highest positivity rate of 4.3%, while Kullu, Bilaspur Sirmaur and Solan have positivity rate less than 1%.The case fatality rate of the state is 0.6%.Besides, 170 patients are admitted in various hospitals. Out of these, 124 patients are on oxygen support and 46 patients are being managed in ICUs. There are 2,609 oxygen beds and 275 ICU beds available in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-less-than-100-cases-after-111-days-101625428211995.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s active caseload drops below 4,000 for first time since April 5||For the second day in a row, Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded two Covid-19 related deaths besides 347 fresh infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 426 with active positive cases dropping to 3,967. The last time the active cases were below 4,000 was on April 4.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,08,672 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.35%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,16,976 and the death toll has hit 4,337.Officials said with 75 cases each, Srinagar and Reasi had the highest number of new infections followed by 31 in Budgam. Seven districts had no or single-digit cases. Restrictions lifted from 13 districts in J&KJ&K administration on Sunday lifted the weekend curfew in 13 districts after significant improvement in the Covid-19 situation. The businesses can now open throughout the week during the day time in Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Budgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama and Shopian districts in Kashmir besides Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Poonch, Rajouri and Udhampur. “There will be no weekend curfew in these districts. However, the daily night curfew will continue from 8pm to 7am,” said an order by chairman state executive committee and chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta.The daily Covid cases and deaths in the UT have witnessed a sharp fall. Deaths have mostly remained below 10 for the past few weeks while the test positivity rate has plunged below 1 percent in the past 10 days. The month of June saw a test positivity rate of 1.8% against 8.7% in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-active-caseload-drops-below-4-000-for-first-time-since-april-5-101625428210829.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH-32 staffer suspended for molesting student||A technician of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, was suspended on Sunday for allegedly molesting a 27-year-old student of the institute. The OT technician, Kamleshwar Sah, allegedly molested a third-year postgraduate student of the anaesthesia department at the hospital’s medicine store on June 27. Based on the victim’s complaint, Sah was booked on June 28 under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station. An internal committee has also been constituted to look into the allegations. “In view of the institute’s commitment to provide a safe workplace and its zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment, Kamleshwar Sah has been placed under suspension with immediate effect,” hospital director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur stated in the order letter. The letter further read that Sah had also not appeared before the hospital’s internal committee following the complaint. “He was suspended since the case against him is under investigation. The hospital also had some pending allegations against him, which were serious in nature,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgmch32-staffer-suspended-for-molesting-student-101625428209866.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nadda arrives in Himachal to review strategy for byelections||BJP national chief JP Nadda arrived on a three-day visit to Himachal Pradesh on Sunday during which he would review the strategy for crucial byelection to the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments.Chief minister Jai Thakur welcomed the Nadda at Luhnu Ground on his arrival in Bilaspur, his home town.BJP state president Suresh Kashyap, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Rajinder Garg, MLAs Subhash Thakur, Rakesh Jamwal, JR Katwal and Inder Singh Gandhi, former MLA and BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma, HP state wool federation president Trilok Kapoor, state BJP organisation general secretary Pawan Rana, and political adviser to the CM Trilok Jamwal were among others on present on the occasion.Later, the chief minister also had a discussion about political scenario with Nadda at Bilaspur Circuit House. Nadda kept Sunday’s programme private and spent the day with his father NL Nadda at his home in Vijaypur village. The BJP chief is scheduled to visit Kullu on Monday where he would inspect the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang.He would be discussing poll strategy for the byelection to Mandi Lok Sabha seat which fell vacant after sitting MP Ram Swaroop allegedly committed suicide at his Delhi residence in March this year. Nadda would take feedback from the local leaders about the mood among the voters in the parliamentary constituency. Mandi Lok Sabha seat holds importance for the BJP for being home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The party has appointed Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh in-charge for the byelection in Mandi, who has submitted a report to the high command about the preparations and prospects of candidates. Ram Swaroop’s son Shanti Swaroop had staked claimed for the ticket and even met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur several times in this regard. On the other hand, the Jal Shakti minister also expressed a desire to contest the Mandi bypolls. He had asked the party high command to allocate a ticket to his son from his assembly segment Dharampur that he has represented six times.However, so far, the party leadership has not responded to the conditions laid by Mahender, who is known for his political acumen and election management. The other front runner for the ticket is Kargil War hero Kushal Thakur and vice-president Ajay Rana. BJP’s northeast zonal secretary Ajay Jamwal also held meetings with the BJP’s top brass, fuelling speculations of sorts, while the name of Pankaj Jamwal, president, Joginder Nagar assembly segment, has also cropped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nadda-arrives-in-himachal-to-review-strategy-for-byelections-101625428208658.html
05-07-2021||Other||Zirakpur man leaves car running to buy liquor, returns to find it missing||Leaving his car running while purchasing liquor from a roadside vend cost a Zirakpur resident dear.As Harshit Kumar, a resident of Motia City, Zirakpur, returned after the purchase, the car was gone.In his complaint to the police on Sunday, Kumar said he was travelling towards Kharar in his Maruti S-Cross on Friday afternoon. On the way, he stopped at a liquor vend near Chhat village to buy some bottles.Due to the scorching weather, he left the car running to keep the air-conditioner on. But on returning, realised someone had driven off with his vehicle.Investigating officer Jaswinder Singh said CCTV footage of various toll plazas near the liquor vend was been checked to trace the car and the thief. They had also questioned the vend employees and passers-by, but in vain. A case has been registered on Kumar’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zirakpur-man-leaves-car-running-to-buy-liquor-returns-to-find-it-missing-101625428207544.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tourist trash worries green warriors in Himachal||Days after Himachal Pradesh government eased restrictions, the tourist destinations are witnessing heavy influx. The weekend arrivals led to traffic jams at the interstate barrier in Parwanoo as people from Delhi, NCR, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan make a beeline for the state. Hotels and home stays in key destinations reported almost full occupancy. The tourist influx has also brought the perennial issues back. Hotels in Shimla, Dharamshala, Manali and Dalhousie were full to the capacity this weekend too. “Nearly 20,0000 vehicles entered Himachal from Parwanoo on the weekend,” said Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said. The mad rush to the hills has led to accumulation of plastic, bottles, garbage and liquor bottles in parks, forests and serene areas by both locals and tourists. Heaps of garbage can be seen in the Western Himalayan Park, Glen Nature Park and Natural Trail, Kufri hills, Mashobra, and Naldehra surrounding Shimla. Similar trash mounds are also visible at other hill stations. As the mountain of waste grows bigger and bigger, locals in Shimla have demanded strict action against the people who do not follow rules. They alleged that the authorities have taken a soft approach towards such people. They also demanded that the government should launch an awareness drive about sensitisation and proper disposal of waste. Locals said monitoring of tourists entering the state should be done by installation of CCTV cameras and Aadhaar linkage. “Tourists are coming in large numbers to hills after the government lifted Covid curbs. Nearly 5,000 to 7,500 vehicles are entering Shimla,” said Karan Nanda, a local. “It is painful to see that the tourists are littering in open, ruining the beauty of the hills where they come to enjoy,” he said. Inappropriate behaviour and littering also has raised fresh concerns among environmentalists. “This was destined to happen. If a pandemic can’t wake us up, nothing ever will. I urge local communities and stakeholders to be more vigilant as they are the recipients and payers eventually. Our five years’ worth work is being undone within a few days as we miss the synergy between ecology and economy,” said Pradeep Sangwan, founder of Healing Himalayas, an NGO that works on projects focused on clean-up drives, waste management, and circular economy through waste collection centres. “I had come here to enjoy the beauty of the hills after remaining in lockdown for long. However, what bother me are the heaps of garbage here and there. This is unethical. People should realise their responsibility towards the nature,” said Vipin, a tourist from Haryana.Another tourist, Tinku, said the hills are always mesmerising but the plastic waste and liquor bottles littered around are ruining what nature offers.Some of the locals also complained that many tourists were flouting Covid safety norms by not wearing masks properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourist-trash-worries-green-warriors-in-himachal-101625428206142.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Need to strengthen political party of Sikhs in Punjab: Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday said there was the need to strengthen the political party of Sikhs in Punjab and that members of the community were not ready to accept their political party as theirs. Without naming the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which is traditionally seen as a panthic outfit with its roots in the Gurdwara Reform Movement, the jathedar said, “The rulers are averse to any political talk by the Akal Takht. Besides, a section of Sikhs also opposes any kind of political talk by the jathedar. They must have a political party. We need to introspect.” He said this while addressing a gathering at a function organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to mark the anniversary of the 1955 police action at the the Golden Temple to contain the Akali Dal activists during the Punjabi Suba Movement. SGPC president Jagir Kaur said, “A large number of them laid their lives during the independence struggle. But the deployment of police force at their central shrine just after 8 years of independence was a manifestation of anti-Sikh mentality of the then Congress government.”She announced that a collection of photographs and other material will be compiled on the 1955 action. “Efforts will be made to preserve memory by searching for the eyewitnesses at the time,” she added.Photographs of the use of tear gas bombs by the police to disperse the Akalis in the shrine complex were also displayed from the stage.Radical Sikh organisations like Awaj-E-Quam, Sikh Youth Federation Bhindranwala, Jatha Sirlath Khalsa and Satkar Committee took out a march from Gurdwara Santokhsar Sahib to the Golden Temple on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/need-to-strengthen-political-party-of-sikhs-in-punjab-akal-takht-jathedar-101625428150520.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four men rob petrol pump employees at gunpoint at Mohali village||Four masked men robbed ₹80,000 at gunpoint from a petrol pump in Soharan village on Kurali Road in Kharar in the wee hours of Sunday. The robbers struck around 2.15am on Sunday when the oil tanker reached the pump to fill the underground oil tanks. “They arrived in a white car. Three of them, all armed, got down. Two entered the room of the manager, who woke up on hearing the melee. As he kneeled and joined hands to be spared, the robbers snatched ₹80,000 from him and another employee while brandishing guns,” said Rupinderdeep Kaur, deputy superintendent of police, Kharar. The accused escorted the victims out of the room before fleeing in the car.She added that the crime was captured in the CCTV cameras installed at the petrol pump and they were hopeful of arresting the accused soon.Following a complaint by an employee, Amit Sharma, the robbers were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to robbery), 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at the Sadar police station in Kharar. Earlier on May 18, seven men had thrashed two employees of a petrol pump in Sanauli in Zirakpur and snatched ₹50,000. Both employees were seriously injured. The case remains unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-men-rob-petrol-pump-employees-at-gunpoint-at-mohali-village-101625428146958.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power crisis deepens as another unit of Talwandi Sabo plant goes out of operation||Another unit of the Talwandi Sabo thermal plant went out of operation on Sunday due to a boiler problem, worsening the ongoing power crisis in Punjab. One of the units of the plant is already under shutdown since March 8. Now, the plant is generating only 610 megawatt (MW) electricity against the installed capacity of 1980 MW, causing a shortage of nearly 1,200 MW. The non-functioning of the second Talwandi Sabo plant unit (660 MW) is likely to worsen the power situation in Punjab once restrictions imposed on the industry and other consumers are lifted. The power demand without restrictions and 8-hour supply to the agriculture sector has already crossed 15,000 MW. On Saturday, the power demand in the state was 13,067 MW against a supply of 12,979 MW. The supply on Sunday was around 12,500 MW amid complaints of unscheduled cuts in rural and urban areas across the state. The demand also came down due to light rain in parts of Punjab.With imposition of restrictions, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is managing to supply 8-hour electricity to farmers, allowing the industry to operate at 30 percent of installed capacity. The state government may extend weekly off for industrial units for few more days or till arrival of the monsoon.The industries are already protesting against the forced closure of their units, leaving thousands of laborers without wages.All units of the Ropar and Lehra Mobabbat plants were running till Sunday, generating around 1600 MW power.Three private plants are contributing 2,450 MW power, 850 MW is coming from hydel projects while the remaining is from the renewable energy sources. The corporation received around 7,300 MW, including short-term purchases, from the northern grid.Penalty notice issued to plant: PSPCLThe PSPCL on Sunday said it has issued a penalty notice to the Talwandi Sabo plant not making operational one of its units which is shut since March 8. Corporation chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said they repeatedly directing the plant management to make 3 of its units operational in the paddy season but it failed to do so.The PSPCL has asked the plant management to explain as to why capacity charges should not be deducted for the entire contract year (2021-22) considering shutdown of its unit that caused hardships to the people of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-crisis-deepens-as-another-unit-of-talwandi-sabo-plant-goes-out-of-operation-101625428145477.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three years on, Chandigarh admn fails to frame its own startup policy||Even after a three-year-long mammoth exercise, the Chandigarh administration has failed to frame its own startup policy and has once again decided to follow central government norms.The Startup India policy aims to foster entrepreneurship and promote innovation by creating an ecosystem that is conducive for the growth of startups. It was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 and the Union government had asked states and union territories (UTs) to frame rules as per their requirements.In 2018, the UT administration began the exercise to frame its own policy, and meetings of industrialists and entrepreneurs were called, following which the draft was prepared, but it failed to finalise it.UT industries director Jagjit Singh said, “Our own startup policy has yet to be framed. Now we have decided to follow the action plan framed by the government of India.”On being asked when the action plan would be followed, he said, “It is under consideration and will be done soon.”In its draft policy, the administration had included the IT sector, manufacturing, agriculture and services industry.Pankaj Khanna, president of Industry Association of Chandigarh, said, “Entrepreneurs of Chandigarh have been consistently deprived of opportunities for the past many decades.”“A comprehensive startup policy is much needed and further delay will be a huge setback for the growth and development of industry,” he added.Khanna questioned why the administration was unable to finalise its own policy despite an extensive exercise for nearly three years.Hindustan Times has, through several reports, highlighted that being a hub of education for youth from Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh has been attracting the best talent in the region, but has been unable to retain it due to the paucity of jobs, an issue compounded by the absence of the startup policy.In the draft policy, the UT administration had proposed assistance to first timers getting innumerable registrations done, acquiring certificates, organising finance, labour and getting environment-related compliances and following other bureaucratic regulations. The administration had even planned to provide sufficient social and legal knowledge to young entrepreneurs, innovative techies and educate them on policies helpful for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-years-on-chandigarh-admn-fails-to-frame-its-own-startup-policy-101625427968059.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi-based builder to refund ₹2.7-crore security to Zirakpur society residents||The Punjab consumer disputes redressal commission has directed a Delhi-based builder to refund ₹2.7 crore in interest-free maintenance security (IFMS) to Zirakpur-based Jaipuria Sunrise Greens Apartments Owners Welfare Association, besides ₹20 lakh in dues and ₹2 lakh in litigation cost.The members of the association had filed a complaint against the builder, SMV Agencies, New Delhi, and its five directors.They stated that in 2006, the construction of “Jaipuria Sunrise Greens” on VIP Road, Zirakpur, had started. It is a multi-storey complex spread over 20 acres, plus two acres connecting the complex to Zirakpur-Patiala highway.There are 971 apartments, out of which 882 are 3 BHK and 2 BHK apartments and 89 are EWS apartments.The possession of apartments was to be given in 2008, but it was delayed and delivered in parts to allottees from 2012 onwards. The allottees had paid around ₹2.81 crore in IFMS. The builder had also collected monthly maintenance charges worth ₹20.88 lakh for day-to-day operations.They alleged that even though 12 years had passed since the date of possession, the complex had not been completed.Denying deficiency in service, the builder stated that they had completed the project in 2013 and received the completion certificate in 2015. It added that it is imperative for the welfare association to first clear the dues of the builder for the period it was maintaining the project and not to pray for IFMS, as the members are themselves guilty of non-payment of maintenance dues.After hearing the arguments, justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal, president of the commission, directed the builder to refund ₹2.76-crore IFMS to the association, along with interest at the rate of 18% per annum with effect from August 27, 2016, till the amount is paid.Also, to refund the dues of ₹20 lakh, along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum and to provide all the certificates and complete statutory compliances regarding the complex to the welfare association.The commission also directed that all conditions of the Environmental Clearance letter are complied with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhibased-builder-to-refund-2-7-crore-security-to-zirakpur-society-residents-101625427905117.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala man held for conducting pre-natal test||An Ambala resident has been arrested for conducting a sex determination test at a private diagnostic centre in Kharar, officials said on Sunday.The raid was conducted by a joint team of Ambala and Kharar health departments on Saturday and the accused was handed over to the police.According to the officials, they received a tip-off about illegal pre-natal tests being done by the Ambala man, following which they sent a decoy customer to the accused, identified as Rakesh Kumar. He told the woman that the test would be conducted at a private clinic in Kharar.Deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer for Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT), Dr Balwinder Kaur, said that a deal to conduct the sex determination test was fixed at ₹20,000 with the tout, out of which ₹10,000 were paid by the decoy in advance.“However, the man was caught red-handed by our team and ₹8,500 were recovered from him and ₹1,500 from the diagnostic centre,” said Kaur.Kharar station house officer Ashok Kumar said a case has been registered against Rakesh Kumar under Sections 4, 5, 6 23, 29 of the PCPNDT Act and Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-man-held-for-conducting-pre-natal-test-101625427604972.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Focused sampling for Covid-19 tests begins in Lucknow today as more activities resume||Focused sampling for Covid-19 tests will begin in the Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow from Monday as more activities resume with the lifting of curbs. Multiplexes and gyms have been allowed to reopen from Monday.According to health officials, 60% of the tests will be rapid antigen ones and 40% RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). The sampling will particularly be done in the areas that have reported more cases such as Indira Nagar, Aliganj and Mahanagar.Those whose antigen test report returns positive will undergo RT-PCR test as well.The focused sampling will be done for the entire week and at least 2500 samples are expected be collected every day.“With the opening of complexes and multiplexes after the lifting of the partial corona curfew, the risk of the infection spreading is there. Hence, the focused sampling will ensure (any) infection spread gets checked and it will also cover the vulnerable people,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.In Lucknow, the health department is collecting about 20,000 Covid samples every day on an average.All Covid vaccination slots for Monday got booked in just 20 minutes of their opening on Sunday morning. According to officials, Lucknow has over 60,000 doses of the Covid vaccine and at least 20,000 people will be vaccinated each day. Eighty-eight vaccination centres will administer the Covid vaccine doses in the district on Monday and slot bookings will be opened for the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/focused-sampling-for-covid-19-tests-begins-in-lucknow-today-101625427244942.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati targets Cong for being referred to as BJP’s ‘B’ team||Upset at her party being referred to as the ‘B’ team of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Bahujan Samaj Party chief and former chief minister Mayawati hit out at the Congress party.“The Congress that is surviving on oxygen support in UP has said that the ‘B’ in BSP means ‘B’ team of the BJP. This is highly objectionable as the ‘B’ refers to bahujan, which includes SC/STs/OBCs, religious minorities and other neglected sections of the society who because of lack of numbers are referred to as bahujan,” she tweeted on Sunday.She attacked the Congress barely a day after the BJP dominated the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls and from which the BSP had pulled out citing misuse of official machinery by the ruling BJP.The Congress and the Samajwadi Party have however been accusing the BSP of being hand in glove with the BJP.“The C of Congress actually refers to ‘cunning’ party. In their long rule at the centre and the states they didn’t care to improve the plight of the bahujans despite using their votes to form their governments. At last, BSP was formed and at that time the BJP was not in power either at the centre or in any of the states,” Mayawati tweeted.While Mayawati mostly targeted the Congress, she also hit out at the Samajwadi Party and the BJP, claiming that in these party governments, no election, whether big or small, could be conducted impartially.“Such impartial elections in these party governments can neither happen nor should one expect it unlike in BSP regime when all elections were held impartially,” Mayawati tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maya-targets-cong-for-being-referred-to-as-bjp-s-b-team-101625427124460.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Goatherd’s severed head found three weeks after murder in Mohali||Three weeks after a 40-year-old goatherd was beheaded during a drunken brawl in Siswan on June 12, police found the severed head near the farmhouse of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday.The head was exhumed from near a house opposite the farmhouse, just a few metres away from where the victim’s body was discovered on June 20. Three accused – Satnam Singh of Parol village and Desh Raj and Jagir Singh of Nagal village – have already been arrested for the murder of the victim, Sucha Singh. According to police, Jagir had purchased goats worth ₹40,000 from Sucha Singh. As he did not want to pay him, he, along with Satnam and Desh Raj, killed Sucha Singh by beheading him and buried his body and head in different locations. The deceased is survived by his wife, an 18-year-old son and two minor daughters. All accused are facing a case of murder and causing disappearance of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/goatherds-severed-head-found-three-weeks-after-murder-in-mohali-101625427005640.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||More artificial waterholes at PTR to help animals beat the heat||: Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) administration have decided to increase number of artificial waterholes for wild animals and are maintaining a close watch on health of the big cats due to increase in humidity and average day temperatures. Artificial waterholes are meant to provide easy access to water for wild animals in forest reserves. PTR, located in west UP’s Pilibhit district, has experienced 30 per cent less monsoon rains so far. “Considering the weather condition, particularly the lack of enough rain, we have decided to make few more waterholes in different parts of the reserve forest. Maintenance work on the existing water ponds is also being done,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) Naveen Khandelwal. “We have decided to conduct a short survey to identify the places where the new waterholes can be made,” he added. Forest officials are also monitoring health of tigers and other wild animals to spot any sign of what was described as “water stress.” Currently there are over a dozen waterholes, fitted with solar powered water pumps which ensure water availability for the wild animals in the PTR. All of these are located in the core region of the reserve. PTR has lions, tigers and leopards along with sloth bears and other eco-sensitive species that make use of the artificial waterholes. “The new waterholes will also be made in the core area to keep wild animals like tigers from venturing outside the forest area in search of water. This will also reduce the man animal conflict in the area,” the DFO explained. PTR had become the hotspot of man-tiger conflict with over two dozen human deaths being reported since 2017, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-artificial-waterholes-at-ptr-to-help-animals-beat-the-heat-101625427004493.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University may hold youth fest this year||With the pandemic’s second wave having ebbed away, Panjab University may organise its annual youth and heritage festival this year, if the situation continues to improve.The highly anticipated festival was not held last year due to the pandemic and only small events were organised later. It is usually planned in September and October, with various cultural and academic competitions spanning over four days in PU’s 12 zones. The winners then participate in the inter-zonal youth festival. PU youth welfare director Nirmal Jaura, said, “We have finalised the venues and are hopeful of holding the festival if the situation permits. We are waiting for the colleges to reopen. Thereon it will not take much time to finalise everything.”“Nonetheless, students’ health will be prioritised and all protocols will be followed whenever the festival is held,” he added.Participation in PU youth and heritage festivals is open to all students of affiliated colleges, constituent colleges and university teaching departments, who are below 25 years of age on the first day of July in the relevant session.At the zonal festival, a student can participate maximum of three times at undergraduate level and two times at postgraduate level.The competitions include group shabad, bhajans, classical music (vocal), classical dance, group dance, debate, handwriting, poem writing, short story writing, essay writing and rangoli. Also, contests are held in phulkari, bagh, dasuti or cross stitch, knitting, crochet work, pakhi designing, mehandi designing, bhangra, giddha, quiz, skit, mimicry, miming, poem recitation and one-act play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-may-hold-youth-fest-this-year-101625426953112.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power shortage: Panjab University slashes working hours of regional centres in Punjab||With Punjab facing a severe electricity crisis, Panjab University has cut down the working hours of offices at its regional centres and constituent colleges located in the state.In line with instructions by the Punjab government, the offices at these institutions will function from 8am to 2pm till July 10. The centres have also been directed not to use air conditioners during this period. Apart from three regional centres in Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Muktsar, and a rural centre in Kauni, the order has been issued to Baba Balraj Panjab University Constituent College, Shaheed Udham Singh PU Constituent College in Guru Har Sahai, and PU constituent colleges in Dharamkot, Mokham Khan Wala, Nihalsingh Wala and Sikhwala.With Punjab reeling under an unprecedented power shortage amid extreme temperatures, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday had ordered curtailment in timings of state government offices, and limiting power supply to high energy-consuming industries in a bid to save crops and ease the domestic power situation. He had appealed to all government offices to use electricity judiciously in government offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-shortage-panjab-university-slashes-working-hours-of-regional-centres-in-punjab-101625426886165.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali Inc decries Punjab Infotech’s claim to 50% of plot sales proceeds||Strong resentment prevails among industrialists against the Punjab Information and Communications Technology Corporation (Punjab Infotech) over the implementation of 50% unearned income clause on 57 units of Electronic Town of Punjab (now Punjab Infotech) in Phases 8 and 9 of Mohali’s industrial areas.After the sale of a plot as per the current market rate, the implementation of the said clause means that industrialists will have to pay 50% of the proceeds to Punjab Infotech.Industrialist Surinder Singh said, “It is discrimination as other corporations like Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) have already abolished the clause and it was even removed by Punjab Infotech in 2014. Several representations have been sent to the authorities concerned but nothing has been done.”President of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA), Yogesh Sagar said, “In 2014, the board of directors (BoD) of Punjab Infotech had abolished the clause, but we fail to understand why they implemented it again. The issue was taken up at different levels thereafter, but stands unresolved.”He further said, “Industrial policy should be implemented in true spirit where there is no such mention of the said clause. Even the Punjab auditor general’s report in 2019 had said it was discriminatory.”28 plots in Phase 8 exemptedAs per records, there are 144 plots in Phase 8, Industrial Area, and 28 of these have been exempted from the clause of 50% unearned increase, since these were allotted and/or their lease deed was executed after September 11, 1998, when this clause was deleted by the BoD.Out of the 57 plots transferred, in the case of seven plots, the clause has been carried forward in the lease deed of allottees, but this has not been done in the case of 44 plots. Further, in the case of six plots, lease deed has not been executed with the transferee. For another two plots, lease deed has not been executed with the original allottees.“On November 24, 1992, the state government had issued a policy wherein it had sought fit not to include the 50% unearned increase clause. It appears that the Punjab Infotech BoD in its 104th meeting held on September 11, 1998, took a decision to delete the clause in consonance with the 1992 policy, and thereafter it was not included in any of the lease deeds executed by Punjab Infotech,” said another industrialist, Randeep Singh Bedi.But it cropped up again in some lease deeds, which were issued in 1993-1994.When contacted, Sibin C, the managing director of Punjab Infotech, said, “It is part of the agreement and it was imposed in 2017. The state government asked us to impose it and we are doing it uniformly for all plots.”Punjab Infotech was incorporated in 1976 as the nodal agency of the Punjab government for promoting IT industry in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-inc-decries-punjab-infotech-s-claim-to-50-of-plot-sales-proceeds-101625426830504.html
05-07-2021||Other||Man arrested under anti-conversion law||Agra: A man was arrested on Sunday afternoon, a day after a case was registered against him under the state’s anti-conversion law at the Sadar police station in Agra on Saturday night for having allegedly hidden his religious identity to marry a Hindu woman who he was now pressuring to convert to Islam, the police said.Ajay Kaushal, the incharge of the Sadar police station in Agra, said, “The case was registered on Saturday night under sections 323,307, 376, 377, 386,392, 420, 427 and 506 (of the Indian Penal Code) against accused Arif Hashmi alias Aditya Arya at the Sadar police station. The accused has also been booked under section 3/5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 as he had concealed his religious identity.”“The accused had married the victim in 2010 after the death of her husband in 2005. The victim alleged that she was being forced to convert from Hinduism to Islam by the accused, who used to allegedly realise money from her while threatening to kill her,” Kaushal said.In her FIR, the woman said her first husband died in 2005 and later she met the accused Arif Hashmi who introduced himself as Aditya Arya at a party in Lucknow. The accused claimed to be a timber merchant and gave her a business proposal, which led to proximity between the two and led to their marriage in 2010, she said in the FIR.“The accused then began harassment, both physically and financially. He used to demand money time and again and when denied, he used to beat me badly. Meanwhile, I came to know that he was not a Hindu Aditya Arya but was Arif Hashmi,” she said in FIR.According to the woman, the accused later accepted that he was a Muslim and began forcing her to convert to Islam.The accused allegedly demanded ₹60,000 on April 21 , 2021 after death of his mother and, on refusal, thrashed the victim and tried to strangulate her. She decided to lodge the complaint at the Sadar police station on Saturday and a case was registered late at night against Arif Hashmi alias Aditya Arya. Earlier, in another case, an 18-year-old man was booked in Agra while five of his family members were arrested on the complaint of the father of a 16-year-old Hindu girl, who alleged that the man kidnapped his daughter and married her while concealing his real religious identity, police had said on Friday.The main accused-- Qasim Qureshi of Nareerabad Colony in Agra-- was absconding while his father, mother, two brothers and one sister were arrested for colluding with him in this act, they had said. “The parents of the girl, a resident of a locality within limits of Hariparvat police station in Agra city, lodged a complaint that their 16-year-old daughter was befriended by Qureshi who had introduced himself as Sonu Yadav. About 15 days back the girl went missing following which the parents launched a search operation. However, no case was lodged at that time by the parents. They later found that the man was a Muslim and had hid his real identity to marry the girl,” said SP City Rohan Pramod Botre.The SP city added that the girl returned home on July 1 and said Qureshi married her and even impregnated her.“Now, a case has been registered under section 120B, 363, 376 and 420 of Indian Penal Code besides section ¾ of POCSO Act as girl is minor. Because of religious conversion on ground of concealed identity, provision of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 has also been added,” said the SP City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-under-anti-conversion-law-101625426764432.html
05-07-2021||Other||Speed up work onGanga e-way: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Sunday that work on Purvanchal expressway was almost complete while 80% land acquisition had been done for the Ganga expressway. He asked the officers concerned to speed up work on the Ganga expressway and also make all preparations for foundation laying of the defence corridor’s Aligarh node. He asked for speeding up the recruitment process to fill up vacant posts in all the government departments. He said that keeping in mind the interest of the youth, the UP Subordinate Service Selection Commission (UPSSC) would now do eligibility tests on new pattern. Under this unified system, the candidates won’t have to apply again and again for jobs in various government departments and it would save their money also, as one exam would be used for all the selections. He asked the officers concerned to give candidates the district of their choice as exam centre for the PET (Pre eligibility test)convenience in these Covid times. He said only those institutions should be made exam centres which had lean records. Yogi to inaugurate Tarkulani regulator in Gkp today Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Monday would be a significant day for Gorakhpur as the Tarkulani regulator (for flood control through water regulation) would be inaugurated. “It will end the problem of water-logging and crop inundation that the people of the area had been facing for years. Other than, this tomorrow (on Monday) other development projects worth ₹150 crore would also be launched or inaugurated”, he said. Yogi will be in Gorakhpur on Monday to inaugurate the regulator and launch other projects. He had laid foundation for Tarkulani regulator project in October 2017, months after he became the chief minister. The regulator has 14 pumps to throw water into the nearby river. The government sources said that people in about 45 villages, who had been facing water-logging, would benefit from the regulator and crop inundation in over 28,000 hectare land would be prevented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speed-up-work-onganga-e-way-cm-101625426344427.html
05-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh says it has planted over 250 million saplings in a day||Uttar Pradesh planted over 25 crore (250 million) saplings in a day on Sunday, setting “a record of sorts”, an official said. Five crore (50 million) more saplings are expected to be planted in the next few days.By 6.30pm, 2,55,104,004 saplings were planted in the state, according to the real time update shared via an online platform by the forest department. This comes to two crore saplings per hour on an average.“It is a record of sorts to plant over 25 crore saplings in about 12 hours,” said a senior forest official.“We took plantation as a campaign and planted 5.71 crore saplings in 2017, 11.77 crore saplings in 2018, nearly 23 crore in 2019, and despite Covid, 25.87 crore in 2020. We have a target of planting more than 30 saplings this year,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday after planting a sapling in Sultanpur.“It is with the participation of the people of the state that planting over 100 crore saplings (during 2017-18 to 2020-21) is being made possible,” said the chief minister.“A new thing has been added to the plantation drive where an appeal has been made to all gram panchayats and people to make smriti vatikas in their localities in memory of those who died during the Covid pandemic,” he said.Panchwati, Nakshatra Vatika, and Nav Grah Vatikas were being established, the chief minister said, adding that 100-year-old trees were being conserved as heritage trees.Governor Anandben Patel began the plantation drive by planting a sapling in Jhansi.The plantation started at 6am on Sunday. By 10 am, 5 crore saplings were planted, and by 1 pm the figure shot up to over 10 crore. By 3 pm, over 15 crore saplings were planted. The number reached 20 crore by 4pm and 24 crore by 5pm.By 6.30pm, 25,51,04,004 saplings were planted. A total of 42.17 crore saplings have been prepared in 1819 nurseries in the state. Amla, Harad, Dhak, Kadamba, Banyan, Gular, Jamun, Tamarind, Bel, Neem, Arjuna, Kaitha, Moulshree, Drumstick and Bahera were planted along with Ashwagandha, Satavar, Sarpagandha, Peepli, Dudhi, Giloy, Tulsi, Guarpatha, Safed Musli and Balmakhira. About 67 lakh saplings are to be planted along the riverbanks in 27 districts.Once they (30 crore saplings/trees) survive and grow big enough, they will provide oxygen for daily consumption of 12.30 crore people, said the forest department in a press statement. The forest department that has prepared saplings in its nurseries across the state said the oxygen produced will be worth ₹50 crore.“The present rate of oxygen per litre is ₹4 and trees will produce 6774 crore litre. An individual consumes 550 litres of oxygen on an average per day,” said the chief conservator of forest in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-says-it-has-planted-over-250-million-saplings-in-a-day-101625426285038.html
05-07-2021||Other||Uttarakhand’s youngest CM wanted to become LUSU gen secy once!||LUCKNOW: New Uttarakhand (UK) chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, 45, who on Sunday took oath of office as the youngest CM of the hill state carved out from Uttar Pradesh (UP) two decades back, shares a strong bond with Lucknow. Chosen by the BJP top leadership to steer the party through choppy political waters in the 2022 assembly polls, Dhami, a Thakur by caste, is known to possess sharp instincts that he possibly picked during endless late night political chats on Lucknow University (LU) campus, his former LU-mates recall. Former LU student leaders recall how Dhami’s mentor and former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshiyari took him to the hill state in 2000 after he failed to secure the backing of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the students wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), for the LU general secretary’s post. Koshiyari is currently the Maharashtra governor. “Fate intervenes in mysterious ways. Koshiyariji took him to Uttarakhand with him after Dhami couldn’t get a ticket for LU general secretary’s post. That switch shaped his future,” said former LU Students’ Union (LUSU) vice president Prabhat Kant Tripathi, now a government lawyer in Ambedkarnagar. Prabhat’s brother Tarun Kant, who is in the BJP, recalled many fun-filled moments with Dhami at the LU’s Narendra Dev hostel’s room number 119, where the new UK chief minister lived then. It was during his LU stay that he did graduation in law and then followed it up with a course in human resource management and industrial relations. “Back then, he would assist all student leaders from ABVP prepare for LUSU elections and would take active part in the protests too, whether it was on the issue of fee hike or some other pro-student move,” Tarun recalled. Former LUSU chief Daya Shankar Singh, who is now a vice president in UP BJP, recalled Pithoragarh-born Dhami’s affable nature. “Back then, none of us had money. On many occasions he would fund us or we would all pool in for small baati-chokha treats,” Singh recalled. “He loved political discussions and each night we would discuss various equations and combinations. All of us wanted ABVP to win polls and Dhami was an active participant in our planning,” Singh said. These political discussions would also take place at ABVP office in Kaiserbagh where Dhami was a regular visitor. A two-term MLA from Khatima assembly segment of Uttarakhand, Dhami who started RSS shakhas on campus and assisted student leaders contest elections, had an uneventful start in the hill state, serving as OSD to his mentor Koshiyari when he was the chief minister between 2001 to 2002. His political rise started soon after, when he held position of UK BJP’s students’ wing from 2002 to 2008 and four years later contested and won his first assembly poll from Khatima in 2012. He won again from the same seat in 2017. Somesh Vardhan Singh, an ABVP member who, along with Dhami, was quite active on the LU campus in the late 90s, admitted that though young, Dhami had sharp political acumen. “He started RSS shakhas on LU campus,” Somesh said. Interestingly, Tirath Rawat, 56, whom Dhami replaced as CM, also has a strong UP connect and his wife Rashmi hails from Kharkhauda village in Meerut. UK governor Baby Rani Maurya who administered the oath of office and secrecy to Dhami, also hails from western UP and was the first woman mayor of Agra. RAJNATH, YOGI CONGRATULATE DHAMIDefence minister Rajnath Singh and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath have congratulated Pushkar Singh Dhami on becoming the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand. “Under the able guidance of young and energetic Dhami ji, Uttarakhand would gallop on the path of development. That’s what I believe,” Rajnath tweeted. He also congratulated all the ministers who took oath of office and secrecy in Dhami’s new government. “Congratulations on taking over as the chief minister of Uttarakhand. I have full confidence that under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and under your stewardship Uttarakhand would set new benchmarks of development,” Yogi Adityanath tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhands-youngest-cm-wanted-to-become-lusu-gen-secy-once-101625426104407.html
05-07-2021||Other||Experts warn against neglecting non-corona vaccination||Lucknow Experts have warned against negligence in non-corona vaccination (due to stress on Covid vaccination) as it can cause other epidemics if kids are not vaccinated on time against diseases like diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis, hepatitis B, haemophilus, influenzae type b , human papillomavirus influenza (seasonal), measles, mumps, rubella, tuberculosis and varicella. Senior paediatrician Dr Piyali Bhattacharya of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences said, “As we know, routine immunization programmes protect most of the children but they have been affected for the past two years. If we do not cover the backlog of traditional vaccination among new-borns and kids, we would be facing an epidemic in the days to come . Diseases like diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis, tuberculosis, varicella and many others which are almost wiped out among the kids can make a comeback.” She said, “Present focus has shifted from regular immunization (RI) in children to Covid vaccination only. This raises concern for vaccine preventable diseases (VPD’s) as the pandemic wanes.” Dr Bhattacharya said, “This is the perfect time to review the immunization status of infants, children, adolescents and adults as immunisation for kids has started again in all the government hospitals. It’s the time to stress on regular vaccination along with Covid inoculation. They can continue side by side.” Lack of understanding and awareness about adult immunization among common man is a challenge, hence there is need to fill this gap of knowledge, the role it plays in our health system and underline its preventive eminence, say doctors. Presently doctors are worried about Influenza which has signs and symptoms similar to Covid, similarly annual flu shots have helped the masses avoid hospitalisation. Dr OP Sanjeev of Rajdhani Covid Hospital SGPGIMS said , “ Influenza vaccine is recommended for children in the age group of 6 months to 5 years in these unprecedented times. It is similarly beneficial for individuals with co-morbid conditions like asthma, COPD and other chronic diseases and adults above 65 years of age.” Dr PK Gupta of the Indian Medical Association ( IMA) said, “ In our country , monsoon from June to September brings a host of diseases and infections like dengue, malaria, diarrhoea, influenza etc, of which flu is preventable by timely vaccination. So, it’s the time to re-emphasize the importance of influenza vaccination this monsoon season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-warn-against-neglecting-non-corona-vaccination-101625425864452.html
05-07-2021||Other||Power crisis: Ludhiana industries allowed to resume ops at 30% capacity||Amid the ongoing power crisis in the state, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) allowed industries based in Ludhiana to start operations from Sunday afternoon. In the statement issued on late Sunday evening, the chief managing director (CMD) of PSPCL, A Venu Prasad, said the restrictions have been relaxed and all industries will be allowed to function at 30% capacity from Monday and those dealing in essential services, including poultry, rice shellers, telecom and call centres, will be allowed to function at full capacity.The electricity supply is satisfactory despite the fault in the second unit of PSPCL which is being rectified, stated Venu Prasad.Assuring the industry sector of support in regaining full working potential soon, the CMD said the department is fully committed to ensure uninterrupted quality supply to all sectors. With paddy sowing season on in full swing, the department is also ensuring uninterrupted eight-hour supply to farmers across the state, the CMD pointed out. All efforts are being made to balance the demand and supply equation at the earliest to avoid any hardship to citizens, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-crisis-ludhiana-industries-allowed-to-resume-ops-at-30-capacity-101625424185014.html
05-07-2021||Other||Update staff data on web portal by July 8, Ludhiana schools told||Director public instructions (secondary) Sukhjeetpal Singh has instructed all government school principals to ensure that the details of the teachers, non-teaching employees, computer teachers, and volunteers are updated on the ePunjab web portal. The last date to update the information is July 8, and after that, no changes will be made.The school authorities can verify the details of the employees on July 6 and 7, and if any school fails to update the data on the portal, then the school principal or drawing and disbursing officer (DDO) will be held responsible, reads the letter. As per the instructions, the employees have to update information related to their date of joining the department, date of joining the present school, annual credential report (ACR) of the year 2019-20, seniority number, details of wards studying in government schools, results of class taught (board/non-board) in 2018-19 and 2019-20, details of leaves taken by the employees during the year, probation period, transfer on a complaint basis, service history, etc. Since having received the mail, the employees in government schools have been on their toes. In many government schools, new teachers have joined at the post of master cadre, therefore, the school heads are busy updating all the information on the portal. Navdeep Romana, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Multi-purpose, said, “Several new teachers have joined the school in the last two months, and we have updated all the data on the portal. The existing teachers’ data will also be cross-checked to avoid errors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/update-staff-data-on-web-portal-by-july-8-ludhiana-schools-told-101625424064688.html
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Fresh Covid-19 cases hovering around 8K-10K in Maharashtra for a month||Amid concerns of a third Covid-19 wave hitting the state in the coming months, Maharashtra has seen its daily caseload stranded at the 8,000-10,000 mark for close to a month, according to health department data. Even in terms of deaths, the daily toll has been hovering around 150 for over two weeks.On Sunday, the state reported 9,336 cases and 123 deaths, along with reconciling 183 earlier deaths. A total of 3,378 more people recovered.Experts said that the reason behind the stagnation in daily figures is due to over half a dozen districts still reporting large numbers of cases. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The reason why we are not seeing a fall is because of the alarming number of cases from districts like Palghar, Raigad, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The number of cases being reported in these districts needs detailed investigation. At the same time, we also need to ensure that the unlocking is mindful, and that we maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour.” According to the health department data, Kolhapur recorded 1,461 new cases, while Sangli and Satara recorded 1,073 and 764 fresh infections, respectively. Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 553 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths. Of the total 123,225 active patients across the state, Pune tops with 18,242 active patients followed by Thane with 16,801 active patients and Kolhapur having 14,701 active patients.Meanwhile, Dharavi, a former hotspot of Mumbai, reported zero cases for the fourth time in a month. A total of 6,901 cases have been recorded in Dharavi till now, of which 22 are active and 6,520 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-covid-19-cases-hovering-around-8k-10k-in-maharashtra-for-a-month-101625424004184.html
05-07-2021||Other||32 govt primary schools in Ludhiana to soon have solar panels||Over 32 government primary schools in the district Government schools in the district will soon have solar power systems in their campuses. The move has been introduced to save electricity and reduce the bill. Schools will get 5 KW to 6 KW solar panels installed on their respective rooftops. As per authorities, the state education department has released the first list of schools that will get solar panels.As per sources, officials have already inspected the schools, and the panels will be installed there soon.Shivani Sood, school head of Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan, said, “Earlier, students used to face problems whenever there was a power cut in the area. We have been paying an electricity bill of ₹60,000 every two months and have been facing difficulty in depositing the bill. Now, we have 1,500 students in the school. The installation of solar panels will help students study without any trouble from power cuts.”The selected schools are- Government Primary Schools, Daad, Jandiali, Kohara, Nandpur, Giaspura, New Shimlapuri, Dhandari Khurd, Sherpur Kalan, Sherper Khurd, Haibowal Kalan, Daba, Dholewal, Shimlapuri, Lohara, Vishkarma, Gobind Nagar, Jawaddi, BR Sunet, Sunet, Haibowal Khurd, Model Gram, Chet Singh, Sahnewal, Kot Mangal Singh, Kakowal, Mehrbaan, Chanan Devi, Kailash Nagar, Indira Colony, Bhattain Bet, Tarf Karabara and Basti Jodhewal.Nisha Rani, school head, GPS, Giaspura, said, “We have a strength of 4,837 students studying in Pre-primary classes to Class 5, and the installation of solar panels will enable the school to generate more energy and save a large number of units annually. As per the system, the electricity generated goes to the power department and the units are adjusted in the monthly bill.”The district education officer, elementary, Jaswinder Kaur, said, “This will help primary schools generate more energy and save up many units of electricity annually. The schools will face no power outages issues and students will get a conducive atmosphere to study without any hassle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32-govt-primary-schools-in-ludhiana-to-soon-have-solar-panels-101625423704797.html
05-07-2021||Other||Rising input costs: Bitter times for Ludhiana’s sweet shop owners||Already reeling under losses amid the ongoing pandemic, sweet shop owners are struggling to meet their daily expenses due to the rising input costs including, the recent hike in the price of milk and fuel and unscheduled power cuts.They stated that the footfall has already decreased by around 65-70% due to the restrictions imposed amid pandemic and the increasing cost of raw material including milk, dry fruits, and fuel, etc., have further added to their woes.While the local dairy farmers had increased the milk price by ₹3 per litre in mid of June, the two major milk brands - Verka and Amul- have increased the cost by ₹2 per litre from July onwards.Charanjit Singh, president of Ludhiana Halwai Association and owner of Kays Lovely Sweets in Jamalpur, said there are around 280 sweetmeat shops here, and the business has been hit badly since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. With the recent hike in milk prices, the manufacturing cost of cheese, khoya, etc., has also increased by ₹20 to 25 per kg. Similarly, the cost of dry fruits, edible oil, ghee, etc., has increased. The price of a commercial LPG cylinder has been hiked by ₹76 from July 1, and now it costs around ₹1,350.”“With the hike in fuel prices, everything else got costlier due to the rise in transportation costs. The margins are decreasing, and the sector is reeling under crises,” he added. The frequent unscheduled power cuts have further added to their woes, as they have to rely on diesel generators for operating their units at a time when diesel price has crossed the ₹90 mark.“For the sweet shop owners who have generators of 100KW and above, minimum diesel of ₹3,000 is used every hour for operating the units during power cuts.,” said Singh.The sweet shop owners stated that restriction on gatherings is one of the major reasons behind the drastic fall in the demand for sweets as fewer wedding events are taking place now.Bipan Jain, the owner of Sharman Jain Sweets at Rani Jhansi Road, said, “We used to get eight-nine orders for wedding-related events including the sweets which are distributed along with the invitation daily, but no orders are being received now. People are in a dilemma over organising the events even in the coming few months due to the fear regarding the impending third wave.”The owners stated they cannot even increase the prices of sweets as that will further push away the customers.Shamsher Singh, the owner of Amanz Sweets in Model Town, said, “The sales are also down due to financial constraints being faced by the residents. People even avoid purchasing samosas, jalebi, etc., for their families due to fear of Covid infection. If we increase prices of sweets now, it will further bring down the sales, and the units will be on a brink of closure.”Association seeks relaxation in curfew timings, gathering limitSeeking relief for the sector, Punjab Halwai Association president Narinderpal Singh said the government should extend the curfew relaxation timings for shops from 7:30 pm till at least 9pm, as people nowadays do not have time to go out with their families after returning from work due to imposition of the night curfew. Further, gathering of at least 100 people should be allowed so that more weddings events are organised. This will boost the demand for sweets, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-input-costs-bitter-times-for-ludhiana-s-sweet-shop-owners-101625423525985.html
05-07-2021||Other||22-yr-old Mumbai man tries to stop fight, gets stabbed||A 22-year-old man was stabbed opposite Sion hospital on Saturday night when he tried to stop a fight between two men.The incident took place around 11.15pm when the victim, Mohammed Afzal Hussain Shaikh, was returning home after meeting his friends.According to Dharavi police, Shaikh was walking on a footpath where he saw the two men hitting and attacking each other with knives. Shaikh pushed one of the men aside to stop the fight. “This irked the men and without thinking one of the accused stabbed Shaikh in the stomach,” said an officer from Dharavi police station.The accused then fled the spot leaving Shaikh bleeding on the road. Some passers-by rushed him to Sion hospital.“Shaikh is unconscious and thus, we’ve not been able to take his statement,” said the officer.The police have registered a case of attempt to murder against the two unidentified men and are scanning the CCTV cameras of the 90-Feet Road where the incident took place as well as of roads leading to the spot to identify and trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yrold-mumbai-man-tries-to-stop-fight-gets-stabbed-101625423464043.html
05-07-2021||Other||House help held for ₹35-L valuables theft in Mumbai||Bangur Nagar police have arrested a 32-year-old domestic help for allegedly stealing valuables worth ₹35 lakh from her employer’s house. The police have recovered the stolen items worth ₹19 lakh from the accused, Rajita Mengu. According to the police, the complainant is a 60-year-old man, who stays with his mother, aged 80, at Goregaon (West). On June 2, when the complainant opened the locker at his home, he found jewellery and gold biscuits worth ₹35 lakh missing, said the police. The complainant then approached the police and registered a case. “The complainant told us that in April, Mengu had gone to her village in Telangana State but returned to work after a few days,” said senior inspector Sobha Pine from Bangur Nagar police station. The police said that they questioned Mengu but she did not confess to the crime. So they let her go. After her release, the complainant’s mother, while chatting with Mengu’s son, asked him what they did in their village during the vacation. “The kid innocently told the complainant’s mother that Mengu bought him and his siblings gold chains,” said an officer from Bangur Nagar police station. The police then arrested Mengu and questioned her. She then confessed to the theft. The police went to Mengu’s village and recovered valuables worth ₹19 lakh from the jewellers to whom she had sold the gold biscuits. “We have arrested Mengu on the charges of theft,” said assistant inspector Amar Dhenge from the Bangur Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/house-help-held-for-35-l-valuables-theft-in-mumbai-101625423405294.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (A) leaders march to Bargari, detained||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) on Sunday started its second phase of “morcha” at Bargari against 2015 sacrilege. A five-member group of the SAD (A) leaders --- Gurnaib Singh, Gurdeep Singh, Harminder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Zorawar Singh --- from Sangrur district reached Bargari in the morning only to be detained by police. The leaders first visited the Bargari gurdwara from where they marched towards the Dana Mandi from where they were detained and taken to the Bajakhana police station. They where released in the evening. On June 1, marking the sixth anniversary of the sacrilege incident at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village, SAD (A) president Simranjit Singh Mann had announced to start a “morcha” from July 1 if the Punjab government failed to arrest those responsible for the sacrilege and police firing incidents. But Mann was arrested along with his 40 supporters. “A five-member jatha (group) from different districts will go to Bargari every day and offer their arrest if they will not allow us to protest. A jatha from Faridkot will go to Bargari on July 5, from Fazilka on July 6, Ferozepur on July 7, Bathinda on July 8, Barnala on July 9, Mansa on July 10, Ludhiana on July 11, Patiala on July 12 and Moga on July 13,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-a-leaders-march-to-bargari-detained-101625423404633.html
05-07-2021||Other||Mumbai’s 35% population have poor access to healthcare infrastructure: IIT-Bombay study||Areas such as Chembur, Bhandup, Goregaon, Jogeshwari, Dahisar and parts of Ghatkopar have very poor accessibility to healthcare services, a first-of-its-kind study measuring the accessibility to healthcare in greater Mumbai by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has revealed. The study has also found Chembur, parts of Malad and Malwani need to improve the public transport system on priority to improve accessibility to healthcare services for its residents. The paper ‘Public transit accessibility approach to understand the equity for public healthcare services: A case study of Greater Mumbai’ was published on June 25 in the peer-reviewed Journal of Transport Geography. The study was conducted by Gajanand Sharma, a PhD student in the department of civil engineering, and Gopal Patil, professor in the same department at IIT-B. Inequity in access to government healthcare facilities affects the overall urban population and can impact the vulnerable population that mostly relies on these services. In this study, the researchers measured the accessibility for healthcare services by public transport. They used travel time and the number of transit stops (accounting for transit connectivity) for Greater Mumbai. They also identified socially vulnerable wards (administrative units) using a social vulnerability index (SVI), developed on the basis of 16 indicators using computational tool Principal Component Analysis. “Accessibility means the ease by which one can reach services such as hospital, shopping malls and schools/colleges. In transportation, we quantify this ease of reaching services mainly by considering the travel time. For example, suppose from area A it takes 20 minutes to reach a hospital by public transport, whereas it takes 30 minutes from area B, assuming the same level of public transit infrastructure, we can say that the accessibility for hospitals for area A is better than that of B. In our definitions, we also take into account the number of bus stops to measure accessibility. A higher number of bus stops increase accessibility,” said Patil. In this study, researchers measured the accessibility to healthcare facilities for a population of 12.4 million in Greater Mumbai, which comprises 577 traffic analysis zones. Four different types of public healthcare services – hospitals, maternity care units, dispensaries and health posts – were considered. For hospitals, eight of the total 24 wards of Mumbai — R-North (Dahisar), P-North (Malad), P-South (Goregaon and parts of Jogeshwari), S (Bhandup), N (Ghatkopar), M-East (Govandi) and M-West (Chembur)— fell in the critical category. This meant that these areas had low accessibility for healthcare services and a high social vulnerability. The city fared better in terms of access maternity care units—only R-North, M-East and S wards fell in the critical category. With respect to access to municipal dispensaries, R-North, P-North, P-South and M-East were critical. For access to health posts, R-North, P-North, and M-East wards fared the worst. “Let’s assume there are 10 hospitals in an urban area. But from different areas, it can have different accessibility values to reach these hospitals; therefore, we developed an accessibility measure for an area, say A ward. Now, this accessibility measure is estimated for all the areas in the city (A, B, C, D wards and so on). Then we present the spatial distribution of these estimated accessibility measures over the study area and then find which areas have better accessibility and which have poor accessibility,” Patil explained. Understanding social vulnerabilityNearly 35% of the city’s population resides in wards where the accessibility for hospital services is low and the social vulnerability is high, the study has found. Social vulnerability refers to socio-economic factors that affect the resilience of communities to diseases. The study also found that the eastern part of Mumbai lacked reasonable access to healthcare services. Further, those living in slums had poorer access to public healthcare facilities; the average accessibility value for all the public healthcare services is less for those living in slums than those in non-slum areas. Shankar Das, dean, school of health systems studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, who was not a part of the study, said, “We know poverty and poor health status are inextricably linked; therefore, it requires a multidimensional probe into vulnerabilities like poor housing quality, overpopulation, undernutrition, poor education, unemployment/underemployment, economic conditions etc. to recommend holistic and equitable distribution of healthcare in these deprived communities.” Going ahead The study by IIT-B makes suggestions for improving the accessibility of healthcare for each ward.The areas that need urgent improvement in terms of healthcare facilities and public transport are Dahisar, Malad, Chembur, Trombay, Ghatkopar and Govandi. “These wards could be adopted as high priority wards for public health infrastructure development and service delivery so that the supply of healthcare providers can keep up with the demand for services. A number of strategies could be adopted using telehealth to deliver universal health services along with regular mobile health clinics in the underserved communities,” said Das. Dr Abhijit More, public healthcare activist from Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, who was not a part of the study, said, “There’s an immediate need to improve the quality and standard of treatment available at primary and secondary healthcare facilities. The facilities should be near people’s homes, especially in a high-density city like Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-population-at-unhealthy-distance-from-medical-infra-in-mumbai-101625423168308.html
05-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Domestic helps steal cash, gold after sedating elderly couple, four others||Learning no lessons from repeated incidents of crimes executed by domestic helps in the city, an industrialist hired two helps without police verification, only to have his elderly parents and four other employees of the house sedated and valuables stolen from the house in his absence.The incident took place in Model Town on Saturday night when the industrialist Gurmeet Singh, who owns a forging factory, had gone to Rishikesh for a holiday with his wife and children. The accused, Anil Bahadur, who was hired as a cook by the family, and his wife, Sushmita, served food laced with sedatives to the complainant’s elderly parents, guard, watchman and two other domestic helps and made off with cash, jewellery and other the valuables in the house.The victims were identified as Hari Singh, 78, his wife Gursharan Kaur, 76, security guard Khema Nand, 50, watchman Swaran Singh, 60, domestic helps Rumila, 19 and Suman, 16. The incident came to light on Sunday morning when a gurdwara priest (pathi) reached their house to perform a prayer around 7.30am and found the guard and others unconscious. He immediately informed Swarnjit Singh, a relative of the family, who lives in the same locality. Swarnjeet rushed the victims to a private hospital, where their condition is said tobe stable.Model Town station house officer (SHO), inspector Inderjit Singh said the family had hired the cook and his wife, who are Nepalese nationals, without verification. They had sought the help of Hari Bahadur, a Nepalese labour contractor, who had arranged domestic helps for his relatives too.The SHO further said that closed-circuit television cameras in the house captured four persons leaving the house.“Around 10.30, the two accused had called two of their accomplices and fled with the valuables in the house when the elderly couple and other staff members were lying unconscious. The losses will be ascertained once Gurmeet Singh returns to the city. The victims are currently not in a condition to share any information,” he added. A case will be registered after recording the statement of Gurmeet Singh, the SHO added.No procedure to verify criminal records of Nepalese helpsEven as the Ludhiana police has been pushing city residents to get verification of tenants, domestic helps and employees, they have no procedure to verify the antecedents or criminal records of Nepalese nationals. In case a Nepalese national flees back to the country after committing a crime here, police remain helpless. The cops have to contact the Nepalese government through the Home Ministry, which is a lengthy process. So the chances of arresting such a person is difficult. Even if he or she returns to city and starts working under a different name, arresting the person is difficult as the police department won’t have any past records in the absence of verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/domestic-helps-steal-cash-gold-after-sedating-elderly-couple-four-others-101625423166568.html
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab adds 158 Covid cases, 5 more deaths||Punjab on Sunday reported 158 fresh Covid cases that took its infection tally to 5,96,416, while five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,110, a medical bulletin said.Bathinda reported 23 new cases, followed by 14 in Amritsar and 13 in Ludhiana, among other districts, it said.The latest deaths were reported from Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Jalandhar and Muktsar.There are 2,324 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. While 96 critical patients are on ventilator support, 314 critical patients and 1,405 others are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.The state has a positivity rate of 0.39%, it said.As many as 358 more coronavirus patients recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 5,77,982, the bulletin said.So far, 1,10,81,636 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-adds-158-covid-cases-5-more-deaths-101625422684659.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||Metro software to monitor work on Phase 4 construction||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has introduced a custom-made project monitoring software to oversee the progress of work on its phase-4 corridors and for the Patna Metro, Metro officials said on Sunday.DMRC said that the IPMS (Integrated Project Monitoring Software) will monitor the progress of work in different aspects including civil, electrical and mechanical, and signalling and telecommunication contract work.“In a major initiative towards digitising its functioning, the DMRC has implemented a custom-made project monitoring software known as the IPMS for monitoring the progress of its phase-4 routes and the Patna Metro,” it said in a statement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 17, 2019, laid the foundation stone for the Patna Metro Rail Project. DMRC is working to expand Metro in Patna.Through IPMS, all the stages of project, planning, and implementation, right from the tender stage to revenue operation of each corridor will be monitored, including the issues of work front availability, such as land availability, tree transplantation and shifting of services and design status, officials said.The software was launched in April this year and is being used for monitoring the progress of contract packages which are awarded, and in progress. As the works get gradually awarded, they are integrated in the IPMS, the DMRC said.Till phase-3 completion, DMRC’s project monitoring was being done manually, officials said.Specially-designed dashboards will feature progress of all major components of construction and their status can be checked just by the click of a button, they said.“This will also help in better record-keeping and knowledge sharing among the engineers. DMRC’s vendor payment portal, which carries all relevant information regarding payments made to the vendors will also be integrated with this platform in the days to come,” DMRC statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/metro-software-to-monitor-work-on-phase-4-construction-101625422624455.html
05-07-2021||Other||MPD 2041: Delhi’s villages seek a road map for development||For children at Jhuljhuli village, located on the Delhi-Haryana border in southwest Delhi, agricultural fields surrounding the village double up as playgrounds.Residents said a dedicated playground is just one among many social and civic infrastructure missing in this congested rural village, which was declared urbanised in 2017 for the implementation of the land pooling policy.“A playground, community centre, school and space for housing, are among our top demands. But for years, our needs have been ignored by various government agencies,” said Jitendar Yadav (30), a member of the village’s resident welfare association.Two kilometres from Jhuljhuli is Rawta, a rural village in the greenbelt area, where a group of 50-odd people, mostly youth, have been working hard for the past six years to address basic problems such as sanitation, drainage, and other essential services for their village.Rajnish (33), an architect from Rawta, said, “While elaborate plans have been worked out for the city’s development, little has been done for rural villages in the past decades despite provision of a comprehensive development scheme for villages in MPD-2021.”The new draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 prepared by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), villagers said, has once again failed to address problems faced by villages, especially rural villages.Rajnish, Yadav and a few youngsters from their and neighbouring villages, brought together by Paras Tyagi (32), who runs the Centre for Youth Culture and Law and Environment - a public policy research organisation working in the rural and urban villages of Delhi, have taken upon themselves to put their villages back on the planning and development map. They have prepared a comprehensive Village Development Plan (VDP) for Jhuljhuli and are working on a plan for Rawta.The VDP proposes setting aside land falling within 150-200 metres outside the periphery of the village for residential, commercial, dairy and educational purposes. It also demands dedicated space for schools, banks, commercial and community centres as part of the plan.In the absence of development control norms for these villages, the MPD-2021 had sought a plan for development of villages but there has been no movement in this front so far. According to residents, MPD-2041 too has little with regard to development of over 300 villages, especially rural, in the Capital.Rajnish said, “The plan has been prepared using planning tools to ensure sustainable development of villages even after new developments come up. We have made provision for a green buffer also.”“Issues related to livelihood, social infrastructure etc have to be taken into consideration while planning any new developments. There are no lessons learnt from the past experiences. Villages which were urbanised in the 70’s and 80’s are suffering because of lack of basic infrastructure and have fallen victim to rampant urbanisation. We want DDA to come up with a plan similar to the VDP for the villages,” said Tyagi.Among one of the biggest problems cited is housing, which the group says has suffered due to a rise in population and a space crunch brought about by a lack of development norms over the years.Ram Niwas Sharma (65), a retired central government employee who has agricultural land in Jhuljhuli, said, “The residential limits (referred as lal dora in revenue records) of the village have not been redefined for decades while the population has increased. A majority of houses are constructed on small plots. There is no scope for further construction. Where will people live?”Preeti Yadav (24), a resident of Jhuljhuli and a teacher with a private school, said that children in the village still have to travel till Najafgarh, almost 15 kilometres away, to attend school, college and for coaching. “Little has changed over the years,” said Preeti Yadav.Jhuljhuli is one of the 95 urbanised villages where the DDA’s ambitious land pooling policy will be implemented. The policy is aimed at providing 17 lakh dwelling units to meet the city’s housing requirement and ensuring planned development in Delhi’s urban extensions. While the policy envisages villagers to pool in their agricultural land parcels, the latter wants the DDA to first plan for their development.Tyagi said they will submit the VDP to the DDA soon. “We will also conduct a signature campaign from each village,” he added.Five years in the makingTyagi (32), who holds a degree in public policy and is a resident of the urbanised Budhela village, started working with rural villages in Delhi to educate and mobilise residents to improve their quality of life. What started as a one-man initiative five years ago now has a large network of people from various villages (both urban and rural) in Delhi.Tyagi said that villagers are aware of the issue but most are not tech-savvy. He added that it is the younger generation which is trying to improve the situation by raising issues.“Unfortunately, city planners are unaware of the ground realities. Some of the villages that are part of the land pooling policy have very little land left and there are several unauthorised colonies that have come up over the years. Development of new areas can’t be at the cost of these villages,” said Tyagi.Sabyasachi Das, former commission planning in-charge with DDA, welcomed the VPD and said something similar was attempted by the DDA in Dwarka in early 2000.He said the land-owning agency had prepared development plans in a 150-200 m radius from the periphery of four villages in Dwarka, with the help of locals. “But the plans could never be implemented as villagers didn’t agree with the land adjustments which had to be made to provide for passage of emergency vehicles by widening the village road etc. We had planned for schools, community centre etc in the buffer zone around the village.”“There are several issues in the land pooling policy which need to be addressed. For getting contiguous land parcels, which is essential for comprehensive and services planning, provisions need to be made in Delhi Development Act,” he added.When contacted, a senior DDA official said the agency is “planning for infrastructure for the entire area”. “In the planning of the sectors under land pooling, the social and civic infrastructure requirement of the participating villages will be catered to in the sector itself,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpd-2041-delhi-s-villages-seek-a-road-map-for-development-101625422446014.html
05-07-2021||Other||Delhi govt schools yet to trace 20% students||A day after the first phase of the Delhi government’s three-stage action plan for the ongoing academic sessions for its 1,030 schools ended, principals of several institutions on Sunday said they were not able to reconnect with at least 20% of their students. A majority of these students, they said, are in primary and upper primary classes.The Delhi government on June 26 issued a three-stage action plan to classes in its schools, which have been shut for in-person classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools were asked to re-connect with students, provide emotional support and bridge learning gaps, and then begin academic activities in earnest. In the first stage, which took place between June 28 and July 3, schools started reconnecting with students via calls, SMS, and in-person visits.Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed School in Rohini, said the school tried to make phone calls to students and also sent teams to visit nearby localities with loudspeakers to announce the resumption of classes.“Despite that, we could not get in touch with 20-25% of students. Either their phone numbers have changed, or they are not in the city. While we have got in touch with around 85% of students in classes 9, 10, and 12, this number is lower for those enrolled between classes 6 and 8. We will intensify efforts to ensure the remaining students get in touch with their teachers.”Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar, said the situation was similar in their institution.“In fact, we started contacting students a week before the government issued the three-stage action plan, but the response among students enrolled in classes 1 to 8 is discouraging. We will now try other ways to get in touch with them,” she said.For the second phase of the resumption plan, schools have been asked to provide emotional support and bridge students’ learning gaps, before beginning classes from August 2, when the final phase of the plan comes into effect. “From this week, we will hold interactive sessions with students to identify their learning gaps and assess emotional well-being. After that, we will start one or two remedial classes a day to revise last year’s syllabus and prepare students for this session,” Kaur said.Similarly, officials at government schools in Rouse Avenue, Mayur Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Jasola, Yamuna Vihar and Subhash Nagar said they connected with fewer students than they expected to.Dr Davinder, principal of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya (SBV) in Rouse Avenue, said they were yet to get to track down around 40% of their students.At least 20% students in Jafrabad’s Zeenat Mahal Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya (evening) are yet to get in touch with their teachers, and officials said they will amp up efforts to bring children back to classes.“We will make announcements from mosques and other places of worship to request parents to contact the school. We will also engage members of the school management committee and give a list of students to get in touch with,” said Ganpath Raj, the school’s principal.Officials in the education department said the Delhi government will also step in to ensure parents are aware of the resumption of classes before the final phase of lessons from August 2.“The government is also going to conduct a two-week parents-teachers meeting from July 18 to connect with as many parents as possible. Schools will also continue their efforts to trace each and every student,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-first-phase-of-delhi-govt-s-teaching-leaching-action-plan-ends-schools-say-20-30-students-still-not-reconnected-101625422443942.html
05-07-2021||Other||North Delhi: Food delivery boy stabbed for resisting mobile phone theft, 2 held||Three bike-borne men stabbed a 23-year-old food delivery boy of a restaurant near Adarsh Nagar metro station for resisting their attempt to snatch his mobile phone in the early hours of July 1, said police.Two suspects were arrested on Saturday and the bike that they used in the crime was also recovered. The third suspect, who has the victim’s cellphone, is still on the run, said police.Around 12.30 am on July 1, the victim , identified by his first name Tribhuvan, left the restaurant after work and was walking in a service road towards his rented room in Azadpur village. Three men on a motorcycle waylaid him on the way and tried to snatch his mobile phone. Tribhuvan resisted and fought with them.In the meantime, the suspects saw a car coming towards them. The trio panicked and feared that they may get caught. One of them took out a knife, stabbed Tribhuvan four to five times in his abdomen, snatched his phone and fled on the bike with his accomplices, said police.“Despite bleeding profusely, Tribhuvan walked to another restaurant holding his abdomen and asked its security guard to save his life. The guard identified Tribhuvan and alerted his employer, who in turn rushed him to a nearby private hospital. The timely admission to the hospital saved Tribhuvan’s life after a surgery. He is out of danger now,” said a police officer associated with the case.“A case of attempt to murder and robbery was registered at the Adarsh Nagar police station and the district’s special staff was tasked to identify the suspects and nab them at the earliest,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.Police said after snatching Tribhuvan’s cellphone, the robbers found ₹1,050 in the phone’s Paytm wallet and decided to encash it. They rode their bike for nearly a kilometre away from the crime scene and reached a CNG refilling station. One of them approached a gas refilling staff and cooked up a story that his sister was seriously ill and he was in dire need of money to buy her medicines. He offered to pay ₹50 as commission to the employee if the latter gave him ₹1,000 cash and accepted transfer of the same amount in his Paytm wallet, said a senior investigator.“The employee agreed and gave ₹1,000 cash to the robbers after receiving ₹1,050 in his Paytm wallet. Since the deal happened 30 minutes after the robbery and an online payment company sent a successful transaction message to the victim’s registered mobile number, it helped us get a vital clue about the suspects,” said the investigator.Rangnani said that after collecting details from the company about the money transfer, the special staff team identified the CNG station and its employee. The team scanned the CCTV footage and spotted the suspects.“One of them, identified as Mohammad Abid (27) was caught by the Adarsh Nagar police from Azadpur village. The other suspect, Dinesh Kumar (19), was arrested on Saturday from Sonepat and the bike used in the crime was also recovered,” said the DCP.“Another suspect, identified as Saddam, is absconding and the stolen phone is with him,” said Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-delhi-food-delivery-boy-stabbed-for-resisting-mobile-phone-robbery-2-held-101625422385386.html
05-07-2021||Other||To mark a year as MLA, Raghav Chadha gives out report card||Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) MLA from Rajendra Nagar Raghav Chadha on Sunday released and distributed among residents a report card on completing one year of his term as a legislator of the assembly segment, highlighting the work he has done in areas such as water supply, sewer network, road repairs, installation of CCTV cameras and WiFi hotspots, and welfare measures during the Covid-19 pandemic.“On completion of his one year as an MLA, AAP Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha released his #PehlaSaalBemisal report. He presented the people with the work undertaken by him in a year for his constituency on various fronts such as Covid relief, water, roads, wifi, employment opportunities and street lights. The MLA worked on Covid relief welfare measures such as the 24x7 MLA helpline, distribution of ration packets and free meals and the sanitization of his constituency. The proactive approach by the MLA also resolved the decade old water problems in his area, major improvements can be seen in the water supply system, 2.5 km of new water pipelines were inaugurated and four new tube wells were installed to augment the water demand in his area. The rejuvenation of a lake and sewage system improvement was also undertaken by the MLA,” said a press statement issued by Chadha’s office.The statement further read that he has helped create employment opportunities for people living in his constituency through various skill development courses. The development of roads and 35 new road projects were also initiated by him.“Internet access for all 150 Wifi hotspots were installed under the MLA’s vision. He is also accessible to the public through regular Janta Darbars at his MLA office,” read the statement.“The people of Rajendra Nagar Vidhan Sabha had elected me as their MLA by giving their precious vote with great faith and love. Last year was very difficult due to Corona but under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, I made every effort to serve the public. Today I am handing over my one year report card to the public and I seek your blessings,” said the MLA.Chadha, who is also AAP’s national spokesperson, was elected as an MLA in the February 2020 assembly election in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-mark-a-year-as-mla-raghav-chadha-gives-out-report-card-101625422324004.html
05-07-2021||Delhi||3 held for snatching bid on woman in Delhi’s CR Park||The police on Sunday evening arrested three men in connection with a snatching attempt on a 67-year-old woman in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park the previous night. The suspects, police said, snatched the woman’s handbag outside her home on Saturday night, and the incident was caught on a nearby security camera.The police on Sunday identified the suspects by their first names – Karan, Surjeet, and Shuaib – all aged between 18 and 19 and residents of south Delhi’s Madangir.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said they recovered the woman’s handbag and all its contents — a cellphone, ₹500 cash, and her ID card — from the suspects.Police said the woman went out with her daughter in her car on Saturday, and the returned around 9.45pm, when the woman’s daughter dropped the senior citizen outside the house.As she opened her handbag to take out her keys, a man came from behind and tried to snatch her bag. The woman and snatcher fell on the ground, shows the CCTV footage. The snatcher tries to flee, dragging the woman behind him, before he escapes with her bag, but leaving behind his helmet, shows the footage.“Surjeet snatched the woman’s bag and was spotted in the CCTV footage. Karan was riding the scooter, and Shuaib was the pillion rider,” said Thakur.The victim’s family as well as her landlady declined to reveal her name or other information to protect her privacyDCP Thakur said that a case of robbery was registered at the CR Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-snatching-bid-on-woman-in-delhi-s-cr-park-101625422264514.html
05-07-2021||Noida||Noida: 30-year-old mowed down by fire tender, driver arrested||A 30-year-old man died Sunday morning when his motorcycle allegedly came under a Noida fire department’s tender, in the Phase 2 area. The driver was nabbed and booked.The victim was identified as Manoj Vishwakarma, from Chandauli district, who lived in Noida’s Mamura village with his family. He worked in the electrical department of a company in Phase 2 and was on his way to work when the accident occurred.According to the police, the motorcycle came under the back wheel of the fire tender while the vehicle was taking a turn.“The tender was returning to the fire station after performing sanitisation duties when the accident occurred. The personnel in the truck thought there was an issue with the gear box. The driver did not realise that the victim and his bike had come under the back wheel. The driver was experienced and had been with the department for several years,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.Locals rushed to the victim’s aid but he was completely crushed. Locals protested at the site demanding compensation for the victim and immediate arrest of the driver. A police team was rushed to the spot and after some delay, the body was sent for an autopsy.“The driver was taken into custody and booked for negligent death at the Phase 2 police station. It is unclear as to what caused the accident. A technical assessment team will determine the chain of events,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police also denied the possibility of the driver being inebriated at the time of the accident.The complaint was filed by Vishwakarma’s cousin. He said that the victim’s wife and two daughters, who were to return this week, are now back. The family has been informed of his death..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-30-year-old-mowed-down-by-fire-tender-driver-arrested-101625422204580.html
05-07-2021||Noida||Loni thrashing incident: Ghaziabad police submit chargesheet against 11 suspects||The Ghaziabad police said on Sunday said they have filed the chargesheet against the 11 suspects booked in connection with the thrashing of a 72-year-old Muslim man in Loni and cutting his beard on June 5. The police, while levying sections of the Indian Penal Code, levied Section 295a (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) against the suspects in their chargesheet, submitted before the court on June 29.The police said the 11 suspects include Pravesh Gujjar and Kallu Gujjar, against whom they recently levied provisions of the Gangster Act as well. During the incident on June 5, 72-year-old Abdul Samad was allegedly thrashed by several suspects, and they later chopped his beard with a pair of scissors.Nearly a week later, a video of the purported incident went viral on social media platforms. However, the police said their investigation later revealed the matter had resulted allegedly due to personal dispute and was not communal in nature, as men from both Hindu and Muslim communities were allegedly involved.“In connection with the incident, we have filed a chargesheet before the court. Action under the Gangster Act was also initiated against Pravesh and Kallu as they have criminal cases against them. Now, it is up to the court to decide upon taking cognisance of the chargesheet,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), Ghaziabad.The original FIR filed on June 7 on the complaint made by Samad was registered under respective IPC sections for wrongful confinement, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and intentional insult to provoke breach of peace.The police, in their chargesheet, added IPC sections for rioting as well as 295a against the suspects.“Section 295a was levied as the act given way by the suspect hurt the sentiments of a particular community, though the incident itself was not communal in nature but resulted out of personal dispute. Later, when the video went viral, the incident was projected on communal lines. However, this was not the case. After we took Pravesh in police custody, we were able to recover a weapon, a pair of scissors, and the mobile phone on which the video was shot. He had deleted the original video. We are trying to get it recovered through forensics,” the SP added.The chargesheet names nine other suspects – Polly alias Gulshan, Arif Ali, Adil Khan, Mushahid, Himanshu Kumar, Intezar, Saddam alias Bauna, Mohammad Shavez and Anas.The police said they also filed a chargesheet against Pravesh in connection with an FIR lodged against him in a different case of extortion. He had secured interim bail in connection with the thrashing incident.Parvinder Nagar, the lawyer representing Pravesh, said they will take due course of legal action against the charge sheet submitted by the police.“We maintain that they filed the chargesheet only to invoke the Gangster Act against Pravesh. It is a condition that Gangster Act cannot be levied until a chargesheet is filed against the suspect. Section 295a of the IPC was added by the police during the investigation. However, all suspects were granted interim bail by the court. Now, we will face the chargesheet and take legal recourse,” he said.In connection with the video, the police had registered another FIR on June 15 and named nine persons/entities including Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India Private Limited, besides some authors, journalists and politicians.“Three of those booked have recorded their statements before the police after notices were issued. For the rest, we issued notices on June 21 and the second notices were issued on July 2,” the SP said.In a third FIR on June 16, the police booked Ummed Pehalwan Idrisi, a local politician from Loni, for allegedly making speeches in the video which the police said were communal in nature. Idrisi was arrested by the Ghaziabad crime branch on June 19 and action against him under the National Security Act was also initiated on June 29.He is presently under judicial custody at Dasna jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-thrashing-incident-ghaziabad-police-submit-chargesheet-against-11-suspects-101625422203927.html
05-07-2021||Other||26 booked for violating Covid norms at late night party in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Police arrested 26 persons, including four women, for violating Covid-19 norms during a late-night party at a a restaurant in the city on Saturday. The raiding team recovered 14 hookahs, eight bottles of whiskey and scotch, and 132 bottles of beer at the Irish Beach restaurant, bar and pool on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said deputy superintendent of police (DSP, city) Sucha Singh Bal conducted the raid about 10pm after getting a tip-off. He added, “The team found that those at the party had been violating Covid-19 norms.”He said a case under Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Excise Act and the Cigarette and Tobacco Act, 2003, had been registered against the restaurant’s owners. Those found partying in the restaurant have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease, dangerous to life) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/26-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-at-late-night-party-in-tarn-taran-101625417403471.html
05-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 snuffs out 12 more lives in Haryana, 51 test positive||Haryana reported 51 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths due to the virus on Sunday, a marginal dip from 52 cases and 13 fatalities on Saturday.Meanwhile, 87 patients were discharged from hospitals on Sunday, pushing up the recovery rate to 98.6% and bringing down the state’s active caseload to 1,186 from 1,234 the previous day.Of those still to recover, 485 (40%) are in home isolation, stated the health bulletin.While no new case was detected in four districts, Palwal recorded the highest 10 cases, followed by Gurugram (eight), and Hisar and Bhiwani (five each).In Kurukshetra and Kaithal, three cases each were detected, two cases each were recorded in Faridabad, Sonepat, Ambala, Panchkula, Sirsa, and Mahendergarh, and Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Yamunanagar and Jind recorded one case each.Only 10 districts reported casualties. While two patients each died in Gurugram and Panchkula, one death each was recorded in Hisar, Karnal, Panipat, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Kaithal and Fatehabad.Of 7,68,903 people tested positive in the state so far, 7,58,231 have recovered and 9,486 have succumbed to the virus. While 29,410 samples were collected for testing in the last 24 hours, 56,389 people were vaccinated on Sunday, taking the total past 94 lakh, stated the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-snuffs-out-12-more-lives-in-haryana-51-test-positive-101625415844333.html
05-07-2021||Pune||24-year-old MPSC aspirant dies by suicide in Pune||A 24-year-old man was found dead in his sister’s house in Hadapsar on Saturday. The man left a note blaming the delay in the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) recruitment process. The incident, since then, has taken a political turn as opposition leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Rohit Pawar have taken up the issue. The man’s parents ran a business in Shaniwar peth area of Pune and had left for work on Saturday. “He had cleared the attempt in 2019 and in 2020 as well. This time he was awaiting an interview from the commission, but it was pending due to the pandemic and delays,” said inspector (crime) Digambar Shinde of Hadapsar police station. In his suicide note, he has mentioned that nobody needs to be blamed for his decision. However, he mentioned that he felt as if he was not sufficient to provide for his family due to the unemployment. He also mentioned that the family was under crippling debt and urged youngsters to not fall in the trap of MPSC. “He was a bright student, 2019 attempt was his first attempt and he had cracked it. He was confident about cracking this attempt and get a post. He hoped to help us financially to reduce the mountain of debt. Now he is gone and we have no hopes left and our family is destroyed. Due to the misdeeds of this government, my house has been destroyed. I hope no other family has to face this fate,” said his father while speaking to a local news channel. “I had asked him before leaving if he’s going to the bank and he had said he will. We called him at 11am. There was not even a single indication that he would take such a step,” said his mother. The issue has added fuel to the fire of the opposition that is gunning for the current Uddhav Thackeray-led alliance government that ousted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government from Maharashtra. “About Maratha reservation issue, the Bhosale committee has clearly stated the path ahead. Today’s suicide of a young man appearing for MPSC exam has created many serious questions,” said former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of BJP in a tweet in Marathi. “The postponement of the MPSC exam and prolonged pending results has pushed the young generation in despair. I request the state government to observe all possible precaution and conduct the delayed examination and process the long pending appointments,” said Karjat-Jamkhed legislator Rohit Pawar and member of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in a tweet in Marathi. An accidental death report was lodged by Hadapsar police in the case. Help is a call away...AasraContact: 9820466726Email: aasrahelpline@yahoo.comTimings: 24x7Languages: English, HindiConnecting NGOContact: 9922004305, 9922001122Email: distressmailsconnecting@gmail.comTimings: 12pm - 8pm; All daysLanguages: English, Hindi, Marathi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24yearold-mpsc-aspirant-dies-by-suicide-in-pune-101625412062827.html
05-07-2021||Pune||Wagholi residents fear flooding due to blocked natural springs||Wagholi residents in the area behind societies Suyog Nisarg, Rohan Abhilasha road running parallel to Lohegaon-Wagholi road are worried about facing yet another flood this year. In 2019, and 2020, they had witnessed water up to three feet entering into their parking space as well as leaving the roads waterlogged. While the society Suyog Nisarg is on the foot of hills behind Lohegaon-Wagholi road, during monsoon, heavy storm water flows from the hill towards the society as natural streams but the adjacent plot owner has blocked the natural spring by building over it thus leading the water to flow directly onto the roads instead of flowing away in its usual path. “Blocking a natural stream has adverse effects causing waterlogging on the road affecting commuters and also society’s backyard is also filled with 3 feet of water. Due to this, even our Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) was filled with six feet of water causing damage to all our pumps and motors affecting our pockets. We did complaint to Wagholi grampanchayat but it was in vain and now are hopeful with PMC,” said Nitin Jain, chairman, Suyog Nisarg. Wagholi was recently added as one of the 23 merged villages to PMC. The residents have tweeted to PMC saying, “We are in your jurisdiction, we need your help in resolving a pending natural stream issue with an adjacent plot which has caused severe health and mental issues to 1,000s of Wagholikars and flooded a road and our society.” This is followed by yet another tweet suggesting how a permanently blocked natural stream that was going through the boundaries of its land will cause severe waterlogging affecting residents to even cross the road and flooding their society as well. This year the residents feel that the threat of flooding their grounds has become more real as the adjacent plot owner has filled the natural stream with sand further causing more water logging. This came to light a few months ago when a member from our society shared a video and photographs with movements happening in the adjacent plot and then we realized that it has blocked the natural stream. Speaking to Sagar Gore, gram panchayat member and living in Satavasti which also gets flooded said, “The natural spring was first illegally blocked by the builders. The springs were buried, diverted and even closed, and now this plot owner is adding to the woes of the residents of Wagholi. We are looking at talking to PMC for a solution,” said Gore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wagholi-residents-fear-flooding-due-to-blocked-natural-springs-101625410563873.html
05-07-2021||Pune||Maratha outfit stage protest in Solapur without permission||Even as Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has suspended his silent protest march following assurance from state government on steps being taken for reservation to the Maratha community; other factions have stepped up their pressure. Scores of Maratha community members held a protest march in Solapur city on Sunday led by former Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Narendra Patil to press for the demand for reservation. The protest march, which did not have police permission, began from the statue of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj and culminated at the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, following the speeches by the leaders. The protestors submitted a memorandum to the collector, Solapur district, listing out their demands. According to Solapur police commissioner, Ankush Shinde, over 3,000 people participated in the protest march. “We would register an offence against the organizers for violating the Covid-19 rules and regulations,” he said. Meanwhile, Patil said that the power of Maratha power should not be under-estimated. “Don’t ever under-estimate the power of Marathas. This Maratha community is known for fighting adversaries. It is not scared of police’s highhandedness and this was evident during today’s protest march in Solapur,” said Patil. He warned that they will carry out the protest marches in other districts using guerrilla tactics and will barge into the collectorates if permission is not given for morchas,” Patil added. He also warned that the state government should not test the patience of Maratha youth over the quota as they can enter into the assembly during the sessions. A heavy police bandobast was deployed in Solapur city in view of the protest march. Barricading was done in the city in a bid to stop members of the outfits from going to the protest venue. Earlier in the day Patil had resolved that even if the police have denied permission to the protest march and deployed heavy barricading around the city, the members of the Maratha outfits will take part in the march in large numbers. “Before the protest march, I had toured all the tehsils in the district and met all the members of the Maratha community and various outfits and their response is huge. If police try to stop the members, there will be outbursts,” warned Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/members-of-maratha-outfit-stage-protest-in-solapur-without-permission-101625407322337.html
05-07-2021||Other||Operation Red Rose: 570 cases of fake liquor recovered from Ludhiana||A team of the excise department and Ludhiana police commissionerate recovered 570 cases of fake liquor from the premises of Gemco Exports on GT Road, Jugiana, Ludhiana, on late Saturday night.Police have arrested Harmohan Singh, the owner of premises, while his two accomplices, identified as Jagwant Singh alias Jagga and Sanju, are on the run.The raid, under Operation Red Rose, was carried out under the supervision of Rajesh Aery, assistant commissioner, excise, Ludhiana, Jang Bahadur Sharma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, headquarters) Ludhiana, excise officers Amit Goyal and Dewan Chand and CIA Staff -3.The team found 570 cases of fake Cash Whisky, Royal Tiger (without manufacturing unit name) and unlabeled liquor stored at the premises. None of the bottles had holograms. A few empty cardboard boxes were also found at the site. A case under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act has been lodged against the three accused at Sahnewal police station. Aery said investigations are on to find out the source of the illegal liquor and persons involved in its supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/operation-red-rose-570-cases-of-fake-liquor-recovered-from-gt-road-101625399461713.html
