07-07-2021||Other||Ambala court acquits Pak national accused of spying||Almost two years after he was booked for allegedly spying for Pakistan’s ISI during his stay in India, an Ambala court on Tuesday acquitted a Pakistani software engineer observing that the prosecution failed to establish that the accused was in Ambala Cantonment for the said purpose.“Ali Murtaza Asghar, 32, walked out of jail at around 8pm on Tuesday but will have to stay in India till the appeal period is completed,” said defence council SK Maken.He was arrested on August 14, 2019 and booked under the Foreigners Act and the Official Secrets Act at Parao police station, however, as the trial preceded, the latter charge was dropped after the Union home ministry denied permission.The prosecution had argued that the then CIA Staff-2 in-charge Sandeep Kumar and his team had apprehended Ali from the overbridge opposite bus stand at 11:15pm on suspicion that he was collecting secret information by visiting India for the last three years and will enter the army area.“He had visa for Mumbai, Burhanpur, Surat, Ahmedabad and Galiakot, but not Ambala and was in illegal possession of an Indian SIM card,” assistant public prosecutor Pardeep Malik had contended.Extending the benefit of doubt in favour of the accused and acquitting him of the charges, the court of chief judicial magistrate Amberdeep Singh said the accused has been able to establish his innocence by producing his location history as recorded on Google Timeline Map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-court-acquits-pak-national-accused-of-spying-101625682441855.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks explanation from Sirsa sessions judge on bail in drugs seizure case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought an explanation from the Sirsa district and sessions judge in a narcotics case in which the accused was granted bail even as the matter was pending before the HC.The high court bench of justice HS Madaan, acted on the plea of G Hemavathy, a senior citizen, who was arrested in connection with alleged drug seizure case by the Sirsa police on March 21. The 70-year-old woman is a resident of Delhi, with permanent address of Chennai. She was travelling from Delhi to Sirsa with two others in a car in which 450gm heroine was recovered from a box. The FIR was registered on March 21 at Ding police station. The two other accused had claimed that they bought heroine from the woman. “Let the explanation be obtained from learned Sirsa sessions judge as to how did he entertain and decide the petition for regular bail when similar petition was pending before this court (sic),” the bench of justice Madaan said further asking the judicial officer to report whether pendency of the petition before the HC was brought to his notice by the public prosecutor representing the state or by the police officer concerned. The judicial officer has also been asked to explain how he released the accused on bail without considering the bar of Section 37 of the NDPS Act, which says “no person accused of an offence punishable under provisions of the NDPS Act for offences involving commercial quantity shall be released on bail”. The bench also asked the Haryana government counsel to bring the matter to notice of director prosecution, Panchkula (Haryana) and director general of police, Haryana. The accused woman had moved a bail plea on May 24 against the dismissal of bail plea by the sessions court on April 27. The matter came to light when the accused, through an application filed in May 24 plea, had requested the court for withdrawal of the bail petition. “It is strange that the petitioner was availing remedy in two courts simultaneously,” the court said, adding that a perusal of the record will show that the accused approached sessions court on June 25 and the plea was decided on June 28, whereas the petition before the high court was pending before that since May 6 (taken up on May 25). The HC has directed the Sirsa sessions judge to submit the report on the episode by July 22 and registry has been directed that the same be put up before the court on July 30. The high court, however, has allowed the petitioner to withdraw the plea, which means she will remain out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-explanation-from-sirsa-sessions-judge-on-bail-in-drugs-seizure-case-101625682392488.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar takes feedback from BJP MLAs, workers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar on Wednesday held brainstorming sessions with the party legislators, district Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) presidents and presidents of frontal organisations of BJP.The objective of the meeting was to take feedback from party MLAs and activists about the prevailing public mood, Khattar apprised the MLAs about the BJP-JJP coalition government’s achievements during the first 600 days of the second term in power.The CM asked the party lawmakers and district presidents to inform the public about the welfare schemes of the state government.The MLAs and all district presidents were physically present in the meeting, and MPs and state-level BJP office-bearers through virtual medium.Khattar said the state government has been making every effort to formulate schemes beneficial to a large number of people. He said during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government and party’s frontal organisations worked in tandem to provide relief to the common people.Khattar and Dhankhar also launched a website www.bjpharyanavolunteers.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-takes-feedback-from-bjp-mlas-workers-101625682323194.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Paddy plantation delayed due to late monsoon, poor irrigation, say GB Nagar farmers||Noida A delay in the southwest monsoon and poor water supply in irrigation canals have taken a toll on the farmers in the district, who foresee losses in the production of basmati rice amid a 15-day postponement in paddy plantation.Rice requires a lot of water to grow and is the major agricultural produce for the Gautam Budh Nagar district, with a variety of basmati rice cultivated widely. District farmers said that they have paddy plants in their nurseries, or have revived from the state government, but to shift and plant those in the fields involve risks. Though the officials said that there are enough means of irritation, farmers — especially those without a tube well of their own — deferred. “Paddy is the main crop of the year, and we are totally dependent on the rains. The 15-day delay in the monsoon will directly affect our produce, and we are worried about it,” said Pradeep Dhalia, a farmer from Greater Noida’s Sonpur village.The plantation of the rice paddy usually starts in the last week of June and concludes around July 10-15, according to the farmers.“We have alternatives such as using diesel pumping sets for irrigation. Due to the high cost of diesel, it may cost me around ₹1,500-2,000 a day to irrigate 10 bighas of land. If I plant paddy through this method, I will have to keep irrigating for a week to keep the fields soaked and the plantation alive. This would cost me a fortune,” said Sanjiv Saini, a farmer from Greater Noida’s Saini village.Devendra Kasana, a farmer from Sunpura village, said, “Our nursery is ready, but water isn’t reaching our village through the canal as the channels are not being maintained. The plantation process should have been started by June-end, but it could not due to these circumstances. We will face losses this year, but there’s nobody to help us.”“In most of this side of the country, especially Uttar Pradesh, paddy plantation starts around June 22 and concludes by July 12. However, a lot of farmers are dependent on rains as field channels often dry up, not just in Gautam Budh Nagar, but across cities as well. As for farmers planting basmati, the produce is already lesser. While 1.5 acres of land yield about 50-60 quintals of hybrid rice, the same land would have only 30-35 quintals of basmati rice this year,” said Umesh Chandra Pandey, a Sitapur-based farmer.Officials, however, claimed that everything is under control. “Smaller channels get water alternatively, i.e., every 15 days. There are 69 irrigation canals in the city. They have enough water for irrigation,” said a senior official of the irrigation department, requesting anonymity.According to the agriculture department, while “irrigation is out of its jurisdiction”, it feels that the “plantation could be done right in time”. “The plantation could be done right in time as there are a number of private and public tube wells and irrigation canals. A number of farmers also have diesel gensets. We have also ensured that enough crops are ready in our nursery, and we have given those to a lot of farmers in the first week of July,” said Manveer Singh, deputy director (agriculture), Gautam Budh Nagar.“In 2020, Gautam Budh Nagar produced 430,000 quintals of basmati that was sold between ₹3,300 and ₹3,500 per quintal. Rice is the main crop of the city, followed by millet and maize,” he added.According to the officials, basmati rice is produced over 15,150 hectares of land, while hybrid rice over 200 hectares in the district.Meanwhile, according to weather analysts, the monsoon is likely to arrive between July 10 and 12.“The monsoon usually arrives around June 27, however, it got delayed this year due to dry westerly winds cutting the trough to Himalayan foothills. We expect it to arrive by July 12,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/paddy-plantation-delayed-due-to-late-monsoon-poor-irrigation-say-gb-nagar-farmers-101625682081013.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Man locks one-year-old son in car, booked||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man allegedly locked his one-year-old son in his car and fled the spot after a quarrel with his wife in Greater Noida on Monday. A case has been registered against the man at Badalpur police station, the police said, adding that the child was rescued.The man was identified as Gagan Sharma, a resident of Chapraula village in Greater Noida’s Badalpur. Gagan and his wife Neetu Sharma both work as teachers at a government primary school in Bulandshahr, the police said. In her police complaint, Neetu said that she has some domestic issues with her husband. “Gagan has been involved in domestic violence with me. We had a heated argument on Monday, following which he locked our one-year-old child in our Maruti Baleno car, and fled with the keys,” she said. Neetu said that after 30 minutes the child was rescued after breaking the car’s window glass.When contacted, Gagan said that he had married Neetu in June 2019. “Since the beginning, we have been facing issues in our marriage life. My wife wants me to sell my ancestral property and give her money,” he said. According to Gagan, on Monday, the couple, along with their son, left Bulandshahr in their car for Greater Noida. “On the way my wife again raised the same issue and we had a heated argument. I stopped the car and came out. My wife also came out of the car and started quarrelling with me. Some people had gathered at the spot. I feared for my safety and fled the spot with the car keys,” he said. According to the police, Neetu rescued the child after breaking the car’s window and later reached Greater Noida and filed a complaint against her husband. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said a case was registered against Gagan under Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. “The child was safely rescued. We are investigating the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-locks-one-year-old-son-in-car-booked-101625681962831.html
07-07-2021||Lucknow||After Uttarakhand’s no to Kanwar Yatra, providing Ganga water poses major challenge for U.P.||Enforcing Covid guidelines and making arrangements to fetch Ganga Jal (water from the Ganga) after the Uttarakhand government’s ban on the annual Kanwar Yatra starting on July 25 will be a major challenge for the Uttar Pradesh authorities as the Yogi Adityanath government has decided to allow the annual pilgrimage in the state this year, said senior UP government officials here on Wednesday. Usually, a large number of devotees from Uttar Pradesh prefer to go to Haridwar in Uttarakhand to collect Ganga Jal.Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said detailed guidelines regarding the yatra will be issued soon. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked to coordinate with the neighbouring Bihar and Uttarakhand and ensure Covid guidelines during the yatra,” he stated.Another senior government official said the state top officials were mulling over to coordinate with the Uttarakhand state authorities after the government there cancelled the Kanwar Yatra again this year, citing the pandemic and asked devotees not to come to Haridwar to collect water from the Ganga.“We are thinking of different options if devotees are not allowed to visit Haridwar to collect Ganga Jal. The options could be of providing tankers to fetch Ganga water from Haridwar and provide it to devotees within the state border as well as persuade devotees to collect water from Ganga passing through within the state territory,” a senior state government official said.The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage carried out by the devotees of Lord Shiva who collect water from Ganga (usually at Haridwar in Uttarakhand) and offer it at Shiva temples in their respective states. The kanwariyas visit many places along the course of the Ganga to take the “holy water” to the temples. Apart from Haridwar, the kanwariyas visit Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar to fetch water from the river.These kanwariyas come from far-off places, covering hundreds of kilometres on foot.Last year, the pilgrimage was not held in Uttar Pradesh due to Covid-19 restrictions. Nearly 50 lakh devotees participated in this annual pilgrimage in the past, including around 10 lakh people only from the districts of west UP which are closer to Haridwar.In the past, communal violence after accidents involving kanwariyas, as well as clashes between kanwariya groups and people from other community, was witnessed in the state.UP additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order Prashant Kumar said the state police was chalking out a plan to ensure no law-and-order problem was created in case of restrictions imposed during Kanwar Yatra by the adjoining state. “We are in touch with Uttarakhand state authorities and trying to sort out the issue,” he said and added, “We are also trying to coordinate with the Bihar authorities.” The ADG further stated the state police were asked to make necessary arrangements like chalking out route charts for devotees, avert road accidents on these routes, intensify patrolling, keep aerial vigil through drones on kanwar yatra routes and make necessary traffic diversions.He said the directions had been issued to ensure that no meat shop was operational on the Kanwar Yatra routes to avert any type of communal flare-up and curb rumour mongering. He also said the district police chiefs had been asked to provide behavioural training to the police personnel on duty to deal with the devotees.In Varanasi, which is another preferred spot to offer Ganga Jal to Lord Shiva at Kashi Vishwanath temple, preparations have already been done following which Varanasi commissioner of police (CP) A Satish Ganesh held a meeting with senior police officials. In Varanasi, over 30 lakh (three million) kanwariyas from different parts of the region, including large number from Prayagraj and its adjoining districts, visit Kashi Vishwanath temple, to offer Ganga Jal and Sangam Jal (water from the confluence of the Ganga, the Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati in Prayagraj).The Varanasi police commissioner said any decision regarding kanwar yatra taken by the government will be implemented. He said police personnel who were deployed in the security of Kashi Vishwanath temple and Gyanvapi mosque would be imparted behavioural training in order to manage devotees. He said that they had also been instructed to behave well with the devotees, including women, elderly people and children.Over 50, 000 devotees visit Kashi Vishwanth temple daily on other days in the Hindu month of Shravan on an average and the number goes up to 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh during Mondays of the month. Usually, kanwariyas from Prayagraj, Jaunpur, Bhadohi, Mirzapur, Ghazipur and various other districts and devotees from different parts of the country visit Varanasi in Shravan to take a holy dip in the Ganga and offer prayers to Kashi Vishwanath.In 2020, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, only around 30,000 devotees offered prayers at Kashi Vishwanath temple on the Mondays of Shravan. The figure was about 10,000 daily for the other days of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-uttarakhand-s-no-to-kanwar-yatra-providing-ganga-water-poses-major-challenge-for-up-101625681962355.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Fire at play school in Noida, guard sustains injuries||Noida: A fire broke out on the second floor of a play school in Sector 50 on Wednesday morning. A security guard of the four-storey building was injured in the incident, officials said. The incident was reported to the fire department around 11.30am, the officials said, adding that four people, including the guard, were trapped in the building. The play school -- Ravi’s Noddy Play School -- has been closed for kids for the past several months due to the pandemic, they said.“Our team reached the spot around 11.45am. It took four fire tenders about two hours to control the fire. The guard was caught in the lift while three people, including a woman, were trapped on the third floor,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. According to the fire officials, the area was not wide enough to use a hydraulic lift, so a crane was used to bring the trapped people out. They said that it seems the fire started after a short-circuit in the server room on the second floor.“The security guard had suffered smoke inhalation and was rushed to a nearby hospital. Rest of the people are fine,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.The owner of the play school, Ravi Kant Mishra, said that three people were doing some office work on the third floor when the fire broke out. “I had just stepped out of the building. The guard, Surender, thought that I was upstairs and went to look for me. But he got caught in the lift when the power was shut down. Luckily, no one was harmed,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-at-play-school-in-noida-guard-sustains-injuries-101625681960953.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 26-year-old killed in celebratory firing||Ghaziabad: A 26-year-old man died due to a gunshot wound allegedly resulting from celebratory firing during a bachelor’s party thrown by his neighbour in Lajpat Nagar in Sahibabad on Tuesday night, which the victim had gone to. Three persons were arrested in connection with the incident after an FIR was lodged at the Sahibabad police station.The police identified the victim as Suraj Rai, who worked as an accountant with a private firm, and said he went to his neighbour Himanshu Sharma’s house, who was scheduled to get married on Wednesday.Police said Himanshu had allegedly arranged for a party a day before his wedding and invited his friends and neighbours. They said that Suraj went to the house around 9.30pm.“It was a case of celebratory firing at the bachelor’s party. The victim suffered a gunshot and was severely injured. Later, his friends took him and left him at a hospital in Vaishali. But he died by then. Based on a complaint by the victim’s father, we registered an FIR under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder),” said Alok Dubey, circle officer (Sahibabad).The FIR was registered at Sahibabad police station. The police said the arrested suspects were identified as Himanshu, besides Abhishek Tyagi and Hairom Tyagi.“During questioning, it came to light that it was a case of celebratory firing and the man suffered gunshot injury, while Hariom fired a shot from his licensed revolver. Later, the suspects took the injured man to a hospital where they left him,” the CO added.The CO added that the weapon allegedly used during the incident was also seized and the procedure of the cancellation of license will be initiated soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-26-year-old-killed-in-celebratory-firing-101625681900997.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Wanted criminal with ₹2 lakh bounty killed in encounter||Noida: A history sheeter, with a bounty of ₹2 lakh on him, died during treatment after he was injured in an encounter with the Noida Special Task Force (STF) and the police near Sector 14 on Wednesday afternoon.The deceased was identified as Ajay Kaliya, who was from Haryana. According to STF officials, they had a tip-off about him being on the move, following which a coordinated effort with the Sector 20 police was made.“We had inputs that the suspect and his accomplices were planning to go via Sector 20 to a highway for a robbery, using axle breaking techniques and nails. In a joint effort, the two suspects, who were on a motorcycle, were intercepted. But they fired at the police team chasing them. In the retaliatory firing, one of them was injured and the other managed to flee. The injured suspect was taken to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said RK Mishra, assistant superintendent of police, Noida STF.Officials said Kaliya was allegedly a part of the Bawariya gang and was infamous for loots and dacoities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. They said the gang would allegedly puncture cars using nails and were also involved in rape cases, assaults and forceful entry in houses.In October 2019, Kaliya and his accomplices had allegedly looted ₹10 lakh from the Yamuna Expressway area. In January 2020, a similar loot had taken place on the Palwal highway in which the suspect had allegedly molested a 14-year-old boy. He had several other loot and dacoity cases on him, said the police.“He had a bounty of ₹1 lakh on him from Mathura and ₹50,000 each from Aligarh and Haryana. He was wanted in several heinous offences. So far, we have identified at least eight such cases while more are being looked at,” said Mishra.The body was sent for an autopsy and the probe is being conducted by the Sector 20 police, who are also on the lookout for Kaliya’s accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-wanted-criminal-with-2-lakh-bounty-killed-in-encounter-101625681720839.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Four residential towers in Kaushambi face long power outages||Ghaziabad: The residents of four towers in Kaushambi faced long power outages due to some technical faults since Monday night and the snag, although partially rectified on Tuesday, continued till Wednesday evening. Officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) said that there was fault in one of the cables which led to short-circuit of another 18 major cables attached to the four towers. The office bearers of the Kaushambi Apartment RWA (Karwa), the apex RWA body in Kaushambi, said that each of the residential towers has 80 families residing in flats. The affected towers are Shivalik, Kailash, Trishul and Kamadgiri. “The residents are suffering since Monday night. The PVVNL officials started work for restoration, but the supply was partially restored till Wednesday evening. Two of the towers hired diesel generator sets, but services like lifts could not be restored,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa. Though the officials of the discom continued work, Mittal on Wednesday evening tweeted the issue to office of UP chief minister and state energy minister. “No power for more than 40 hrs in 4 multistorey bldgs of Kaushambi Gzb. Pls take action,” Mittal said in a tweet. Niranjan Kumar Singh, superintending engineer of PVVNL who arrived at the spot, said, “The power supply to three buildings was restored and work is on for restoration of supply to the fourth building. The cables going to towers were damaged and we are getting these repaired.” Pankaj, chief engineer of PVVNL, said that the repair of cables going from transformers to the buildings is the responsibility of the local RWA or the developer, in case the building in not handed over. “The cables going from the transformers to the four buildings got damaged. Even though it is not in our jurisdiction, we are getting these repaired considering the summer situation and problems faced by the residents. Our engineers have been working round the clock to restore the supplies,” he added. Over the “jurisdiction” issue of the cables, Karwa president Mittal said that before the electricity code came in 2018, the power department was getting the cables repaired in case of a fault. “They were doing the maintenance before 2018. When the electricity code came into effect, they entrusted the responsibility to the RWA/developer. But we were not informed about the change. They have informed us now after the current fault took place,” Mittal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-residential-towers-in-kaushambi-face-long-power-outages-101625681661607.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Submit date of GR that allowed forming of fee complaint panel, Bombay HC tells state||The Bombay high court (HC), while appreciating the initiatives by the state government to address the grievances of parents concerning the fees, by forming the Divisional Complaint Redressal Committee (DCRC), sought to know as to when the notification for constitution of the Divisional Fee Regulation Committees (DFRC) was issued after the petitioners disputed the claims that such committee was formed. The court asked the state to produce the government notification on Thursday, failing which, it would be constrained to summon the joint secretary of the concerned department to verify the information submitted in the affidavit. The affidavit stated that the DFRC had been constituted and will start functioning at the earliest. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar and some parents was informed that though schools had been functioning virtually during the entire period of the pandemic and would continue to do so till the lockdown restrictions were lifted by the government, the court should direct authorities to get the schools to provide various reliefs to parents and not act high-handedly by increasing fees for the new academic year. The reliefs include collecting fees that were fixed for the academic year 2019-20, not hiking fees as no executive committees of parents-teachers and school managements were due to the pandemic and schools should allow parents to pay fees instalments and not debar the students from attending classes or appear for any competitive or board exam. Senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf for the petitioners further submitted that the education department had failed to constitute the DFRC as a result of which schools were demanding hiked fees in the ongoing admission season. Dr Saraf added that as the schools were not providing the various facilities that were included in the fees, the court should direct the schools not to recover such fees. However, the education department through the deputy director of education Sandeep Sangave informed the court through an affidavit that the DFRC had been constituted and would get in touch with the executive committees and seek information about the fee structure from them. The affidavit further stated that the state had constituted DCRC to address the grievances of parents in January last year and it was adjudicating disputes between parents and schools managements. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the petitioners as to how any orders could be passed against schools without giving them a hearing to which Dr Saraf responded that issuing directions in this regard to the concerned divisional officers would suffice. In light of the information furnished in the affidavit, the bench appreciated the education department but sought to know the date of the GR which permitted the constitution of the DFRC and posted hearing of the PIL to Thursday and observed that if the committee was not functional it would cause trouble for the parents and also result in the HC being inundated with petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/submit-date-of-gr-that-allowed-forming-of-fee-complaint-panel-bombay-hc-tells-state-101625681660971.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||47% eligible citizens given first dose, 25.5% fully vaccinated in Mumbai: Data||Around 47% of the population above 18 years, who are eligible for the Covid-19 mass immunisation programme in the city, have been administered the first vaccine dose, and 25.5% have been fully vaccinated, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. But the civic body fears that lack of an adequate number of vials will hamper the spirit of the vaccination process.There are around 95 lakh people in the age group of 18 and above who are eligible for vaccination in the city. Data provided by the civic body shows 45 lakh have already taken the first shot of the available two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — of which, 11.50 lakh beneficiaries have taken both doses.Public health experts and medical practitioners said this might help subdue the effect of the third wave.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have 401 vaccination centres in the city. Every day, we keep adding new centres. We have also started drive-in vaccination centres where people can get a shot of the coronavirus vaccine without getting out of their vehicles. We are also trying to bring the vaccination to the doorsteps of the slum dwellers. Through several initiatives, we are trying to increase the capacity of the daily vaccination,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Data provided by BMC shows that only 2.66% beneficiaries who have taken the first shot have contracted Covid-19, while only 0.01% of the individuals with both doses have been infected with Covid-19.Dr Honey Savla, internal medicine, Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central said that vaccination is an important cog in the wheel to fight the ongoing pandemic. For any outbreak of a disease, vaccinations have proved to be the most effective weapon. “More than 135 vaccines have undergone various trials, but only the safest and the most effective ones have been introduced. The first dose creates antibodies, while the second shot acts as a booster. which further strengthens the immunity in the body. Hence, it is imperative to take both shots,” he said.‘Lack of vials is slowing the vaccination’Despite having the capacity to vaccinate 1-1.50 lakh people daily, the civic body isn’t able to meet its target due to a lack of adequate vials. The civic body fears that this would slow the vaccination process before the anticipated third wave hits the city.The number of inoculations has not been consistent due to the unavailability of vials. For instance, on June 28, a total of 180,821 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the 393 vaccine centres — the highest number of people to be vaccinated in a single day since the start of the immunisation programme in January. While, on July 1, due to a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, all government-run vaccination centres in Mumbai were shut down. On that day, only 32,074 vaccinations were recorded.Due to the lack of vials, almost half of the vaccination centres in the city are not functioning to their full capacity. “We are expected to get around 1.5lakh vial from the centre but it would last only two days. But we believe more vials will be supplied soon,” said Kakani.Last month, BMC received around eight lakh vials. But this month, twice or thrice a week, the civic body would get a consignment of 1-1.5 lakh vials. “For uninterrupted vaccination, we need more vials. Unlike the beginning of the vaccination drive in January, the demand has increased drastically. So, we can’t afford to vaccinate 50,000-70,000 people daily,” said an officer from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/47-citizens-given-first-dose-25-5-fully-vaccinated-in-mumbai-data-101625681601607.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Resurfacing work on Noida expressway likely to end by July 31||NOIDA: The resurfacing of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway will be completed by the end of this month, officials of the Noida authority said on Wednesday. The work on the 25-km expressway had started in January this year with a deadline of June 30.The authority has hired a private firm for the work. The officials said that the firm has been fined for the delay.“We have imposed a penalty of ₹20 lakh on the firm for the delay. As of now, only 30% work has been done,” said SP Singh, project engineer of the Noida authority.“The remaining work will be completed by the end of this month. We have asked the firm to speed up the work,” said Singh.The six-lane expressway connects Delhi with the 165-km Yamuna Expressway. According to the officials, over 150,000 motorists use the expressway daily. In its study, the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) had said that the expressway had to be resurfaced to ensure smooth traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/resurfacing-work-on-noida-expressway-likely-to-end-by-july-31-101625681601002.html
07-07-2021||Noida||Heatwave in Noida again as rain keeps away||After four days of respite, a heatwave swept through the city again on Wednesday, even as the weather department predicted some respite on Thursday. Dry and warm westerly winds and lack of rainfall (non-monsoon) and delay in the onset of monsoon have been cited as reasons by the weatherman for the soaring mercury.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast rain for Wednesday, but residents woke up to a heatwave. Weather analysts, however,said there is still a possibility of thunderstorms and rain over the next five days. “The maximum temperature may hover around 41°C on Thursday but we also expect light rain towards the evening that may bring respite,” said an official from IMD.On Wednesday, the mercury rose by over a degree in Noida, while the average rise in temperature across the region (NCR) was 2 degrees Celsius (°C).“The entire region of Delhi and Noida experienced a heatwave on Wednesday because there was no rain -- it should have rained on Wednesday. We expect rain on Thursday now, which may bring a slight respite from the heat. The region is getting warm, dry westerly winds, causing the heat to rise. There is a possibility of the south-west monsoon arriving by July 10 or 11, while rainfall (pre-monsoon) will pick up from July 9 onwards,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.On Wednesday, Noida saw a maximum temperature of 41.7°C and a minimum of 31.2°C, against 40.6°C and 28.7°C,respectively, a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered the average for the National Capital Region, the maximum temperature was 42.6°C, 6°C higher than the season’s average, and the minimum 29.5°C, 2°C higher than season’s average.According to weather analysts, a heatwave occurs when the maximum temperature is either 45°C and above, or is over 40°C and 5 degrees above the season’s average. Before Wednesday, the region suffered a heatwave for four days between June 29 and July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heatwave-in-noida-again-as-rain-keeps-away-101625681541691.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Pneumococcal vaccine for children under one soon in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will soon start offering Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) for children under one year. The vaccine will be administered free of cost at all civic-run dispensaries, clinics, and hospitals.“The city has around 1.5 lakh children in this age group,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “All these children will benefit from the vaccine,” he said.The vaccine protects against lung infections like pneumonia and other pneumococcal diseases. It will be offered under the expanded immunisation programme which already includes BCG, polio, whooping cough, tetanus, hepatitis-B, rotavirus, measles and rubella.An estimated one lakh children under the age of five were killed due to pneumococcal diseases in India in 2010. The same year, nearly six lakh children were diagnosed with pneumonia. Introducing PCV in the programme will help reduce such deaths drastically.The PCV is given in three doses at six weeks of age, 14 weeks, and a booster dose at nine months. The civic body has already started preparing for the vaccination by training staff and arranging for syringes and other supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pneumococcal-vaccine-for-children-under-one-soon-in-mumbai-101625681540912.html
07-07-2021||Lucknow||Praveen Nishad misses Union cabinet berth, party chief gives BJP a veiled threat||Even as seven lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh, including Pankaj Chaudhary, a six-term Lok Sabha MP from Maharajganj, were inducted into Union cabinet as ministers on Wednesday, the surprising factor was BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar, Praveen Nishad, who missed the berth.Parveen Nishad, along with his father Sanjay Nishad, chief of Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) Party, had met Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janta Party, national president JP Nadda in Delhi on June 10 setting off speculation over his induction in the Union Cabinet.On June 23, father-son duo had also met chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence in Lucknow.Displeased over the omission of Praveen, the Nishad party chief reminded the BJP of its promise made to the alliance partner.“Nishad community has influence over 160 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. While the representation of the community was ignored the Apna Dal (S), which has influence only over a few assembly seats has been given representation in Union Cabinet with induction of Anupriya Patel,” he said.Warning that BJP might have to pay the price for ignoring the Nishad community in 2022 assembly election, Sanjay Nishad said, it was the prerogative of the BJP leadership to give place to alliance partner in the Union Cabinet, but the BJP leaders should know if the displeased Nishad community supports the rival political party in the coming assembly election it will not be easy for the saffron brigade to win 2022 assembly election.In 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll Parveen Nishad had defeated the BJP candidate from prestigious Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat.In 2019 Lok Sabha election, Praveen secured victory from Sant Kabir Nagar considered a tough seat, Sanjay Nishad said.A BJP leader who does not wished to be named said Nishad party chief Sanjay Nishad might be inducted in the state cabinet during the expansion of Yogi Adityanath government.Meanwhile, with the induction of Pankaj Chaudhary who comes from backward Kurmi community, the BJP has tried to consolidate its base among the OBC whose support is vital for victory in the Lok Sabha seats located in East UP.In 1990-91, Chaudhary was deputy mayor of Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/praveen-nishad-misses-union-cabinet-berth-party-chief-gives-bjp-a-veiled-threat-101625681483484.html
07-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar parents’ body to write to CBSE over new scheme for classes 10, 12||After the CBSE on Monday released a special assessment scheme for classed 10 and 12 for the academic year 2021-22, the Gautam Budh Nagar Parents Welfare Society (GBNPWS) said it will write to the board, requesting changes in the assessment scheme.According to the new scheme, the academic session will be divided into two terms, with each term covering approximately half the syllabus. The syllabus will be bifurcated by subject experts and examinations will be conducted at the end of term, on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. The scheme said the board will conduct the first term examination in the month of November-December 2021 and second term or the year-end examination around March-April 2022According to the parents’ body, the term periods that the CBSE has set are not equal -- students would get just three months (from December to March) to prepare for the second term/end of year exams. “This scheme leaves just two to three months for students to study half the syllabus, after the first term exams in November-December. The second term also has practical assessments and it will not be conducive for students to prepare for all of this within just two to three months, whereas they are getting over seven months to prepare for the first term exams, assuming that the current session started in April this year,” said Manoj Kataria, founder of GBNPWS.“We will write to the board requesting that the first term examination be conducted in September-October instead of November-December so that the students are comfortably placed to score well in both sets of exams,” he added.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, Noida, also seconded this view and said usually, schools finish the whole syllabus of class 12 by November-December.“The first term has been given too many months by the CBSE while the second term has been allotted too little time. I agree with the parents’ body as we also have to prepare students for the second term examinations, which will have multiple choice questions, subjective as well as objective questions. Time from November-December to March-April is too little for students to prepare,” said Singh, who is also the CBSE coordinator for Gautam Budh Nagar.Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, said, “The number of days can be better divided between the two terms. Usually, we hold half-yearly examinations around the 10th and 12th of October. This is decided after calculating the total number of days and then dividing them into half. I feel that November/December is too late for first term examinations and they should be advanced to September/October.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-parents-body-to-write-to-cbse-over-new-scheme-for-classes-10-12-101625681484091.html
07-07-2021||Other||TGT/PGT recruitment exam-2021- now all 75 UP districts to prepare to hold exams next month||The written examinations of trained graduate teachers and post graduate teachers (TGT/ PGT) Recruitment Exams-2021, will now be held in all districts of the state instead of just the divisional headquarters, as planned earlier, officials said.The examination aims at filling up 15,198 vacant posts of assistant teachers and lecturers in 4,500 government-aided secondary schools.The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB) has taken a decision in this regard in view of the dip in Covid-19 cases across Uttar Pradesh, said Naval Kishore, deputy secretary and controller of exams, UPSESSB.The UPSESSB exam controller on June 30 had sent a missive to district magistrates of those 18 districts which were designated divisional headquarters in the state and asked them to submit a proposal regarding examination centres for the recruitment exams by July 7.However, on July 3, he sent another letter to DMs of all 75 districts of the state asking them to submit a proposal by July 10 for exam centres to conduct these recruitment exams, UPSESSB officials aware of the development said.The TGT Recruitment Exams-2021 is proposed to be held on August 7 and August 8 while the PGT Recruitment Exams-2021 is set to be held on August 17 and August 18.The TGT/PGT Recruitment Exams-2021 are to be conducted in the state in accordance with the recommendations made by the Paliwal Committee to ensure fairness and transparency.In accordance with this, the duty allotment spelling out the examination hall of all invigilators will be declared on the very day of the exams and the question papers will be printed in a printing press located outside the state in confidentiality.A total of 15,198 posts including 12,603 posts of TGT and 2,595 posts of PGTs will be filled through these recruitment exams, officials said. Though the UPSESSB has not released the total count of applicants, it is believed that over a million eligible candidates have applied for these recruitment exams. The UPSESSB had issued the online advertisement for these recruitment exams on March 15, 2021 and the last date of application was May 20, 2021. The amended advertisement for these recruitment exams was issued after a gap of four months of cancelling the initial advertisement owing to legal hurdles, and had witnessed 310 posts of TGT getting reduced as compared to the first advertisement. Earlier, online applications for 15,508 posts of TGT and PGT recruitment had been invited by UPSESSB through an advertisement including 12,913 posts of TGT and another 2,595 posts of PGT from October 29, 2020.However, the NIC website crashed for two days on November 13, 2020 due to the high number of candidates trying to apply. Later, on November 18, 2020 the UPSESSB had cancelled the advertisement on the advice of its legal experts, due to legal hurdles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tgtpgt-recruitment-exam-2021-now-all-75-up-districts-to-prepare-to-hold-exams-next-month-101625681481571.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Need panel to take care of hygiene, medical waste, Bombay HC tells state||The Bombay high court (HC), while stressing the need to have a proper medical waste management system and cleanliness and hygiene in public hospitals as they were necessary for the well-being of patients and staff, directed the state to consider forming hospital-level committees to oversee the implementation of measures to address these issues was required. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed byLokshahiwadi Balasaheb Sarode Smriti Prabodhan, was informed by advocates Asim Sarode and Ajinkya Udane that the medical waste disposal was neglected as a result of which the lives of the patients, staff and general public were put at risk. Though the issue raised in the PIL was restricted to Pune hospitals in light of reports that similar problems were faced in other cities and Mumbai, as well as the bench, observed, “Cleanliness and hygiene in the hospital are on top priority now. Ultimately, it is about human lives. So many patients are visiting hospitals and there is pressure on maintaining hospitals. We want authorities to pay special attention to deal with these aspects.” The bench then observed that as BMC hospitals were frequented by a large number of people, a proper system had to be put in place to maintain cleanliness and hygiene and directed senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC to take up the issue with the higher authorities. “We would request you to take up the issue with higher-ups. See to it that there is cleanliness. Each hospital must have a separate committee to look into hygiene. A large number of patients and relatives visit the hospital every day and there is a risk of getting infected,” said the bench. Ruing the fact that relatives of patients sitting in the corridors left trash there itself the bench added that it was another reason for the spread of infections and hence priority should be on proper disposal of biomedical waste as well as addressing the issue of cleanliness and sanitation. The bench while stressing that the committee should be a working one referred to the committee formed to oversee illegal constructions in 2002 and said that the committee had not met in a long time and said that the suggested hospital committees should be on the lines of the hospital in Malegaon. The bench recalled that the committee comprising of local public representatives and the commissioner was constituted four years ago based on the order of the HC while hearing a PIL. “In 15-20 days, the hospital looked similar to a private hospital. If there is a will, anything can happen,” observed the judge. The bench then noted that the local Member of Parliament had taken the onus of being held accountable which translated into a fantastic job. Hence, elected representatives of each constituency and ward should take such initiatives. Sakhare assured the bench that the civic authority would look into the suggestions of the petitioner and also convey the suggestion of the court to the authorities. Seeking responses from the respondent authorities, HC posted a further hearing on PIL after two weeks.Meanwhile, the Court, while hearing PIL on the issue of maintaining hygiene and cleanliness at public places while hearing public interest litigation filed by advocate Amrin Vandrewala directed the BMC to create awareness against the perils of spitting in public through audio-visual medium and also directed the government and police authorities to apprise their personnel on the need to maintain the same themselves so that it would deter the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-panel-to-take-care-of-hygiene-medical-waste-bombay-hc-tells-state-101625681480945.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage: Over 200 centres to remain shut today in Mumbai||Owing to vaccine shortage, on Thursday only 93 out of the total 303 civic and state government-run vaccination centres will remain open in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a statement.Due to vaccine shortage, vaccination also had to be suspended for a day last week. As of Tuesday, BMC had around 50,000 vaccine doses, which was utilised for the vaccination drive on Wednesday. The BMC anticipates the fresh stock of vaccine doses to reach the city anytime soon.In a statement, BMC on Wednesday said, “Due to limited availability of the doses, vaccination will be held on Thursday (July 8) from 9am to 5pm at selected (93) centres of the MCGM and State Govt Centres.” Overall, the city has 401 vaccination centres of which 283 are civic-run vaccination centres, 20 are run by the state government and the rest are private vaccination centres.According to BMC, the 93 vaccination that will remain open on Thursday will remain functional between 9am to 5pm wherein 50% slots will be given on a walk-in basis and 50% based on appointment.Meanwhile, on Wednesday 90,532 citizens were vaccinated in the city of which around 55,000 were first doses and around 34,000 were second doses. Overall, 5,884,019 citizens have been vaccinated in the city of which the highest are in the 18-44 age group.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “Centrally we do not have any vaccine stock but the vaccination centres we have allowed vaccination on Thursday have very limited vaccine stock. Hence, they will continue the vaccination drive. Also, we are expecting substantial vaccine doses to come soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-over-200-centres-to-remain-shut-today-in-mumbai-101625681420873.html
07-07-2021||Lucknow||Invincible spirit - lost hand but not courage, Etawah’s Ajeet sights gold at Tokyo Paralympics||Ajeet Singh Yadav wanted to be a teacher or a professor of sport, but never thought he would become a sportsperson of international repute one day. That is what destiny had in store for Ajeet who lost his left hand in a 2017 train accident while trying to save a friend.Ajeet, 27, who hails from Nagla Bidhi village in Etawah and is pursuing a PhD in physical education and sports, will pursue a gold medal in javelin throw at the Tokyo Paralympics, starting on August 24.“I lost all hope as nothing was left for me then, but today, I feel this is what God decided for me. Winning a gold medal at Tokyo will not only give me immense confidence, but will also help me start a new life,” said Ajeet on Tuesday, after finishing his day’s training at SAI’s Sonipat centre.Ajeet, who made India proud by winning the gold medal in men’s javelin throw at the Fazza Para Athletics Grand Prix, in Dubai, in February, said that his fight for gold at Tokyo would be against compatriots Devendra and Sundar Singh Gujar, who too, have been doing well in the discipline.“The fight for the gold medal will be among the Indians themselves as both my teammates are tough contenders. My mission will be to do better than those two and finish on top, that too with a world record,” said Ajeet, gold medallist at the 2019 World Para Athletics Grand Prix, in Beijing, as well.“The event at Dubai was perfect in terms of preparation for the Tokyo Paralympics. During the pandemic, it was really difficult to train and prepare well. But I managed by working out in the gym,” said Ajeet, adding, “If the train accident had not happened, I would have been aiming to become a sport teacher or a professor of physical education somewhere.”In fact, Ajeet’s story is among the most inspirational ones from the world of sport. Despite the setback, he has never lost hope and sought to work hard to be a javelin thrower and a terrific player at that.Ajeet, who threw javelin to a distance of 63.96 metres at the final selection trials in New Delhi last week, comes from a family of farmers, and holds BPEd and MPEd degrees.“I lost consciousness when I fell from a moving train near Satna in December 2017 while saving my friend. He remained unscathed, but unfortunately, I suffered multiple injuries, including amputation of the left arm below the elbow, several fractures, right hip dislocation and severe bruises all over the body.”“I couldn’t think of anything positive after that. But after being motivated by my mentor and coach VK Dabas, I came out of the mental agony and trauma. I still feel that winning gold at the Grand Prix Championship in 2019 in China and later a bronze medal at the World Para Athletics Championship at Dubai in November, 2019 did wonders to my confidence.”However, he said that before making his official entry to para sport at the National Para Athletics Championship at Panchkula, Haryana, in March 2018, he was quite nervous, as he was about to start a new life and was participating without complete recovery.“I threw the javelin standing and still won fourth place in this important championship. More than winning the medal, the main object of participating in the national championship was to learn and know about para athletics in general and para javelin in particular.”“I am thankful to my family, which never stopped me from pursuing para sport after the accident. They stood by me and it was my coaches and mentors at the Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education in Gwalior, who kept guiding me towards my Mission Paralympics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/invincible-spirit-lost-hand-but-not-courage-etawah-s-ajeet-sights-gold-at-tokyo-paralympics-101625681182814.html
07-07-2021||Lucknow||Lungs lost to Covid, Lohia doc Suman to get rare transplant soon||With the state government pledging financial aid of ₹1.50 crore, Sharda Suman, 30, a resident doctor at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science (RMLIMS), hopes to get her rare lung transplant surgery soon.Battling for life since Covid-19 caused irreparable damage to both of her lungs in April, the woman doctor will soon be shifted to one of the four centres for lung transplant, said Prof Sonia Nityanand, director, RMLIMS, on Wednesday.Addressing a press conference, Prof Sonia Nityanand said, “There are four centres, KIMS Hospital, Hyderabad, MGM Hospital, Chennai, Yashoda hospital, Hyderabad and another one in Chennai, where lung transplant is done. We have approached all and hope to receive reply from them anytime now and immediately after that we shall plan to shift Dr Sharda Suman.”Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson of the institute said, “The state government has been kind to help financially. Immediately after our request, the amount of ₹1.50 crore had been sanctioned.”Dr Suman had tested positive for Covid while doing her duty during the pandemic. She remained in home isolation for a couple of days but had to be admitted to the Lohia institute, where she is doing PG in gynaecology.This is first of its kind case in UP where lung transplant is being planned for a doctor who got infected while on Covid duty.She joined Lohia institute in 2018 and got married on May 29, 2019, to Dr Ajay, who is also a resident doctor in the same institute.She performed Covid duty while being pregnant. “Doctors got her caesarean delivery done on May 6. Her baby girl is Covid negative and is doing fine,” said Prof Nityanand.“For the past 45-days she is on ECMO (extra corporeal membrane oxygenation) and as per the panel of experts who examined her case, she is fit for a lung transplant,” said Dr Rajan Bhatnagar, chief medical superintendent of the institute.“After expert committee report we approached the state government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath took personal initiative to get the financial support extended immediately,” said Prof Nityanand.The doctor had first fallen ill on April 12 when she got fever. The next day, she tested positive for Covid. Currently, she is being looked after by a dedicated medical team under Dr PK Das.The lung transplant requires a cadaveric donor and before that pre-transplant procedures are done at the lung transplant centre only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lungs-lost-to-covid-lohia-doc-suman-to-get-rare-transplant-soon-101625681180873.html
07-07-2021||Other||Unhappy cane farmers to march to Lucknow on July 15||Another farmers’ movement is on rise in Uttar Pradesh under the aegis of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (RKMS) which has been demanding paying interest on sugarcane dues of farmers pending with mills.The Sangathan has given a call of a march to Lucknow on July 15 and convened a Mahapanchayat of farmers in the entire sugarcane belt to mobilise farmers to participate in the march.Sangthan president V M Singh has so far convened panchayats in Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur and Meerut and has a plan to convene similar panchayats in other districts of western UP till July 12.Speaking to HT over the phone, he said that the objective of these panchayats was to mobilise farmers for the Lucknow march to mount pressure on the state government to ensure payment of interest on dues of payment of sugarcane farmers since 2011.Singh said that the Uttar Pradesh cane commissioner had issued an order for payment of interest in 2019 but the government didn’t comply with its own order.Singh claimed that ₹11 to 12 thousand crore of interest on delayed sugarcane payment is due on mills which are running in profit but not paying farmers. He claimed that UP has 70 lakh sugarcane farmer families and payment of interest will benefit each farmer to the tune of ₹20 to 25,000 thousand per acre.Singh also said that PM Narendra Modi had promised payment of sugarcane in 14 days otherwise farmers will get interest on delayed payment. “His promise remained hollow and payment of thousands of rupees of farmers is still pending with the mills,” said Singh. He said that the union government declared a relief package of ₹20 lakh during the pandemic. This amount could be either directly distributed among farmers, or distributed as loans to them. Once the mills release their interest and pending payment, the farmers would return the amount received to the government.Meanwhile, the Sangthan also has sent a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath in which they have demanded payment of sugarcane crushing season 2020-21, payment of interest on delayed payment, and to raise the sugarcane MSP to ₹450 per quintal in the wake of escalating prices of diesel, seeds, fertilizer and other commodities.CAPTION: V M Singh addressing a panchayat of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unhappy-cane-farmers-to-march-to-lucknow-on-july-15-101625680582056.html
07-07-2021||Bhopal||5 people in MP came for Covaxin 2nd dose, given Covishield instead||Bhopal/Chhindwara: Five people were administered Covishield as the second dose instead of Covaxin at a vaccination centre in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district on Wednesday, said a state health department official.Chhindwara’s district immunisation officer LN Sahu confirmed the mix-up and stressed that there were no adverse effects on the five people concerned.“As many as five people received the wrong doses of vaccine. It happened as the vaccination was being done without prior registration,” Sahu said. “No adverse events following immunisation have been reported among them but they are being put under observation.”A 20-year-old was the first to point out the mistake. Divyanshi Parmar said she discovered that she was given Covishield when she went through the vaccination slip and received a message on her phone. She confronted health officials. Later four more people, who didn’t want to be named, joined her to complain.Officials said their family members created a ruckus at the vaccination centre at Chhindwara’s MLB School.Health officials tried to control the situation by showing people reports of studies abroad on the effect of people being administered different vaccines. A UK study, for example, reported last week said a mix-and-match approach to Covid vaccines appeared to give good protection against the pandemic virus. Another study indicated that combining the AstraZeneca and Pfizer Covid vaccines could boost immunity.Saha made the point. “Foreigners are allowed to take different doses of vaccines. There is no problem with it but many studies show that it is more beneficial,” he said.Chhindwara collector Saurabh K Suman said: “We are inquiring into the matter and action will be taken after the inquiry.”(with inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi from Chhindwara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/5-people-in-mp-came-for-covaxin-2nd-dose-given-covishield-instead-101625679981314.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra Congress minister Kripashankar Singh ties up with BJP||Former Congress Minister Kripashankar Singh joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Mumbai on Wednesday.Singh joined the BJP in the presence of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and party state president Chandrakant Patil at state party headquarters in Mumbai.Speaking to ANI, Maharashtra BJP leader Madhav Bhandari on Tuesday said, "Kripashankar Singh has been a big leader and has a relevance in Mumbai politics, he has been in touch since last few months, he will be joining BJP in the presence of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra BJP President Chandrakant Patil and other BJP leaders."When asked if he is being given any big responsibility being a north Indian face and as BMC elections are close, Bhandari said, "Definitely Singh has been a big face in the city, however, whatever responsibility will be given it will be decided by the party and will be announced soon."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-maharashtra-congress-minister-kripashankar-singh-ties-up-with-bjp-101625649710440.html
07-07-2021||Other||When the Tragedy King introduced joyous Bhangra on silver screen||Chandigarh The story of legendary actor Dilip Kumar known for his intense melancholic roles in films like Devdas, Andaz, Milan, Daag and many others, cannot be complete without knowing that he introduced the Bhangra to Bollywood. This happened at a time when his co-actors, Raj Kapoor and Devanand, who, along with Dilip, formed the trio of super stardom clowned and flirted on screen with elan. Dilip’s Bhangra came in BR Chopra film Naya Daur, which was based on the theme of Man vs Machine, with the villagers successfully resisting the advent of the bus. As the peppy tonga driver wooing the pretty Vyjayanthimala, Dilip was the first hero to dance on the Bhangra on screen. The duet was penned by none other than lyricist Sahir Ludhianvi to the peppy musical score of OP Nayyar, ‘Udein jab jab zulfein teri’ (Whenever your tresses dance in the wind). The song and dance remains popular to date; the audience loved the star even more in his new Avtaar.It was a Markfed employee late Avtar Singh, who had played a major role in popularising the Bhangra on stage post-Independence who was called upon to choreograph this cheery number. When this writer interviewed him on the experience of teaching the steps to Dilip and Vyjayanthimala, he said, “Dilip was a Peshawari boy equally at ease in the Pakhtoon and Punjabi cultures and took to the steps at once; Vyjanthimala, from the South, too mastered the Punjabi rhythm.” The greatest compliment to Avtar came from yesteryear heroine Nargis, who exclaimed, “This is the first time that men have danced like men in a Hindi film!” Today, the Bhangra is an integral part of Bollywood. Punjabi singer Pammy Bai says, “There was a bit of Bhangra sequence with actor Manohar Deepak, brother of Avtar Singh, in the film Jagte Raho in 1956 but Dilip Kumar (Yusuf Khan) put the star stamp on the folk dance of Punjab.”In the mid-1990s when the then Punjab chief minister honoured Punjabi stars in Bollywood at the Mohali cricket stadium, it was Dilip who stole the show giving an emotive speech in Punjabi, saying: “The soil of the film-world in Mumbai was very hard and we Punjabis held it with our teeth!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/when-the-tragedy-king-introduced-joyous-bhangra-on-silver-screen-101625679141220.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori demolition drive to start, residents asked to ‘leave peacefully’||The spectre of their houses being demolished loomed large over the residents of Khori village on Wednesday as the district administration parked 10 bulldozers on a village road. Although no building was razed on the day, officials said they are likely to start the demolition drive on Thursday.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said, “We will start the demolition on Thursday morning. We are requesting residents to allow us to follow the (Supreme) Court’s order and to evacuate the village peacefully. They will be rehabilitated by the government and meetings are being held in this regard. All teams have been informed and all security measures will be taken care of,” he said.OP Singh, the commissioner of police, said that their teams are ready and will follow the instructions of the administration. “Our teams are ready. We will also ensure the safety and security of people during the demolition drive,” he said.The Supreme Court, on June 7, directed the municipal authorities to “remove encroachments on the subject forest land without any exception” and gave the civic body six weeks to complete the task.Krishan Kumar, a resident, said that they have been living in fear since June 8. “We were hopeful that the Haryana government will plan rehabilitation for us, but it seems they are not interested and are planning to throw us out to fend for ourselves. The people living in Chungi (an unauthorised colony in Delhi located in the vicinity) are safe and secure, and the Delhi government is supporting them by providing them electricity and water. The houses falling under Haryana are the worst hit,” he said.A few residents said that they are being “fooled” by the state government and that they are ready to resist the demolition drive. More than 2,000 residents were on their toes throughout the day in anticipation of the demolition process. When the bulldozers reached the village, social activists, mediapersons and local politicians also started thronging the area.Kiran Kumari, a resident, said that residents were earlier told that a decision will be taken for their betterment and that the demolition drive will take place only after discussing it with them. “We are not even going out for work, fearing our houses will be razed. We have not earned a penny for almost a month. How will we survive if the situation remains the same?” she said.Residents alleged that a delegation that was on its way to meet the deputy commissioner was stopped from exiting the village by the police.Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar with the Faculty of Architecture, Building and Planning at the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village, said, “The police have been stationed at Khori Gaon for the past three to four weeks and as per Section 144 (of the CrPC) stopping the residents from assembling and protesting. However, they have also been constantly threatening the residents, exploiting their ignorance and sometimes, forcefully getting them to fill surveys. So, what role is the police playing here?”Social activists alleged that the government had promised to rehabilitate residents, but no steps have been taken so far.Neelesh Kumar, a member of Basti Suraksha Manch, an organisation supporting the residents, said that the government on Sunday agreed that Khori residents would be rehabilitated and the plan of rehabilitation would be shared with them. On Monday, a meeting was held among residents, the deputy commissioner, MCF officials and the police, but a and final decision is awaited.Residents said that more than 50 officials of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Wednesday started removing various structures and installations manually, without using any machinery. They said that a large number of khaki-clad officials and district administration officials were present outside the village for more than five hours in the morning and left in the afternoon.However, the administration officials said that there was no demolition on the day and that the MCF officials were only taking stock of the situation in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-demolition-drive-to-start-residents-asked-to-leave-peacefully-101625678781553.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori: Police helping residents find employment||The Faridabad Police is coordinating with private companies to help residents of Khori get jobs in other places as the residences are set to be razed on Thursday, officials said on Wednesday.OP Singh, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that a team has started collecting details of unemployed residents in the cluster, where a demolition drive is set to take place on Thursday. “We are coordinating with private companies in Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Palwal, where they can get placement and start afresh. We will be helping them to prepare their resumes and also preparing them for their upcoming interviews, based on their qualifications,” he said.So far, the police have received details of over 200 such residents, most of whom are labourers. The police have also approached social activists working in the area to spread the word among residents.However, activists and residents alleged that the initiative is just an eyewash.Neelesh Kumar, of Basti Suraksha Manch, an organisation supporting the residents, said, “We don’t believe in this initiative of the police at all. If they want to ease residents’ pain, why are they forcing them to vacate and planning a demolition drive? They want to win their confidence and fool them to move out,” he said.Ram Avtar, a resident of Khori, said, “The Haryana government has planned nothing for us and the police are fooling us. Which company will give a job to a labourer and how much will they pay? Who will calculate the travel cost and other factors? We do not trust them or any of their schemes.”Singh said they decided to take the initiative as residents expressed concern over their prospects after the demolition drive. “They feared that if they would shift from here, they will not get jobs and will have to face a financial crunch. We are trying to help them in all possible ways and to bring the best opportunities for them,” he said.Additionally, the police also set up community meals at two spots, twice a day, for residents, to help them after the demolition drive. The police said that the food is prepared by their cooks and more than 200 families are being fed.Yashpal Yadav, Faridabad’s deputy commissioner, termed the police initiatives as a “thoughtful gesture.”“All the departments are supporting the residents in the best way they can. Residents should support the authorities and move out so that a peaceful demolition can be carried out. We are not their enemies, but want to support them in whatever way we all can,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-police-helping-residents-find-employment-101625678724979.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Truck operators seek reduction in fuel prices||Truck operators based in the city on Wednesday asked the state and central governments to reduce the price of petrol and diesel as they were facing difficulties in managing the operations due to high fuel prices. The truck operators, under the banner of Bharat Truck and Transport Welfare Association, also carried out a march from Mor Chowk to Mini Secretariat and submitted a memorandum of demands to the government. Ranvir Singh, the president of the association, said that running transport fleet has become difficult due to the rising fuel prices. “The government must revise fuel prices, extend moratorium on loans taken by transporters to buy vehicles and also ensure that the truckers are not harassed,” said Singh. The truckers also alleged that penalties for traffic violations have been increased by up to ten times and that these need to be reduced. They also said that there was a need for immediate relief to the transport sector, which is facing low demand and rising fuel prices and operating cost, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/truck-operators-seek-reduction-in-fuel-prices-101625678723464.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Snarl at border as commercial vehicles not permitted to pay toll in cash||Heavy congestion was witnessed at the Sirhaul border on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Wednesday morning as the concessionaire of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) allowed commercial vehicles entering Delhi to pay toll only using FASTags. The situation normalised around noon after the norms were relaxed and drivers were allowed to make payments in cash.The Gurugram traffic police said they were informed of the congestion around 9.30am and personnel were deployed to manage the situation. However, commuters said that the vehicles piled up from the border up to Iffco Chowk for three hours.An order issued by Hemant Kumar Fauzdar, additional deputy commissioner (toll tax), SDMC, on July 1, stated that the Supreme Court and Commission for Air Quality Monitoring have directed a cashless collection of environment compensation cess (ECC) and toll for specified commercial vehicles entering Delhi. “It has also been directed that commercial vehicles without RFID tags and sufficient recharge be not permitted to enter Delhi from July 1,” the order stated. Naresh Kumar, a truck driver who was stopped from entering Delhi, said, “If the truck is loaded, the fee is ₹2,600 but if the truck is empty, only ₹1,200 has to be paid. However, the RFID tags don’t differentiate this.” A senior official of Sahakar Global Ltd- JV, the concessionaire for SDMC, said, “We tried to ensure the RFID tags are read quickly and those who didn’t have them were issued one at the toll gate. The discrepancy in payment at full load and when the vehicles are empty is an issue, but we will try to get it resolved.” The concessionaire said that they will try to make the process smooth so that there is no congestion. “This was the first day of strict implementation but things will improve in the next few days,” the official cited above said. Karan Singh, the traffic inspector with the Gurugram police under whose jurisdiction the toll plaza falls, said, “Our team reached the spot immediately and jersey barriers at the toll were removed as well as on the main carriageway to ensure smooth vehicle movement. A large number of commercial vehicles did not have RFID tags, due to which they were stopped and this led to congestion. We will be sending our teams in the morning for the next few days to ensure there are no jams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/snarl-at-border-as-commercial-vehicles-not-permitted-to-pay-toll-in-cash-101625678722803.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG designates five spots for dumping C&D waste||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has finalised five sites for dumping construction and demolition (C&D) waste, a release issued by the civic body on Wednesday stated. These sites are located in Sector 56, Kadipur, Transport Nagar, Wazirabad and Pwala Khasrupur. Disposal of C&D waste is a major issue in the city, as dumping of such waste on vacant plots is considered a major source of pollution.While Wazirabad and Sector 56 are located near the Golf Course Road and Golf Course Extension Road, respectively, Kadipur is located in Sector 10, Transport Nagar in Sector 33, next to Rajiv Chowk, and Pwala Khasrupur in Sector 110, adjacent to the Dwarka Expressway.The locations of the five sites or secondary points were shared by civic officials during a review meeting held by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja regarding C&D waste management at the Sector 34 office on Wednesday. Ahuja said that in addition to the designated places, debris should be cleared from roadsides and vacant plots.“For processing the debris, IL&FS (the concessionaire for handling C&D waste) has set up a plant at Basai, which is currently operating at a capacity of 300 tonnes per day. An agency was also hired for door-to-door collection of debris from households and subsequently, dump it at the secondary points. IL&FS is responsible for transporting debris from the secondary points to the Basai plant,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.Ahuja said that more sites should be identified for not only dumping the waste but also processing the same. The MCG has two mobile C&D waste units, each of which can process around 200 tonnes of waste per day. They currently operate in areas around Basai Road. Ahuja also directed the officials concerned to increase the capacity of the Basai plant. Further, Ahuja directed officials to prepare an inventory of the debris lying across the city and ensure that the same is picked up by IL&FS, as per a schedule.The Basai C&D plant opened in December 2019. As per MCG officials, the plant has a maximum capacity to process around 1,500 tonnes of waste per day.The MCG commissioner also directed civic officials to keep a check on unauthorised dumping of C&D waste and penalise offenders for violations, which carry a minimum fine of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-designates-five-spots-for-dumping-c-d-waste-101625678722072.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Registry of plots smaller than one acre under admin scanner||A team of revenue department and municipal officials will scrutinise registration records of plots smaller than one acre, over the last three months, to ensure that the process was done only after a no-objection certificate was issued by the town and country planning department (DTCP), officials of the district administration said on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that registration of small plots should be checked regularly to prevent unauthorised colonies. As per the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, a no-objection certificate (NOC) is required from DTCP for the registration of plots smaller than one acre.“The team will comprise the district revenue officer, a senior official from MCG and other members who shall check whether NOC has been obtained wherever it is required under Haryana Development and Management of Urban Areas Act. There has been a tendency among property owners to subdivide agricultural land into smaller plots and get these registered so these can be sold as residential plots. A lot of steps have been taken to curb this practice and this is one more step in this direction,” said Garg.To curb registration of smaller plots and stop registries without NOC from DTCP, the Haryana government banned the registration of properties for almost a month from July 22 last year. It was observed that most of the plots were registered in violation of Section 7A of the Haryana Development Act, 1975. In September 2020, the state government amended the rules and made NOCs mandatory for the registration of plots smaller than one acre, which was earlier kept at two acres.Garg said that to streamline the registration process, a majority of the process is now online and submission of NOC has been made mandatory. “We are working to ensure that the entire process becomes smooth while violations are brought down,” he said.Gurugram has 291 revenue estates and land records of a majority of these have been digitized, according to officials of the revenue department.DTCP officials said they are working in coordination with the district administration to prevent violations. “It has been observed that in many cases, owners obtain NOC first and later carry out subdivision of large plots. Wherever we come to know that application for NOC is bona fide, it is issued within 15 days, but, in case the purpose is illegal plotting, we refuse to issue the same,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/registry-of-plots-smaller-than-one-acre-under-admin-scanner-101625678720662.html
07-07-2021||Gurugram||Mobile bar in private bus busted, owner-cum-driver booked for bootlegging||The police on Tuesday night arrested the owner-cum-driver of a private bus from Rajiv Chowk for allegedly running a mobile bar on service lanes of the expressway and bootlegging liquor to Madhubani in Bihar, his home town.The police said that the suspect, identified as 30-year-old Subhash Kumar, ferried tables and crockery in the vehicle and used to set up the bar in the night, charging double price for bottles of liquor. He also tied up with small eateries for delivering food and used to take a 20% cut from them, they said.Ten cases of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) were recovered from the boot of the vehicle.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that he used to smuggle liquor to Bihar to make a quick buck, as it is a dry state. “He used to ferry passengers from Gurugram to Darbhanga (in Bihar), almost a 1,200-kilometre trip, twice a week. On other nights, he used to park his bus on the service lane near Rajiv Chowk or Hero Honda Chowk and run the mobile bar,” he said.“He used to smuggle at least 150 cases of liquor to Bihar every month, to sell them at double the price. He had bought the bus on loan and was planning to buy another bus this year,” he said. Sangwan said he had been using his bus to serve liquor for the past one year. However, the police were able to track the vehicles only on Tuesday night, when a patrol team from Manesar noticed loud music being played in the bus and liquor being served.Kumar used to make nearly ₹8,000 per night. Six tables and crockery were also found inside the bus. The police said he hired a helper to clean the bus and tables, and used to run the operations at spots frequented by drivers and commuters.The police said he started smuggling liquor and running the mobile bar since a lockdown was announced in March 2020 to curb the spread of Covid-19.Kumar was booked under relevant sections of the Excise Act and the Disaster Management Act at the Sadar police station. He was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mobile-bar-in-private-bus-busted-owner-cum-driver-booked-for-bootlegging-101625678660522.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Monsoon to revive from July 9 in Pune||PUNE As Pune has seen hotter days with intense rainfall spell over the last few days, Meteorologists said that it was due to the local instability of weather over the city. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, said that the Southwest Monsoon is weak and the temperature during the day is seeing a rise as there is heating of the earth’s surface. “The monsoon is likely to be active from July 9 in Maharashtra and Pune.Ghat areas may have received isolated heavy rainfall. Along with Pune, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Konkan and Goa and Vidarbha will also receive monsoon rainfall as the monsoon current will get strong,” said Kashyapi. So far, between June 1 and July 7, rainfall in Pune was at 163 millimeters (mm), 17.1 mm deficient as per IMD. Shivajinagar on Wednesday reported a maximum temperature of 33.5 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees warmer than normal. Lohegaon reported a maximum of 34.1 degrees Celsius, 5.1 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. Temperatures across the State have seen a rise as well. The highest maximum temperature reported on Wednesday, was 40 degrees Celsius at Akola, and the lowest minimum temperature reported was 18.3 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. Kashyapi said that this is due to local instability. “There is a huge cloud cover over Pune as per models of Wednesday evening. There is mixture in the air due to the flow of westerlies. This inflow of moisture is likely to increase by 10 per cent in the next few days. There is high moisture and rise in temperature which is causing local instability. In the afternoon time there is formatting of cumulus clouds followed by cumulonimbus clouds, because of which there is thunder and lightning,” said Kashyapi. “Due to the strengthening of the Southwest Monsoon over the Arabian Sea there is a likely formation of a low pressure area over west-central Bay of Bengal around July 11. Due to this, enhanced rainfall activity is very likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konkan and Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka, and Kerala and Mahe, between July 9 and July 11,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monsoon-to-revive-from-july-9-in-pune-101625676740139.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Just one berth for JD(U) in Union cabinet; top leaders left fuming||There was palpable anger in Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) after it became clear on Wednesday that the party was being given just one berth in the union cabinet, an offer it had summarily dismissed in 2019 and refused to join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government which returned to power under Narendra Modi. Though no one was willing to come on record to comment, top JD(U) leaders said the overall mood in the party was one of dejection since there has been a strong buzz that the party would get at least four berths.R C P Singh, JD(U)’s national president, was the lone face from the party to be inducted in the union council of ministers on Wednesday when Modi reshuffled his cabinet in its biggest overhaul so far. “It is embarrassing, disheartening… what is this? Everybody was talking of four berths and now you have to be content with just one. Then why this fuss was made in 2019 when one cabinet post was offered,” said a senior party leader, wishing not to be quoted. “We have been humiliated,” said another JD(U) leader who is a member of Legislative Council. In 2019, JD(U), then headed by Nitish Kumar, had refused to join the union cabinet, demanding proportional representation rather than a symbolic presence. JD (U) had won 16 out of the 17 Lok Sabha seats it contested in Bihar against 17 won by BJP and six by LJP as part of the NDA. One was won by Congress. Bihar has 40 Lok Sabha seats. Another top JD (U) leader said the party wanted four berths and had spelt out the formula for this. “The BJP has 17 MPs in Bihar and five ministers at the centre. But JD(U) has 16 MPs and not a single minister. In such a situation, JD (U) has asked for four ministerial posts, two cabinet and two state ministers,” said a JD (U) leader, wishing not to be named. “Now we have been put at par with the LJP, which has six MPs only,” he said.JD(U)’s state unit president Upendra Kushwaha, a former union minister, however, sought to play down the “humiliation”. “It is prime minister’s prerogative. Our national president had only said JD(U) was going to be the part of union cabinet. Rest all is media creation,” he said.Gyanendra Yadav, a political observer and associate professor (sociology) at Patna Commerce College, however, is of the view that JD(U) has been shown its place. “JD(U) has been reduced to the number three party (in terms of seats) after the 2020 assembly polls, yet BJP kept its word by giving Kumar the CM’s post. How long will BJP compromise after getting 74 seats in the assembly? It agreed to contest on equal number of seats (17 each) during Lok Sabha elections. It gave more seats to JD(U) to contest in assembly polls. After the poor performance of JD(U) in assembly polls, BJP has realized that the ally has been given more than it deserves. But just to keep intact social equations, the party honoured his demands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/just-one-berth-for-jd-u-in-union-cabinet-top-leaders-left-fuming-101625676500322.html
07-07-2021||Other||Two new faces from Bihar in Modi cabinet||R C P Singh Ram Chandra Prasad Singh, 63, a former IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, joined politics in 2010 after taking voluntary retirement. He is a Rajya Sabha member from JD(U) and its national president too. A native of Nalanda district, Singh is a confidant of CM Nitish Kumar and served as his personal secretary when the JD(U) strongman was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. He also served as special secretary to Nitish Kumar during the latter’s stint as railway minister and later worked as principal secretary during Kumar’s stint as chief minister in his first term. In a surprise move last year, Kumar stepped down as JD(U) chief and handpicked Singh to head the party.Singh, who joined IAS in 1984, studied at JNU. He has two daughters. The elder one, Lipi Singh, is a 2016-batch IPS officer. Pashupati Kumar ParasThe younger brother of Lok Janshakti Party founder late Ram Vilas Paswan, is a sitting MP from Hajipur. Paras started his political innings in 1977 with his election as MLA from Alauli in Khagaria, a seat he has represented multiple times. Paras, 68, who mainly worked in the shadow of his union minister brother, shot into national limelight only last month when he, along with five of the six LJP MPs, staged a coup against Paswan’s son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan and split the party. Both factions now claim to be real LJP. Paras, one of the founding members of the party formed in 2000, has served as its Bihar unit president. He has been minister for animal husbandry and fisheries department in the NDA government in Bihar. Paras is considered more an organizational man. He is said to have opposed Chirag Paswan’s decision to go alone in the 2020 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-new-faces-from-bihar-in-modi-cabinet-101625676260136.html
07-07-2021||Other||East Champaran: Villagers demolishing own houses to escape flood fury||Residents of flood-affected Bhawanipur village, situated on the bank of river Sikarahana in East Champaran’s Sagauli block, are now resorting to demolish their houses in a bid to save construction material and shift elsewhere before the flood causes further damage. HT visited the village on Tuesday, where people were demolishing their houses and loading bricks, doors, doorposts, windows etc. in a trolley engaged in ferrying the material to safer places. Drenched in sweat and going about extricating bricks, a local Lalan Sah said, “We never know when the river engulfs our house so are trying to save some construction material.” According to locals, erosion by the swollen river damaged over 100 houses in past one month.However, officials are conducting an assessment in this regard, district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said on Wednesday. “Compensation for houses will be given as per norms,” he said.Officials at the block level also admitted to sharp erosion caused by the river in few villages of the block. “With the present current of the river, it is not possible to launch repair work immediately. However, we making all possible efforts to rush relief material to affected people,” the officials said, refusing to be identified.When contacted, additional district magistrate (ADM) of district disaster management Anil Kumar said about ten panchayats in the block are affected by floodwater from Sikarahana. Meanwhile, circle officer Dharmendra Kumar Gupta said four community kitchens are being run to provide food to the displaced people. “We are planning to start four more such kitchens from Thursday,” he said. The district administration has also distributed 3,000 plastic sheets and pressed two NDRF teams, two private boats and a drone into services to meet any eventualities. “Rescue and relief works are going as per guidelines of the disaster management department,” said subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Priyaranjan Raju.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/east-champaran-villagers-demolishing-own-houses-to-escape-flood-fury-101625676080254.html
07-07-2021||Ranchi||Koderma MP Annapurna Devi joins Modi cabinet as MoS||BJP parliamentarian from Koderma Annapurna Devi on Wednesday became the second Lok Sabha member from Jharkhand to have found a place in the reshuffled Narendra Modi cabinet. She was administered oath as the Minister of State in the Union government by the President of India as part of the first expansion of the Cabinet led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in his second stint at the helm. Devi is the second Lok Sabha member from the state to have joined the Union cabinet after tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi is also a member of Rajya Sabha from Jharkhand. Appointment of Devi, who belongs to the OBC (other backward classes) category , in the Union cabinet from the state is significant, as she is a first time Member of Parliament and also a new entrant into the BJP. Devi, the then Jharkhand president of Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), joined the BJP just ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. An RJD veteran who represented Koderma assembly seat in four occasions, Devi was also a minister in the Hemant Soren government in 2013. Soon after she joined the BJP, she was made vice-president of Jharkhand BJP unit before being elevated as the party’s national vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/koderma-mp-annapurna-devi-joins-modi-cabinet-as-mos-101625675960709.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Nine women arrested with 554 bottles of Jharkhand-made liquor||Nine women were sent to jail on Wednesday after they were arrested with liquor from the Bihar-Jharkhand border near Pandeydih village under the Chandan police station area of Banka district on Tuesday evening. According to the Belhar SDPO Premchand Singh, a police team launched a campaign on Chandan-Deoghar (Jharkhand) main road to prevent illegal smuggling from other states and its sale by liquor vendors in and around Munger. As part of this operation, nine women were arrested with a couple of bags. Police seized 554 bottles of Jharkhand-made country liquor and 24 bottles of IMFL. Police said all arrested women who came from Jharkhand in separate vehicles were caught by the police team during vehicle checking. When asked what they are carrying in the bag, a woman there was ‘prasad’ in it. However, police found bottles filled with liquor in their bags, the officer said. During interrogation, they revealed that most of them worked as domestic help and to earn easy money they started supplying liquor. Police said that the arrested women were interrogated for several hours but they did not reveal the source of consignment. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nine-women-arrested-with-554-bottles-of-jharkhand-made-liquor-101625675960081.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Reopening of coaching centres will be decided in next phase of unlocking: Bihar education dept||Educational institutions in the state, including varsities and schools for Class 11 and 12, are gearing up for partial reopening from July 12 while the decision regarding reopening of coaching centres will be taken in the next phase of unlocking.As per the circular issued by the education department, all varsities, colleges, technical institutions and schools for Class 11 and 12 will resume from July 12 with 50% strength while coaching and training centres will remain shut during Unlock 4. No examination will be conducted by schools or varsities in this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/reopening-of-coaching-centres-will-be-decided-in-next-phase-of-unlocking-bihar-education-dept-101625675900209.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Woman, daughter killed in road mishap||A pregnant woman and her three-year-old daughter were killed while her husband received grievous injuries after a speeding truck rammed into their motorcycle near pillar number 43 on Mahatma Gandhi Setu under Alamganj police station on Wednesday noon.DSP Mohammad Ali Ansari said that the bodies were sent to the NMCH for autopsy. “The police seized the truck and arrested the driver and cleaner from the spot. The injured man has been admitted to Sadar hospital Hajipur for treatment,” he said.There was a heavy traffic jam on Setu after the incident. The traffic policemen and other officials cleared the jam after an hour..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharwoman-daughter-killed-in-road-mishap-101625675840226.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Carry out assessment of flooded regions, step up flood relief operations: Nitish||Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, who conducted an aerial survey of three districts for floods on Wednesday, asked officials to carry out realistic assessment of submerged areas and conduct adequate relief operations to ameliorate sufferings of the marooned lot.This was the second consecutive day that the CM carried out the survey along with water resources minister Sanjay Jha and departmental secretary Sanjeev Hans to oversee the impact of floods and ongoing relief operations across flooded regions.Later in the evening, Kumar chaired a meeting of senior officials of the district administration and departments concerned with flood management and relief operations. Chief secretary Tripurari Sharan and development commissioner Amir Subhani joined the meeting through virtual mode along with district magistrates of Darbhanga, Madhubani and Samastipur.Situation in around a dozen districts, criss-crossed by major rivers such as Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Kosi, Bagmati, Parmar, and Kamla, remained grim as the rivers were recorded to be flowing one metre above danger levels (DL) at different stretches along their course. Thousands of villagers have also relocated to highways and near railway tracks to save their lives along with their pet animals.At the meeting, the CM emphasized on conducting RT-PCR test of all those being rehabilitated in relief camps. “Those found positive for Covid-19 shall be isolated and treated with utmost care,” said Kumar, while directing officials to carry out vaccination drive among those affected by the floods. He also asked officials to draw up comprehensive plans to provide relief to the marooned people and assess the damage to standing crop for doling out compensation to farmers.During the review meeting, WRD minister Jha underlined that a vast stretch of north Bihar districts were facing flood-like situation owing to heavy rains and discharge from small rivers from Nepal. “All embankments of the department are safe. An intensive monitoring of embankments is being carried out round-the-clock with help of flood volunteers and locals. Advanced flood warning system is also helping the department avert chances of break of bund by swirling rivers,” said the minster.Additional chief secretary of disaster management department Pratyay Amrit also attended the review meeting.Earlier on Tuesday, the CM conducted an aerial survey of five districts in northern parts--East and West Champaran, Sheohar, Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi--that have been facing floods due to above normal rainfall.Kumar had told media persons that providing assistance to those hit by such calamities has always been his government’s top priority. “In 2007, more than 2.50 crore people were affected due to floods and the government managed the crisis well,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/carry-out-assessment-of-flooded-regions-step-up-flood-relief-operations-nitish-101625675720640.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap falls ill, better now||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, who complained of body ache and uneasiness on Tuesday night, was now feeling better, his aides said on Wednesday. Tej Pratap’s younger brother and leader of the opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had rushed to his Strand Road residence along with doctors on Tuesday night after he complained of illness. Dr S K Sinha, Yadav’s doctor, told reporters it could be a side effect of the first dose of coronavirus vaccine taken by him last week. “Body ache could have been a side effect. It could also be due to change of weather,” he said. Yadav brothers had taken the Sputnik-V vaccine on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-falls-ill-better-now-101625675720025.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Rahul meets top Cong leaders from Bihar ahead of state unit revamp||Senior leaders of the state Congress and all party MLAs from Bihar met former All India Congress Committee (AICC) chief Rahul Gandhi in shifts on Wednesday and sought immediate revamping of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC), sources familiar with the development said.The meeting, coordinated by AICC in-charge Bhakta Charan Das, assumes considerable significance as he has reportedly submitted a list of names to lead of the state unit and rebuild the party ahead of next parliamentary elections in 2024. Kutumba MLA Rajesh Ram is among the names Das has reportedly recommended to take over as the new state party chief, along with a set of senior leaders to be accommodated in various panels.Prominent among those who met Gandhi were former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, former governor Nikhil Kumar, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad, former Lok Sabha member Kirti Azad, former BPCC chief Anil Sharma, current BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma and former BPCC chief Shakeel Ahmad. They met Gandhi in the forenoon session while the legislators met him in the evening.Contrary to the AICC in-charge line, a majority of senior leaders are reported to have suggested that the party needed an aggressive upper caste leader to help revive its fortunes.A senior leader, who had one-on-one meeting with the Congress top brass, said the party required an upper caste leader even if it wished to continue its tie-up with the RJD. “RJD still depends on the Congress for upper caste voters, although Congress has alienated them with its allegiance to RJD. However, the upper castes, who are still looking for a good leadership in the state, might help the party regain its lost ground,” he said.Some also reportedly complained against Das, alleging he had prepared the panel without any deliberation with senior party leaders and workers. “One should not expect a miracle by installing a Dalit or scheduled caste (SC) leader in a highly fragmented society. The Dalits and extremely backward classes (EBCs) are still firmly associated JD(U), BSP and the left parties,” argued another leader.A senior leader present at the meeting said names of leaders Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Nikhil Kumar, Kirti Azad, Meira Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Prem Chandra Mishra and Tariq Anwar were also discussed during the discussion with Rahul Gandhi. As many as 16 out of the total 19 MLAs of the party in the state and all four MLCs interacted with the former AICC chief in the evening session. Former MLA and party spokesman Harkhu Jha said it was a formal meeting where the newly elected MLAs got the chance to interact with Rahul Gandhi. “The meeting with party’s top brass was put off due to the pandemic. The party workers would accept any committee for the state unit as finalised by the party high command,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rahul-meets-top-cong-leaders-from-bihar-ahead-of-state-unit-revamp-101625675600142.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Minister Sahni relents, resumes office after meeting Bihar CM||Bihar’s social welfare minister Madan Sahni, who had threatened to resign a week ago alleging high-handedness by his department’s top bureaucrat, resumed office on Wednesday, a day after meeting chief minister Nitish Kumar. Additional chief secretary Atul Prasad, who the minister had accused of overruling him in the matter of recent transfer of officials, was also present in the meeting that took place late Tuesday evening, sources said. “I met chief minister Nitish Kumar. He heard my side and gave me his blessings and asked me to continue working sincerely as I was doing earlier. Whatever misunderstanding was there has ended and there won’t be any problem in the future,” Sahni said after meeting the CM. “I have huge respect for the CM,” he said.Sources in the chief minister office said the meeting lasted an hour. Several ministers in Bihar had backed Sahni and requested the chief minister to look into the allegations seriously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minister-sahni-relents-resumes-office-after-meeting-bihar-cm-101625675540189.html
07-07-2021||Other||Power shortage worsens; 3rd unit at Talwandi Sabo working at 50% load||Patiala The state’s acute power shortage got worse on Wednesday morning with the third unit of the Talwandi Sabo thermal plant developing a technical snag. The plant is now running at only half of its load at 335MW (mega watt). Responding to the development, where it has lost another 300MW, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has ordered another round of operational curbs on industry, already making do with two compulsory weekly-offs. As far as the numbers are concerned, two units of 1,980MW thermal plants are already shut. One unit of the plant is down for the last four months, with the other unit tripping last week. The generation from private plants stands reduced to 2,175MW, against the installed capacity of 3,840 MW.On Tuesday, the maximum power demand was 12,969 MW. There was a shortage of 775 MW during evening peak hours, leading to the imposition of power cuts for rural and small-town domestic consumers. The PSPCL supplied 3,006 lakh units of power, with thermal units supplying 944 lakh units.The gross generation stood 5,031MW on Wednesday afternoon. The power supply from thermal units is now 1,600 MW, with hydel units supplying another 800MW. ENGINEERS FACE THE HEAT With the PSPCL resorting to massive load shedding due to the power shortage, engineers were left to face people’s wrath. Members of farm unions laid siege to the office of sub-divisional officer (SDO), suburban Maur, starting Tuesday noon. They were demanding three 10 KVA transformers, which were not available in storage room. Finally, the siege was lifted after a dozen engineers arrived at the spot around 1am on Wednesday. At the Karamgarh grid in Barnala, a crowd of nearly 500 gathered, seeking the end of power cuts. “It has become difficult to serve in the field due to the shortage of material. Long power cuts have drawn the ire of people and engineers are the first and easy targets for them to vent their anger,” said Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president, PSEB Engineers Association.PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad has directed officials to take stock of units at Talwandi Sabo and ensure that they are operational at the earliest. The PSPCL is banking on the arrival of monsoon to ease the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-shortage-worsens-3rd-unit-at-talwandi-sabo-working-at-50-load-101625674340848.html
07-07-2021||Other||Outer gate of Sibtainabad Imambada in Lucknow set to regain its glory soon||LUCKNOW The outer gate of the 173-year-old Sibtainabad Imambada in Hazratganj that collapsed last year during lockdown, is set to regain its glory soon. The new version of the gate would be exactly the same as it used to be in 1847 — the year when the construction of the Sibtainabad Imambada was completed, said officials with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the agency undertaking the restoration exercise.“Funds have been allocated for the re-construction of Sibtainabad Imambada gate. The job is expected to be completed by October-end,” said Dilip Khamari, superintending archaeologist, ASI, Lucknow Circle. Officials have also procured old photographs of the gate from the archives that shows the gate in its full glory. “Sibtainabad Imambada gate was one of the most beautiful gates in the city. But due to negligence and encroachment in its surroundings, the gate had fallen victim to apathy and eventually collapsed on April 2, 2020. Now we have launched a massive re-construction drive to bring it back to its original shape,” said a senior official with ASI (Lucknow Circle). Officials said they had hired a city-based firm —SN and Company for the rejuvenation exercise. This company has restored Gulistan-e-Eram, Chhatar Manzil and other heritage structures in Lucknow and other parts of UP. “The gate is one of the most beautiful structures. But prior to embarking upon the re-construction exercise, we first had to find out the cause of its collapse,” said Nitin Kohli, owner of the company and an expert who is leading the team carrying out the re-construction work. On studying the rubble, Kohli said it was found that the structure collapsed due to overloading. “Being an old structure, it was already weak. The encroachers around the gate had laid double RCC slab over the gate, which eventually brought it down,” he said. Kohli said the restoration work would be carried out in three phases. “In the first phase, we would ensure the removal of encroachment and the modern structures that damaged the structure to the core. Once done with the removal of modern structures, the second phase would comprise of re-construction and strengthening, which is the trickiest part,” he added. Why tricky? “In a general restoration exercise, we restore an existing structure. However in this case, there is no existing structure; we have to re-construct it from the scratch and then have to strengthen up. Hence, we have procured some old pictures of the gates and would re-construct the structure with the same dimensions, using surkhi, lime and mortar,” he said. The third phase would ensure its beautification, said Kohli. “The ASI eventually started the work. There is also a dire need of an encroachment drive as many shops are still running illegally within the gate. The district administration and the ASI should ensure that the gate remains encroachment-free in future,” said Mohammed Haider, mutwalli, Sibtainabad Imambada. Historians said the gate was built in 1847 along with the Imambada, which was started by Amjad Ali Shah, the fourth King of Awadh. But it could not be completed during his lifetime, and it was left to his son, Wajid Ali Shah, to complete the edifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/outer-gate-of-sibtainabad-imambada-in-lucknow-set-to-regain-its-glory-soon-101625674040346.html
07-07-2021||Other||UP sees 11 more deaths, 120 fresh Covid cases||LUCKNOW Eleven more people succumbed to Covid in Uttar Pradesh, taking the fatality count to 22,666 while the infection tally rose to 17,06,934 with 120 fresh cases on Wednesday. “There are 1,947 active cases under treatment, and of them 1,351 are in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press conference. He said the recovery rate in UP was 98.6% and the positivity rate 0.04%. Shahjahanpur reported maximum 5 deaths, Unnao 2, one each in Varanasi, Bulandshahr, Hardoi and Lalitpur, according to the data from the state health department. No fresh fatality was reported in Lucknow for the eighth consecutive day. “Of the total 2,38,407 Covid cases, 2,35,593 have recovered and the recovery rate in Lucknow is 98.81%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Lucknow, 188 active cases were under treatment, majority being in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sees-11-more-deaths-120-fresh-covid-cases-101625673681433.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Delhi man arrested for sharing private pictures of minor girl||A 28-year-old man was arrested from Delhi by Pune police cybercrime cell on Monday and later brought to Pune. The arrested man was identified as Neeraj Kumar Ramshavad (28), a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase 1 in New Delhi, according to the police. He was produced in a court on Tuesday and remanded to police custody till July 12 by a local court. “By using platforms like FreeFire, WhatsApp, Snapchat, and Instagram, a minor girl from Pune city met a man online who later got close to her using online chats and coaxed her into sending illicit pictures which he later uploaded on a fake Instagram profile and brought disrepute to her. A complaint was lodged by her father,” read a statement from the police. The cybercrime cell police officials have urged citizens to not share private pictures with unidentified people on the internet. A case under Sections 354(d) (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, Section 11(5), 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, along with Section 66(e) and 67 of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delhi-man-arrested-for-sharing-private-pictures-of-minor-girl-101625673439949.html
07-07-2021||Pune||DCP traffic proposes 22 new signals in 40 chowks||Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) traffic Rahul Shrirame had submitted a proposal in January 2021 to install 22 new signals at 40 chowks across the city for smoother traffic flow. The proposal read, “The city is expanding and it is necessary to maintain a smooth traffic flow within the city. It is a fact that every resident of Pune owns at least two vehicles and some do not follow traffic rules. There is a need to strengthen the traffic department with new equipment, technology and adequate manpower. However, without these, it is difficult to maintain a smooth flow of traffic hence this proposal of adding 22 new signals with another additional 18 in 40 chowks.” “The budget required for one signal to be set in a chowk is approximately ₹1 lakh,” said DCP Rahul Shrirame. The names of the chowks for new signals as suggested by the traffic department to PMC are Shyamrao Ganjave chowk, Sahitya Parisad Chowk, Seva Sadan chowk, Takle Haveli chowk, Bhrahma hotel chowk, Panmala chowk, Neelayam Bridge chowk, VS Khandekar chowk, Kapil Malhar, Balaji chowk Pashan, Parnakuti chowk, Tarkeshwar chowk, General Post office chowk, Kharadi old Jakat naka chowk, Kharadi-Hadapsar bypass road, Durga Mata Mandir, Choudhary vasti chowk, New Airport road, Symbiosis school junction, Symbiosis law college chowk, Ramoshi gate chowk, Narpatgiri chowk, Beyur junction chowk and Handewadi chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dcp-traffic-proposes-22-new-signals-in-40-chowks-101625673319876.html
07-07-2021||Other||Covid-free Shravasti - How the dist admn did it||LUCKNOW Located 175 km north of Lucknow on the Nepal border, Shravasti was in the limelight on Wednesday when chief minister Yogi Adityanath declared the district Covid free and lauded the district administration here for this achievement.No fresh Covid case has been reported in Shravasti and the active cases in the district are also zero. Yogi said other districts should also follow the Shravasti model to check the spread of the Covid.Categorized as an aspirational district, the fight against Covid pandemic was not easy for the health department in this district. When the second wave hit Uttar Pradesh in April first week, Shravasti reported 1,036 active cases on April 30 when the Covid graph was at its peak in the state.Unfolding the strategy adopted by the district to check the spread of Covid, chief medical officer (CMO), Shravasti, Dr AP Bhargava said the district has a large migrant population - people who move to metropolitan cities including Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata or states like Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka in search of petty jobs.“We decided to focus on the migrant population. Surveillance committees constituted in rural and urban areas of the district were directed to collect information of people returning home from other states or districts. A health team was dispatched to their home to collect the sample of the migrants. If the report was positive, the infected person was admitted to health facilities. Samples of family members or close associates of positive persons were also collected for laboratory test,” he said.The personnel deputed at the Integrated Command and Control Centre took regular feedback from patients in home isolation. If they reported any problem, a rapid response team was dispatched to address the issue, he said.“In mid-April, the district was in the grip of an oxygen crisis. The district administration got supply from neighbouring districts to maintain the oxygen supply to the level 2 Covid facility set up at Bhanga primary health centre (PHC). Now, we have installed oxygen plant at the PHC to maintain regular supply of oxygen to the wards,” said Dr Bhargava.To check the spread of Covid, the district health department focused on RT-PCR sample tests and rapid vaccination of the rural population. Health teams were dispatched to the villages to clear doubts of rural population over the vaccine and motivate them to take the jabs at government facilities. The recovery rate is around 98%, whereas the positivity rate is zero, he added.“We have also started preparations for the possible third wave. The district administration has set up a 100-bed Level 1 Covid facility at Sonwa community health centre (CHC) while a 40-bed paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) at Laxmanpur health centre and a 20-bed PICU at Sonwa health centre have been set up. We are also setting up PICUs at Goura and Maldipur health centres. Door to door surveys in rural areas have been launched to check the outbreak of vector-borne diseases during monsoon,” added Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covidfree-shravasti-how-the-dist-admn-did-it-101625673259913.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Barhate remanded to nine days in police custody||A court in Pune, on Wednesday, remanded RTI-activist Ravindra Barhate to nine days in police custody in the land grab case in which Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. Barhate was arrested by the Pune police on Tuesday, around a year after a series of cases started getting registered against him and a group of people. The police are on a lookout for people who secretly helped Barhate evade arrest for all several months and have already arrested his wife and son in the case. So far, police have arrested 32 other people in the series of 17 cases registered against Barhate, according to the police. Of the 17 cases, MCOCA has been invoked in 3 of them. The police custody of Barhate’s son Mayur Barhate was extended till July 9 by the same court. His wife Sangita Barhate and his lawyer Advocate Sunil More were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barhate-remanded-to-nine-days-in-police-custody-101625673199892.html
07-07-2021||Pune||RTO staffers protest alleging privatisation||An association of staffers of the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has staged a protest against a central government decision to permit vehicle distributors to directly register vehicles at showrooms. The association has called the move “a privatisation of the RTO”. The RTO staffers wore black badges while carrying out their official duties on Wednesday. “The registration work comes under the purview of the RTO department and the current policy of the central government takes away the official right. This is the first step towards privatisation and we completely oppose this move,” said association secretary, Surendra Sartape. It may be recalled that Union minister of road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, in 2014 had said that the central government was in the process of creating an efficient system in terms of RTOs. However, according to RTO authorities, the new dealer point registration method has proved useful and reduced paperwork . Once a customer registers the vehicle, the Aadhaar card, permanent account number (PAN) and related documents are uploaded on the RTO website, and then the customer receives an OTP. All payments from the distributor are then made, after which, the distributor gets the registration number and hands over a number plate to the customer. The distributor uses a digital signature when registering the vehicles. Documents no longer need to be submitted to the RTO office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rto-staffers-protest-alleging-privatisation-101625672899818.html
07-07-2021||Pune||PMC goes slow on action against health scheme beneficiaries||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to go slow on issuing notices to citizens who allegedly claimed benefits of the urban poor health scheme, despite being owners or property. The property ownership has been established by the payment of property tax by the owners.PMC has already issued 4,000 notices to citizens found paying property tax, and claiming benefits under the urban poor health scheme. The health scheme is only for those with an annual income of less than Rs1 lakh.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of PMC’s health department declined a comment on the issue. Another health officer, speaking on condition of anonymity said, “It is true that PMC had issued notices, but it is now going slow after opposition from political parties.”The allegation, as levied in the PMC notice, states: “Owning property in Pune city, means the citizen has a good income. Despite having an income of more than ₹1 lakh, they have managed to get a fake income certificate and take the benefits of the scheme.”Shiv Sena member Vishal Dhankawade had this week warned the PMC to stop issuing such notices. “It is wrong logic to say that those owning property are having more income. There are some citizens who are staying in old wadas and they are paying property tax. During the Covid-19 pandemic, whole families got affected, so people took the benefit of this scheme. It is injustice against middle-class families. We will agitate if PMC does not stop issuing notices to citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-goes-slow-on-action-against-health-scheme-beneficiaries-101625672779733.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Gadkari: Hope road accidents are reduced by 50% by 2025||Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road transport and highways , said he hoped road accidents and resultant deaths in the country would be reduced by 50% by 2025, and that there should be no compromise on saving lives of persons involved in road accidents. Gadkari made these remarks while inaugurating a webinar on ‘Vehicle Crashes and Road Safety’, organised by MIT-ADT University, Pune. “The target is to reduce 50% of road accidents by 2025 and we can achieve zero deaths due to road accidents by 2030,” said Gadkari. The ministry of road transport and highways aims to make roads safer by providing highways with four to 16 lanes, and to motivate vehicle manufacturers to implement technologies for vehicle safety, the minister said. Gadkari said there is a need to expedite the task of saving lives in accidents. He said that the last year, the ministry participated in a conference in Sweden where a vision was conceptualised to have zero road fatalities in India by 2030. “We had promised that we will reduce deaths and accidents by 50 per cent. Today, we saw the success story of Tamil Nadu. It (Tamil Nadu) has reduced accidents and deaths by 53 percent,” the minister said. He also stressed that the government has taken various initiatives to put a check on road accidents and the Centre is also working on reducing black spots. The symposium on Vehicle Crashes and Road Safety’ seeks to raise awareness about causes of road accidents and measures to prevent them. These are highlighted through various activities involving students, drivers, and other road users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gadkari-hope-road-accidents-are-reduced-by-50-by-2025-101625672479814.html
07-07-2021||Pune||MLA funds being used for private societies, activists allege||Civic activists have filed a complaint with the district collector alleging that MLAs’ development funds are being used for private housing societies. Civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani said, “MLA Sunil Tingre used his MLA local area development fund for private housing societies and carried out drainage and road works. He had spent almost Rs2.33 crore on these works which is not allowed legally. There are norms to use MLA development funds and it is mandatory to use it for the same.”Sukhrani added, “I am filing a complaint with the district collector and divisional commissioner.”MLA Sunil Tingre said, “The administration should take care that works get carried out as per provisions.”Meanwhile, an administrative officer from the collector’s office on condition of anonymity, said, “In municipal areas, there is duplication of roles. Most works are carried out by the corporation. But considering that MLAs are suggesting works in housing societies, this is not the first time such works are being executes. Many previous elected members carried out such works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mla-funds-being-used-for-private-societies-activists-allege-101625672299772.html
07-07-2021||Other||Varsity teachers seek UGC pay scales, suspend answer-sheet evaluation||Patiala On a call from the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), teachers across public universities and colleges suspended the evaluation of varsity exams answer-sheets in protest against the non-implementation of University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales. Panjab university, Punjabi University, Guru Nanak Dev University and Punjab Agricultural University were the major varsities participating in the protest. PFUCTO general secretary Dr Jagwant Singh, said, “The Punjab government has failed to keep its promise of the implementation of UGC pay scales along with pay scales of 6th Punjab Pay Commission. Punjab is the only state which is yet to implement UGC pay scales notified in November 2017 and UGC regulations notified in 2018.” He added that the delay on the part of Punjab will also affect the implementation of UGC pay scales in Panjab University, Colleges in Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh which adopt the notification of Punjab Government.“By suspending evaluation work, we are sending an ultimatum to the Punjab government to meet our demand within two weeks, failing which teachers will be forced to intensify agitation,” the federation added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varsity-teachers-seek-ugc-pay-scales-suspend-answer-sheet-evaluation-101625671040802.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||Welfare schemes get lion’s share in Mamata govt’s Bengal budget||Welfare schemes, infrastructure, special rebate on stamp duty and amendments in road tax were the highlights of the ₹3,08,727 crore budget for 2021-22 that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government placed before the West Bengal assembly on Wednesday, around two months after being sworn in for the third time since 2011. The government said it was optimistic about creating 15 million new job opportunities in five years as committed in the interim budget presented on February 5 this year. The total revenue receipt for 2021-22, including grants in aid from the Centre, would be ₹1,86,681.26 crore and total revenue expenditure for the period would be ₹2,13,346.51 crore, the budget papers said. The expenditure on social welfare schemes would be ₹1,07,494.74 crore. Since finance minister Amit Mitra is unwell, the budget was placed before the House by industry and commerce minister Partha Chatterjee. “Our State’s economy has grown steadily in the last ten years. Gross state domestic product (GSDP), which was ₹4,60,959 crore in 2010-2011, has increased to Rs. 13, 54,518 crore in 2019-20, an increase by 2.94 times…. Expenditure in the social sector increased 10.11 times between 2010-11 and 2020-21. Similarly in the agriculture and allied service sector the increase was 10.50 times and in physical infrastructure sector it was 5.58 times,” Chatterjee said in the budget speech. Giving credit to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who was also present in the House, Chatterjee said, “While India’s GDP growth dipped to minus 7.7% in 2020-21, Bengal’s GDP clocked a positive 1.2% growth from 11.3 %.” “The state has also successfully controlled all fiscal parameters like fiscal deficit, in spite of severe financial hardships in the last one year caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclones Amphan and Yaas,” he said. Chatterjee focused on several social welfare schemes such as Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep), the Swasthya Sathi medical insurance scheme and the recently launched student credit card. Offering financial relief, Chatterjee said that in view of the economic hardship faced by people the government will extend the one-time exemption on motor vehicle tax and additional tax from July 1, 2021 to December 31. Also, in view of the crisis in the real estate sector, the government reduced the rate of stamp duty by 2% from 4 to 8% depending on location, character and price of property. Also, the circle rate or market value for registration of deeds for land, house and flat etc. has been reduced by 10% . Both facilities can be availed only if the registration process is completed by October 30. Virtually addressing the media from his home after the budget was placed, the finance minister said, “We have always focused on giving more money to common people so that demand is stimulated. This will boost industries. The whole world is focusing on macro economics. The Centre’s policy, on the other hand, is to offer loans and reduce corporate tax. What has this achieved? Without elaborating on the large borrowings by the state to meet the shortfall in income, Mitra said, “processing of loans has been provisioned in the budget.” “The budget shows that we have done what we promised in the election manifesto,” said the chief minister. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised the budget saying it was an advertisement minus the mandatory disclosure clause. “The states follow various methodologies while calculating GSDP. The rate of increase announced by the Bengal government is not correct. The actual increase is by 2.4 %. It is true that in 2020-21 Bengal’s GDP growth was higher than the national rate. But it is also true that in recent years Bengal’s economy has shrunk in comparison to the national average. Had there been so much development people from Bengal would not have migrated to other states for work. This proves Bengal has fallen back,” said economist and BJP legislator Ashok Lahiri who was earlier the chief economic adviser to the Centre. “The budget talks about welfare schemes but the government has not said how many of these are assisted and sponsored by the Centre. For example, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is called by a different name in Bengal while the bulk of funds for the scheme come from the Centre. The budget speech did not disclose this,” said Lahiri. “The implementation of these schemes should be evaluated. We need to find out who and how many benefitted from these. There should be transparency. This government only provides relief, whether by giving food to the poor or pumping out water from flooded areas. But where is the infrastructure that provides permanent relief from these problems,” said Lahiri. “The finance minister has said that the state government has given 23 million Covid-19 vaccines to people but the budget document does not say how many of these were purchased by it and how many were given by the Centre,” he added. “The budget is also silent on north Bengal and people from the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe communities,” said Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/welfare-schemes-get-lion-s-share-in-mamata-govt-s-bengal-budget-101625670260359.html
07-07-2021||Other||Odisha rejects Andhra proposal of publishing water tribunal order in official gazette||Odisha government has refused to consent to Andhra Pradesh government publishing the final decision of the Vansadhara Water Disputes Tribunal in the official gazette, saying that it is waiting for the finalisation of the Special Leave Petition (SLP) field before the Supreme Court in this regard.The water dispute tribunal formed to adjudicate issues arising out of the construction of a barrage over Vansadhara river by Andhra Pradesh had passed its final order in September 2017, allowing construction of the barrage at Neradi. The tribunal released another report on June 21, in which it kept its 2017 order intact but specified that it was subject to the finalisation of the SLP filed by Odisha government before Supreme Court. As per the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, 1956 the final order of the tribunal would be operational once it is published in the official gazette of the Centre. It would have the same force as an order or decree of the Supreme Court.Also Read | Students of elementary edu course to teach primary school kids in Odisha“As three SLPs in this matter are pending before Supreme Court, the tribunal cannot be published in the official gazette,” said Raghunandan Das, Odisha water resources minister. The Odisha government has filed SLP against the tribunal’s order (dated September 23, 2019) issued for joint survey in the territory of Odisha. This case is also pending before the apex court.Srinivas Chokkakula, a fellow with New Delhi-based think tank Centre for Policy Research and an authority on water dispute issues, said it is still not clear if Supreme Court would adjudicate in the Vansadhara water dispute case, though in 2018, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India Dipak Mishra had allowed Karnataka to release less amount of water to Tamil Nadu than what the Cauvery water dispute tribunal had ordered. “The issues are complex. It remains to be seen if the Supreme Court will adjudicate. It all depends on the merits of this particular case,” said Chokkakula.Vansadhara river originates near Lanjigarh village in Kalahandi district and Kalyansinghpur in Rayagada district of Odisha and flows for about 265km till it merges with the Bay of Bengal in Andhra Pradesh. Its river basin occupies 8,015 square kilometres in Odisha and 2,815 square kilometres in Andhra Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh started the Neradi Barrage Project to provide irrigation facility to 203 villages, covering an area of 107,280 acres of land in Srikakulam district.Stressing that the construction of a flood-flow canal at Katragada would result in drying up the existing riverbed and consequent shifting of the river affecting ground water table Odisha in February 2006 had sought constitution of an Inter-State Water Disputes Tribunal for adjudication. The tribunal had pronounced its final order in September 2017, allowing Andhra Pradesh government to construct Neradi Barrage on river Vansadhara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-rejects-andhra-proposal-of-publishing-water-tribunal-order-in-official-gazette-101625668281012.html
07-07-2021||Other||Chief secy directs officials to fast-track development projects||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Wednesday directed departments concerned to expedite ongoing development projects and complete them in a time-bound manner. Deputy commissioners have been asked to monitor progress. Chairing a meeting with administrative secretaries and the district administration officials, Vini added that 24.6 acre had been acquired for construction of water works at Ablowal. The ₹503-crore project will ensure 24x7 surface-based water supply for Patiala city residents under the first phase. “A project to rejuvenate Badi Nadi and Chhoti nadi was being executed at a cost of ₹208.3 crore to enhance the beauty of the royal city,” she added. The construction work on the heritage street project around Qila Mubarak was being undertaken on a war-footing. The project costing ₹43.6 crore will entail underground shifting of all High Tension and Low Tension power supply cables besides cobbling of 2-km stretch with red granite stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-secy-directs-officials-to-fast-track-development-projects-101625667680150.html
07-07-2021||Other||Punjab board heading towards major financial crisis; fails to pay June salary||Mohali The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has failed to failed to pay June salary to its 1,100 employees and pension to 1,600-odd retirees. The delay is being attributed to the state government not paying the board ₹427 crore as reimbursement for printing textbooks and fee for Scheduled Caste students since 2013. Director public instructions (DPI), secondary, which is running its office from the board building in Phase-8 has not paid rent and arrears since 2012, running up a bill of ₹20 crore. Employees claim that the Adarsh Schools have also proved to be a major drain on the board’s revenues. The monthly expenditure of the board is ₹15 crore, of which ₹5 crore goes in salaries and ₹5.5 crore in pension payment. The board has offices in each district of the state. Parvinder Singh, president, PSEB Employees Association, said, “This is the first time that the board has failed to pay our salaries. The situation is grim. We have provided textbooks to students on time, but have not got money from the state government.” He added that Adarsh schools had become a liability for the board. “Their expenditure is a big hole on the board’s budget,” he claimed. Board chairman Yog Raj said, “There is a major financial crunch before the board. We have already requested the state government to clear our dues. We hope for a resolution soon.” ADARSH SCHOOLS A MAJOR BURDEN Adarsh schools, meant to provide admission to brilliant but poor students, has proved to be a major drain on the board’s finances. The board constructed 11 Adarsh schools and spends ₹34 crore a year on these, but earns a mere ₹1.5 crore. This loss of ₹32.5 crore a year is eating into the board’s finances. In 2007, the board, under the then chairman Dalbir Singh Dhillon, spent ₹16 crore on the building of such a school in Mohali. The building has now been given to Punjab government departments on rent, but payment is irregular. In 2017, it was decided to hand over these schools to the government, but the move has not been implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-board-heading-towards-major-financial-crisis-fails-to-pay-june-salary-101625666120233.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee takes jibe at PM Modi, says he gives more money to BJP states||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi allocates more money to the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and less to those ruled by opposition parties.“He kept ₹35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines. When [the] second wave hit, he allocated funds slowly…We asked for ₹3 crore, [but] he did not give and gave us ₹2 crore in six months,” the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Banerjee further claimed that the funds provided to the West Bengal government by the Centre is less than the actual budget allocated. She said that in the 2020-21 Union Budget, devolution of Central taxes for West Bengal was ₹58,962.55 crore, but the “actual devolution received was ₹44,737.1 crore,” thereby claiming that there was a reduction of ₹14,225.54 crore in the actual allocated funds.The West Bengal chief minister said that the same reduction was noted in 2019-20 Union Budget allocation, too. “Similarly, in 2019-2020, [the] state did not receive a devolution amount of ₹11,000 crore,” Banerjee added.She stated that the state will receive an outstanding amount of ₹33,314 crore from the Centre in the form of centrally sponsored schemes. “We are deprived of about ₹60,000 crore,” Banerjee said.The TMC chief also spoke on the increasing petrol and diesel prices across India, saying that the ruling dispensation at the Centre earned ₹3.71 lakh crore through increased fuel prices from the people. “Don’t you think Narendra Modi is cutting the pockets of the common people and filling his own pockets?” she told ANI.Notably, petrol prices in the national capital surpassed the ₹100-per-litre mark after the latest hike.Her remarks come on a day the Union cabinet is undergoing an enormous reshuffle, with prominent names such as health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar among those who resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-takes-jibe-at-pm-modi-says-he-gives-more-money-to-bjp-states-101625665193321.html
07-07-2021||Dehradun||Utarakhand mulls ferrying Ganga water to states due to Kanwar Yatra ban||Uttarakhand government is planning to ferry Ganga waters in tankers to various north Indian states to ensure that the ban on Kanwar yatra owing to the pandemic does not stop Kanwariyas from anointing Lord Shiva with the ‘holy’ water in their home states.Uttarakhand police is considering supplying the water to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, from where hundreds of thousands of Kanwariyas travel to the state to fetch Ganga waters from the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, Rishikesh, Devprayag and Gaumukh-Gangotri during the yearly Kanwar Yatra in the month of Shravan as per the Hindu callender.The devotees gather Ganga water (Gangajal) and carry it across hundreds of miles on foot to anoint the local Shiva shrines in their respective areas. Not just Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, Kanwariyas from as far as Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh travel to Uttarakhand every year during the monsoon season. But owing to thethreat of a third Covid wave, the state government has not allowed this yatra this year and also cancelled the pilgrimage to Char Dham shrines in the state.Uttarakhand’s director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said the idea of ferrying Ganga waters through tankers on demand basis was being discussed with the police of respective neighbouring states and concerned department officials.Meanwhile, traders in Haridwar are demanding that the government allows the Kanwariyas to travel to fetch Ganga waters, which in turn provides a huge yearly fillip to the local economy.“Covid-19 positive cases have declined sharply in Uttarakhand to less than 100 and 35, 000 in the whole country. A separate Kanwar fair standard operating procedures can be issued in this regard so that amidst safety guidelines Kanwariyas can arrive in Uttarakhand,” said Sanjay Triwal, office bearer of a traders’ body.Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal city convener Tej Prakash Sahu said the tanker service idea was impractical and insufficient to serve around 35 million Kanwariyas, who visited the state during the last Kanwar yatra in 2019.“Kanwar yatra is an ancient on foot pilgrimage practice so the authorities should ensure it’s held by allowing the devotees to arrive physically,” Sahu said.Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat also demanded that the Kanwar fair was held while adhering to Covid containment guidelines.“It is about faith, perseverance, pain, physical and mental endurance that the Kanwar pilgrimage is all about. Covid is still a threat but we need to allow festive fairs, pilgrimages with Covid specific safety measures,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha.Last year to overcome the travel restrictions, Uttarakhand Youth Congress had distributed around 10,000 units of canned Ganga Jal to temples and Kanwar related social-religious organizations in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and the National Capital Region (NCR) region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/utarakhand-mulls-ferrying-ganga-water-to-states-due-to-kanwar-yatra-ba-101625665520350.html
07-07-2021||Lucknow||Anupriya Patel: Mirzapur MP from Apna Dal makes a comeback||Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel will join the Union Cabinet on Wednesday as she joins 42 new entrants ahead of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet reshuffle. The buzz regarding Anupriya Patel joining the cabinet became louder when Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda met Patel earlier this month.Apna Dal president Anupriya Patel earlier demanded a separate ministry be formed to solve the problems being faced by other backward classes (OBC) citing gaps in inequality. Patel who hails from the Kurmi community and was in the Union cabinet during the first five years of Modi government also demanded setting up a national memorial in Delhi for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.“We have demanded the formation of a ministry for OBC on the lines of the Ministry of Minorities to solve the problems of the backward classes,” Patel was quoted as saying by news agency PTI last week. Apna Dal also demanded that the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission be implemented so that farmers can get a fair share for their produce.People familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that the BJP is giving smaller parties berths in the cabinet with eye on Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. However, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said that the rejig and appointment of leaders from backward communities are being done to divert the attention from real issues affecting the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anupriya-patel-mirzapur-mp-from-apna-dal-makes-a-comeback-101625663255103.html
07-07-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to check interstate transportation of agriculture produce||Madhya Pradesh has initiated the process of revoking the implementation orders issued following the passage last year of the Centre’s three farm laws. Officials said this is being done since the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the legislation in January.Thousands of farmers have camped at Delhi’s borders in protest against the laws which farmers say will benefit private buyers.Madhya Pradesh will check interstate transportation of the agricultural produce and resume taxation on it as part of the process. “The 54 checking points, set up at border areas to check interstate transportation of agriculture produce from Mandis, were closed in June last year after the implementation of three new farm laws. After the laws, the checking points became illegal and of no use. The Centre ended the power of the state government to impose taxes on the purchase of any agriculture produce outside Mandi,” said an officer of the state’s Mandi Board, who did not want to be named.Also Read | Protests outside Parliament will start on July 22, say farm unionsThe Board has cited poor financial condition and losses of ₹250 crore after implementation of the laws for re-starting the checking points, said another officer.BB Faujdar, president of Madhya Pradesh Mandi Board Association,, an organisation of employees of Mandi Board, said after the stay on the laws, the Board has started levying a tax of 1.5% on all purchases of the agricultural produce. “But due to confusion over implementation of the news laws, the traders, who are purchasing the produce outside the Mandis, are not paying the tax. A large number of traders are involved in interstate transportation of agriculture produce illegally.”He said by restarting these checking points, the government is not only going to increase its revenue but will also give security to farmers. “These checking points are meant to check the tax slips and also to check whether the trader has made payment of the produces to the farmer or not. This will end the issue of fraud with farmers.”Farmer welfare and agriculture development minister Kamal Patel said they are restarting the checking points to stop the illegal trade to other states. “Many people duped farmers and have taken the produce without taxation. Now, if any trader is found to be involved in illegal trading of agriculture produce, he has to pay five times tax as a penalty.”Patel maintained the farm laws are beneficial for farmers. “The three farm laws came into existence with the objective of increasing the income of farmers and not to increase the revenue of the state governments. We resumed the old practices due to the court’s stay order. If the laws come into force again, we will not levy the tax. We are strengthening our mandis by developing them into model mandis.”Madhya Pradesh Kisan Union president Anil Yadav said it is good the state government realised the loopholes in the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-check-interstate-transportation-of-agriculture-produce-101625663001381.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Legendary actor Dilip Kumar’s Pune connection||Few knew that it was in Film and Television Institute of India’s (FTII) main theatre at city’s Law College road that legendary actor Dilip Kumar saw “Mughal-E-Azam” for the first time in his life, almost 18 years after the film was released.According to FTII officials, it was during the summer of 1978, and the actor wanted to see 15 classics. PK Nair, the famed archivist from the National Film Archive of India (NFAI), arranged the screening of the films at FTII main theatre. The 15 films selected were of Dilip Kumar’s wife, Saira Bano’s choice.Then, over the next 15 days, he saw a film a day at the main theatre. Saira Bano was by his side when he saw “Mughal-E-Azam”. Later, he was the chief guest at the FTII convocation held on December 14, 1997. Dr Mohan Agashe, director of FTII, and Mahesh Bhatt, chairman, FTII, were present at the event.Dilip Kumar died early Wednesday morning at the age of 98. He leaves behind a legacy of films that spanned six decades and gave Hindi cinema some of its most enduring classics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/legendary-actor-dilip-kumar-s-pune-connection-101625661199713.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Curtains down on British-era cinema halls in Shimla||Shimla, the summer capital of the British for 83 years, was once known for its cinema halls and theatres. After Independence, the Queen of the Hills became a draw for Bollywood with over 35 films being shot in town. Seven decades on, time has taken a toll on the tradition of movie-going but it’s the Covid-induced curbs over the past year and a half that have drawn the curtains on single-screen theatres. Home to three British-era cinema theatres, namely Ritz, Rivoli and Regal, Shimla has seen their closing down over the years and the two comparatively newer ones are on the verge of closure due to social distancing norms to keep the pandemic at bay. “Movie halls were an intrinsic part of Shimla’s social world. Within the town, both young and old went to the movies which was a big treat not so long ago. People coming from the rural areas would make it a point to watch a movie if they visited Shimla. A couple of folk songs corroborate this,” says Shimla-based historian Raja Bhasin. Down memory lane on The Ridge The hit film of 1960, Love in Simla, was also shot in town, starring Joy Mukherjee and Sadhna. Legendary actor and director Raj Kapoor along with Nargis and Prem Nath visited Shimla in 1950 to promote the iconic film, Barsaat. The premier show was held at Ritz near the historic Christ Church on the Ridge. “It was a great day for the theatre, and for Shimla,” says Ashok Kapoor, 69, who served as a manager at the Ritz for 51 years. “The cinema house has been shut since the lockdown last year. There is hardly any business left now. Viewership has fallen drastically,” he says. He recalls how the cinema house hosted a special show of Pakeezah in 1972 for Benazir Bhutto, who visited Shimla with her father Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the then prime minister of Pakistan, for the Simla agreement with his Indian counterpart Indira Gandhi. Crumbling under vagaries of time Rivoli was shut down in 2013 after the British-era building was declared unsafe. “Cinema theatres are no longer profitable. We closed it down after the building developed cracks,” says Vinod Seth, the last owner of the theatre. Regal cinema hall was destroyed in a fire in the mid-’80s. The building was later mired in a property-related dispute. Shahi, the lone survivor, for aam aadmi SRS Cinemas set up at the inter-state bus terminus at Tutti Kandi was also shut last year after the owners incurred losses due to the lockdown. Today, Shahi is the only surviving theatre but it faces an uncertain future. Set up as a theatre for the common man by Shahi Hakim, it’s located near the old bus stand. “This theatre was not located in the vicinity of the Mall as only the elite went to Regal, Rivoli and Ritz. During the British era, one could visit the Mall only in formal attire. Ordinary folks didn’t have a cinema to call their own. So, grandfather made a cinema hall for the common man,” says Sahil Sharma, the present owner. Hakim got Fern Cottage at Ram Bazaar from philanthropist Puran Mull, who gave the property in charity in 1929, and it was converted into a trust in 1930 with businessmen of Shimla as trustees. The trust converted a portion of the building along Cart Road into the Rai Bahadur Puran Mull Dharamshala, but the upper portion where the theatre exists today was with the Republican Party of India.The office was vacated and a licence to screen films was procured. The rates of the ticket started from 5 annas (30 paise). There were no chairs, but only benches and a labourer inaugurated the hall.Films began being screened at the hall from June 1953 and soon the theatre became popular with workers. Women avoided visiting it till it was decided that the 12 noon show every Wednesday would be for women.The benches were replaced with folding chairs when Dilip Kumar’s Mughal-e-Azam was screened.“Though we don’t want to close it down, the Covid restrictions are making it difficult to run the theatre,” Sharma adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curtains-on-british-era-cinema-halls-in-shimla-101625660544711.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi should talk about fuel prices, vaccine in Mann ki Baat, says Mamata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should sometimes talk about fuel prices, vaccines and dumping of bodies of Covid-19 victims in the river in his Mann ki Baat, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday even as she attacked the BJP-led Centre over hike in fuel prices. “The Centre has collected revenue of ₹3.71 lakh crore from oil and petroleum products in the financial year 2020-21. After collecting this huge sum, he is sitting silently, sometimes preaching on Mann ki Baat. Sometimes, he should also talk about petrol, diesel, vaccines and dead bodies being dumped in river in Uttar Pradesh in his Mann ki Baat,” Banerjee said while talking to reporters after placing the state budget in the assembly. On July 5, the CM had also written to Banerjee had written to the PM to slash taxes on fuel. Also Read | Calcutta HC judge recuses from hearing Banerjee’s plea against Nandigram lossThe chief minister also attacked Modi over vaccine supplies, saying that the alleged mismanagement of vaccines by the Modi government is tainting the image of India. “I am not against you, but I have to raise political and economic issues. Today, we are facing an economic disaster. FIR is being lodged against India in Brazil. China supplied vaccines to Bangladesh as you didn’t do so. You have given Covaxin to students for which they are facing problem in going abroad. Indian’s image is getting tarnished,” she said. Banerjee was referring to Brazil’s Supreme Court authorising prosecutors to investigate their President Jair Bolsonaro over accusations that he ignored irregularities in his government’s procurement process to buy Covaxin from India. “The Centre should provide free LPG to all citizens. If I (West Bengal government) can introduce so many social welfare schemes, why can’t you? You have got ₹3.71 lakh crore and have earned extra from LPG. Above this, you have PM Cares fund,” said Banerjee. The ruling Trinamool Congress in the state has already called for a two-day state-wide protest on July 10 and 11 to protest against the rising prices. Earlier in the day, labour minister Becharam Manna pedalled around 40 km on a bicycle from his Singur home to reach assembly in protest against the hike in fuel prices. On his way, he was joined by Kalyan Ghosh, TMC legislator from Domjur in Howrah. “We all want the prices to come down. Prices are rising because the fuel prices are linked to the international market. The state and Centre should do away with the cess to bring down the prices of fuel,” said BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-should-talk-about-fuel-prices-vaccine-in-mann-ki-baat-says-mamata-101625658440055.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Restaurateurs cheer happy times: Beer takeaways, bars open till 3am||On Monday, the Delhi government uploaded the new excise policy on its website. It allows microbreweries to provide takeaway services and supply draught beer to bars. And expected to start from October, bars in hotels, restaurants and clubs can operate till 3am. The establishments will be able to serve liquor on terraces or balconies at licensed hotels and restaurants.The modifications are aimed to benefit diner experience and cut malpractices. Hailing the initiative, restaurateurs say it will revive nightlife and increase employment.Manish Sharma, founder, Yuvi Hospitality that owns brands Molecule Air Bar, a microbrewery, says, “Allowing supply of draught beer and takeaway services is a win-win for us, as we get to entertain more dine-ins and deliveries.”Hoping it will increase employment, Zorawar Kalra, director, Massive Restaurants, says, “This will help all stakeholders. Patrons get to enjoy a vibrant nightlife, employees too will benefit as there is an extra shift thereby ensuring additional employment.”Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia & Toy Room is looking forward to their implementation. “The proposed changes certainly would prove very beneficial and I look forward to the formal implementation of the same and for the pandemic to subside, so that we, the government and the consumers can start reaping the benefits of the new policy,” he shares.Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija, who owns chains such as Plum By Bent Chair, Lord of the Drinks and Tamasha, welcomes the new reforms. “This is a great initiative. These operational timings are allowed internationally, so it is more like extending an olive branch to restaurants who lost revenue and giving them an opportunity to recover the losses.”Echoing the sentiments, Kanishk Tuteja, founder, We Qutub, 1 Oak and Nukkad Cafe & Bar says, “This will bring India’s food and nightlife at par with international standards, and definitely add to Delhi’s tourism potential.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurateurs-cheer-happy-times-beer-takeaways-bars-open-till-3am-101625656469588.html
07-07-2021||Pune||One month after Pirangut fire tragedy: Fire station work moves at snail’s pace; family members await government aid||The family members of the Pirangut industrial unit fire tragedy are yet to receive the aid that the government had promised while the answers from stakeholders responsible for the fire station in the area have remained the same - land requests have been made to the district collector office.The response time of the fire brigade during the fire accident raised the concern around the lack of nearby fire stations and hospitals. On the afternoon of June 7, an accident at SVS Aqua-Tech company in the Uravade area of Mulshi, Pirangut claimed the lives of 17 people and the fire raged on for almost 40 minutes before the fire tenders could reach the spot.“There is a piece of government land which has been chosen and the district collector office has been informed. The area will be around two-acre,” said Diwase, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune metropolitan region development authority (PMRDA).The land is government-owned and is currently used for a different purpose. However, this is not the only fire station that is awaiting a nod, as per protocol.Diwase added that the Development Plan for the entire PMRDA jurisdiction is ready and it has provision for several fire stations, trauma care centres, nearby police stations, and air ambulances in it.“There needs to be organised development. Every time a tragedy happens, there is a knee-jerk reaction from factions including the media. The fire station’s land-related work will take another 9-11 months,” said Diwase.As far as the DP of the region is concerned, a planning committee has to approve it before the plan is published.Kin of victims await government aid The state government had promised ₹5 lakh while the central government had promised ₹2 lakh from the Prime Minister National Relief Fund. While that money is yet to see the light of day, the company insurance money has started reaching the families of the victims.The deceased were identified as Archana Vaikant Kawade (36), Sachin Ghodke (24), Sangita Maruti Polekar (43), Mangal Baban Margale (29), Surekha Manohar Tupe (45), Suman Sanjay Dhebe (38), Sunita Rahul Sathe (28), Mahadevi Sanjay Ambare (40), Manda Bhausaheb Kulat (49), Trishla Sambhaji Jadhav (32), Atul Lakshman Sathe (23), Seema Sachin Borade (34), Geeta Bharat Diwadkar (41), Shital Dattatray Khopakar (43), Sarika Chandrakant Kudale (42), Dhanashree Rajaram Shelar (22), and Sangitla Ulhas Gonde (43).“We got multiple cheques amounting to ₹10 lakh collectively. The company has also promised a pension that will be 90 per cent of the salary that was drawn by those who lost their lives. We have encashed two cheques in July and will be encashing two more in December. Our pension work is remaining,” said Sachin Borade, who lost his wife in the incident.“We have given whatever papers were required in the talathi’s office. I have the cheques, but I have not put them in the bank yet. I need more time to plan how to save it for my children’s future,” said Ulhas Gonde who also lost his wife in the incident.Meanwhile, a case under Sections 304(2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Paud police station against the three owners of SVS AquaTech - Nikunj Shah (39), Director of the company; Keyur Vipin Shah (41), his Dubai-based brother and partner; and their father Bipin Jayantilal Shah (68), a resident of Sahakarnagar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-month-after-pirangut-fire-tragedy-fire-station-work-moves-at-snail-s-pace-family-members-await-government-aid-101625655799792.html
07-07-2021||Other||Goa to give at least 1st dose to all eligible beneficiaries by July 31: CM||Goa is on track to achieve its target of giving at least the first dose of Covid vaccine of all of its eligible population by July 31, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. On Wednesday, the state completed administering at least 1 million doses of which 800,000 people have taken at least one dose, working out to 76% of the population. Also Read | From 17 to zero: Goa is India’s first state to eradicate rabies deaths“Thanks to our health department and workers, we are happy to announce that we have completed administering 1,006,836 (doses of) vaccinations. We have said that we will complete administering the first dose by July 31 to 100% [eligible population]. The number of people who have taken the first dose is 866,730 which is approximately 76% of the (eligible) population. Our target is that over the next fifteen days, we complete the remaining 24% of the population,” Sawant told a news conference. As part of the drive, Goa opened up walk-in vaccinations for all those above 18 ahead of the rest of the country, allowing the state to handle 15,000-20,000 vaccinations every day. Besides locals, the state has opened vaccination for undocumented people and foreign nationals as well who wish to avail of the vaccine. Sawant said he anticipates that by late October or early November, the state will be able to completely vaccinate its entire eligible population with both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-to-give-at-least-1st-dose-to-all-eligible-beneficiaries-by-july-31cm-101625655259434.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Pune Smart City project a failure, say opposition leaders, activists||Even as the Smart City Mission has completed five years, the city-based activist and opposition parties claim the scheme has failed as many projects are just on paper.Pune currently is ranked 15th at the national level on the Smart Cities list.Vandana Chavan, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and MP, said, “Smart City Project is a complete failure not only in Pune but at the national level and no one is answerable for the same. Now the government must think twice about forming a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) as there is no citizens participation. Even SPV is not answerable to citizens and the result is a failed project.”Projects which did not get kick start are smart parking, bicycles, non-motorised streets, Bus rapid transit (BRT) system, river water cleaning, riverfront development, slum rehabilitation and affordable housing, IT connectivity, transit hub at Balewadi and Intelligent Transit Management System (ITMS) for buses.Vivek Velenkar, a civic activist, said, “The government projected a picture that everything in the city will get smarter, but the ground situation is different. It is a complete failure. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not speaking on the project.”“If Pune is at the 15th spot at the national level despite the ground reality, we can imagine what happens in the remaining 85 cities,” he said.Total hundred cities get selected under the Smart City Scheme.Avinash Oak, a member citizen from Baner, said, “After the Smart city project was implemented we thought that our area would be developed completely. Wide footpaths were erected, but they have encroached. Even it is not possible to walk or pedal the cycle continuously on it.”The project is divided into two parts, one was an area-based project (ABD) and another was a pan-city. In Pune Aundh, Baner and Balewadi area got selected as area-based project and mainly roads got developed under it.Ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) members usually avoid making comments on the project at public events. Recently, city-based Sajag Nagrik Manch carried out the discussion on Smart City Project, but ruling BJP members remained absent during the discussion.Despite repeated attempts to reach Mayor Murlidhar Mohol for a comment on the Smart City Project, he did not respond to the phone calls.One of the officials from Pune Municipal Corporation(PMC) on condition of anonymity said, “It was expected that the Smart City Project would get good financial help from the central government, but we got little funds to execute the schemes.”Rajendra Jagtap, former chief executive officer of Pune Smart City, said, “Some positive things happened through the smart city project in Pune. A smart control room was erected by PMC which remained useful during Covid-19. Smart roads are erected in Aundh, Balewadi and Baner and cycles on hire scheme have also been launched.”“Placemaking was one of the major projects. But it is also true that many mega projects which were planned do not commence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-smart-city-project-a-failure-say-opposition-leaders-activists-101625655139967.html
07-07-2021||Other||ISRO spy case: 2 Maldivian women also oppose bail plea of former Kerala top cop||Two Maldivian women, who were arrested and later acquitted in the 1994 Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, on Wednesday approached the Thiruvananthapuram district court opposing the anticipatory bail plea of former Kerala police chief Sibi Mathew, who was among the police personnel booked last month over the alleged conspiracy to frame scientist Nambi Narayanan in the matter.The Central Bureau of Investigation filed a First Information Report against Mathew, former Intelligence Bureau (IB) deputy director R B Sreekumar and 16 other police personnel for allegedly framing Narayanan.Police arrested Narayanan and Sasikumaran Nair after their numbers were found in a diary recovered from the two Maldivian women, Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousia Hassan. The two were first arrested in 1994 on charges of overstaying in the country. In their petition, Rasheeda and Hassan said they suffered due to the case and spent three years in jail in Kerala. They requested the court to hear them before taking a decision on Mathew’s bail plea and added they were framed and tortured. Narayanan has also opposed Mathew’s bail plea and the court is expected to take up all pleas together on Monday.Also Read | Kerala HC orders setting up of medical board to examine child with rare diseaseThe two women said they were also entitled to compensation citing ₹1.80 crore paid to Narayanan in 2018 over his framing. They added they do not have the wherewithal to fight the case in India. The two said they suffered physical torture, mental agony, and stigma due to the case.Mathew has, in his bail plea, claimed IB officials, including its then joint director R B Sreekumar, pressured him to arrest Narayanan. He argued the materials collected during the initial stage of the probe “clearly proved nexus of foreign nationals with the other accused and illegal transaction between them.” Mathew, who headed a special investigation team in 1994, claimed “a spy network linking Colombo-Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram and Maldives were revealed during his investigation.”In April, the Supreme Court ordered CBI to investigate the conspiracy behind the framing, calling the matter “serious” and requiring “deeper investigation” into the role of the officers responsible. It accepted the report of a committee constituted by the court in 2018 to probe the circumstances that led to the framing. Narayanan, 79, was arrested in 1994 in the alleged espionage case. He was exonerated two years later following a CBI closure report.The accused police personnel have been charged with conspiracy, framing of false evidence, and illegal custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/isro-spy-case-2-maldivian-women-also-oppose-bail-plea-of-former-kerala-top-cop-101625652319257.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ancestral land, piece of heart and peace of mind||Neither would the condescending sulks of the junior members nor the fluctuating mercury of the seasonal turns be able to modulate the steadfast mindset of the oldest yet contrastingly fittest member in our family from doing what he loved doing for ages. The inconceivable zeal of my grandfather towards farming traces its roots to my great grandfather’s allegiance to ancestral land who had handed over the reins to his son to cultivate the clan’s legacy. Be it family or friends, whoever dared to guilt-trip grandfather’s conscience into selling even a fraction was, by default, subjected to his scathing lecture over such money-grubbing shortcuts. The clichéd yet substantive remark would always hang on his lips: A mother can’t be sold at any cost nor can she be divided proportionally among her children. Also read: Caught off guard, taking the interviewer for a rideIn his own words, his unrequited love for fields and farming significantly helped him offset the double whammy of entering into a new life post retirement besides losing his partner. Farming tools and implements are his best friends that aided him in living his belief that one who ploughed himself reaped a good harvest. My grandfather would derive utmost pleasure in working the land manually loosening and turning the soil with a plough cutting uniform grooves in the earth before sowing every seed apiece painstakingly into parallel furrowed beds. A precious moment of childhood often comes rushing to the mind as to how he would tightly harness me in the foolproof lock of his arms and legs encouraging me to urge the pair of yoked oxen forward with a series of high-pitched incoherent shrilling whistles, stuttering shouts, or with even quirky slangs of amusing nature. His handsome pension would often irk his coeval peers into finding logics behind his avoidable sweat and labour yet he would carry on unaffectedly, caring a toss for the whirlpool of deterring pessimism spinning around him. To discern the subtle transition in the slow and gradual grading of the crops, especially the changing shade of the wheat from green to golden, has always been one of his favourite spectacles, not to miss, feeling the undulating ripples in the tips of the maize as the wafts of soft gentle breeze drifts through them. Refusing to get the aid of a combine-harvesting machine that fuelled sedentary life, his veined hands to our absolute awe would reap the crops with repeated majestic sweeps of a scythe, thresh them thunderously with flails, and garner them with patience followed by separating chaff from grain with a winnowing fan. Even the waste morphs into useful residue with the Midas touch of his hands as it would either go in refilling the mangers of his livestock or used as an organic fuel in the hearth. Along with the prevailing discrepancies in our political system to address agrarian woes, he never eschews from pinning equal blame on skewed tendencies of the today’s youngsters taking pride in picking the keys of an expensive car over picking an axe or a spade. What worsened the situation further are the usurping ideologies of the real estate sector gobbling up every inch of land into cutting plots and building skyscrapers to mint quick money at the expense of the fertility of the land. However, at a personal level, my grandfather is, voluntarily and merrily, bound by an oath to quit farming only after he quits breathing with a lurking suspicion as to whether his posterity against all odds would tend their ancestor’s land as a priceless mother or put it up for sale. sandeep.charnoal@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based professional in the banking sector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ancestral-land-piece-of-heart-and-peace-of-mind-101625651359300.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Anil Vij directs formation of Covid monitoring committee to tackle 3rd wave||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday directed officers of the state to form coronavirus (Covid-19) monitoring committees in every district as a precautionary step to tackle the possible third wave of the ongoing pandemic. He said that the deputy commissioners, police superintendents, civil surgeons, and officials of urban local bodies should be members of the committee.In an official statement, Vij further highlighted that officials of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) should also be involved so that if the third wave arrives, it can be handled efficiently. The minister, while presiding over the meeting of the state-level Covid monitory committee in Chandigarh, also directed that importance must be given on administration of both Covid-19 doses to maximum people before the onset of the probable third wave.The meeting, which was held virtually, saw the attendance of police superintendents, deputy commissioners, civil surgeons and other district officers. The health minister stated that as a part of preparations to combat the possible third wave of Covid-19, facilities such as increasing the number of beds with oxygen facility, ventilator beds, and the ones with ICU should be present.Anil Vij said that to scale up the vaccination process in the state, concerned officials should seek cooperation from social, religious and business organisations. Notably, in another official statement on Tuesday, he said that the multinational firm Procter and Gamble (P&G) has rendered a cheque to the tune of Rs1 crore to him in support of Haryana’s fight against Covid-19.Haryana on Tuesday reported 73 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s overall tally to 769,030, the state health bulletin data showed. The state recorded 10 fatalities, after which the cumulative death toll reached 9,506. According to the bulletin data, as many as 68,852 people were inoculated with Covid-19 vaccines on Monday, and a total of 9,578,632 people have been vaccinated so far, the bulletin data revealed.A recent report by SBI Research titled “Covid-19: the race to finishing line,” showed that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic would hit India from August, and would reach its peak in September. It added that based on the current data, daily caseload can be nearly 10,000 somewhere around the second week of July, but it will begin to see a surge by the second fortnight of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anil-vij-directs-formation-of-covid-monitoring-committee-to-tackle-3rd-wave-101625649270386.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal minister cycles 40km to reach assembly to protest fuel price rise||West Bengal minister Becharam Manna travelled around 40km on a bicycle from his home in Singur to the state assembly in Kolkata to protest against the rising fuel prices days before the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has called for a two-day state-wide protest on July 10 and 11 to against the hike.“I started around 8 am to reach the state assembly where the Budget session is going on. This is to protest against the hike in fuel prices, which has resulted in the increase of prices of all items. The Narendra Modi government has failed to alleviate the burden on the common man,” said Manna, the state labour minister.TMC lawmaker Kalyan Ghosh joined Manna along the way from Domjur in Howrah, around 20km from the assembly.TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the Modi government has failed to control the fuel prices. “It has no planning and vision. Everything from public transport to everyday commodities is becoming costlier. Repeated appeals to the Modi government have fallen on deaf ears,” he said. Also Read | Calcutta HC judge recuses from hearing Banerjee’s plea against Nandigram lossOn July 5, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Modi and requested him to slash taxes on fuels.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Dilip Ghosh said they all want the prices to come down. “But the prices are rising because the fuel prices are linked to the international market. The state and the Centre should do away with the cess to bring down the prices of fuel.”At Keshtopur in Kolkata, a cycle rally was organised to protest against the fuel price hike. Another state minister, Javed Khan, used bullock carts for a protest over the issue.The state government has relaxed some of the Covid-19 restrictions and allowed public transportation from July 1. But over 95% of the private buses remained off the roads as transporters associations have demanded a hike in bus fares to cope up with the losses they are suffering due to rising fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-minister-cycles-40km-to-reach-assembly-to-protest-fuel-price-rise-101625648899451.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Congress leader Naseem Khan demands restoration of Muslim quota in education||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) deputy president Mohammad Arif Naseem Khan on Tuesday said that five per cent reservation in education be granted to the Muslim community of the state, citing that the same was approved by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MKV) government.Pointing out that in 2014, the then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) combined government had offered five per cent reservation to the Muslim community in jobs and education, Khan demanded that the same be restored.“Between 2014 and 2019, I repeatedly demanded that quota be restored to Muslims, but the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government did not relent,” Khan was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The former state cabinet minister also recalled that the current state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik of NCP said last year that a decision on the issue of Muslim quota reservation would be made. He added that the matter was a part of the Congress-NCP manifesto for the 2019 elections, and also given a nod by the ruling state dispensation.“There is resentment among the Muslim community that the announcement is not being implemented by the MVA,” Khan added.Furthermore, the MPCC deputy president said that till the Muslim quota reservation is restored, the state government should provide a special package for Muslims similar to what they’re doing for other communities in order to remove “their backwardness.”The Congress-NCP government in 2014 had issued an ordinance whereby they gave five per cent quota to the Muslim community, and 16 per cent to the Marathas. However, the BJP-Shiv Sena government that came to power in the state in the successive polls, had enacted a law for the Marathas but scrapped the Muslims.However, the Supreme Court in May this year scrapped the Maratha quota law, calling it “unconstitutional”. Several Maratha units have been staging protests in Maharashtra, demanding restoration of the Maratha quota reservation in jobs and education.People hailing from the Other Backward Classes (OBC) have also been staging protests in the state, seeking restoration of 27 per cent political reservation in all local bodies.The Supreme Court in May quashed the OBC reservation, and ruled that the same should not go beyond the 50 per cent cap in reservation quota. The apex court also ordered the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for the collection of empirical data, on the basis of which the quota issue would be fixed.This ruling will have a political impact on the forthcoming by-polls in the state as it means no seat would be reserved for the OBCs in the local bodies consisting of municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishad, panchayat samiti, gram panchayats, and municipal corporations.The by-polls are scheduled to take place on July 19, and the counting of the votes will be held on July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-leader-naseem-khan-demands-restoration-of-muslim-quota-in-education-101625645798944.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||Woman allegedly gang raped by robbers at Kolkata home; ₹15 lakh looted||A 26-year-old woman was allegedly gang raped by two or three men who broke into her house and stole ₹15 lakh at Garden Reach in Kolkata on Tuesday, police said. Sleuths of the city police’s detective department have started an investigation. Police have registered a case of gang rape and robbery based on the woman’s complaint. No one has been arrested till now. “The incident took place between 12pm and 1pm on Tuesday when the woman was alone in the house. Her parents had gone to work in a garment factory locking the flat’s door from outside,” said a senior police officer. Also Read | State budget for 2021-22 to be placed in West Bengal assembly todayAccording to the complaint, two or three unidentified men entered the house by breaking open the lock and overpowered her. They tied her up in the bedroom and broke open the almirah in the adjacent room. The men stole ₹15 lakh in cash along with gold and silver ornaments. Before fleeing, they allegedly raped the woman. “The case is being investigated by the detective department. The woman has lodged a complaint. Every angle is being probed,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/woman-allegedly-gang-raped-by-robbers-at-kolkata-home-rs-15-lakh-looted-101625643798715.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav doing better, say doctors attending to him||RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA from Bihar’s Hassanpur, Tej Pratap Yadav, who fell ill on Tuesday night, is feeling better, said the doctors attending to him. Tej Pratap and his younger brother and Leader of the Opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had taken the Sputnik-V vaccine against coronavirus on July 1. The MLA complained of body ache and uneasiness, following which doctors were called to his Strand Road residence in Patna late on Tuesday. Yadav family’s doctor, Dr SK Sinha, told media, “Body ache could have been due to side effect of the vaccine. It could be also due to change of weather.” Also Read | Attempts being made to destroy harmony, says Lalu in first address in 3 yearsIncidentally, Lalu Yadav’s sons have faced constant attacks from the JD(U) and BJP for their reluctance in taking the jabs and also criticising the vaccination drive in Bihar. The ruling NDA had called it unethical on the part of the leaders for not participating in the vaccine drive amid the pandemic. On Monday, during the RJD’s 25th Foundation Day event, Tejashwi had hit back at his rivals for taking potshots at him. “I have taken the Sputnik V jab after doing research. This vaccine’s efficacy is much higher than that of the other vaccines,” he said. The Opposition leader also said those attacking him for taking a “Russian vaccine” should know that even Covishield was a foreign vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-yadav-doing-better-say-doctors-attending-to-him-101625643018998.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Original versus modern: What’s your pick?||The sight of delicate, steaming hot momos with scrumptious chicken or veggies, paired with your favourite drink can instantly turn around a bad day. The dish that tops the list of our most favourite comfort food dates back to the 14th century, but whether they were created in Nepal or Tibet remains debatable. “It is believed that momo came to India in the 1960s when a large number of Tibetans entered the country and settled in several different parts of the country including Ladakh, Darjeeling, Dharamshala, Sikkim and Delhi. These are the major momo hotspots that we know and love. Another theory suggests that it was the Newar merchants of Kathmandu who brought the recipe from Tibet during their travels along the Silk Route. Their popularity then trickled down to other parts of the country, ultimately becoming the much-loved soul food for so many of us,” says chef Karma who has been working with Prasuma Momos’ for the last 16 years.Authentic momo, steamed or in the form of a thukpa, is highly popular. Over the years, we have seen numerous modifications and exciting new renditions of the dish. However, this often upsets the purists who believe that the original is the best. Sneha Saikia, a chef from Assam, says, “Momo means emotions for the Northeastern people. Thoughtless experimentation with momo sometimes upsets us. It has ruined the original recipe. Now momo comes with the stuffing of noodles, paneer, cheese and even chocolate. Sellers are putting it in tandoor and serving with synthetic sauces. It is losing its authenticity but you will find the authentic momos in the cafes in the Northeast.” Chef Reetu Uday Kugaji agrees that such experiments may damage the essence of momos. “As chefs, it is our responsibility to preserve and pass on age-old recipes to the new generations. Otherwise one day these recipes would be gone forever. I have tried tandoori momos but nothing can be compared to the original. I love the Kothey momos (Himalayan pan-fried dumplings) made with ginger-flavoured pork as its filling, half steamed and half pan-fried till they become crisp and golden brown, served with a sharp, tangy chutney.” Sharing her views, Lisa Suwal, CGO (Chief Growth Officer) of Prasuma, says, “We have noted that consumers like to try new things and experimentation when done with a balance is always worth it. The classics will always remain classics, while new variants will also be embraced by welcoming taste buds.” Momos are also getting a few healthy twists. Chefs are using wheat, buckwheat and finger millet to make momos. One may also add natural flavours and colouring to the flour before kneading the dough for momos by using beetroot, spinach, cilantro and kale. Chef Nishant Choubey says the newer versions of momos with a healthy spin should be welcomed. “I love the modern interpretation of momos as they are less starchy. You can see the stuffing inside. Any interpretation, if done right, should be accepted,” says Choubey.Chilli and Vinegar MomoBy chef Karma Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/original-versus-modern-what-s-your-pick-101625642548108.html
07-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka relaxes Covid curbs, ‘plague temples’ open doors for devotees||For Ramachandra Rao (70), a resident of Malleshwaram, his long wait to visit the Maramma Temple in Basavanagudi seems to be over after the Karnataka government allowed temples to reopen from Monday following a two-month lockdown due to Covid-19. The retired public sector undertaking employee, who has received both doses of Covid vaccine, hopes to visit the temple to pray for good health. “It is an age-old belief that deity in the temple protects people from illnesses. We have been praying at the temple for years now. The fact that it has remained open for more than a century shows the faith people have in ‘plague’ amma,” Rao explained.Experts, however, have questioned such superstitions and beliefs . “If it doesn’t harm the society or misguide other people or the diagnosis, they can practise it (going to such temples). If you go to a temple and pray for your good health, make offerings, it is fine. But if you don’t go to doctors, don’t get oxygen and just pray or sleep in some temple and think that you will become alright, then that is not advisable,” Dr. Madhusudhana Kariganur, former president of Indian Medical Association’s Karnataka chapter told HT.Also Read | Ready to appear over no-arrest guarantee: Twitter head to Karnataka HCThough, for the younger generation in Bengaluru, the existence of such temples is amusing, for others, the deity, which finds its origins during the plague of the late 1800s, still holds importance.According to government records, the first case of the plague in ancient Bangalore got reported in the city cantonment in August 1898. By the end of the pandemic, around 3,393 unofficial deaths in areas outside the cantonment, and 3,321 deaths were reported in the cantonment.Meera Iyer of the National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) said that the first change in the city’s lifestyle was the development of a new, spacious layout system instead of the crowded markets like Chickpet. Basavanagudi, Malleswaram, Frazer Town and other areas were developed to ensure people did not live in congested areas. “There was a lot of emphasis on lighting, ventilation and hygiene post the plague. It changed the way houses were built too,” she said. Along with the new layouts came the plague temples. “When the pandemic hit in the late 1800s, people flocked to these temples for protection since there were limited medical resources available,” said historian Suresh Moona.The Rajarajeshwari Plagueamma Temple on the Mysore Road is the only temple dedicated to plague. According to the officials of the temple, the temple enshrines Goddess Rajarajeshwari and two holy stones. The faith in these stones was justified when the disease was completely wiped out. From then on, people started worshipping these stones.According to Moona, the removal of a worship site is frowned upon in the Indian culture. “Over the years, the belief came into existence that these temples would keep people safe from further pandemics,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-relaxes-covid-curbs-plague-temples-open-doors-for-devotees-101625641520363.html
07-07-2021||Other||Kerala HC orders setting up of medical board to examine child with rare disease||The Kerala high court on Tuesday asked the state government to set up a medical board to examine a six-month-old baby suffering from spinal muscular atrophy after his father sought support for his son’s costly treatment.P K Arif, the father who is an auto-rickshaw driver, moved the court last week seeking free treatment as he has no means to fund it. In his petition, Arif said he has obtained permission to import the medicine for his son from the US but will be unable to pay for it without the government’s help.The government informed the court that 102 people in the state suffer from the rare disease and 42 of them have received treatment with support from medical firms under the corporate social responsibility programme. The government cited the National Rare Diseases Policy and added the disease was categorised under Group 3 and the treatment cost for it is very high. The government said it recommends crowd funding for such patients as it was not in a position to extend financial support to them. It pointed out Arif’s son was on ventilator support for three months. The government said the drug can be administered if the child can survive without the ventilator for at least 16 hours. The court then directed the government to set up the board to study the efficacy of administering the costly drug. It said the court will take up the case on a priority basis on Wednesday and if the medical board submits a report favouring the treatment.Also Read | More Covid-19 curbs in Kerala with high positivity rate areas from today ₹18 crore were earlier raised in Kerala via a crowd-funding platform for an 18-month child suffering from spinal muscular atrophy in Kannur within a week. After the money exceeded the amount needed for the treatment, P K Rafeeq, the child’s father, said he does not have words to express his gratitude. “Everything is not lost in trying times. It is a symbol of brotherhood and love. I was told the medicine will be most effective if it was administered before the child turns two,” said Rafeeq. His daughter, Afra, also suffers from the disease and moves around in a wheelchair. Spinal muscular atrophy is a rare genetic disease that affects the central nervous system and muscle movement. It mostly affects children but can develop in adults also. People with the disease lose a specific type of nerve cell in the spinal cord, called motor neurons, that control muscle movement and cripple them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-orders-setting-up-of-medical-board-to-examine-child-with-rare-disease-101625640318742.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee fined ₹5 lakh for seeking recusal of Calcutta HC judge from Nandigram plea||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday imposed a penalty of ₹5 lakh on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for seeking recusal of Justice Kaushik Chanda from her Nandigram election petition over the judge's alleged links with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The application of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo was rejected by Justice Chanda himself. He, however, decided to step away from the case on his own personal discretion and released the case from his bench, said those familiar with the development.Mamata Banerjee is facing a fine of ₹5 lakh for painting the judiciary "in a bad light", the court order said. The amount paid in penalties by the West Bengal CM will be used for the families of lawyers affected by Covid-19, said the Calcutta high court.Justice Kaushik Chanda said that he is unable to convince himself that there is a "conflict of interest". However, he still recused himself from the case so that "trouble-mongers" don't get an opportunity to keep the controversy alive. "It will be contrary to the interests of justice if such unwarranted problem continues along with trial," said Justice Chanda while stepping away from the case.Earlier, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had sent a letter to the Acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court, mentioning her objection to Justice Chanda's appointment as a permanent judge over "likelihood of bias", citing his associations with the BJP during his days as a lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-faces-rs-5-lakh-fine-for-seeking-recusal-of-calcutta-hc-judge-over-alleged-links-with-bjp-101625636881522.html
07-07-2021||Kolkata||State budget for 2021-22 to be placed in West Bengal assembly today||The state budget for 2021-22 will be placed before the West Bengal legislative assembly on Wednesday. In February this year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had read out the state’s financial statement and vote-on-account in the assembly instead of finance minister Amit Mitra, who could not attend the session due to health issues. State parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to place the budget in the assembly, in case of Mitra’s absence. Banerjee had showered sops and made a series of announcements while presenting the state’s vote-on-account in February as assembly elections were drawing closer. Also Read | Lessons from Uttarakhand crisis? Bengal set to revive legislative councilThe list included generating 15 million new employment opportunities, hiking farmer’s aid, free ration, providing cooked food from common kitchens for the poor ,and pension for senior citizens and widows, among others. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for the third consecutive time in May with a huge mandate, winning 213 out of the 292 assembly seats where elections were held. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could manage 77 seats. The budget session started from July 2 and has been a stormy one since then. It will continue till July 8. On the first day itself, BJP leaders had created a ruckus in the assembly, forcing governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to cut his inaugural address short. On Tuesday, the assembly passed a resolution supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured the creation of a legislative council amid opposition by the BJP. Speaking on the resolution, Chatterjee said that achievers and noted personalities of the society from various walks of life will have a representation, and also people from various strata of the society will get accommodated in the decision making process. Leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari, while opposing the resolution, said that the purpose of the resolution was to pursue “backdoor politics” to help TMC party leaders get elected as lawmakers despite having lost the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/state-budget-for-2021-22-to-be-placed-in-west-bengal-assembly-today-101625636598283.html
07-07-2021||Bhopal||Another examination scam surfaces in Madhya Pradesh||Marks of Bachelor of Dental Science (BDS) and nursing students at colleges affiliated to Jabalpur’s Madhya Pradesh Science University were jacked up while many of them were shown to have cleared the test in June even they did not take their exams, an inquiry committee has found.Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang ordered an inquiry in the matter on the complaint of activist Akhilesh Tripathi that some students, who did not appear for the test, were declared to have passed the exam. A team of three university officials and information technology experts inquired into the matter and submitted its report on Monday.An official said the report has highlighted loopholes in the system and found grave irregularities in the exam results. Also Read | MP man forges Covid-19 report to stay away from wife; bookedMindlogics Infratech, a private firm, was outsourced the work of delivering question papers to private and government medical colleges under the university and preparing the result.The inquiry committee found the university’s examination controller, Vrinda Saxena, clerk NiIesh Jaiswal, and an unidentified contractual employee changed the marks of students before final publications of the results.“In one of the instances, the company manager sent an email having the practical marks of BDS and nursing students to Vrinda Saxena, when she was Covid 19 positive and was on leave in April. Saxena changed the marks on the sheet and sent it to the company. The company later released the result with modified marks,” said the inquiry report. HT has seen a copy of the report.The report said the private company kept the mark sheets instead of providing them to the confidential branch of the university, thereby raising the possibility of tampering.JK Gupta, the university registrar, has terminated the contract of Mindlogics Infratech for the alleged irregularities. and blacklisted it. He said Jaiswal has been suspended for getting the marks sheets of students on his personal mail as part of the fraud. “...Saxena, who received marks sheet on her email before the official announcement of the results, has been shifted to the Indore Medical College.”Tripathi said a clerk would contact the students. “They would take ₹10,000 to ₹50,000 to increase the marks. The company’s manager used to change the marks on the direction of the controller.” He said the matter should be probed thoroughly as the private company was facing fraud charges also related to its work with the Agra University.“I have moved court and requested it to hand over the investigation of the case to Central Bureau of Investigation or other independent investigative.” He added that there were similar irregularities in undergraduate and postgraduate medical examinations.Sarang said they will probe the matter and not spare anyone. “Criminal cases will also be registered.”The irregularities have surfaced eight years after an entrance examination, admission, and recruitment scam was exposed in Madhya Pradesh in 2013 involving Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board, popularly known by its Hindi acronym Vyapam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/another-examination-scam-surfaces-in-madhya-pradesh-101625636418351.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab gangster Kulveer Naruana, accomplice shot dead in Bathinda||Gangster Kulveer Singh Naruana and his accomplice, Chamkaur Singh, were shot dead at Naruana village in Bathinda district on Wednesday morning. Police said the two were shot dead at Naruana’s house at his native village by another accomplice, Manpreet Singh Manna, who also sustained a bullet injury and was undergoing treatment at the Bathinda Civil Hospital. Also read: ‘Will accept whatever Sonia Gandhi decides’: Amarinder amid rift with SidhuThe incident occurred at 7.30am. Both victims were rushed to the civil hospital, but were declared brought dead. Police sources said Manna was a former gunman of Naruana. He was arrested and brought to the civil hospital under tight security as Naruana’s supporters gathered at the hospital. Escaped bid on life in June On June 22, Naruana escaped unhurt in an attack by four gunmen when he was going to his village in his bulletproof car near Ring Road, Bathinda. Naruana had identified the accused and a case was registered. Naruana was accused in half a dozen cases, including two of attempt to murder. He was behind the attack on police personnel in the civil hospital in which he threw chilli powder in their eyes before freeing convict Gurwinder Bindu. In 2015, Naruana and his gang opened fire at a constable at the Bathinda cantonment police station. Brush with politics In 2014, Naruana joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) when former Talwandi Sabo MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu switched to the SAD from the Congress. He was honoured with a siropa by then revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia during a rally organised by Sidhu outside his house in Bathinda in March 2014. In July 2014, Naruana and Manna were arrested with illegal weapons. Naruana remained a controversial figure during his stay in the central jail as he along with his accomplices uploaded their photos on Facebook from behind bars. He was also engaged in a gang war with the rival group of Gurpreet Singh Sekhon inside the jail. In April 2015, Naruana secured a country-made pistol inside the jail. Naruana fired two shots from the pistol at Gurdeep Singh Maana, a member of the rival gang led by Sekhon. The firing happened outside Gurdeep Singh Maana’s cell and he was seriously injured in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-gangster-kulveer-naruana-accomplice-shot-dead-in-bathinda-101625636239394.html
07-07-2021||Other||Tiger T-65 found dead at Rajasthan’s Ranthambore reserve||A 10-year-old male tiger was found dead at the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) in Sawai Madhopur district of Rajasthan on Tuesday morning. The body of T-65, also known as Sooraj, was found at around 9am by the patrolling team in Khandar area of the RTR. The tiger was born to T-19 on May 26, 2011, and had litter with Tigress T-69. Chief wildlife warden TC Verma said the tiger was found in a water hole and a probable cause of its death was cardiac arrest but they could only confirm once the viscera report was received. The postmortem has been done. In April, a five-month-old tiger cub was found dead in Gandhra Deh area of RTR. The mutilated body had canine marks around the neck so forest officials suspected it was killed by another tiger. Earlier, in March, four tigers, including two sub-adults, were reported missing from RTR. The administration started an intensive search for them. RTR has around 80 tigers in an area of 1,334 square kms, making it the third most congested habitats for the big cats in India after Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand and Kaziranga National Park in Assam. The ‘Status of Tigers in India-2018’ report said Rajasthan has witnessed an increase of tiger population by 115% in the last 12 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-t-65-found-dead-at-rajasthan-s-ranthambore-reserve-101625635998726.html
07-07-2021||Bhopal||MP Police bust gang duping public to invest in shell companies||Madhya Pradesh police cybercrime cell arrested four people for running a racket involved in duping people to invest in shell companies and sending money to Pakistan through crypto currency, said a police officer. The accused were identified as Avik Kedia, a chartered accountant from Gurugram, Dolly Makhija, a company secretary, and businessmen Vikki Makhija from Delhi and Dilip Patel from Gujarat. The accused carried out transactions worth ₹50 crore, said Yogesh Chaudhary, additional director general of police (ADGP). Police also found the involvement of Vijay Chhutlani from Mumbai, Vijay Hariyani from Rajkot and an unidentified Chinese national in the fraud and are on the lookout for them, he added. Also Read | Take steps to trace gangs duping people on pretext of loans, lucky draws: HCPolice busted the racket while investigating a complaint of online fraud worth ₹1 crore. A Bhopal-based businessman lodged a complaint that he met a woman through a dating site in February this year and she asked him to invest in a company dealing with spices. He deposited ₹1 crore in four different bank accounts, said Chaudhary. “Investigation revealed that the accused opened bank accounts of fake companies in nationalised banks. They targeted businessmen and asked them to deposit money in these accounts for investment. They would then convert the money into cryptocurrency with the help of agents, who were not aware of the fraud, and later send the funds to Pakistan through an international crypto exchange,” the ADGP said.The police have seized 60 digital signatures of directors of shell companies, three laptops, four pen drivers, a mobile phone, crypto trading statements, documents related to fake firms, Aadhaar and PAN cards of different people, four cheque books, a debit card and other documents. They said those arrested have not revealed anything yet, but the investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mppolice-bust-gang-duping-public-to-invest-in-shell-companies-101625630838174.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Former Union minister PR Kumaramangalam’s wife murdered at Delhi home||Kitty Kumaramangalam, 68, wife of former Union minister PR Kumaramangalam was murdered inside her house in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar on Tuesday night, Delhi Police said.They arrested a 24-year-old suspect Raju Lakhan on Wednesday morning.Police said Lakhan is a local washerman in A block colony, Vasant Vihar, who visited Kitty Kumaramangalam’s house everyday for the last five years.Delhi Police said they were informed of the incident by her domestic help, who said that Lakhan had come to the house around 9pm with two associates and held her hostage before entering Kitty Kumaramangalam’s room.“In the meantime, his two associates entered and overpowered Kitty Kumaramangalam and smothered her with a pillow. Then the three left. The maid somehow untied herself and raised an alarm,” said DCP(South West) Ingit Pratap Singh.Also Read | Snatchings up 47%, rape and assault rise in first half of 2021 in DelhiPolice said they confirmed the maid’s version with Lakhan during his arrest. The maid said that Lakhan visited the house everyday around 9pm--it was his routine. “ We quickly formed teams and arrested Lakhan. He lives in the nearby Bhanwar Singh camp. He has disclosed the name of the other two. We are on the lookout for them.”DCP Singh said they have recovered a bag of stolen clothes from Lakhan. “We are checking what was stolen from the house. The other two men also took two bags with them.”Kitty Kumaramangalam lived alone on the second floor. Police said they have informed her son in Bengaluru. Her husband PR Kumaramangalam was a minister in the National Democratic Alliance government between 1998 and 2001.Between January 1 and June 15, 2021, Delhi has reported 196 murders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/former-union-minister-pr-kumaramangalam-s-wife-murdered-at-delhi-home-101625629877950.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Bihar unlock: Restaurants to reopen today with 50% capacity, gyms open doors||Bihar is set to gradually unlock, starting Wednesday, its coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions in the wake of the receding second wave of the pandemic. Under the new unlock restrictions in effect from this day, restaurants and eateries have been allowed to resume in-house dining, albeit with capacity slashed to half. In addition, preparations are also being made to reopen gyms and clubs. The Nitish Kumar-led government in the state has requested people to adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to further cut the spread of the virus.Also Read | Covid-19: Bihar allows universities, schools, restaurants to openRestaurants, gyms, fitness clubs and other institutions set to open in Bihar with the Covid-19 unlock process underwent sanitisation work on Tuesday, ahead of resuming operations. Around 20,000 people in the capital Patna are associated with the 200-odd gyms and fitness clubs in the city, according to reports.These gyms have taken appropriate measures to cut the spread of the coronavirus in their premises, HT's sister publication Hindustan reported. A gym operator in the city, interviewed by the publication, said that only six people are currently being allowed on the premises. Those attending the gym have been asked to bring their own disposable masks, sanitisers, yoga mats, towel, and hand gloves, the instructor said. Moreover, only those who have received Covid-19 vaccine doses are being allowed to work out, he said, adding that there are also plans to carry out daily sanitisation of the premises.The Bihar government on Monday allowed restaurants and food shops to operate with 50% seating capacity. Chief minister Nitish Kumar also said that all universities, colleges, technical educational institutions, and government training institutes are allowed to open with 50% attendance of students.The state government also permitted the opening of schools for the students of Class 11 and Class 12 with 50% attendance of students. Kumar said special arrangements will be made for the vaccination of adult students, teachers, and staff of educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-unlock-restaurants-to-reopen-today-with-50-capacity-gyms-open-doors-101625627115530.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Bihar CM to revive ‘Janata Ke Durbar Mein Mukhya Mantri’ programme from July 12||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is all set to revive his ‘Janata Ke Durbar Mein Mukhya Mantri’ (chief minister in the people’s court) programme from July 12 where he will address grievances of the public. The CM’s secretariat, popularly known as 4KG, has been preparing for the programme where the chief minister will listen to people’s issues and try to solve them on the spot by involving officials of the departments concerned. On Tuesday, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan Singh held a video conference with all departmental secretaries besides DGP, range IGs, DIGs, DMs, SPs on the programme. Sources in the CM’s secretariat said Nitish has asked the officials to make the programme people-friendly. He has also asked the officers to keep a track on the grievances raised at the durbar and ensure that those are redressed. Also Read | Five of Bihar gang that duped over 250 Covid patients arrestedNitish held his first such programme at his residence (1, Anne Marg) in April 2006. The programme became a regular event where 300-400 people, on an average, turned up. This continued till 2016. A senior government official said on the condition of anonymity, “We have seen the chief minister skip lunch and sit through nine hours of his weekly public interaction programme, listening to the grievances...He is a man with limitless energy.”He said the programme was very popular, particularly in the rural areas, and people came from across the state to speak to the chief minister directly and have their problems addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-to-revive-janata-ke-durbar-mein-mukhya-mantri-programme-from-july-12-101625628677989.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Petrol price in Delhi crosses century mark; sells at ₹100.21 per litre||Petrol prices in the national capital soared above 100-mark after it was hiked by 35 paise on Tuesday. Following the revision in prices, it was selling at ₹100.21 per litre in Delhi, while diesel was being sold at ₹89.53 per litre.Along with Delhi, the petrol price crossed the 100-mark in Kolkata as well. It was selling at 100.19 rupees per litre. Diesel price stood at 92.44 rupees per litre.Since May 4, there is a continuous upward trend in fuel prices with few in between pauses. Petrol prices have increased by around 15 per cent so far in the year 2021.The price of petrol has already crossed the century mark in Rajasthan, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Ladakh.The rise in fuel prices comes in the backdrop of fluctuations in the global crude oil prices and foreign exchange rates. However, the most impacting factor in this has been the high rate of tax.On Wednesday, Brent crude was up by 3 cents at $74.56 a barrel, after slumping more than 3% on Tuesday. US oil was up 7 cents at $73.44 a barrel, having declined by more than 2% in the previous session.In Mumbai petrol was selling at ₹106.27, while diesel was being sold at ₹97.08 rupees per litre. In Chennai, petrol and diesel were selling at ₹101.1 and ₹94.08 per litre respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/petrol-price-in-delhi-crosses-century-mark-sells-at-rs-100-21-per-litre-101625626546418.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 8,418 fresh Covid-19 cases, 171 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 8,418 Covid-19 cases, of which Mumbai accounted for 455. The state recorded 171 deaths, with Mumbai reporting 10. There were 195,828 tests done on Tuesday, while recoveries clocked 10,548.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 114,297, of which Thane tops with 16,670 patients, followed by Pune with 16,524 active patients.Also Read | Five of Bihar gang that duped over 250 Covid patients arrestedThe number of deaths has reduced significantly in June, compared to both April and May, by around 74%. June saw 6,621 deaths, down from 26,037 in May and 26,970 in April.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said this drop directly corresponded to the number of cases. “We saw a significant decline in the number of cases in June compared to April and May and this corresponded directly to death rates. Since the transmission rates declined, this translated to fewer deaths,” said Dr Awate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-8-418-fresh-covid-19-cases-171-deaths-101625626397996.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: IMD predicts a hot, windy day||Delhi is likely to see strong surface winds during the daytime on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 29 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 41 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 28.7 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal and maximum temperature was 40.6 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 167. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 144.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-imd-predicts-a-hot-windy-day-101625626098104.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Snatchings up 47%, rape and assault rise in first half of 2021 in Delhi||At least five people were raped and six sexually harassed in the national capital every day till June 15 this year, according to updated data uploaded on the Delhi Police’s website, even as street crimes such as snatching shot up by nearly 50% compared to the same period last year.During the corresponding period last year, three people were raped and four were sexually harassed in the Capital, showed the police’s data, highlighting that crime against women is one of Delhi’s perennial and most urgent problems.Cases of snatching, the most common street crime in Delhi, also went up 47%, with the city reporting at least 23 snatchings every day compared to 16 per day during the same period in 2020. A total of 3,829 snatching cases were registered till June 15 this year, against 2,612 cases reported during the corresponding period last year. Similarly, at least six persons were robbed every day in the city till June 15, compared to four in 2020, according to the latest data.All crime went up by 8% in Delhi till June 15 this year, compared to the same period last year, the data shows. Till June 15 this year, 123,295 cases were registered in the city, up from 113,855 the previous year.The data was made available a week after police commissioner Balaji Srivastava took charge from his predecessor, SN Shrivastava, who retired on June 30 after a 15-month term.Between January 1 and June 15 this year, the city police registered 833 cases of rape and 1,022 of molestation, up significantly from the 580 rapes and 735 molestation cases filed in the same period last year.To be sure, a lockdown was imposed across the country from March 25 last year to prevent the spread of Covid-19, limiting movement and travel, and restricting most people to their homes. Curbs began being lifted in phases from June 1.This year, too, the state government imposed a six-week lockdown in the Capital starting April 19, in light of a sharp rise in Covid-19 infections in the Capital’s fourth wave.According to the data, 2,315 heinous crimes have been reported this year, compared to 2,436 last year.Police officers define heinous crimes as crimes that are serious in nature or extremely evil.Senior police officers attributed the increase in crimes, such as snatching and robbery, to the “free and fair registration of cases” policy, and the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown, which they said led to a loss of livelihood for several people, adding that street crimes increased after the lockdown restrictions were eased.“The Delhi Police has a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to registering cases or converting valid complaints to first information reports (FIRs). All crime-related calls made to the police control room are scrutinised and converted into FIRs after due verification. We also receive complaints through various media, including our integrated complaint monitoring system (ICMS), which was launched last November with an aim to quickly process complaints and expedite flow of information to citizens regarding the status of their complaints,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chimnoy Biswal.Other crimes such as vehicle thefts, burglary, and theft also went up marginally. Data shows that 295 cases of attempt to murder were registered this year, up from 236 in the same period last year. Cases of murder and kidnapping for ransom have seen a decline -- from 226 to 196 and 8 to 7 respectively, the statistics show.Experts said registration of data is just one of the parameters that can be used to gauge the extent of crimes in any city or state, and is not a perfect scale to judge policing.“We all know about data fudging, so it cannot be the sole way of determining the crime situation in any city. The best way to judge the performance of the police is by ascertaining the number of cases they have solved and how many convictions were achieved in the charge sheets that were filed in the courts. Instead of just registering cases, the police officers should focus on meeting people in the field, addressing their grievances and strengthening their faith in the police. They should also be taking steps to curb crimes and keep a vigil on registered criminals,” said retired IPS officer Prakash Singh, who headed the Uttar Pradesh Police between 1991 and 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatchings-up-47-rape-and-assault-rise-in-first-half-of-2021-in-delhi-101625613055578.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Market associations push for joint teams to manage crowds||Representatives of nearly 200 markets in the city participated in a video conference on Tuesday and collectively decided to approach the district administrations, police and civic agencies to set up joint action committees to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations – a move that comes in the light of crackdown of district administrations on markets over the last one week for violation of protocols.“In today’s (Tuesday) meeting, the traders observed that the responsibility of controlling the crowd outside shops in the markets should be the primary responsibility of authorities – district administration, municipal corporations and the police. While shop owners will ensure Covid-19 regulations in the premises of the enterprises, the joint action committees will be helpful in following regulations outside the shop premises. We will write to the police, MCDs, the L-G and the revenue department in this regard,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of the chamber of trade and industry (CTI) – a Delhi-based traders’ body which organised the online meeting of market associations.In the last seven days, the district administrations have ordered temporary suspension of markets in areas including Laxmi Nagar, a section in Gandhi Nagar, a pocket in Sadar Bazar, Nangloi, Punjabi Basti and the central market in Lajpat Nagar, for alleged violation of Covid-19 regulations such as social distancing and mask compliance.Vinay Narang, a trader leader from Kashmere Gate market, said: “A joint action committee comprising market association representatives, police, municipal officials, civil defence volunteers and enforcement officials is necessary at this stage. We have collectively decided to write to the concerned agencies at the earliest regarding this.”Nitin Gupta, president of Kamla Nagar market traders’ association, who also took part in Tuesday’s meeting, said, “It is time the authorities crack down on illegal encroachments instead of cracking down on market associations. If shop owners are found flouting rules, action should be taken against the particular shop, instead of closing an entire market.”Atul Bhargava, president of the Connaught Place market association, said, “Unauthorised street vendors and hawkers are increasing the size of the crowd in the markets. That is not in the hands of the power market associations to control.”However, representatives of street vendor associations countered this viewpoint.Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India, said, “Accountability in this case should be evidence-based and not prejudiced. Street vendors are often poor and end up being blamed for most problems. Secondly, they operate in the open, which is less risky in terms of Covid-19 transmission than closed spaces from which permanent shops operate. When there is a protocol for penalising for violation of Covid-19 regulations, there is no room for such blame games.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-market-associations-push-for-joint-teams-to-manage-crowds-101625612611937.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption by MCDs in building construction||Citing a purported conversation between BJP MLA Anil Bajpai and an east municipal corporation engineer, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that the BJP leader has exposed alleged corruption, with “only those who give money to the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) being allowed to construct buildings in the city”.Addressing a press conference, Bhardwaj, who is the MLA from Greater Kailash, alleged that MCD officials are taking ₹10-15 lakh for each building in his constituency.“Today we have a live audio recording of Anil Bajpai, BJP MLA from Gandhi Nagar Assembly constituency in conversation with a building department officer of the east MCD. They are talking about stopping the demolition of a building. Bajpai is asking the MCD engineer to stop his JE (junior engineer) from demolishing a particular building. When the engineer replies that the demolition took place on the complaint of the mayor, the MLA, exposing the Delhi BJP, pointed out that he has not demolished other illegal and unauthorised constructions under the mayor’s protection. This way, the BJP MLA has confessed about rampant corruption in MCD. He said the BJP-ruled MCD doesn’t demolish the buildings where it gets bribe. Dozens of such buildings were left untouched,” Bhardwaj said.Meanwhile, Bajpai said he was just trying to help a poor family which was about to lose their home: “I did or said nothing wrong. If houses are being demolished, then every such unauthorised construction should also be demolished. Why selectively target the poor?”EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal too denied the allegations as “baseless”. “If this is the case I would request the AAP to show where it has happened and we will surely take action if anyone is found guilty. There are many wards under AAP councillors where people neither pay the taxes nor get their house maps approved. There are many 25-30-metre houses for which we have never received the drawings from owners to be approved by the civic body. I have even sent a suggestion for the new Master Plan in the making to make a provision for all houses to be built as per approved design,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-alleges-corruption-by-mcds-in-building-construction-101625612325750.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||‘Wet-bulb temperatures’: Soaring mercury, humidity make outdoors dangerous||As the monsoon continues to play truant over northwest India, including Delhi, the Capital is experiencing a mix of heatwave-like conditions and high humidity levels, which, forecasters say, will last till July 10 when the monsoon is expected to arrive. Scientists said that in the absence of rainfall, Delhi and parts of NCR are recording high wet-bulb temperatures, a combined measure of heat and humidity of a region.On Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature in Delhi was 40.6 degrees Celsius, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of year. The relative humidity was around 54%. This translates into a wet-bulb temperature of 32.28 degrees Celsius. That may not seem like much, but according to scientists, it is next to impossible to work outside when the wet-bulb temperature is over 32 degrees. Worse, on prolonged exposure to a wet-bulb temperature of 35 degrees or higher, even fit people may face significant discomfort, even collapse and require hospitalisation.Scientists say the wet-bulb temperature is a good indicator of how hot we feel (as opposed to how hot it is). To be sure actual measures of heat perception involve other variables such as angle of sunlight and wind direction and speed, but, in general, the wet-bulb temperature itself is a good proxy for this. The formula for wet-bulb temperatures is complex although it involves only two variables -- temperature and relative humidity. It makes up for this by using inverse tangent (or arc tan) trigonometric functions.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, explained that temperatures are high in Delhi on account of a delayed monsoon, but moisture carrying easterly winds that are intermittently blowing into the city are keeping the humidity levels also high. The result is high discomfort.“Usually during this time of the year, Delhi receives a few spells of rainfall that brings the maximum temperature down. So, even if the humidity levels are high, the discomfort is not as much. But this time, the temperatures are high because of delayed monsoon and so are the humidity levels, this makes people sweat more profusely and makes staying outdoors extremely difficult,” Palawat explained.In short, it’s almost as bad as it is in Chennai in May when temperatures in the low 40s and relative humidity in the high 80s combine to take wet-bulb temperatures dangerously high.Climate Trends, a Delhi-based communications group focusing on environment and climate change, said that Delhi experiences 63 such days in a year (called wet-bulb days) , Mumbai , 47, Trivandrum, 113 and Chennai, 140.India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday revised the dates for monsoon arrival in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10, which will make this the most delayed monsoons in at least the last 17 years.“The human body can withstand dry heat, but as humidity levels increase along with heat, the ability to spend time outdoors slowly decreases,” said a senior IMD official.IMD forecasts temperatures in the city over the next two days to be around 40 degrees Celsius, which will continue the spell of sweltering heat in the city.Climatologists explained that this shift to recording felt heat is a global trend.“People do not grasp the seriousness of the situation. An entire set of livelihoods depends on being outside. Imagine being a construction worker who can’t work for two months of the year,” said Camilo Mora, associate professor (department of geography and environment), University of Hawaii.He added: “Your sweat doesn’t evaporate if it is very humid, so heat accumulates in your body. People can then suffer heat toxicity, which is like sunburn on the inside of your body. This is all an impact of years of neglect of the environment and it is now coming back to haunt us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wetbulb-temperatures-soaring-mercury-humidity-make-outdoors-dangerous-101625611943338.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||NCRTC ropes in experts to study impact of underground rail corridor on Delhi zoo||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has roped in experts to study the impact of an underground rapid rail transit corridor that is proposed to pass through the Delhi zoo on the vibration levels in the park, to ensure that animals are not disturbed during the construction of the line and operation of trains.Close to 800 metres of the 107km-long Delhi-SNB Urban complex (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror) Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, which is part of the Delhi-Alwar RRTS line, will pass through the Delhi Zoological Park at a depth of 80 feet, as per the alignment proposed in the detailed project report. The alignment is yet to be approved by the central government.The NCRTC has asked experts from the Central Road Research Institute (CSIR-CRRI) to do an assessment to gauge the impact of the vibration caused by the trains running underground as well as the construction work.“The stretch below the Delhi zoo will be constructed at a depth of around 80 feet. CRRI will carry out the vibration study in zoo premises after minimisation of Covid impact to establish the current baseline data for vibrations,” a spokesperson for NCRTC saidThe Delhi-SNB corridor, along with the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut line will provide seamless connectivity in the national capital region by linking cities in the Capital’s east -- Ghazibad and Meerut, to those in south -- Gurugram and Alwar. In Delhi, both corridors will originate from Sarai Kale Khan in south east Delhi. These corridors will also connect all these cities to All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Safdarjung, one of country’s biggest hospitals.Of the total 107 kilometres, 83kms of the Delhi-SNB corridor will be constructed in Haryana, 22 kms in Delhi and 2 kms in Rajasthan. While the corridor in Haryana and Rajasthan will be mostly elevated, it will be completely underground in Delhi. Except for Sarai Kale Khan station, the remaining three stations at INA, Munirka and Aerocity will be underground.Nasim Akhtar, senior principal scientist at transportation planning and environment division, CSIR-CRRI, said, “We will study the current ambient vibration levels in the zoo, both during day and night, and will ensure that they do not exceed the present levels during the construction and operation of the RRTS line.”Akhtar said the first part of the study was done last year before the lockdown to record the day time ambient vibration levels. But the study had to be stopped after a lockdown was imposed again in April this year in view of an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases. Even though a gradual unlock process has begun, the government is yet to reopen the zoological park.“The day time ambient vibration levels in the zoo is around 75-76 VdB. The vibrations are caused by a railway track nearby, and the movement of vehicles inside the premises. But we couldn’t do the study at night due to the lockdown. We will do the remaining part of the study once the zoo reopens,” he said.When contacted, a senior Delhi zoo official said, “The matter was discussed last year. As of now, no permission has been given to carry out the study, as the zoo is closed due to the pandemic.”Stressing on the need for night time study, Akhtar said, “The train operations will continue till late at night. The ambient vibration levels at night are much less than day time; we don’t want animals and birds’ sleep patterns to get disturbed because of train movement. Our recommendation regarding vibration control to NCRTC will be based on the vibration levels at night time.”The NCRTC spokesperson said that it will be ensured that there is minimal impact of the train movement on the ground level. “The proposed tunnel is very deep in this zone and NCRTC is going to use special track structure to mitigate vibration,” he said.Akhtar said there are a several technologies which can be incorporated during construction to minimise vibration. “According to the soil report from the area, there is sand filling till 17-20 metres depth. This is a good thing, as the vibration will get absorbed. If the night time level is less than 70 VdB, then we might recommend NCRTC to use technology such as a floating chamber to kill vibration at source.”Anish Andheria, CEO of Wildlife Conservation Trust, said animals are far more sensitive to vibrations than humans, and if an alternate alignment of the corridor is possible, then it should be considered. He said if the current alignment is allowed, it should be ensured that there is minimal disturbance to the animals, especially during construction. “The executing agency should put in the public domain the technology they plan to use to minimise vibration impact from the perspective of animals. They should also look at similar projects carried out in other parts of the world to ensure that the most effective technology is deployed,” Andheria said.While the Centre’s approval is awaited, NCRTC has started pre-construction work. “We are working on preparing the detailed designing of structures, geo-technical investigation work, initial pile load test, topographic survey work, shifting of utilities such as electric high-tension lines, water and sewer pipelines etc,” the NCRTC spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ncrtc-ropes-in-experts-to-study-impact-of-underground-rail-corridor-on-delhi-zoo-101625611679722.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Grim milestone for Delhi as Covid-19 toll crosses 25,000 mark||Over 25,000 people in the national capital have died of Covid-19 since the outbreak of the infection in March last year, showed government records, after the state added four fatalities to the city’s toll on Tuesday.The first Covid-19 death in Delhi was reported on March 13, 2020, when a 69-year-old woman succumbed to the viral infection.Most of the 25,001 deaths in the city so far were recorded in just two months, between April and May, as a fourth wave of infections ravaged the city, and left health care infrastructure teetering on the brink of collapse.At the height of the fourth wave, Delhi added an average of 25,294 cases a day in the seven days ending April 23.State government records show that 13,210 people died of Covid-19 in the city in April and May alone, accounting for nearly 53% of Delhi’s coronavirus deaths.Delhi continued to add around 20,000 new cases each day till the first week of May, after which cases fell, on the back of a lockdown imposed in the Capital from April 19.Deaths of the illness peaked between May 1 and 3, as Delhi recorded over 400 fatalities each day. In Delhi on May 3 alone, 448 died of the illness. In comparison, 131 people died of Covid-19 at the height of the third wave of infections on November 18.Delhi saw over 100 Covid-19 deaths on only 11 days before the fourth wave set foot in the city. In the fourth wave alone, Delhi added over 100 deaths on 47 occasions, showed Delhi government data.Even as the fourth wave ebbed from the second week of May, Delhi continued to add an average of 101 Covid-19 deaths a day till the seven days ending June 2.So far, 1.74% of those who contracted the infection in Delhi have died, slightly higher than the national average of 1.3%, according to the government data.The city also added 79 fresh infections on Tuesday, with 0.11% of those sampled testing positive. Over the past week, Delhi has added an average of 85 new cases every day.Experts said a fifth wave of infections in Delhi is unlikely “for at least six months.”“The delta variant was so infectious that a very high proportion of people in Delhi have already been exposed, protecting them against another infection from at least six to 10 months as the current evidence suggests. In the meanwhile, we are also increasing the vaccination; people who do not have immunity from a previous infection will get it through immunisation,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, had previously said, ““For a fifth wave of cases, we need a variant that is significantly different from the circulating delta variant which will take time or a significant drop in population-level immunity which will also take time. There could be some ups and downs of the fourth wave over the next few weeks but a fifth wave is unlikely for some time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grim-milestone-for-delhi-as-covid-19-toll-crosses-25-000-mark-101625611495553.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||HC gives Delhi Police two weeks to conclude inquiry in riots charge sheet leak||The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted two more weeks to Delhi police to undertake a “comprehensive inquiry” into the leakage of contents of the charge sheet and supplementary charge sheet filed in case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi last year, to the media even before cognisance was taken by the court.Jamia Millia Islamia student and riots accsued Asif Iqbal Tanha approached the high court last year, alleging misconduct by police officials in leaking his alleged disclosure statement in the main charge sheet, recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media.Pulling up the Delhi Police for the delay in the inquiry, Justice Mukta Gupta asked how much time the Delhi police will take to complete the probe while remarking that “one institution which keeps moving even during a lockdown is the police department”.To this, special public prosecutor (SPP) Rajat Nair said that the agency (police) was burdened with additional duties. Nair added that although notice was issued to parties concerned for the purposes of the inquiry, it could not be concluded on account of Covid lockdown.SPP Nair sought two more weeks’ from the court to file the inquiry report which was granted by the court .Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, representing Tanha, told the court that while an additional affidavit on a subsequent leak with respect to a supplementary charge sheet was filed, response from the State was not on record.The judge proceeded to record SPP’s submission that “a comprehensive inquiry on the leakage of the contents of the charge sheet and the supplementary charge sheet is underway and is likely to be concluded within two weeks”, and listed the matter for hearing on August 5.Tanha, who was arrested in May 2020, was recently released from jail after the high court granted him bail.The police have alleged that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-gives-delhi-police-two-weeks-to-conclude-inquiry-in-riots-charge-sheet-leak-101625611134552.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||EDMC to set up app, call centre and collection points for e-waste safe disposal||Soon residents, institutions, commercial and industrial units in east Delhi could dispose of their electronic waste in an environment friendly manner and even get some value back as the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) plans to engage an agency for collection and transportation of e-waste for further processing and disposal in a scientific manner. Citizens will be able to access the facility on the corporation website, municipal officials in the know of the matter said.The officials said the agency will have collection centres at suitable locations and will also facilitate the disposal process by way of a mobile app and a call centre with a toll-free number. “Additionally, users will be able to raise a request on the EDMC website mentioning details of the item(s) they need to dispose of and request a pick-up. The value of the discarded items will be decided and paid to those disposing of the goods,” said a senior EDMC official handling the project.E-waste includes old, discarded and unserviceable electronic items such as mobile phones, television sets, chargers and refrigerators, among others.Until now, the corporation did not have a strategy for handling e-waste and most such waste was segregated and processed illegally by the informal sector -- ragpickers and scrap dealers and small workshops -- in an unscientific manner that posed serious environment hazards. Officials said as e-waste contains toxic chemicals and minerals such as arsenic, cadmium and acid, among others, it was imperative that such waste is recycled in a scientific manner.“Our request for proposal (RFP) for the project is in the final stage of approval for appointing an agency. This maiden initiative will pave the way for handling of electronic waste in a responsible and environment friendly manner,” said EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand.The cash-strapped municipal corporation also aims to generate some revenue through the initiative. “We plan to earn some royalty from the agency executing the project, which will help the municipal body earn some revenue,” said an official, who asked not to be named.“Currently, most of the e-waste in the city is recycled illegally by informal groups such as ragpickers and small workshops to extract metals such as copper out of it. “A large volume of such waste from all parts of Delhi reaches pockets such as Seemapuri where a number of informal groups are engaged in extracting metals out of the junk. We will be creating larger awareness about our initiative so that people have a way to dispose of e-waste safely,” the official said.So far, there has been no assessment of the volume of e-waste being generated or recycled in the city. However, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and recently the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) have set up similar mechanisms for collection and disposal of e-waste in areas under their jurisdiction.The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) notified the E-waste Management Rules in 2016 following which all civic bodies were to implement the same in their jurisdiction.According to experts, there is still little awareness around the consequences of discarding electronic gadgets in an improper manner. These gadgets often land up in makeshift workshop, where metal is extracted using the crudest methods, releasing a range of toxic chemicals, which ultimately flows into drains and then into water bodies, thereby heavily polluting them.Satish Sinha, associate director, Toxic Link, said it is important to have a formal set-up for e-waste collection.“When recycled illegally, the methodology used is rudimentary in nature, releasing toxic heavy metals such as lead, mercury etc into the immediate neighbourhood. Processing of e-waste requires good technology, which is why a formal set-up is required,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-to-set-up-app-call-centre-and-collection-points-for-e-waste-safe-disposal-101625610089435.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||Farmhouse drug bust: Afghan man gave Aadhaar card for registering rent agreement||The Punjab Police are investigating an Afghan man who leased a farmhouse in Sainik Farms where a heroin-manufacturing unit was busted on Sunday, and four people were arrested during a raid by the state police, officers privy to the probe said on Tuesday.The officers said Najibullah Khalid, the man who rented the farmhouse, submitted a copy of his Aadhaar card when the rent agreement was signed between him and the owner of the property, Pravesh Kumar alias Bobby.The Aadhaar card, a copy of which is with HT, was prepared on a Neb Sarai address. Bobby, and Ganesh Kumar, the property dealer who got the deal fixed, said they have submitted the copy of Khalid’s Aadhaar card to the Neb Sarai police. They have told the police that Khalid introduced himself to them as an Indian citizen, who is involved in the supply and sale of dates. The rent agreement was prepared last month and the four arrested men began staying in the farmhouse around June 26-27, the investigators said.“We are carrying out another operation to nab more drug dealers associated with the syndicate. As far as investigation regarding the Aadhar card and other documentation regarding the rented farmhouse is concerned, we will investigate everything once we complete our operation,” said Tushar Gupta, ASP Garhshankar police (in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur), who led the raiding party during the crackdown on the farmhouse.On Sunday, around 5pm, a Punjab Police team raided the farmhouse number 227, in Sainik Farms and arrested four Afghans for running a heroin-manufacturing unit there. A total of 17 kilogram heroin, assorted chemicals, acids and lab equipments were seized from the farmhouse.The raiding team caught Khalid when he reached the farmhouse to meet his alleged accomplices. The raiding team took Khalid with them for questioning, as the farmhouse was taken on rent in his name. He is yet to be arrested, said a Punjab Police officer, who asked not to be named.“Khalid came to me with the reference of a property dealer in Malviya Nagar, who helped him purchase a flat in Neb Sarai. The Aadhaar card that Khalid gave us for preparing the rent agreement of the farmhouse has the address of the same flat. Khalid told me that he sold that property and wanted to move into a farmhouse with his wife, whom he introduced as an Indian citizen,” said Ganesh.According to Ganesh, the farmhouse leased on a monthly rent of ₹1.6 lakh and Khalid paid ₹4.80 lakh as advance rent and two months of security money. “As a property dealer, I followed all the procedures while renting out the property. Apart from the rent agreement, I also applied online for the tenant’s verification,” he said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south), Delhi Police, Mandava Harsh Vardhan said a case under Indian Penal Code’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered at the Neb Sarai police station against the farmhouse owner for not getting the tenant verified from the police. Asked if Khalid could have prepared a fake Aadhaar card for obtaining the farmhouse on rent, the additional DCP said, “We will look into all the aspects pertaining to the case that we have registered.”Another police officer, requesting to remain anonymous, said holding an Aadhaar card means that the card holder is residing in India. But, according to the Aadhaar Act, 2016, even a foreigner who has stayed in India for more than 182 days is eligible to apply for an Aadhaar card.“Khalid has told the police that he was staying in India as an Afghan refugee for the past six years. This information has to be verified, before we find out how he got an Aadhaar card,” the officer added.About the case and the charges against him, Bobby said he did not violate any law because the tenants never told him that they were foreigners. “I would have never rented out my property or had alerted the concerned agencies, if I knew that the tenants were foreigners. Being a responsible citizen, I will cooperate with the police in their investigation,” said Bobby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmhouse-drug-bust-afghan-man-gave-aadhaar-card-for-registering-rent-agreement-101625609662355.html
07-07-2021||Patna||Chirag Paswan says will move court if Paras is given Cabinet berth on LJP quota||Amid speculations of Pashupati Kumar Paras securing a berth in the Union cabinet expansion, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said that he has already informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the suspension of five party MPs and that he would go to court if his uncle was inducted on the party quota.“If any of them gets included in the Cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have an objection to it and I may have to take legal recourse. If anyone is made minister as an independent or from some other party, I have no issue, as it is entirely the prerogative of the Prime Minister. But as far as the LJP is concerned, the party Constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the Election Commission (EC) as well as the Lok Sabha Speaker,” he told reporters at his residence in Patna.“I have already written to PM Modi as well as the EC in this regard. A common practice is that the party president is consulted if anyone from the party has to be included in the cabinet,” he added.Chirag, who is locked in a power tussle with the Paras-led faction, ever since the party split on June 17, said his party continued to be with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. In the 2019 elections, LJP had won six seats as an NDA member.The MP from Jamui seat, who launched his ‘Ashirvad Yatra’ from Hajipur on Monday to mark the the birth anniversary of his father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, accused his uncle of engineering the split in the LJP to become a minister at the behest of chief minister Nitish Kumar. “It is ironic that Nitish Kumar always tried to insult my father, but my uncle chose to sit in his lap even at the cost of the family and party, which gave him everything,” Chirag said.The LJP leader said he had chosen the difficult path for himself as this was the lesson his father taught. “I am not eager to become a minister, as my first objective is to build the party as a viable alternative in Bihar. Even when my father was around, attempts were made to break the party, but LJP continued its march. It will continue its march and I am overwhelmed with the response of the people for my Ashirvad Yatra the very first day,” he added.A faction of the LJP headed by Hajipur MP Paras last month removed his estranged nephew Paswan as the party chief, prompting Paswan’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the party’s primary membership. The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, plunged into a crisis after five lawmakers rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party.Chirag later met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and urged him to reconsider his decision to recognise Paras as the parliamentary party leader, saying it was against the party’s constitution. He also said that the party will consider taking the legal route if his demand was not considered by the Lok Sabha Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-paswan-says-will-move-court-if-paras-is-given-cabinet-berth-on-ljp-quota-101625605784631.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vitamin D significantly reduces Covid mortality: PGIMER study||An analysis by the doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) shows that the use of Vitamin D in Covid-19 significantly leads to improved clinical outcomes—reduction in mortality and intensive care unit admission.The doctors, however, warn against irrational use of Vitamin D, as it can be toxic.The study, ‘Vitamin D supplementation and clinical outcomes in COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis’, recently published in the Journal of Endocrinological Investigation, was conducted by Dr Rimesh Pal, Dr Mainak Banerjee, professor Sanjay K Bhadada, Dr Anirudh J Shetty of the endocrinology department of PGIMER; Dr Birgurman Singh of Government Medical College, Patiala; and Dr Abhinav Vyas of Rabindranath Tagore Medical College, Udaipur.“As Covid-19 continues to rampage, the search for an effective therapy still remains elusive. Accordingly, multiple existing drugs have been repurposed for Covid management. In this context, Vitamin D, a fat-soluble vitamin, which is primarily related to bone and mineral metabolism, has shown some promising results,” said Dr Sanjay K Bhadada, head of the endocrinology department, PGIMER.“Pooled data from 13 studies with 2,933 Covid-19 patients showed that Vitamin D supplemented after the diagnosis of Covid-19 leads to improved clinical outcomes in terms of reduced mortality and/or intensive care unit admission,” said Dr Bhadada.The study lends ample support to the fact that Vitamin D can be used as an effective adjuvant treatment in patients hospitalised with Covid-19.He said that the anti-viral and the immune modulatory role of Vitamin D were perhaps helpful in this regard. Nevertheless, the irrational and rampant use of Vitamin D to prevent Covid-19 should not be a norm: “The use of Vitamin D in high doses, especially injectable preparations, to treat Covid-19 should be strongly discouraged. Vitamin D, supplemented prior to the diagnosis of Covid-19, was not found to improve clinical outcomes in our meta-analysis. And overuse can lead to Vitamin D toxicity,” explained the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vitamin-d-significantly-reduces-covid-mortality-pgimer-study-101625602696596.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||145 test positive for Covid in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 145 Covid cases, which took the state’s tally to 2,02,945 while the death toll mounted to 3,469 after one patient died of the contagion. Of the new cases, 40 were reported in Chamba, 24 in Mandi, 20 in Shimla, 14 in Bilaspur, 11 in Solan, eight in Hamirpur, six each in Kangra, Kullu and Una, four in Kinnaur, three in Lahaul-Spiti and one in Sirmaur. The recoveries reached 1,98,123 after 175 people recuperated. Active cases have come down to 1,326. Kangra is worst-hit district with a total of 45,964 cases followed by Mandi (27,379), Shimla (25,304), Solan (22,251), Sirmaur (15,343), Hamirpur (14,417), Una (13,347), Bilaspur (12,730), Chamba (11,365), Kullu (8,952), Kinnaur (3,266) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,727). 231 Covid cases reported in J&K, recovery reaches 97.5%Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded two Covid-related deaths and 231 fresh infections — lowest daily count since March 27. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 421 with active positive cases dropping to 3,582. The UT had witnessed the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13. There were 148 cases and one death in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 83 infections and one fatality. The last time the UT had witnessed below 231 cases was on March 26. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,09,554 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.5%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,17,481 and the death toll has hit 4,345.The officials said that 58,927 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking the overall number of tests conducted since the pandemic started to surpass 1.031 million.Officials said with 63 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 30 in Pulwama. Eleven districts had no or single-digit cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.22 lakh cases and 1,966 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,136 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 830 deaths. From June 25, the UT has recorded below-10 daily fatalities with two deaths each on July 3 and 4.After the most devastating month of May, the month of June has reported 25,197 cases and 416 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/145-test-positive-for-covid-in-himachal-101625602284627.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||293-kg heroin haul: Tarn Taran cops reach Mumbai to quiz key accused, help DRI in probe||A team of Tarn Taran police has reached Mumbai to question the key accused arrested in connection with the seizure of 293-kg heroin from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port (Nhava Sheva Port) near the country’s commercial capital last week and help the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in tracing his links. The DRI in coordination with the customs department had recovered the contraband hidden in two containers imported by a Tarn Taran-based firm, Sandhu Exports, from Afghanistan via Iran. The containers were declared as cargo of semi-processed talc stones. Prabhjit Singh (25) of Chohla Sahib village in Tarn Taran who had placed the order, was arrested by a team of the DRI after the recovery. The Tarn Taran police team, led-by superintendent of police (narcotics) Jagjit Singh Walia, will also visit the port where the contraband was seized. More teams of the Punjab Police, including the state special operation cell (SSOC), special task force (STF) and the organised crime control unit (OCCU), will also visit Mumbai in the coming days. The Tarn Taran team has also taken details of the assets of the accused and his family. The police had also called one Manpreet Singh of Chohla Sahib, who was reportedly in contact with Prabhjit, for questioning. He was, however, released later after nothing suspicious was found during his questioning. The police have also found links of Prabhjit with a Dhun Dhai Wala village family that is involved in drug smuggling. A DRI official said Prabhjit had rented a godown in Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh where all the goods imported by him were stored before being dispatched elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/293kg-heroin-haul-in-mumbai-tarn-taran-cops-reach-mumbai-to-quiz-key-accused-help-dri-in-probe-101625602160033.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Moga ADC, zila parishad chairman pooling money from panchayats to buy official cars||In a desperate attempt to get government vehicles, the Moga additional deputy commissioner (development) and the zila parishad chairman have started pooling money from panchayats in the district to purchase official cars for themselves. ADC (development) Subash Chander and zila parishad chairman Inderjit Singh, who have already borrowed minimum ₹1.5 lakh each from several panchayats that generate sufficient income from village common land and other sources, even passed a resolution on Tuesday in this regard in a meeting that was also attended by three MLAs from the district. Besides MLAs Harjot Kamal (Moga), Darshan Singh Brar (Baghapurana) and Sukhjeet Singh Kaka Lohgarh (Dharamkot), 14 zila parishad members and 5 chairpersons of block samitis of district were also present in the meeting. The agenda of purchasing cars with panchayats’s income was tabled by the ADC (D), it is learnt. Justifying the move, Chander said, “It has been two years since I am posted here but I am yet to get a government vehicle. I have been using my personal vehicle for official work. The cost of fuel and vehicle maintenance is resulting in financial burden on me. I don’t think there is anything wrong in buying vehicles as they will be used for official purpose.” The panchayats were told that they will get double the amount (for buying of cars) from the rural development and panchayats department through the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) funds and other means.Chander said, “Yes, I tabled the agenda in the meeting and it was cleared unanimously. Nearly 10 panchayats have already given money to us. Some have given 1.5 lakh each while others have given more. Development works being carried out in these villages will continue.”Inderjit Singh said, “Like the ADC (D), me and the zila parishad secretary also do not have official vehicles.”Jagroop Singh Takhtupura, a zila parishad member and a Congress leader who was also present in the meeting, said, “Priority needed to be given to development works. The resolution on purchasing vehicles should be reviewed at the earliest.”Parampal Singh, chairman of the Nihal Singh Wala market committee who was also present in the meeting, said, “The government is facing fund crunch due to the pandemic and it is hampering development works. It is condemnable to borrow funds from panchayats at this time.”Additional chief secretary (rural and panchayats development) Seema Jain did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-adc-zila-parishad-chairman-pooling-money-from-panchayats-to-buy-official-cars-101625602159018.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power crisis: PSPCL closure order triggers panic as manufacturers fear losing orders||With the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) directing the large industries in the state to shut their operations for another three days amid a grim power scenario, manufacturers are apprehending losing orders and delay in meeting export commitments. In the fresh orders issued on Monday, the corporation announced another electricity regulatory measure with three weekly-offs for the general industry (large scale), rolling mills, arc and induction furnaces from July 7 to July 10. The power crisis reared its head on July 1 when industries located in the state’s central zone comprising Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khanna, Amloh and Sirhind and north zone consisting of Jalandhar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur were asked to compulsorily close their units for 48 hours and resume operations only after 2pm on Saturday. Manufacturing units in these areas constitute 90% of the state’s industries. In another order, the existing curbs in the central and north zones were extended by a day with an additional weekly-off. In industrial units of the central zone, three-day compulsory off ended at 2pm on Sunday (July 4) while the shutdown ended at 8am in mixed land use areas the next day. In the north zone, compulsory offs on industrial units ended at 8pm on Sunday. With Sunday being observed as a closed day, the general industry resumed operations only on Monday. Sudershan Jain, president, Knitwear and Apparel Manufacturers’ Association, said the situation is worse for the hosiery sector. “We are shaken by all that is happening. Ours is a seasonal industry and we have to honour commitments to all our clients in both India and abroad. Working amid such uncertainty is causing huge losses to us,” he said. Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja said they are in talks with the government for a solution. “The announcement has triggered panic in the industry but we are going to meet the senior functionaries for a solution,” he said. For the cycles and cycle part manufacturing units, the going has been equally tough. “It’s a complete system failure of the government. Repeated shutdown announcements are not the solution. We are the supporting industry for the larger firms and the entire chain is broken with such curbs,” said DS Chawla, president, United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association. Badish Jindal of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association said, “Each day counts for the manufacturing industry and we have already borne the brunt of the Covid pandemic and the farmers’ protest last year when goods trains were stopped for over a month. The industry doesn’t seem to be important for the government and we are made the scapegoat in times of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-crisis-pspcl-closure-order-triggers-panic-as-manufacturers-fear-losing-orders-101625602157970.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala Cantt property dispute: Contempt notice to former DC, SSP, 4 others||In a 2017 case of title suit of a 39 bigha 6 biswa property in Ambala Cantt’s Hathikhana area, an Ambala court has issued contempt notices to former deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma, incumbent senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) general secretary Chitra Sarwara, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) state spokesperson Onkar Singh and two local YouTubers Yashpal Khabrilal and Jagjit Sufi.The officials were issued summons on Monday under Section 2(b) (civil contempt) of the Contempt of Courts Act for disobeying the court judgement dated July 6, 2017, while the others were given notices under Section 2(c) (criminal contempt) where the publication (whether by word, spoken or written or by signs or by visual representation, or otherwise) of any matter or the doing of any other act whatsoever.As per the notices, the said persons have been asked to appear before the court in person at 10am on July 29.The order comes almost a month after the officials of the municipal council, Ambala Sadar, had conducted a demolition drive at the site. Despite heavy police presence, the officials had to face resistance from locals.Apurva Chaudhary, executive officer of the civic body, said that they had stopped the construction once and given notices in due time. “We only demolished the boundary walls and three shops that were recently constructed illegally,” he said.However, the prosecution’s counsel, Momin Malik, claimed that the construction was demolished despite a civil court decree already passed in favour of one Khajan Devi in 2017, where the court had restrained the civic body from interfering in any manner into the possession over the property.“The officials can misuse their extraordinary unlimited administrative powers against my client and her family members to implicate in fake cases and forcibly dispossess them from the property.....and have also mentally tortured, harassed them through their employees of police and other administrative officers,” the petition reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-cantt-property-dispute-contempt-notice-to-former-dc-ssp-4-others-101625602156645.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Reserve five seats in J&K for Sikhs: SAD to delimitation panel||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday urged the Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory Delimitation Commission to reserve five seats for members of the Sikh community in the union territory legislative assembly. Akali leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra handed over a letter written by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in this regard to delimitation commission chairman Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai in Srinagar. The SAD has urged the commission to favorably consider reserving three seats for the Sikh community in Jammu and two in Srinagar. Badal, in his communiqué to the delimitation commission, said that several times, including at the time of the Partition of the country, promises were made to the Sikh population of J&K that counterchecks will be created in the democratic process to ensure their social and economic wellbeing. “It was even proposed that a definite number of seats will be reserved for members of the Sikh community in the J&K legislature on the pattern of that done for the Anglo Indian community in Parliament and state assemblies. Sadly, the then Congress government did not honour any of the promises made to the Sikh community post Partition,” he wrote. Asking the commission to right this historical wrong, Badal said reservation of seats for Sikhs in the J&K UT will ensure the voice of the community was taken into consideration while making executive decisions. He said Sikhs in J&K had been complaining for long that they were being left behind in the development process because there was no reservation for Sikhs in jobs in J&K despite their minority status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reserve-five-seats-in-j-k-for-sikhs-sad-to-delimitation-panel-101625602096656.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sexual harassment of GMCH student: Accused surrenders in Chandigarh court||The OT technician, who allegedly sexually harassed a third-year medical student of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, surrendered before the court on Tuesday and was sent to one-day police remand.The surrender comes a day after the district court had dismissed the accused’s anticipatory bail application.The complainant had stated in the FIR that on June 27, she was on evening duty and when she went to the store room to get some medicines, the OT technician, named Kamleshwar, followed her: “As I tried to run away, he held me from the front and molested me. As I managed to get out of the store room, he threatened that he would kill me if I ever complained about it,” the student had complained.The accused, who is a resident of Mullanpur, was booked under Section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code on June 28.In his plea, the accused had alleged being a victim of regionalism and had told the court that a “false” case had been registered against him. He had said that on the day of the incident, the complainant had asked for technical support and rudely addressed him as “bhaiya”. He added that he had only objected to it and sought that instead he be addressed as “sir”. He had also said that his wife worked there as well, so how could he commit such an act.He was placed under suspension on July 3. A letter issued by GMCH had mentioned that the accused had not appeared in front of the internal complaint committee of sexual harassment of women at workplace, and a case against him was under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sexual-harassment-of-gmch-student-accused-surrenders-in-chandigarh-court-101625602036732.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray quashes speculation of BJP patch-up||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday dismissed the speculation that the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would renew their alliance and slammed Opposition legislators for boycotting the last day of the monsoon session of the Assembly in the midst of a pandemic.“There is no possibility of anything happening which did not happen in 30 years,” Thackeray told reporters after the two-day session drew to a close.The BJP and the Sena have been allies since 1995, but latter formed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in 2019 with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress. Thackeray walked out of the alliance even though the saffron combine won a majority that would have allowed them to form the government, after the BJP rejected Sena’s demand to share the CM post over half a tenure each.Recent meetings between leaders of both parties however, fuelled speculation over a shift in the political equation between the former allies. BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi last week, led a section of BJP leaders to speculate on the longevity of the state government. On Sunday, Fadnavis also said that Sena and BJP may have differences of opinion but they were not enemies.“Ours is a formidable combine and I am sitting between Congress and NCP,” Thackeray said referring to revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on his left respectively. “There is no question slipping out of this,” Thackeray said.The CM criticised the BJP legislators’ behaviour on Monday which led to the suspension of 12 Opposition leaders, including former ministers Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Girish Mahajan, and Jaykumar Rawal.They were suspended for a year for misbehaving with the presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav during a heated debate on the issue of obtaining caste census data from the Centre. Jadhav said the legislators had hurled abuses at him, and added on Tuesday that he had received threats on social media for his action.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that the party was considering moving court to challenge the suspension.BJP legislators protested the suspension and boycotted the Assembly on Tuesday. They held a mock session outside the Vidhan Sabha building prompting security personnel to put an end to the protest. The legislators however continued the mock assembly in the press room.The incident occurred during a debate on the resolution moved by the state government on July 5 to seek empirical data from the Centre in order to restore reservation granted to members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) which stands to be abolished following a recent Supreme Court order. There is a 27% reservation in local self-government body elections for this category. The BJP opposed the resolution and as the discussions became heated, Opposition legislators approached Jadhav’s seat and tried to snatch the microphone and remove the mace on the table.“What was the need for the BJP to create a hue and cry over a resolution asking the Centre to provide census data of 2011 to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare empirical data of OBCs? Even if you feel the resolution wouldn’t yield anything, couldn’t you still support it?” Thackeray said.“The action taken against the BJP legislators was for their shameful and unprecedented behaviour. If they are calling it black chapter in democracy, what they are doing by using the Central agencies against us? (…) Is using Central agencies like CBI and ED a sign of a healthy democracy? If the priority is to grab power at any cost instead of providing relief to the people battling the Covid pandemic, then it’s a really sad state of affairs,” Thackeray added.MVA leaders have accused the BJP-led Centre of attempting to “destabilize” the state government through central probe agencies. Former state home minister Anil Deshmukh is under investigation for his alleged role in an extortion racket and a purported cash-for-transfer scam involving police officials based on allegations by former Mumbai police commissioner, Parambir Singh, while relatives of the deputy chief minister are also under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik is also under probe for alleged money laundering.“Yes, Uddhav Thackeray is right, what happened in the lower house on Monday was unprecedented. We have never seen an action against legislators like this before. The suspension came from a presiding officer, and not from the deputy speaker Narahari Zirwal (who is acting as Speaker). The action was taken on false charges. As far as Thackeray’s allegations about the so-called misuse (of power) is concerned, they should understand that the probe by the Central agencies is being conducted on the complaints of the police officers (Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze) in state government service,” Maharashtra BJP’s vice president Madhav Bhandari said.Bhandari said that there was no substance in the reports of any alliance between the two parties. “These are all speculations floated by the Sena,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-quashes-speculation-of-bjp-patchup-101625601407830.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Teacher out to buy liquor attacked, robbed of car in Punjab’s Kharar||Four men robbed a teacher of his car after attacking him with a sharp object near a liquor vend on the Kharar-Landran road on Tuesday night.The victim, Rupinder Singh, who works at Chandigarh University in Gharuan, told the police that he left his house at SBP Homes, Kharar, around 9.20pm to buy liquor. When he reached the liquor vend on Kharar-Landran road, he found it closed and started walking back to his Maruti Suzuki Swift.Suddenly a man hit him and tried to snatch his car keys. He resisted and ran to the other side of the road where the accused attacked hit him with a sharp iron object and snatched his keys.The accused and three more men with him then sped away in his car.Kharar deputy superintendent of police Rupinderdeep Kaur said a case had been registered against the four robbers and they were scanning CCTV footage for clues. On July 4, the car of Harshit Kumar, a resident of Motia City, Zirakpur, was taken away while he went to purchase liquor from a roadside vend with the car still running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teacher-out-to-buy-liquor-attacked-robbed-of-car-in-punjab-s-kharar-101625601737714.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Decade on, Dera Bassi waste management project yet to take off||Even after a decade, the solid waste management project at Samgoli in Dera Bassi is yet to see the light of day as the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has backed out.Now the state government is looking for the latest technology, by which refuse-derived fuel (RDF) or by-products produced from waste can be used to make coal to be sold to thermal plants in the state.In March last year, the Punjab government had given approval to hand over construction and operations of the ‘waste to energy’ plant to NTPC. The state government had also given approval to the local bodies department for an MoU between NTPC and the Mohali municipal corporation (MC), being the nodal agency, for the execution of the project, but the project could not be materialised.The project has been hanging fire for the past decade. Mohali MC had prepared the detailed project report (DPR) 11 years back at a cost of ₹100 crore, including the land cost.A senior official of the local bodies department said, “We have not received any response from NTPC and are now working on the latest technology to process waste, which will help us make RDF into coal, which can be sold to thermal plants in the state. We will be sending the technology to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for approval within a week.”Currently, Mohali is generating 150 metric tonnes (MT) of garbage in a day, which is being dumped at an unauthorised site in the Industrial Area, Phase 8B; the nearby residents and industrialists are already protesting.In August last year, Mohali had slipped to the 157th place out of 382 cities, in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan rankings. In 2019, the district’s rank was 153, while in 2018, it was 109. The main reason for Mohali’s worst slip is that the city failed to get garbage-processing projects off the ground.When contacted, MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have only constructed the boundary wall of the plant and the state government is in the process of signing a deal with the company with the latest technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decade-on-dera-bassi-waste-management-project-yet-to-take-off-101625601736643.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers to submit land details with revenue dept from Aug 1||From August 1, the Punjab revenue department will start receiving from the state farmers the details of their farmland as per Centre’s mandate to integrate the land records with food grain procurement. The Centre has already made it clear that there will be no further postponement and “it has to be done from the upcoming paddy procurement scheduled in October-November”. The Union ministry of food and public distribution had last year asked the state to implement the new system, however, the Capt Amarinder Singh government was apprehensive that it will put a full stop on the open-ended procurement system. The state was allowed an extension during the previous rabi season, but now the state’s top officials say the Centre has made it clear that the new system has to be in place for the kharif season since in its absence, there will be no procurement. The decision was taken on Tuesday in a meeting of top officials of revenue, food and civil supplies, governance reforms and agriculture departments and the chief minister’s office (CMO). “We will draw out a plan for a publicity campaign, inviting farmers to make voluntary declarations. The government is also finalising a detailed concept plan,” said financial commissioner (revenue) Ravneet Kaur. It was also decided in the meeting that farmers can submit land details at the 175 farad kendras of the revenue department and 500 sewa kendras of the governance reforms department across the state. The details will be accepted by the end of September as the paddy procurement is scheduled to start from October 1. After compiling the information collected at the farad and sewa kendras, it will be linked with the public finance management system portal used for payment of minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers. “The farmers will give information about the land they own or the land they are tilling or both; area over which paddy is sown and if they are tenants or have taken land on lease, along with the details of the landowner,” added a top revenue officer. At least 30-lakh hectare area is expected to go under paddy cultivation this kharif season out of which 5 lakh hectares is expected to be under premium basmati crop. At least 9.53 lakh farmers were transferred MSP by way of new direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the rabi season. The number, however, is expected to go up during the paddy procurement as more farmers sell their produce to government agencies, unlike wheat, which private companies also purchase. The Centre has not yet released the rural development fund (RDF) to Punjab for wheat procurement that ended in May, setting the condition to first integrate land records. The state charges 3% RDF on wheat and paddy procured on behalf of the Centre. With ₹25,500 crore disbursed to farmers for wheat procurement at MSP this season, the Centre owes Punjab ₹760 crore in RDF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-to-submit-land-details-with-revenue-dept-from-aug-1-101625601676951.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Back-to-back attacks prompt J&K Police to review security of their men||Last week’s killing of a special police officer, Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and 22-year-old daughter by militants in Tral was the latest in a series of attacks on police personnel in Kashmir, which has forced the police department to go for security review for its men. On June 23, a police inspector working with CID, Pervaz Ahmad Dar, was shot dead at Nowgam when he was coming out of a mosque after offering prayers. Five days before that special police officer Javid Ahmad was gunned down outside his house. These back-to-back attacks on policemen, especially when they were not on duty, have prompted officials to review SOPs and adherence to the new guidelines. Soon after such attacks last month, J&K DGP Dilbag Singh ordered security review of policemen, especially those considered as the ‘soft targets’. As per the official data of last three decades, more than 520 SPOs and around 1,100 police personnel have been killed in J&K and many among them were murdered either inside their residences or somewhere close by.Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar has said that by targeting innocent civilians or policemen, militants are trying to create fear among people. “These attacks are barbaric,” he said.“There are SOPs in place which policemen and officers need to follow, especially in those areas where movement of militants is prominent. After every targeted attack, officers try to educate their men about precautions which they should take when they are either on leave or off duty,” said a senior police officer. He said militants always look for ‘soft targets’.This isn’t the first time when militants have targeted cops in the Valley. Earlier, militant groups had asked locals to leave their jobs in the police or face consequences. The police have blamed the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed for these recent attacks.Many SPOs after deserting the forces have even joined militant ranks and several have been neutralised during encounters.Last year, an SPO-turned-militant, Shakoor Parray, was killed in a gunfight with forces in Anantnag. He had joined as an SPO in 2014 and was converted as a constable. He had even taken away four rifles before joining a militant outfit. In October 2020, SPO Altaf Hussain had decamped with two AK-47 rifles and three magazines.In April, a woman SPO was arrested in south Kashmir after police blamed her for uttering anti-India and pro-freedom slogans off camera, thus inviting action under the ULA(P) Act. She had accused the forces of trying to harass her family in the name of search operation.The household of the accused is a suspected shelter point of an active Hizbul-Mujahideen terrorist, Aslam Dar. The woman has been on police radar as a suspected OGW. “It remains to be investigated whether her act was meant to be a disruption tactic to aid escape of the said terrorist when the search operation was underway,” a police spokesperson had said soon after her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/backtoback-attacks-on-cops-prompt-police-to-review-security-of-their-men-101625601375895.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||70-year-old woman, grandson killed as truck hits auto in Chandigarh||A 70-year-old woman and her 14-year-old grandson were killed after a truck rammed into their auto-rickshaw near Dhanas Lake around 3am on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Bhagwati, 70, and Chanchal, 14, both residents of Dhanas. The boy’s father, Sanju, 34, their family friends Rahul, 16, and Vinod, 70, and the auto driver, Ramu Kumar, 48, all from Dhanas, suffered minor injuries. Police said the victims were headed to the Sector 26 grain market to buy vegetables for their stall as per routine. When the auto reached the intersection near Dhanas Lake, a speeding truck coming from Khudda Lahora hit the vehicle, causing it to overturn.The truck driver fled the spot after abandoning the vehicle, which has a Rajasthan registration number.The injured were rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where Bhagwati and Chanchal were declared brought dead.Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station. Officials privy to the investigation said the truck driver will be traced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70yearold-woman-grandson-killed-as-truck-hits-auto-in-chandigarh-101625601319555.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress gears up for bypolls in HP, Shukla presides over crucial meetings||Himachal Pradesh Congress has geared up for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments with AICC in-charge Rajiv Shukla presiding over meeting of political strategic and coordination committees to review the preparedness at Dharamshala. Senior leaders, including state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, GS Bali and Sudhir Sharma, were present at the meet. The byelections were necessitated due to death of the sitting members. While Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma allegedly committed suicide, Fatehpur MLA Sujan Singh Pathania died due to prolonged illness. Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator Narinder Bragta succumbed to post-Covid complications. Shukla said Kangra was a politically significant district and he was here to discuss the strategy for byelections as well as the 2022 assembly polls. “Public’s mood is in the Congress’ favour and we would return to the power in 2022 with thumping majority,” said Shukla. “There is also possibility of winning all three byelections. People are fed up of the government and there is anger building up against the regime,” he added. He said nothing significant has happened in Himachal on the development front under BJP regime. Taking a dig at the Centre for rising fuel prices, Shukla said the petrol rates have crossed ₹100 while diesel would soon hit the century. Shukla said the Congress will announce its nominees as soon as the Election Commission declares the byelections. He also downplayed the infighting in the Congress stating that all leaders were united and will work to win the elections. Shukla said there was no party without factionalism. “More than us, it is in BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-gears-up-for-bypolls-in-hp-shukla-presides-over-crucial-meetings-101625601316495.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Carry out exercise in free, fair manner: NC, Cong to J&K delimitation panel||Leaders of different mainstream political parties on Tuesday met the Delimitation Commission soon after its members arrived in Srinagar, beginning their four-day J&K tour. Besides political leaders, the commission will be holding talks with district officials and other stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out new constituencies in the region. Leaders of the National Conference (NC), the People’s Conference, the CPI, the CPI(M), the Panthers Party, the Congress, the BJP, the Apni Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party met the commission at Hotel Lalit.Former SC judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve out constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in J&K.The issue of delimitation was discussed at PM Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The commission arrived in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration said it was disappointed over the outcome of the all-party meeting with the PM. The alliance had demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections were conducted. It also criticised the lack of ‘confidence-building measures’.A five-member NC delegation that met the commission told them the exercise should have been done after elections and termed it ‘unconstitutional’ based on the Reorganisation Act that has been challenged in the Supreme Court.“We told them that people in J&K have lost faith on institutions, so this should be done on transparent basis as people have lot of apprehensions. New constituencies should be created on the basis of population and nothing else,” said NC’s provisional president Nasir Aslam Wani. Sofi Yusuf, who led the BJP delegation, said, “We told them that delimitation should be done on the basis of merit and due to huge population of Schedule Tribes, nine to 10 assembly segments should be kept reserved for them. Also, we told them that previous delimitation had helped a few political families of J&K, which shouldn’t happen this time.” Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said, “The commission members told us that the process will be transparent based on the suggestions of different political parties. We believe this should have been done in 2026 along with the entire country with the new Census.” Mir said, “We didn’t give any suggestion to them as we feel this process is not legal.”Apni Party leader Rafi Mir said they had a fruitful interaction with the commission. People’s Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said the party’s delegation told the commission that there were rumours that the aim of the delimitation was to disempower people in Kashmir. “The number of seats in each district should be based on population,” he added. Meanwhile, CPI (M) delegation told the commission that whatever happened on August 5, 2019 was unacceptable. “These decisions have dented the confidence level of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh regions. We are not against delimitation, but wanted it to be carried along with rest of the country,” party’s J&K secretary Ghulam Nabi Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carry-out-exercise-in-free-fair-manner-nc-cong-to-delimitation-panel-101625601315965.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||KLF’s targeted killing module busted, Patiala jail escapee among 4 held||Police claimed to have busted a targeted killing module run by Germany-based radicals associated with the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and arrested four persons, including a murder case undertrial who escaped from the Patiala jail in April, following an exchange of fire in Ludhiana district’s Khanna late Monday. Those arrested are Jaspreet Singh Noopi, the jailbreak escapee and a resident of Dadi village in Rupnagar district, Jaswinder Singh of Fatehpur Bunga village of Rupnagar, Gaurav Jain, alias Minku of Kaliawala village in Haryana’s Sirsa district and Prashant Silelan, alias Kabir of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. The police have recovered two .32 bore pistols along with four magazines, a country-made weapon and a Toyota Etios car which the accused had robbed from Mohali a few days ago. Jaspreet, who is facing trial in 7 cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder, was dismissed from the army. Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said a checkpoint was set up near Pristine Mall on the national highway. The police team stopped the Etios (bearing number PB-01-AS-6845) for checking. “The three occupants of the car opened fire on the police party in an attempt to escape. The police arrested Jaswinder and Gaurav on the spot, while Jaspreet managed to flee. The police formed special teams to arrest him. Hours later, he was arrested along with his Prashant,” the SSp added. A case under sections 307, 332, 336 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the accused at the Khanna (city-2) police station.Grewal said on June 25 Jaspreet had robbed a commuter of the Toyota Etios on Airport Road in Zirakpur, Mohali, at gunpoint. “Jaspreet revealed that he was lodged in the Patiala jail in a murder case registered against him at Kiratpur. He escaped from the Patiala jail on April 28 along with two other inmates Sher Singh of Lopoke village of Amritsar and Inderjit Singh, alias Dhiana of Ranipur Komboa village of Kapurthala. On July 3, he along with his accomplices also looted ₹50,000 from a petrol pump employee at Kharar. He came in contact with foreign-based radicals and they agreed to finance him in return for targeted killings. He even did recce on some people in Punjab,” said the SSP. His Germany-based handlers financed him through international payment platforms like Western Union and PayTm and sourced the weapons from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand for targetted killings.Jaswinder is also facing trial in a liquor smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/klfs-targeted-killing-module-busted-patiala-jail-escapee-among-4-held-101625601260104.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Ex-DGP Saini refuses to undergo lie-detector test, suspended IG agrees||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and ex-Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma have refused to undergo the lie-detector test in connection with the Kotkapura firing case while suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal agreed for the same if the Supreme Court guidelines are followed. The special investigation team (IST) probing the Kotkapura case had filed an application in a court last month, seeking permission to conduct narco-analysis, polygraph test and brain electrical activation profile (BEAP) of Saini, Umranangal and Sharma. Citing ailments and age, Saini’s counsel told the court that the medicines used during the polygraph test could harm his client’s health. Also, Sharma’s counsel told the court that he underwent a cardiac bypass surgery last year so he will not be able to undergo the test as advised by his doctor. Umaranagal’s lawyer Gursahib Singh Brar said the suspended IG is ready to undergo the test and they have informed the court about this. “But we have demanded that the test should be conducted by following the apex court guidelines. The police will have to inform him about the procedure used in the test. Now, the court has asked Umranangal to appear in person to give written consent for this,” he added. Judicial magistrate Ajay Pal Singh has summoned Saini, Sharma and Umarnagal to appear in the court on July 9. Saini, Umaranagal and Sharma were questioned last month but the SIT claims that all three evaded queries posed by the team and refused to cooperate. Officials privy to the development said they were asked about the sequence of events leading to the firing, besides who gave the orders to open fire at those protesting against sacrilege incidents. According to rules, one has to give consent for narco, polygraph and BEAP tests in a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-ex-dgp-saini-refuses-to-undergo-lie-detector-test-suspended-igagrees-101625601258663.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Free power promise mere fantasy if PPAs not annulled, says Sidhu||As Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh reached Delhi to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the crisis in the party’s state unit, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday mounted fresh pressure on the state government to annul the power purchase agreements with independent power producers in the state. In a series of tweets, Sidhu pressed for the annulment of these PPAs through a new legislation in the assembly, stating that the free power promise is a mere fantasy till this is done. “Hollow promises of free power have no meaning until PPAs are annulled through a new legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha... 300 units of free power is merely a fantasy, until the faulty clauses in PPAs are keeping Punjab bonded (sic),” he tweeted, reiterating the fix suggested by him. Sukhbir defends PPAs signed during SAD-BJP rule His latest tweets came a day after Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal stoutly defended the PPAs signed during the previous Akali-BJP regime, rebutting the objections related to fixed charges and costly power raised by the Congress leaders. He even dared the government to cancel the PPAs and register an FIR if any wrong was committed but make good the shortfall at cheaper rates. Sidhu, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and some other detractors of Amarinder in the ruling Congress have been demanding cancellation or renegotiation of PPAs without offering a strategy for bridging the supply-demand gap if the state government accepts their demand. The renegotiation of PPAs with independent power producers is a part of the 18-point agenda given by the Congress high command, based on the feedback from party leaders, to Amarinder for implementation before the assembly elections early next year. PPAs designed to pay fixed charges at peak demand Hitting out at Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sidhu, in his tweets, alleged that these PPAs are just another example of the Badal family’s corruption, designed to give corrupt benefits to them (Badals) without any thought for welfare of Punjabis. “PPAs bind Punjab to pay fixed charges for 100% production, whereas other states pay no more than 80%. If these fixed charges being paid to private power plants under PPAs were not paid, it would directly and immediately decrease cost of power in Punjab by ₹1.20 per unit,” he tweeted. Claiming that PPAs are based on a wrong calculation of power demand in the state, he said that peak demand of 13,000-14,000 mega watt (MW) is only for four months, whereas non-peak power demand falls down to 5,000-6,000 MW, but PPAs have been designed to pay fixed charges at the peak demand. “Even more alarming! There is no provision for mandatory supply of power from these private power plants during the peak season under the PPAs... Thus, they have shut down two power plants in this paddy-sowing season without repairing them and Punjab has to buy additional power (sic),” he posted. He said that private plants keep finding loopholes to file litigation that has cost Punjab ₹25,000 crore already. On Monday, Sidhu demanded a white paper on PPAs, stating that he had been seeking this since 2017. “Bureaucratic control of the department relegates people-elected minister to mere showpieces,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-power-promise-mere-fantasy-if-ppas-not-annulled-says-sidhu-101625601257600.html
07-07-2021||Bangalore||Ready to appear over no-arrest guarantee: Twitter head to Karnataka HC||Twitter’s India head Manish Maheshwari told the Karnataka high court on Tuesday that he was ready to appear before the UP Police if they guarantee that they will not arrest him, even as the single-judge bench asked the police if they had ascertained that Twitter India was capable of controlling the content on its platform.The UP Police had insisted that Maheshwari appearing before them in-person while he had offered to give a statement over video conferencing with regards to a video that alleged an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad was a victim of hate crime. Police said that their investigation later revealed that the incident was over a personal dispute and booked nine people, including Twitter India, for allegedly circulating false information to fan communal tension.During Tuesday’s hearing, in a petition filed by Maheshwari challenging his appearance before the UP police for questioning, the single-judge bench of justice G Narendar asked the police: “Have you even ascertained whether Twitter India is capable of controlling the content… if the entity is not able to commit such acts, then where is the point?”The court added: “This petition is nothing unless you can show he could have prevented it.”Senior Advocate CV Nagesh, representing Twitter India, told the Court that the firm and its employees do not have control over the data of Twitter users. Twitter India and Twitter are two different entities and should not be mixed up, the court added.In response to this, UP Police’s council Prasanna Kumar said that it did not have information on the responsibilities and liabilities of Twitter India.“This is information available in the public domain. If the investigation officer says that information can only be extracted through interrogation, I don’t know what to say. You do not want to investigate this,” the court responded.Twitter India’s council also told the court that UP Police not agreeing to Maheshwari appearing before the police via video conferencing showed an ulterior motive on the police’s side. He added that Maheshwari is ready to appear before the police in Ghaziabad within 24 hours if UP Police give an undertaking to the court that they will not arrest him.He, however, submitted that UP Police did not have jurisdiction to issue notice to Maheshwari under Section 160 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC), and that the FIR does not name the provisions of the new IT Rules, 2021.CrPC 160 pertains to a police officer’ s power to require attendance of witnessesOn June 16, the government said that Twitter will be considered an intermediary only after it follows the new Information Technology (IT) rules and it will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third party content, if it did not do so.Meanwhile, Twitter on Tuesday sternly told by the Delhi High Court that it cannot take “as long as it wants” in this country to appoint a grievance officer. The company has been given time till Thursday to tell the court when it will appoint an India-based officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ready-to-appear-over-no-arrest-guarantee-twitter-head-to-karnataka-hc-101625600872951.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Passerby hit by bullet as groups clash in Ludhiana||A passerby was hit by a bullet in the shoulder when he was caught in the crossfire between two groups clashing in Shimlapuri area on Tuesday night. Before the police could reach the spot, the accused had escaped. The injured, Savinder Singh, 65, a retired state irrigation department employee, was rushed to civil hospital, from where the doctors referred him to Christian Medical College and Hospital. Assistant commissioner of police (Industrial Area-B) Randhir Singh said a hunt is on arrest the accused and the statements of eyewitnesses are being recorded. According to police, Chanpreet Singh, a member of Kancha gang had come to see one of his relatives in Shimlapuri when the members of a rival group confronted him. Chanpreet called his aides to the spot, leading to the clash, police said. They pelted each other with stones and bricks, before exchanging fire. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/passerby-hit-by-bullet-as-groups-clash-in-ludhiana-101625601078618.html
07-07-2021||Other||At PSEB depot in Ludhiana, old answer sheets take up all the space||Last year’s booklets and answer sheets are still lying at the entrance of the Punjab School Education Board depot in Punjab Bhawan, forcing visitors to stand outside in the sweltering heat.Representatives of private associated schools, who have been visiting the depot for submission of continuation pro formas, have been forced to stand outside the depot as old booklets and answer sheets have occupied all the space. As many as 25 representatives of private associated schools visited the depot on Tuesday.Suman Lata, a representative of a private school, said, “Earlier, we used to stand in the verandah and wait for our turn to deposit files. But now, we have to wait outside the depot as old booklets and answer sheets have occupied all the space.”In March, the booklets of Classes 5 and 8 were kept in the verandah and in May, the answer sheets of Classes 10 and 12 were also stacked there. Sacks full of more than two lakh booklets and answer sheets are stored haphazardly in the verandah and near the stairs, hardly leaving any space.As per the depot officials, a tender has been floated by the head office to clear the scrap.PSEB chairman Yograj, said, “I will direct the officials to depute employees to clear the scrap and get it lifted at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-pseb-depot-in-ludhiana-answer-sheets-take-all-the-space-101625601077286.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||CHB’s MIG flat in Sector 51 goes for ₹95.6 lakh in latest e-auction||An MIG flat in Sector 51 fetched the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) ₹95.60 lakh in its latest e-auction.The reserve price for the freehold dwelling unit was ₹83.26 lakh.CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 55 built-up dwelling units on freehold basis. The flats are located in Sectors 38 West, 49, 51 and 63. The last of e-bid submission was July 5.A total of 51 e-bids were received for 22 dwelling units and these were opened as per schedule from 10am onwards on Tuesday.“The total reserve price of the 22 units was ₹16.77 crore, while their highest bids totalled at ₹17.65 crore, which made for an average of 5% above the reserve price,” said CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg.Over the past three months, CHB has conducted three e-auctions for 109 freehold residential properties. “As many as 76 have been sold so far and the remaining will be included in the next e-tender. More vacant properties have been identified and will also be included,” said Garg.The highest bidder will have to deposit 25% of the bid amount, after adjusting earnest money deposit, within five working days of the close of bid. In case a bidder fails to do so, the earnest money will be forfeited and the bidder will be blacklisted for future bids.“Since the financial bids were opened on Tuesday (July 6), the highest bidder is required to make the payment by July 13 to avoid forfeiture of the deposit and blacklisting from future tendering processes of CHB,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chbs-mig-flat-in-sector-51-goes-for-95-6-lakh-in-latest-eauction-101625601075890.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reopens swimming pools for players, may reimpose curbs at Sukhna Lake||The UT administration on Tuesday announced more relaxations while considering closure of Sukhna Lake in the evening on weekends to avoid crowding.In the Covid review meeting held on Tuesday, the administration decided to open a few swimming pools of the sports department, but only for players.Also, only players who have been administered at least one dose of vaccine will be allowed to use the pools. They will also have to be tested for Covid every fortnight.The administration has allowed larger gatherings, increasing the number of guests at events like weddings to 100 or 50% capacity of the banquet hall, whichever is less.All adult guests and staff of the hotel/banquet hall need to have received at least one dose of vaccine or have a negative RTPCR report of last 72 hours.Liquor vends have been clubbed with the category of restaurants, bars and eateries, and allowed to open till 10.30pm.To avoid crowding, the restrictions on opening Sukhna Lake for only four hours in the morning and two hours in the evening on Sundays have been withdrawn.In the meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed serious concerns over crowding at the lake and directed police authorities to ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour there.Badnore directed officials to consider closing the lake during evening on weekends if visitors continued to flout Covid protocols and crowding was observed even after opening it for the whole day.He also asked MC and UT officials to ensure compliance of his earlier orders of cleaning road gullies and choes of the city, as monsoon was expected to revive shortly.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the hospital had resumed elective surgeries and they were conducting around 140 surgeries daily, while around 1,600 patients were admitted currently.He said the number of mucormycosis patients being received daily had drastically come down to around four per day. The fatality rate due to the fungal infection had also decreased to 11% at PGIMER. Dr Ram shared that a 2,000 litre per minute (LPM) oxygen plant will become functional by Wednesday. GMCH-32 director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur said the hospital had 22 active cases of mucormycosis. She shared that elective surgeries had been started and patients were being given appointments for physical OPDs as well.Sharing the vaccination status, health services director Dr Amandeep Kang said 5,66,601 doses had been administered in Chandigarh so far. The city currently has 26,199 doses and they were exploring the possibility of starting mobile vaccination by using CTU buses from next week. A special vaccination camp has been arranged at Sukhna Lake as well, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-reopens-swimming-pools-for-players-may-reimpose-curbs-at-sukhna-lake-101625601016668.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cricketers move to US with eye on national team||For cricketer Sarbajit Ladda, the last couple of days have been traumatic. He lost his father in Patiala and could not attend his last rites due to the ongoing travel ban. The leg-spinner was in the US playing in the WCL Premier Division cricket championship for Potomac Cricket and Sports Club.Coping with the grief, a determined Ladda now wants to make his late father’s wish come true: to play for the USA.Had the 34-year-old cricketer got ample chances from the Punjab Cricket Association, he would not have made the shift. Seeing another Punjab cricketer Sunny Sohal getting picked for the USA team a few years back motivated Ladda to chase greener pastures. Also, the fact that USA Cricket is growing and expanding tempted Ladda to make the move.Ladda was selected in the DC Hawks team which will be featured in the USA Cricket and ICC-backed inaugural Minor League Cricket starting from July 31. A total of 27 teams will be competing in Minor League Cricket.‘Eyeing a place in USA team’“It is a great chance for me. I have been doing well in the various leagues in the USA since 2018. A cricketer who does well in the Minor League Cricket will draw attention for national team selection and further get a chance to make a strong case for selection in the Major League Cricket next year. I want to do well for the DC Hawks and leave a mark. I am eying a place in the USA team,” said Ladda, who has played for Kolkata Knight Riders, Delhi Daredevils and Gujarat Lions in the Indian Premier League.He first went to the USA to play in the WCL Premier Division cricket championship for former Punjab U-19 team captain Rajit Passey, whose also from Patiala and owns Potomac Cricket and Sports Club. He did exceptionally well and bagged 23 wickets in 13 games, and the following year was much better with 27 wickets in 13 games.“I was being ignored by the Patiala Cricket District Association along with the Punjab Cricket Association. Passey paaji was very encouraging and kind. And when I got to know that USA Cricket is going to expand and was inviting players from India, Pakistan, South Africa and West Indies, I decided to make a move to the US,” added Ladda, who last played in the Ranji Trophy for Punjab in 2015.A sharp leg-spinner, who has played 28 first-class (89 wickets), 13 List-A (17 wickets) and 13 T20 (10 wickets) matches for Punjab, and an employee of the State of Patiala, Ladda has bid adieu to India in pursuit of making it to the USA cricket team.Another cricketer from Patiala, Ravi Inder Mehra, has also followed the same path and has been roped in by DC Hawks for the Minor League Cricket after doing well for Potomac Cricket and Sports Club for six years. A left-handed opening batsman, Mehra has played 45 first-class, 37 List-A and 28 T20 matches for Punjab.“I started playing for Potomac Cricket and Sports Club in 2015. It was a great experience going to the US and exploring; cricket-wise, things were bad in Punjab. I would do well in the inter-district tournaments, but won’t be picked for the Punjab senior team. It was disappointing. Our club has been winning the WCL Premier Division cricket championship since 2016. With Minor League coming up, it will provide a great platform to players like me. Cricket is going big in the USA and players from various countries are coming here. Like Sunny Sohal, I, too, hope to play for the USA some day,” said 32-year-old Mehra, who last played for Punjab in 2017 in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Tournament.Passey, who co-owns DC Hawks and also Potomac Cricket and Sports Club, has invited several cricketers from India to a platform since 2013. He believes Minor League Cricket would be an ideal tournament for cricketers from various countries like India, Pakistan, West Indies and South Africa to get involved with USA cricket and to play at top-level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cricketers-move-tous-with-eye-on-national-team-101625600837963.html
07-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana man duped of 23gm gold wire, cops suspect Irani gang’s hand||A goldsmith was duped of 23gm gold in Sarafa Bazar on Monday. Police suspect it to be the handiwork of Irani gang members as the modus operandi seems to match. Complainant Shanti Lal, 23, said he was heading to his workshop after receiving a gold wire from a jeweller when two men intercepted him and engaged him in a religious conversation. The duo even tricked him into handing over his wallet for a brief moment. However, it wasn’t until he reached his workshop that he realised that the duo had duped him of the gold wire.Sub-inspector Rachpal Singh of Division Number 4 police station said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.Cops are scanning closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to identify the accused.The notorious Irani gang had, on June 30, stolen two boxes of jewellery from a Chandigarh- based jeweller. The accused, impersonating as police personnel, had stopped the jeweller on the pretext of checking and executed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-duped-of-23gm-gold-wire-cops-suspect-irani-gang-s-hand-101625600779191.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sero survey by PGIMER finds antibodies in 69% children in Chandigarh||The preliminary findings of the sero survey of Chandigarh’s paediatric population being conducted by the Post Graduation Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has revealed that 69% children in the city have developed natural antibodies against Covid. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The sero survey was initiated on June 24 and so far, out of the 396 children from urban areas that have been tested, antibodies were found in 257 of them (65%). The samples were collected from Sectors 22, 24, 36, 56 and 11. Besides, 262 children from rural areas (73%), out of the 360 that were tested from Burail, Maloya, Dhanas, Attawa and Khajeri, had natural antibodies. This means the infection was widespread in rural areas.” He added that children from colonies will be tested in coming days.A sero survey examines how many people have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it. It is conducted using an antibody test, also known as a serology test, and it helps examine if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection.Dr Ram added these are the interim results as the study aims to collect around 2,700 samples in total, which will provide a clearer picture of the actual percentage of children between 6-18 years of age who had been infected. Dr Mini P Singh from the virology department said the testing is being carried out using a high throughput CLIA machine through which reports can be made available quickly.  Dr Ram said, “The initial findings revealed that two-thirds of the children have already been infected in Chandigarh and have enough antibodies to fight the virus, even without vaccination. The fatality rate among children is also low in UT, indicating that children recover from the virus quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sero-survey-by-pgimerfinds-antibodies-in-69-children-in-chandigarh-101625600596498.html
07-07-2021||Other||19 new Covid cases in Ludhiana, no deaths||As many as 19 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday while no new death was reported in the last 24 hours. Since July 1, only one Covid death has been logged in district. The patient had succumbed on July 5. The district currently has 210 active patients.Ludhiana’s cumulative count of Covid cases since the outbreak last year stands at 87,066, of which 2,087 patients have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19-new-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-no-deaths-101625600537622.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur suspended||District civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur was suspended by Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday in what sources said was for failing to arrange a bed for a patient on the minister’s direction.The incident reportedly took place during the pandemic’s peak when the bed occupancy in the district was full, according to people aware of the matter.An inquiry was also marked into the incident and Dr Kaur had given her explanation, which was followed by a suspension letter on Tuesday evening. She has been replaced by Dr Mukta Kumar.While Dr Kaur refused to talk, Vij and Rajeev Arora, Haryana’s additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, did not revert to HT’s multiple attempts to contact them.Dr Veena Singh, director general health services, said she was unaware about the suspension, but the inquiry was held as per administrative procedure.Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta confirmed the suspension was a fallout of person reasons: “It seems Anil Vij had given some direction, which was not followed by her.”“I am disheartened to know that Dr Jasjeet Kaur has been suspended. She has done a lot of good work and I have not seen anyone as dedicated as her. She is the best chief medical officer in Haryana,” the MLA, who is also the state’s Vidhan Sabha speaker said.Dr Kaur took charge as Panchkula’s civil surgeon in February 2020, a month before the pandemic hit the district and is believed to have played a crucial role in the district’s fight against the contagion. At the time, the civil hospital in Panchkula’s Sector 6 had no ICU, molecular lab for sampling or oxygen plant. But she managed to set up a 15-bed ICU by April and subsequently increased its capacity to 24 beds. From none to 18 ventilators and 40 BiPap machines were also installed. In the absence of any public tertiary care hospital,she had tied up with three private hospitals, say department insiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-civil-surgeon-dr-jasjeet-kaur-suspended-101625600536527.html
07-07-2021||Other||63% parents say schools increased fees despite lectures being held online: Survey||Schools have been conducting lectures online for more than 15 months now, but fee hikes continue to remain a concern for parents. A survey – in which 15,950 parents from across the country participated – has revealed that 63% respondents mentioned that their children’s schools had hiked fees, even though classes are being conducted online completely and 65% said that their respective state governments have been ineffective in regulating school fees during the Covid-19 outbreak.“In separate incidents, parents from across the country have been protesting against unjust school managements hiking fees in private schools. Several states, such as Uttar Pradesh, have directed schools to not hike fees, and the Supreme Court, too, has asked school managements not to insist on payment of fees for facilities not used by students. But the unrest among parents persists,” said a report made public by LocalCircles, a community social media platform enabling citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy enforcement and interventions.The survey further highlighted that those who were forced to pay an increased fee for the 2021-22 academic year, nearly 33% are bearing a 20% increase in the annual fees. “Hike in school fees is a fight between parents and the management every year, and most times, the school managements give no explanation behind the hike. However, in a year when families have been struck emotionally and economically, the least these schools can do is maintain the same fee structure,” said Anju Mehta, a parent activist who has regularly fought against private school managements in the state. She added that the incapability of state mechanism to control private school managements is the root cause of the problem.At the same time, school heads have time and again highlighted that whatever costs they have saved by non-usage of certain facilities, have been instead invested in providing digital education to students. “Several schools have invested in software and software expert companies to handle virtual classrooms and ensure that regular classes are not affected. None of these have come cheap, and in order to continue good quality education, we have no choice but to hike fees. Most schools have also given the option of fee payment in instalments to parents, knowing the financial burden everyone is facing,” said the principal of a south Mumbai school, on condition of anonymity.Previously, LocalCircles had also conducted a survey of 19,000 parents where 76% of the respondents said that they are not ready to send their children to school unless there is no Covid-19 case in their districts or till all the children are vaccinated first. Interestingly, over 65% respondents have said that their children receive the Covid-19 vaccine if it is made available for kids by September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/63-parents-say-schools-increased-fees-despite-lectures-being-held-online-survey-101625600235822.html
07-07-2021||Jaipur||Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments in Rajasthan is work in progress: Ajay Maken||Congress general secretary Ajay Maken on Tuesday said the exercise on cabinet reshuffle and political appointments in Rajasthan is a work in progress.“It is true that ministerial berths in the cabinet are vacant and political appointments are to be held; district and block level appointments in the party organisations will also take place. It is our endeavour to hold discussions with all,” Maken said at a media briefing at the party office in Jaipur.“The work is in progress. It means that discussions with all are being held”. He added that a discussion with the chief minister will also be held later in the evening. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot can induct nine ministers to the cabinet that can have 30 members at the most.Maken was in Jaipur on Tuesday to hold meetings to review the preparations for the campaign against inflation and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government from Wednesday.Maken said differences between leaders in states such as Rajasthan and Punjab was not unique to the Congress.“Why do you only see Congress…why not BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal? Every time in every state, in all political parties there are different people with their own thoughts. When has it happened that people do not have different thoughts or opinions? Our effort is to take everyone together and make decisions,” he said.In July last year, Pilot and his supporters left Jaipur to camp in Haryana’s Manesar, threatening the stability of the Gehlot government. Pilot was removed as the state Congress chief. It was only when the Gandhis intervened and set up a committee under Ajay Maken that he returned to the fold. The Pilot camp has been nudging the party leadership to take the requisite steps.The demands for political appointment and cabinet reshuffle gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs rebelled against the leadership of Ashok Gehlot last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cabinet-reshuffle-and-political-appointments-in-rajasthan-is-work-in-progress-ajay-maken-101625599936464.html
07-07-2021||Other||Tipping fee of firm lifting garbage in Ludhiana hiked by ₹101||Bowing down to pressure from the third party hired to lift garbage from the city, the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Tuesday hiked the tipping fee from ₹324 to ₹425 a tonne. Waste collected from households is dumped at over 40 secondary dumping points in the city. The tipping fee is paid to the company for shifting garbage from secondary dumps to the main dumpsite on Tajpur road.Citing hike in fuel prices and mounting maintenance expenses, the firm had been threatening to suspend work from June 10 if the tipping fee was not revised. The firm had demanded that the civic body should at least pay ₹435 per tonne.Already facing flak from the National Green Tribunal for failure to dispose of the legacy waste in the city, the municipal corporation didn’t want more trouble, especially ahead of monsoon.Mayor Balkar Sandhu had recently conducted a meeting with MC officials to look into the matter. A committee, including senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, leader of opposition in MC house Harbhajan Singh Dang, councillors Jai Prakash, Yashpal Chaudhary and few health branch officials, had found that the MC won’t be able to lift the garbage on its own.An official, requesting anonymity, said, “The city generates over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage a day. It will be Herculean task for the MC to lift garbage on its own as it has no machinery, especially tippers, required for transporting garbage to the main dumpsite on Tajpur Road.”Mayor Sandhu said on Tuesday, “After due deliberations, the committee decided to hike the tipping fee by ₹101. We believe that with the revision of rates, garbage collection in the city will be back on track,” said mayor Sandhu.On February 4, A2Z company, the firm previously tasked with solid waste management of the city, had terminated its services over pending dues and delay in payments. Following this, the MC had made a stop-gap arrangement and roped in the third party to whom A2Z company had sublet the work of lifting garbage in the city. BJP councillors had earlier targeted mayor Balkar Sandhu for allegedly favouring the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tipping-fee-of-firm-lifting-garbage-in-ludhiana-hiked-by-rs-101-101625599516468.html
07-07-2021||Other||Ex-Congress minister Kripashankar Singh set to join BJP today||Former Mumbai Congress chief and state minister Kripashankar Singh is set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. The development is considered significant ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) elections as Singh is a prominent North Indian face and has support in the community which is BJP’s vote bank from the past few years.According to a statement by the party, Singh will join BJP in Mumbai in the presence of leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.“I quit Congress on the issue of the abrogation of Article 370. There could be opposition to the process but there was no reason for Congress to oppose the move. I had asked for reasons on the party’s stand on it, but did not get any reply. I am joining BJP without putting forth any conditions,” Singh said.He had quit Congress in September 2019 after he felt side-lined by the party leadership. Singh had been sulking from party activities at least a couple of years before that. The leader is believed to have moved closer to BJP after he was discharged from a multi-crore disproportionate assets case by a special court in 2018. Singh was a sitting legislator till October 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excongress-minister-kripashankar-singh-set-to-join-bjp-today-101625599516946.html
07-07-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Furnish records of Sudha Bharadwaj’s default bail plea, HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to furnish records of the default bail plea of activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, who was arrested in August 2018 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, and has been lodged in Mumbai’s Byculla women’s prison since then. After Bharadwaj’s counsel submitted that the judge who granted the 90-day extension of her custody to Pune Police in 2018 was not competent and the order was illegal, the court adjourned the hearing till Wednesday so that the information about the judge could be verified by the court registry. The counsel further informed the court that if the contention was correct, not only Bharadwaj’s detention, but that of the eight other accused in the case – Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling and Mahesh Raut – would also be illegal. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Bharadwaj’s bail application, was informed by advocate Dr Yug Choudhry that the judge who heard the application of Pune Police for the extension of Bharadwaj’s custody was not a designated special judge under the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, and hence, could not hear matters pertaining to scheduled offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Choudhry further submitted that based on the responses received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from HC registry, it was found that judge KD Vadane, who had granted the 90-day extension of Bharadwaj’s detention on November 26, 2018, was only a district and additional sessions judge at Pune, though he had claimed to be a special judge. Choudhry submitted that Vadane had signed two orders, one as a special judge and the second as special UAPA judge. Citing the RTI response, Choudhry informed the court that between January 2018 and July 2019, Vadane was not appointed as special judge under section 22 of NIA Act. Choudhry submitted that Vadane also could not have authorised the supplementary charge sheet filed by Pune Police in February 2019. The court was then informed that the RTI responses showed that though there were other NIA judges at the sessions court in Pune, the police had placed the matter before Vadane. Choudhry expressed his dismay and said, “This goes to the very heart of the judicial system. With utmost humility, the bedrock of judiciary is shaken when a non-designated judge calls himself a designated judge... And people are languishing in custody under his orders…” After hearing the submissions and on Choudhry’s insistence that the state should not be allowed to file a reply as it had not done so even after being given sufficient time, the court directed chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare to produce relevant records in relation to the petition. The court then said that it would ask the HC registry to verify the information provided by the petitioner and posted further hearing to Thursday. Meanwhile, Gadling has filed an appeal against the rejection of his temporary bail application by the special NIA court last September. Gadling had sought bail to conduct the last rites of his mother, but he was denied the same. On Tuesday, Gadling’s lawyer, senior advocate Indira Jaising, informed the bench of justice Shinde that on the first death anniversary of the accused’s mother on August 13, he should be granted temporary bail. HC will hear the appeal on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-furnish-records-of-sudha-bharadwaj-s-default-bail-plea-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101625599335801.html
07-07-2021||Other||Amid receding Covid wave, dengue poses fresh challenge for Ludhiana health dept||Amid the receding Covid-19 wave in the district, three new cases of dengue have put the health department on alert once again.The cases had surfaced in June and all three patients are undergoing treatment at private hospitals in the city. They include two women, aged 28 and 37, who are residents of Chander Nagar and Kailash Chowk area respectively, and a 55-year-old man who lives at Bhamia Road near Jamalpur area.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said the trio had tested positive in the month of June following which teams swung into action to check and destroy the dengue larvae.He said none of the patients have any travel history and all developed the fever indigenously.As many as 1,809 confirmed cases of dengue had been reported in the district last year, while 2,516 people were suspected to have caught the disease. Of the total, as many as 1,353 were from Ludhiana city while 408 were patients from other districts.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia has issued an advisory and appealed to residents to stay alert as the season of dengue and chikungunya fever has started. She said residents must be careful and not let water stagnate in coolers, containers, nets behind the fridge, pots, rubbish on roofs etc. She also advised people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and make use of mosquito repellents nets at bedtime. She further said in case of fever, people should go for paracetamol instead of aspirin or ibuprofen.The civil surgeon revealed that suspected dengue fever patients have been shifted to sentinel surveillance hospitals of civil hospitals at Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon where patients can get free confirmation tests. Supportive treatment for dengue is provided free of cost by the health department. The health department has also started activities to prevent dengue and chikungunya fever, the civil surgeon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-receding-covid-wave-dengue-poses-fresh-challenge-for-ludhiana-health-dept-101625599276474.html
07-07-2021||Other||HC chides Maharashtra government, BMC for treating state land as ‘paternal property’||The Bombay high court, while coming down heavily on the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), observed that it seemed that the state assets were being assumed to be the “paternal property” of the executive, as illegal and unauthorised constructions were allowed to blatantly come up on government land without adhering to the existing laws. The sharp criticism was prompted after the state submitted that as per the Slums Act, structures of slum dwellers holding valid photo pass were protected and could not be demolished. However, amicus curiae Sharan Jagtiani pointed out that while there was protection for slums, there was no law that restrained the local authorities concerned, including BMC, from taking action against the structures that violated the 14-feet restriction. Hence, the report of court-appointed inquiry commissioner was justified in its observations that illegal structures had the patronage of local civic and political entities. A division bench of chief justice Dipanakar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation initiated by HC last year following the Bhiwandi building collapse, was informed by Jagtiani that the BMC’s submissions, expressing its inability to curb illegal extension of slums due to the protection extended to such structures by state policy was not valid. He referred to the Slums Act which was relied upon by BMC and stated that while the Act provided protection to the structure of a slum dweller with a valid photo pass, it did not turn a blind eye to any addition or illegal extension to the structure. Jagtiani referred to the relevant clauses of the Slums Act which dealt with protection, relocation and rehabilitation of protected occupiers and also powers to the competent authority to demolish unauthorised or illegal dwelling structures. He submitted that the Act enabled the authority to carry out demolition of illegal extensions and additions to structures that were built after January 1, 1995, by following the due process of law on receipt of complaints and hence, BMC could not wiggle out of its responsibility. On Monday, senior counsel Aspi Chinoy for BMC had canvassed the arguments that due to the photo pass, structures of slum dwellers which were illegally extended or added could not be demolished and the competent authority was the collector who could initiate action on such structures and not BMC. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state informed the bench that the cut-off date of protection granted to slum dwellers was January 2000 and any structure thereafter would be considered illegal. When asked about the proposal to extend the cut-off to 2011, Kumbhakoni assured the court that the state was not extending it but was trying to accommodate slum dwellers till that date. He added that the 2000 cut-off date was accepted by all governments. After hearing the submissions and justifications, the bench noted that from 1976 to 2000, the state had been legitimising encroachers on government land. “The moment you bring them under a beneficial scheme, state land and corporation lands are written off. This is absolute recognition to encroachers so that you have a maximum floor space index (FSI). This is a method to indirectly legitimise encroachments of structures for benefits,” noted the bench.It added that including government land under DCR (development control regulations) 33 (10) was an attempt to use public land for vested interest as the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) was not a competent authority to curb such manipulations and manage public largesse. The court also hinted at the large-scale misuse of the rehabilitation policy in Mumbai. “I am new to all this. But it seems like the state’s property is the paternal property of the executive,” said chief justice Datta. He had become the chief justice of Bombay HC last April and was earlier a judge at Calcutta HC. “The biggest planning mistake is to to include government land within the purview of 33 (10) of DCR. Actually it is a fraud on the Constitution. Public largesse cannot be handled by slum redevelopment or such authorities. This also speaks about the rehabilitation that is happening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-chides-maharashtra-government-bmc-for-treating-state-land-as-paternal-property-101625599215756.html
07-07-2021||Other||Mumbai coastal road project: 36% of work completed against 40% target, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed 36% of the total work of the coastal road project, against the 40% target it had set for completion by mid-2021. According to authorities, instead of the earlier target of July 2023 for project completion, the civic body aims to finish all the work by December 2023. The Covid-19 restrictions have affected the pace of the work. The completed work includes about 470 metres (m) or 25% of tunnelling work of one tunnel and reclamation of 105 hectares (ha) of the total 111ha, Vijay Nighot, chief engineer for the coastal road project, said on Tuesday. “At present, the piling work, casting of piers and girders, construction of the ramp work at Marine Drive and tunnelling work are in progress,” said Nighot. Last December year, BMC had announced that its original target of completing the coastal road project by October 2022 had been pushed to July 2023. Nighot had then said, “We lost eight months due to the court case that had stayed the construction of the project in 2019. We also lost an additional six months due to the lockdown. However, during the lockdown, we did not stop the construction work completely.”The 10.58-km coastal road will connect Nariman Point to Bandra Worli Sea Link. Twin tunnels of 2.07km will connect Girgaum Chowpatty and Malabar Hill. Each underground tunnel will have three lanes at a depth of 70m. The cost of the project is ₹8,429 crore, as per information from BMC. As per the plan announced by the civic body, 55% of the work should be completed by this December, and by 2022, 85% of the work should be over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-coastal-road-project-36-of-work-completed-against-40-target-says-bmc-101625599035790.html
07-07-2021||Other||India’s domestic passenger traffic witnesses 41-42% growth in June||Domestic passenger traffic has witnessed 41-42% growth in June with the decline in the Covid-19 cases across the country. According to ratings agency ICRA, domestic passenger traffic was estimated at around 2.9 million to 3 million in June, implying a sequential growth of around 41- 42% as compared to approximately 1.9 million in May. The report stated that the airlines’ capacity deployment this June was around 46% higher (around 31,700 departures) than June 2020 (21,696 departures). Moreover, the number of departures in June 2021 was higher by 14-15% as Covid-19 infections demonstrated a downward trajectory. Kinjal Shah, vice president and co-group head, ICRA, said, “For June, the average daily departures were at approximately 1,100 – significantly higher than the average daily departures of approximately 700 June 2020, and higher than about 900 this May – though it remains significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021. The average number of passengers per flight this June was 94, against an average of 77 passengers per flight the month before that.” However, Shah also said that though some recovery was observed in June, there exists continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel. Both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) permitted airlines to increase the capacity on domestic routes gradually from 33% on May 25 to 80% from December 3, 2020. However, it reduced the permissible capacity deployment to 50% of pre-Covid levels from June 1 due to the surge in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. However, on Monday, MoCA increased the capacity to 65%, which is applicable till July 31. Scheduled international operations have been suspended further till July 31. However, under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) – for evacuating Indians from foreign countries – the international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for domestic carriers has been approximately 3.7 million for the period May 7, 2020, to June 30 this year. “For June 2021, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under VBM was estimated at approximately 147,000 – a sequential growth of about 4% – as flights to/from India remained suspended by many countries, citing the new variant of Covid-19 and high infection levels,” said ICRA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indias-domestic-passenger-traffic-witnesses-41-42-growth-in-june-101625598795737.html
07-07-2021||Other||4,431 trees felled for Mumbai-Pune E-way expansion||At least 4,431 trees have been felled to make way for the upcoming ‘missing link’ on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway to connect the Khopoli exit on the existing highway to Sinhagad Institute near Lonavala. The tree felling was in violation of stage-1 forest clearance granted to the project, the minutes of a recent meeting of the regional empowered committee (Nagpur), constituted by the Union environment ministry, has revealed.The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) had been granted stage-1 clearance to divert 75 hectares (ha) of forest land for the project in Raigad and Pune districts on February 6, 2019 “subject to fulfilment of certain conditions”. “Maximum number of trees up to 60cm girth proposed to be felled may be translocated by the state government at the cost of the user agency,” the REC had stated while granting in-principle approval.It now emerges that the trees were not, in fact, translocated but felled en masse, after the chief conservator of forests (CCF), Pune, issued a work order for it in 2019. On April 22, in a compliance report submitted to REC, “the state government mentioned that the DCF (deputy conservator of forests), Alibag, has reported that the project-affected trees have been felled as due to steep slope and geographic condition it is not possible to translocate such trees.”In its last meeting on June 24, 2021, REC noted that this was done “without giving any secondary thoughts”. “The committee recorded its displeasure over such negligence and labelled it as direct violation of stage-I approval,” the minutes noted. A formal inquiry report in the matter was sought within three weeks, from a senior forest department official not below the rank of CCF. The committee has also deferred granting stage-2 forest clearance to the project for the time being.Given the conditions stated in the state government’s compliance report, REC opined that the matter should have been brought to its notice, along with a formal request to change the terms of compliance, and that a cogent justification for felling the trees should have been submitted to the Central government, which would have then decided on the issue on merits. A former, unnamed DCF, who executed the work, has also been rapped for not following due protocol.When contacted for a comment, Chandrakant Pulkundwar, joint managing director of MSRDC, directed that inquires be made to SK Survase, a senior engineer with the corporation. However, despite attempts, Survase could not be reached on Tuesday. HT was also unable to contact MSRDC vice-chairman and managing director Radheshyam Mopalwar. Ashish Thakre, current DCF Alibag , however, said, “The felling of trees was carried out in mid-2019 before I assumed my current role. It is not uncommon for clearance works to begin without stage-2 approval, which is the final and official assent given by either the state or the Centre. It is allowed as long as the compliances specified in stage-1 approval are met.” Thakre did not directly comment on the specific violations highlighted by REC.Environmentalists criticised the scale of the offence, but said they were not surprised. “This is the same sad story with nearly every government project. The authorities simply think they are above the law. Sadly, in most cases, the very authorities who are supposed to protect the environment watch as mute spectators to such illegal acts. In this case, the committee has at least expressed their displeasure and called for a report. We do hope that some action is actually taken under the law,” said Zoru Bhatena, a city -based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4431-trees-felled-for-mumbai-pune-e-way-expansion-101625598676288.html
07-07-2021||Other||70-year-old man found brutally murdered in Ludhiana’s Payal tehsil||A 70-year-old man was found brutally murdered in his house in Buyani village of Payal on Tuesday morning. The body was found in a decomposed state, leading police to suspect the man was murdered about three days ago. Neighbours had alerted the police after foul smell started emanating from the house.The victim has been identified as Harjinder Singh, 70, of Buyani village. He had contested the 2012 assembly elections as an independent candidate from Payal but lost. His father, Ajmer Singh Jhajj, was a freedom fighter. The body was found dumped in the kitchen of the house, known as Purani Haveli. As per preliminary findings, the man was bludgeoned with a blunt weapon and strangled with a piece of cloth. The assailants had covered the body with sacks before fleeing. Deputy commissioner of police (DSP, Payal) Hardeep Singh said according to locals, the man used to live in Khant village of Fatehgarh Sahib with his in-laws. He used to visit his ancestral house in Buyani village frequently. On July 3, he had come to Buyani on a routine visit but no one had seen him after that. “There are no signs of robbery or burglary in the house. Daljit Kaur, the wife of the victim, told the police that they had not kept cash, jewellery or other valuables in the house. He was not carrying any money either,” said the DSP. “It could be a matter of old rivalry. Police are investigating the case from all aspects,” he added. Daljit Kaur was the second wife of Harjinder Singh. He had divorced his first wife. He had no children from both marriages. Buyani village sarpanch Sukhdev Singh said Harjinder Singh owned an agricultural land in the village which he had rented out to someone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70yearold-man-found-brutally-murdered-in-ludhiana-s-payal-tehsil-101625598617229.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Jet Airways 2.0: Boarding cleared, take-off to be scheduled||A bankruptcy court in Mumbai recently approved a revival plan for grounded carrier Jet Airways paving the way for the airline to take wings again under the new owner-Kalrock-Jalan Consortium- after protracted quasi-judicial proceedings. This is the first time in the country’s aviation space that an airline is set to be revived after shutting down. None of the carriers in the past, including Kingfisher Airlines, could get an investor to restart operations. Founded by ticketing agent-turned-entrepreneur Naresh Goyal about three decades ago, the once premier carrier shut down operations abruptly on April 17, 2019, due to the inability of then promoters - Goyal and Etihad Airways—to put more money in Jet Airways. Later in June that year, bankers dragged the defaulter airline and its promoters to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to recover their dues. Meanwhile, Jet Airways’ slots or the available schedule time of arrival or departure of its flights at various airports were given away to other domestic airlines. After almost two years of proceedings at NCLT, the revival plan submitted by the consortium of UK-headquartered Kalrock Capital and UAE-based Murari Lal Jalan finally got the go-ahead. The tribunal, however, has made it clear to Jet Airways that the company has no rights over the slots and the decision will rest with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).The Bench has given 90 days to implement the revival process. The consortium has proposed a total cash infusion of ₹1,375 crore, including ₹475 crore that will be used for payment to stakeholders, including financial creditors. Additionally, an amount of ₹900 crore will be invested for capital expenditure and working capital requirements for the smooth functioning of the airline, as per the plan A seven-member monitoring committee, including members appointed by the Consortium and the lenders, will soon start managing the day-to-day affairs of the airline till the resolution process is complete. Before its abrupt closure, Jet Airways had one of the most experienced and efficient workforces including pilots, engineers and cabin crew, in the industry. Even today, there are around 3,500 employees still attached to the airline.However, a lot has changed since 2019. The pandemic has altered every business plan and strategy of airlines globally. In the changed situation, the moot question is how sustainable will be the operations of Jet Airways 2.0 at a time when the passenger demand is at the lowest ebb and it is difficult to predict the time the industry will take to return to pre-Covid levels. “ Jet 2.0 will start with a clean slate. It will be debt-free and will have no legacy baggage. Certain factors like low lease rentals of aircraft, reduced fuel prices, growing airport infrastructure in India will be aiding factors (in its revival). Besides, being a full-service airline, it has an opportunity within the business and high-end leisure travel space,” said Amit Kelkar, vice-president, Jet Airways Aircraft Maintenance Engineers Association (JAMEWA).Moreover, 12 aircraft in the fleet including the wide-bodied ones still in the possession of the grounded airline will also help it take off the ground again, he said.“This is for the first time in the history of Indian aviation that a revival of an airline is in offing after getting grounded. However it’s been more than two years now, and the road ahead does not seem to be that easy,” says a former senior airline executive.On June 22, the consortium said it will decide on the next steps after receiving a written order from NCLT, and emphasised that it will work with the aviation authorities to see the airline taking wings again.The aviation industry is currently struggling with consumer confidence and demand. “Vaccination and opening of borders will certainly speed up domestic travel, which needs to restart and there is a lot of pent up demand”, said Jyoti Mayal, president, Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI).Noting that domestic tourism will certainly be a driving force and hoping the situation gets better in six months, Mayal said, “Taking the aviation industry perspective, it is not going to be easy for the airline on the road ahead... The demographic post-Covid 19 is changed and Jet airways will need to adhere to all the needs of a changing environment.”Adding, “Also, all domestic airlines are planning to adopt newer strategies going forward, so they (the new promoters) will need to do more so.”Echoing similar views, an aviation expert on condition of anonymity said, “You can’t set up an organisation based on a legacy and traditional cost-structure. Such a cost structure will not allow you to survive in the present situation.”He added, “At a time when airport charges and fuel costs are increasing and there are no passengers, anyone who is brave enough in this period to start will have to be smart enough to maintain a very low-cost structure by way of smart negotiations on all cost fronts. Success will be defined by how smartly you get low and technology-enabled costs along with a well-thought-out risk mitigation strategy. That is something that every airline new or existing will have to see.”With aviation being a business that can come down to the ground in a day due to certain risks associated with it, he said Covid-19 is another major risk now with the potential to bring down your load factor to zero from 80% in just one day and is now added to the business risk list.According to Mayal, Jet Airways will have to establish a lot in the next six months from negotiating new contracts and re-establishing the operational front. “Though the owners are new, they will need to gain consumer and industry confidence to sustain. It is not going to be easy,” she said.Asserting that the slot issue is unlikely to come in the way of revival Kelkar said, “Many slots remain unutilised in today’s (Covid-19) situation. Even as a new entrant we can have access to many slots in the common pool.”According to Kelkar, new airports and operationalising of new runways will create new slot availability. Besides, there could be options in plus / minus 15 minutes space.“The pandemic circumstances, although unfortunate for the society, has created a level-playing field for both Jet Airways and the existing players. The industry is going through a reboot today and the coming 6-9 months will open up a few slots as the capacity will get back to the pre-Covid levels, but not in the same ratio among carriers as it used to be pre-Covid, said a former airline executive who did not wish to be named. The executive on condition of anonymity said whoever can add capacity now may be able to get some good slots. “Getting slots in Mumbai is a big question but other cities will see a shift in capacity share from one carrier to another (could be existing or new), he said. “The current situation has saddled balance sheets with liabilities that will take a long time for carriers to do away with. The cash-rich have burnt a lot of cash that has considerably brought down their reserves. The timing (of revival) therefore couldn’t get any better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jet-airways-2-0-boarding-cleared-take-off-to-be-scheduled-101625598496454.html
07-07-2021||Other||New Punjab Agricultural University V-C Tewari bats for horticulture||Delivering his virtual inaugural address during the research and extension specialists workshop for horticultural crops (summers), Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development), Punjab, and vice-chancellor, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said, “Prosperity of Punjab lies in the success of farmers. Horticulture is the only way for them to make progress.” The directorate of extension education, PAU, and the department of horticulture, Punjab, organised the workshop on Tuesday.It was Tewari’s first address since having assumed the charge as vice-chancellor.Tewari said there is a need to promote horticulture for a quantum jump in Punjab. He called upon the university experts to give recommendations for the establishment of horticulture estates in the state.The Punjab government is collaborating with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for plantation along with the dividers for beekeeping, he informed. Research, marketing, and commercialisation are important factors, he said, while emphasizing promoting sustainable agriculture among farmers.Shailender Kaur, director of horticulture, Punjab, was the guest of honour. She informed, “A Horticulture Technology Centre is being established on 76 acres of land at Ladhowal (Ludhiana). In addition, three more estates are being established; these include a pear estate at Verka (Amritsar), litchi estate at Sujanpur (Pathankot), and guava estate at Wazidpur (Patiala).”Kaur urged the PAU to start a wing on sericulture and upgrade the lab for virus detection in crops, especially potatoes. She also stressed speeding up the research on the cultivation of exotic fruits like dragon fruit, avocado, and custard apple.AS Dhatt, additional director of research (horticulture), while presenting PAU’s research highlights, said, “Around 60% area under horticultural crops has increased in the last 10 years.” The university has developed new varieties, such as PKH 11 of cucumber; PCP 2 and PCY 2 of carrot; Punjab Sarda of muskmelon; Antirrhinum 16, Antirrhinum 21, Antirrhinum 27, and Antirrhinum 34 of antirrhinum. These varieties are yet to be approved by the state varietal approval committee, he added.TS Riar, the additional director of communication, coordinated the programme. Three technical sessions on fruit crops, vegetable crops, floriculture, post-harvest management of horticultural crops, agricultural engineering, microbiology, zoology, and economics, were also held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-punjab-agricultural-university-v-c-tewari-bats-for-horticulture-101625598316359.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government: 15,511 MPSC recruitments by July 31||Facing the heat following the suicide of a Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) aspirant, the state government on Tuesday announced it will complete the recruitment of 15,511 posts by July 31. He said all posts lying vacant since 2018 will be recruited through the MPSC. Non-IAS posts in administration are recruited by the state government through competitive examination of the MPSC. Speaking at the state council, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state was committed to this task. “The finance ministry has already given nod for filling up the posts. We will complete the recruitment process by July 31,” said Pawar. He said of the 15,511, 4417 were in Group A, 8031in Group B and the rest 3063 in Group C. He said all vacant MPSC members post will be filled and the government was seeking to increase the members from six to 11 or 13. He also announced that the government was toying the idea to conduct the functioning of the MPSC on the lines of the Central’s United Public Services Commission (UPSC) who announces their schedule a year back and all exams, recruitment as well as the posting dates are given. He said the delay was caused due to various technical and legal issues. The 24-year-old youth was found dead in his sister’s house in Hadapsar in Pune on Saturday. He left a note blaming the delay in the MPSC recruitment process. He had cleared the attempt in 2019 and in 2020 as well. This time he was awaiting an interview from the commission, but it was pending due to the pandemic and delays. Leader of opposition in the council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar squarely blamed the government for the death of the aspirant. “They have killed the man as they turned a blind eye to the youngsters who are struggling to get MPSC jobs. If the government does not take corrective actions at least now, we will see multiple suicides,” warned Darekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-15-511-mpsc-recruitments-by-july-31-101625597536120.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Phone tapping of Congress, NCP leaders: Maharashtra minister announces probe||State home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Tuesday announced a high-level probe into the alleged phone tapping of Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders during the previous Devendra Fadnavis regime in the state. The announcement came after state Congress chief Nana Patole said his phone was being illegally tapped by Fadnavis government using a dummy name. A few legislators also suggested the state explore the possibility of putting in place a mechanism to stop “targetting by agencies like Enforcement Directorate”. “A few issues are being raised by legislators, including the one of phone tapping raised by Patole. He also said that phones of other leaders were also tapped or kept on surveillance during 2016-17. If phones are being tapped using a dummy name, the matter needs to be investigated. In my view, it is a very serious issue and I declare a high-level probe in the matter. All those guilty will face strict action,” Walse Patil said in the state Assembly on Tuesday. He also said there are clear rules which need to be followed in case of phone tapping. The intelligence commissioner is required to take prior permission from the additional chief secretary, home by disclosing the name, contact number and the reason behind the move. The ruling legislators raised the issue after Patole informed them that his phone was tapped during Fadnavis government. “In 2016-17, my phone was tapped by the previous government by giving a dummy name — Amjad Khan. It was done on the grounds of narcotics smuggling. We need to investigate who gave the order to tap my phone,” Patole, also a Congress legislator, said in the lower House. “Not only this, phones of other public representatives were also tapped in the previous government. Such acts are alarming for all. It is an attempt to destroy the public life of public representatives. Democracy is in danger if legislators are being threatened in the assembly. They will face the same fate as Anil Deshmukh and Chhagan Bhujbal,” he added. Jayant Patil, water resources minister and NCP legislator, also said the ruling MLAs are constantly getting threats in the media over initiating enforcement directorate or CBI probe. “The home minister should initiate a probe if central agencies are being misused and individual rights are being violated through the means of phone tapping. If investigation agencies other than Maharashtra are being used for tapping phones of legislators, it is our responsibility to protect them,” Patil said. Patole also suggested the government should explore the possibility of putting in place mechanism to “prevent targetting of the opposition leaders by central agencies”. Another NCP minister Nawab Malik demanded a probe into Patole’s allegations. The home minister said he will check if phone tapping was done by central agencies in the state. “The fear of central agencies and a discussion in the state Assembly over their misuse has never happened in Maharashtra before,’’ said presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phone-tapping-of-congress-ncp-leaders-maharashtra-minister-announces-probe-101625597476306.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra introduces three farm bills||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday tabled its own farm bills with multiple changes, including the provision for minimum support price (MSP), compared to the three contentious laws of the Centre. The changes include mandatory minimum support price for farmers, licence for traders, recovery against cheating, punishment not less than three years and a fine of ₹5 lakh against the offenders. The three amendment bills introduced in the state assembly have been opened for people to give their suggestions in the next two months. All suggestions received will be examined and changes will be made by the departments concerned, if necessary. The bills will be reintroduced in the winter session of the state legislature for approval.Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said, “The laws passed by the Centre have no provision for making MSP mandatory for the farmers, which we have decided to incorporate in our law. No agreement will be found valid if the price of produce is quoted less than MSP.”The decision was taken considering the demand from various outfits of the farmers for consultation before approving them in the state legislature, the state said. It was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Tuesday morning. The amendment bills — Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers’ Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities Act, 1955 – were introduced by Bhuse, marketing minister Balasaheb Patil and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, respectively. “Farming agreement shall not be valid unless the price paid to farmer (against its produce) is equal to or greater than MSP,” states the amendment bill for Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.It stated that the farmer and sponsor (trader) can make a farming agreement below minimum support price with mutual consent for a maximum period of two years. The bill also allows farming agreement for crops where minimum support price is not declared, in which case, the farmer and sponsor (trader) may enter into an agreement with a mutually agreed price. As agriculture comes under the concurrent list, the bill also talks about a provision for power to the state to make rules.Bhuse urged people to give their suggestions so further changes can be made in the draft bills. The amendment in the Farmers’ Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 stated, “No trader shall trade in any scheduled farmers’ produce unless such trader has a valid license of a competent authority.” It is against the provision of the central law that allows trade of agricultural produce having just a PAN card which was strongly opposed by the farmers’ outfits.State revenue minister Balsaheb Thorat said, “We all know how farmers are being cheated, therefore a law was needed to ensure they will get remuneration for their agricultural produce, if not, it can be recovered from the trader and the offenders also be punished.”The state has proposed to form a mechanism for grievance redressal in case of disputes in contrast with the provision made in the central law which says they can approach a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), who is already overburdened with work in the existing system and has also no jurisdiction in these matters as it is revenue official post, said a senior official requesting anonymity. “In case of a dispute arising out of a transaction between the farmer and a trader, the parties may seek the solution by filing an application to the competent authority and appeal against the order of the competent authority to the appellate authority,” stated the bill.It has a provision for punishment of imprisonment of not less than three years and minimum fine of ₹5 lakh or both if a farmer is found to be harassed. It explained that the offence of harassment shall be treated to be committed where the trader does not make the payment to the farmer in accordance with the terms of agreement or within seven days from the date of receipt of delivery of goods, whichever is earlier.Besides, if both the parties failed to settle their dispute through reconciliation process, the authority can pass an order for recovery of the amount under the dispute with penalty and interest as it deems fit. “In cases where the sponsor (trader) fails to make payment of the amount due to the farmer, such a penalty may extend to one and half times of the due amount. In case the order is against the farmer for recovery of the amount due to the sponsor (trader) on account of any advance payment or cost of inputs as per term of farming agreement, such amount shall not exceed the actual cost incurred by the sponsor.”In the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, it has proposed an amendment for the state having the powers to regulate or prohibit the production, supply, distribution, imposing limits under extraordinary circumstances, which may include famine, price rise and natural calamity. The current law provides the power only to the Centre in this regard.“There were several flaws in the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Farmers’ outfits have been protesting these legislations for the past seven months. The situation may not have arisen if the Centre had taken farmers into confidence,” said the agriculture minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-introduces-three-farm-bills-101625597415698.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Opposition boycotts proceedings, Jadhav complains of threats||A day after high-voltage drama in the legislature resulted in the suspension of 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs, the opposition party boycotted the proceedings of the Assembly and held a mock session outside the legislature on Tuesday. The state legislature security intervened to stop the mock session that was held without permission. On the other hand, presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav said he was facing threat on social media for suspending the MLAs. The home department announced that his security would be increased. The 12 BJP legislators were on Monday suspended for a year, the first day of the two-day monsoon session, for unruly behaviour. The legislators faced action for snatching microphone of the presiding officer occupying Speaker’s chair, an attempt to remove the mace and hurling abuses inside the chamber of deputy speaker when the lower house was adjourned following the pandemonium. Jadhav who was in the chair when the suspension was announced also alleged that BJP leaders hurled abuses at him and tried to manhandle him. Terming it a “murder of democracy”, the BJP boycotted the proceedings of house by walking out immediately after suspension. The boycott continued on Tuesday as the opposition held a mock session of lower house on the premises of the state legislature throughout the day. “Our legislators were suspended under false charges. None of our legislators had abused, in fact, the presiding officer used objectionable language. Spreading lies from the supreme chair was unfortunate. The suspension was an attempt to suppress our voice as we have been continuously talking against the corruption of the government by exposing them,” said Devendra Fadnavis, opposition leader. While BJP legislators staged the mock session, members of the lower house demanded action against them. Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik raised the issue and enquired if the opposition has been given permission to use microphone on the premises. Social justice minister Dhananjay Munde said that when the Congress and NCP were in opposition, then Devendra Fadnavis government did not allow them the use of microphone on the premises of the legislature. They also demanded action against the members from opposition benches. Jadhav ordered security officers of the state legislature to take action for use of microphone. The microphone was seized and the leaders were removed from the premises. The BJP continued the mock assembly at the press stand. Jadhav also said he was being threatened on social media for the action taken against 12 BJP MLAs. In response, home minister Dilip Walse Patil said Jadhav has been given security and if required it will be beefed up further. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has also announced to move court against the suspension. Ruling party leaders, however, said the court does not intervene in the house proceedings. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the court has never intervened in the action taken by the sovereign house. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “Even the Kerala high court in one of its rulings has said that the legislators resorting to the unruly behaviour should face criminal action,” he said. CM Uddhav Thackeray said the unruly behaviour of the BJP was unprecedented and shameful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-opposition-boycotts-proceedings-jadhav-complains-of-threats-101625597356783.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Excise revenue up by 28% in first quarter: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said that the state’s excise revenue has registered a 28% increase in the first quarter.Chautala, who holds the excise and taxation portfolio, said that about ₹1,751 crore revenue has been earned by the state government from liquor trade during the first quarter of 2021-22 (April to June, 2021) as against ₹1,370 crore during the corresponding period the previous year.Chautala said the excise wing of the department has collected a revenue of ₹1,004 crore during June this year as compared to ₹586 crore earned in June, 2020.The minister said 1,004 zones of retail liquor vends have been renewed in 2021-22 and the department has achieved a revenue of ₹3,201 crore from renewal of these zones against a license fee of ₹2,910 crore in the previous year.He said that the process of allotment of remaining 159 zones for e-tendering has started and till now 12 rounds through e-tendering have been successfully completed.He added that L-1BF licenses for wholesale trade of imported foreign liquor (BIO) have been granted by way of inviting online applications. Total 14 applicants have been shortlisted as eligible applicants for grant of L-1BF after receiving their applications through online departmental portal.He said that 90 cases of excise law violations during the lockdown period were decided and a penalty of about ₹63.15 crore has been imposed under Section 72-E of the Punjab Excise (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2020.While recovery of about ₹6.56 crore has been made, a number of liquor license holders have filed appeal before the excise and taxation commissioner (ETC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/excise-revenue-up-by-28-in-first-quarter-dushyant-101625597356249.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram school murder: HC seeks Haryana’s response on prosecution sanction of four cops||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought response from the Haryana government on the plea of a Gurugram man, whose eight-year-old son was murdered at a prominent private school in 2017.The father has challenges denial of prosecution sanction of Haryana cops by the state government. These cops had initially probed the case. A minor is accused of murdering a Class-2 student of the same school on September 8, 2017, on school campus in Gurugram.Initially, the Haryana Police probed the case and arrested a bus driver for the murder. Later, the case was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the state government, which claimed role of the minor, studying in the same school. Trial is underway at a CBI special court in Panchkula.The father seeks quashing of the February 19, 2021 order of the state government, whereby the sanction of prosecution sought by CBI of four policemen associated with the probe has been declined. The plea demands that trial be stayed and the state’s decision be quashed. The cops against whom allegations are being levelled are Narinder Singh Khatana, Birem Singh, Shamsher Singh and Subhash Chand. It has been argued that the state passed the order in a mechanical manner, without appreciating the facts and culpability of crime attributable to these persons. They ignored the clinching evidence, statements of witnesses, recovery made and other relevant material while probing the case, the plea says adding that the chargesheet filed by the CBI prime facie makes out the offence alleged to have been committed by these cops. The plea says it is an extreme case of abuse of power which can never be said to a part of official duties required to be performed by a government servant and protected under Section 197 of the CrPC which enables the authorities to scrutinise the allegations made against a public servant and to shield him against frivolous, vexatious or false prosecution causing embarrassment and harassment. Every official from the highest to the lowest is under the same responsibility for every act done without legal justification as any other citizen and that the act of these cops is outside the scope of their official duties, it adds.The HC has sought response by November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurugram-school-murder-hc-seeks-haryana-s-response-on-prosecution-sanction-of-four-cops-101625597297929.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Five of Bihar gang that duped over 250 Covid patients arrested||The crime branch cyber-crime officers have busted an inter-state cyber fraud gang that duped hundreds of people across the country under the pretext of providing Remdesevir injection, oxygen, beds and life savings medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 and mucormycosis. The gang was operating from the naxal affected areas of Bihar and was duping people by posting posts on social media platforms under the name of renowned pharmaceutical giant Cipla. “They would accept money under the pretext of providing injection, medicines, beds in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Jaipur, Hyderabad, etc. in advance and later switch off the cell phone,” said Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police, crime branch.After Cipla started receiving complaints from relatives of Covid victims about being cheated, the pharma company informed the Cyber police about the same. Cyber police first lodged a first information report (FIR) in the matter on June 16 on the complaint of a Kandivli-based doctor AM Chavan who was cheated similarly. During the investigation, the police identified over 100 mobile numbers shared through various bogus Twitter accounts. “From each number 10,000-15,000 phone calls were made. These numbers had sim cards of West Bengal origin,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime.After tracing locations of the suspicious numbers in Bihar, police inspector Mangesh Mazgar and assistant inspector Alka Jadhav-led police team went to Bihar and discovered that the accused persons are operating in groups from Katrisaray in Bihar, Sharif and Varsaliganj areas which are considered Naxal affected regions. The police team raided call centres of these groups and arrested Dhananjay Pandit, 20, Sharvan Paswan, 29, Dharmjay Prasad, 29, Nitish Prasad, 27, Sumant Prasad, 26 and detained a minor boy and seized 18 cell phones from them.“The gang members, who are qualified and well educated, have cheated around 250 people and made a profit of ₹60 lakh during the period of the second wave of Covid-19. We have frozen 32 bank accounts belonging to the gang,” Bharambhe said.“The gang was previously duping people in the name of providing loans, but during lockdown, they could not make much profit as people were not taking loans during the lockdown, hence they switched to cheating relatives of Covid victims who are urgently looking for medicines, beds and oxygen,” assistant inspector Alka Jadhav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-of-bihar-gang-that-duped-over-250-covid-patients-arrested-101625597296269.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||32 prisoners at Thane temporary jail test positive for Covid-19||As many as 32 new prisoners at the temporary prison attached to Thane Central jail have tested positive for Covid-19. The undertrial prisoners were tested during their 14-day compulsory stay at the temporary prison before they were housed in the central jail.Jail administration claimed that random testing led to the detection of infection among the new prisoners. They have been now moved to a local civic facility for treatment and regular monitoring.“On random testing of prisoners lodged in our temporary prison located at Vitawa area in Kalwa, on July 1, nearly 12 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19. Following this on July 2 we subjected all prisoners in the temporary jail to test and found 20 more prisoners infected by the virus. In all over 200 prisoners were subjected to the test,” said Harshad Aherao, superintendent of Thane Central prison. “All the infected prisoners have been moved to a local quarantine centre in Bhayanderpada, a local civic facility. None of them is serious and most of them are asymptomatic and recovering fast,” Aherao added.He said in the main prison there is no new case of infection. Most of the prisoners have been vaccinated and we also randomly carry RT-PCR tests, the superintendent added.At present, the prison has 41 active Covid cases, and all of them are lodged in quarantine facilities. Since April 2020, a total of 232 prisoners of Thane Central jail tested positive for Covid-19 and 191 of them have already recovered.Thane prison is one of the most overcrowded central prisons in the state. This south range prison is housing over 3,500 prisoners against its capacity of 1,105 inmates.“Even after spending 14 days in an isolation centre (the temporary prison), one can not be 100% sure that a prisoner is not infected. So to ensure zero spread of infection among other prisoners, after completing 14 days in temporary jail, the new inmates are again lodged separately in quarantine cell within the jail and are not allowed to get mixed with other prisoners for the next 14 days,” Aherao said.In April this year, in a similar outbreak, 39 women inmates at the Byculla women’s Jail including Sheena Bora murder case convict and wife of Peter Mukherjea; Indrani Mukherjea, had tested Covid positive. Last year in June there was a major outbreak in Arthur Road Central prison when over 180 prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19. In Maharashtra so far a total of 4,199 prisoners have got infected by the deadly virus across 46 jails. Of them, 13 succumbed to the disease while 4,109 have recovered. At present, there are 77 active Covid infected prisoners. On June 30 the number of active Covid infected prisoners was 35. Around 947 prison staff across the state had also contracted the virus and nine of them succumbed to the infectious disease, while 921 recovered. 17 staff are still undergoing treatment at different facilities. The current population of jails in the state is 33,711 against the capacity of around 24,000.A jail official from Pune said that nearly 70% population in the state jails have been vaccinated (mostly with the first dose).The state prisons have been following a practice wherein new prisoners are lodged in the jails compulsorily after RT-PCR tests and Vaccination.The prison department since the outbreak of Covid in jails in May 2020 has not been allowing any fresh inmates without the Covid tests. ‘Mulaqats’ (visits of prisoner’s relatives to jail to meet prisoners) are still not permitted.Taking cognizance of the April 16 report of Hindustan Times and another publication the Bombay High Court had initiated a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation. During one such hearing of the matter, the High Court had directed authorities to compulsorily subject the new prisoners to RT-PCR test and a vaccination shot 24-hours before being admitted to the prison. Last month after observing a decline in cases of Covid-19 among prisoners the court had expressed its satisfaction over the measures implemented by the prison authority to contain the spread of the infectious disease among prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32-prisoners-at-thane-temporary-jail-test-positive-for-covid19-101625597295658.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Governor appoints Lt. Gen. Madhuri Kanitkar as new VC of MUHS||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari appointed Lieutenant General Dr Madhuri Rajeev Kanitkar as the new vice-chancellor of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik.Governor is also chancellor of the universities.Dr Kanitkar, who is serving as the deputy chief integrated defence staff in the Ministry of Defence (MoD), has been appointed for a term of five years or till attaining the age of 65 years whichever is earlier, from the date she assumes the office of the vice-chancellor, said a release issued by the Raj Bhavan on Tuesday.Kanitkar has succeeded Dr Deelip Mhaisekar whose term ended on February 10. Dr Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University was holding the additional charge of the post.Koshyari had constituted a selection committee headed by Kalpesh Jhaveri, former chief justice of Odisha high court to recommend a panel of names suitable for appointment of the vice-chancellor. Prof. Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Saurabh Vijay, secretary, medical education and drugs department were members of the committee.Dr Kanitkar was awarded Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) and Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM).Kanitkar, 60, completed her MBBS in 1982 from the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) Pune and won numerous medals as a student, including the President’s Gold Medal for best all-round student and the Kalinga Trophy for best in academics. She then went on to clear her MD in Paediatrics and later her Diplomate of National Board (DNB) in Paediatrics by 1991.With a tenure of over 27 years, she started her career as an assistant professor in INHS Asvini, Mumbai under the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) and later moved to different colleges under MUHS for five years as an assistant professor and another four years as an associate professor.She later took over as Professor and head of department at Command Hospital (SC) in Pune in October 2002 and held the post across different army hospitals in Pune, Delhi and Ranchi for over 14 years. In January 2017, Kanitkar took over the post of dean AFMC.Her experience in the field of health sciences in the last 15 years starts with the post of an assistant professor in AFMC, Pune and she also spent time from January 2019 until May 2021 as a professor in Command Hospital (NC), Udhampur and Army Hospital (Research & Referral), Delhi under Delhi University. In 2008, she was conferred with the best teacher award by MUHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/governor-appoints-lt-gen-madhuri-kanitkar-as-new-vc-of-muhs-101625597245497.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Close to 2mn in 18-45 age group got at least 1 vax dose||mehul.thakkar@htlive.com A little over two months after Covid-19 vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group was permitted, close to 2 million citizens in the age group have been vaccinated with at least one dose across 400 vaccination centres in the city, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This is around 20% of the total estimated 9 million citizens to be vaccinated in the 18-45 age group. The data revealed that of the 1,937,410 citizens vaccinated in the 18-45 age group, 1,441,723 (74%) citizens were vaccinated in private hospitals. Public vaccination centres operated by the BMC and state government were suspended for over a month due to vaccine shortage. In the 18-45 age group, of the 1,937,410 citizens, only 49,750 citizens are fully vaccinated. The second highest number of citizens vaccinated at least one dose is in the 45-60 age group followed by senior citizens. Dr Mangala Gomare, head of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have to administer 18 million doses for those in the 18-45 age group, considering we have to give two doses to each individual. We want to vaccinate them at the earliest, but it all depends on how the supply is. We have been demanding maximum doses for Mumbai, and are hoping the supply will be smooth in the coming days.”In the category of healthcare and frontline workers, over 600,000 vaccine doses have been administered. However, contrary to the trend of maximum vaccination in private hospitals in the 18-45 age group, for other age groups, maximum vaccination is done at civic run vaccination centres. The BMC has also administered vaccines to around 3,400 lactating mothers and over 7,000 citizens heading abroad for further studies or going out for work or going to Japan to participate in the Olympics. Overall, 5,793,487 citizens have been vaccinated in the city, of which 4,598,933 have been administered at least one dose and 1,194,544 have been given both the doses. Of the total, 5,424,669 citizens have taken Covishield and 365,563 have taken Covaxin and the rest 3,255 have taken Russian Sputnik. As of Monday, the city has 401 vaccination centres, of which 283 were run by the BMC, 20 by the state government and the remaining by private hospitals. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, vaccination centres will remain functional on usual timings between 9am and 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-close-to-2mn-in-18-45-age-group-got-at-least-1-vax-dose-101625597244950.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to counsel senior citizens to attain 100% immunisation rate||Around two lakh senior citizens above 60 years haven’t taken a single shot of the Covid-19 vaccine in the city. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now decided to contact and counsel them to attain a 100% immunisation rate among senior citizens who are considered the most vulnerable group to the Covid-19 infection.Last year, the civic body conducted a door-to-door survey under the campaign—‘My Family, My Responsibility’. According to data compiled during the survey, there are around 11.50 lakh senior citizens residing in Mumbai of which 9.50 lakh have taken the first jab dose, while 4.50 lakh has been administered both doses so far. This indicates that around two lakh individuals haven’t taken the vaccine yet.Public health experts said this section of the elderly is still reluctant to take the jabs because they doubt the vaccine’s efficiency rate.“We have decided to track down all these senior citizens who have not taken a single shot yet. We would disseminate the details at the Covid war rooms who will follow up with their respective residents from their wards,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. “If anyone shows hesitancy to get the shot, we would also counsel them,” she added.According to public health experts, a certain section of society is reluctant to take the shot.A survey commissioned by the Central government found out that four in 10 unvaccinated adults above the age of 70 were hesitant to take the shot against the vaccine. The study conducted over the phone with 4,000-plus participants, also found that 57% of the unvaccinated in the 70-plus age group were concerned with the safety or efficacy of the vaccine and 29% thought they were too old to receive the vaccine.Improper information circulating on social media often creates doubts among senior citizens. “Most senior citizens are confined to their homes due to Covid-19. So, they are addicted to social media and believe everything they read online. As a result, they refuse even if their family members insist they get the jab. But to attain a 100% immunisation rate among the elderly, it is essential to get each one of them vaccinated,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Data shows below 1% of beneficiaries have developed any adverse effect to the vaccine. Data provided by BMC shows that only 2.66% of beneficiaries who have taken the first shot have contracted Covid-19. While only 0.01% of the individuals with both doses have been infected with Covid-19.Since the start of the pandemic, doctors have stated that senior citizens who generally have underlying health issues are most susceptible to Covid-19 infection. As per BMC, as of July 5, a total of 4,295 senior citizens between the age group of 60-69 years have succumbed to the infection, the highest mortality rate to be recorded in any other age group.“We don’t know how the third wave will unfold. In the second wave, young adults got infected. So, it is essential to complete the vaccination of the senior citizens before we enter the third wave. This will help in controlling the chain of transmission,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant general physician at Bombay Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-counsel-senior-citizens-to-attain-100-immunisation-rate-101625597244367.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays Haryana instructions on admissions without SLCs||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the Haryana government’s instructions of waiving production of school leaving certificate (SLC) for an admission in a government school.The high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal acted on the plea of Sarv Haryana Private School Trust, a Hisar-based body of private schools.The schools had argued that on March 10, district education officers have been asked to make admissions of students in government schools without SLCs, which is contrary to Rules 136(5) and 139(1) of the Haryana Education Rules, 2003.No recognised school can admit a student from another recognised school without SLC. As a result, the private unrecognised schools are suffering financially, the court was told.The Haryana government counsel had told court that the said rules permit the state government to issue directions permitting a school to admit students without SLC.However, court observed that a perusal of the said rule, prima facie, does not grant any such powers. It adjourned the matter to October 28 while staying instructions issued on March 10.The petitioner had told court that government is passing the orders from time-to-time which shows that it is not only violating the statutory provisions of law rampantly but also substantiating their action on this ground that provisions be amended so that the respondents could justify their actions.The orders have been passed to scuttle the rights of the private unaided schools who are facing so much financial issues on the aspect of the non-receiving of fee from the students since the outbreak of Covid-19 and the department has passed the instructions from time-to-time curtailing the rights of private unaided schools to charge the fee from the students studying in the member schools, the court was told adding that the HC has already settled the issue of collection of fee in which the rights of the private unaided schools have been upheld to charge the fee from the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-haryana-instructions-on-admissions-without-slcs-101625597243866.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to again request SEC to postpone ZP bypolls||The Maharashtra government has decided to again request the state election commission (SEC) to postpone the bypolls declared for zilla parishads. The decision was taken following a Supreme Court decision authorising the SEC to take an appropriate decision.The Apex court decision came in response to a petition filed by the state government requesting it to extend the bypolls for six months considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation and cases of Delta plus virus found in the state.“The Apex court directed the SEC to take an appropriate decision on holding ZP bypolls. After which the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to request the election commission to postpone the bypolls considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister, in the state Assembly on Tuesday.SEC had declared bypolls in five zilla parishads — Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur and 33 other panchayat samitis — on the seats vacated following a Supreme Court against political reservation for Other Backward Classes.This has heated the political temperature of the state as all the political parties have opposed the by-election.Last month, the chief secretary wrote a letter requesting the SEC to postpone the bypolls. SEC refused to accept the request saying the Apex court had directed them to hold bypolls on the vacated seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-again-request-sec-to-postpone-zp-bypolls-101625597115677.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 8,418 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 8,418 Covid-19 cases, of which Mumbai accounted for 455. The state recorded 171 deaths, with Mumbai reporting 10. There were 195,828 tests done on Tuesday, while recoveries clocked 10,548.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 114,297, of which Thane tops with 16,670 patients, followed by Pune with 16,524 active patients.The number of deaths has reduced significantly in June, compared to both April and May, by around 74%. June saw 6,621 deaths, down from 26,037 in May and 26,970 in April.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said this drop directly corresponded to the number of cases. “We saw a significant decline in the number of cases in June compared to April and May and this corresponded directly to death rates. Since the transmission rates declined, this translated to fewer deaths,” said Dr Awate.There were 1,789,406 Covid-19 cases in April, 1,155,570 new cases in May, which dropped to 316,283 new cases in June. Dr Ameet Mandot, Director, Gut Clinic, cited multiple factors for the decline. “The pandemic has the character to start declining after peaking itself, which it did in June. In addition, we had the lockdown as well the vaccination going on simultaneously, which played a huge factor in lowering down both cases as well as deaths,” said Dr Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-8-418-new-covid-19-cases-101625596815693.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav quashes speculation of BJP patch-up||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday dismissed the speculation that the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would renew their alliance and slammed Opposition legislators for boycotting the last day of the monsoon session of the Assembly in the midst of a pandemic. “There is no possibility of anything happening which did not happen in 30 years,” Thackeray told reporters after the two-day session drew to a close. The BJP and the Sena have been allies since 1995, but latter formed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in 2019 with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress. Thackeray walked out of the alliance even though the saffron combine won a majority that would have allowed them to form the government, after the BJP rejected Sena’s demand to share the CM post over half a tenure each. Recent meetings between leaders of both parties however, fuelled speculation over a shift in the political equation between the former allies. BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi last week, led a section of BJP leaders to speculate on the longevity of the state government. On Sunday, Fadnavis also said that Sena and BJP may have differences of opinion but they were not enemies. “Ours is a formidable combine and I am sitting between Congress and NCP,” Thackeray said referring to revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on his left respectively. “There is no question slipping out of this,” Thackeray said. The CM criticised the BJP legislators’ behaviour on Monday which led to the suspension of 12 Opposition leaders, including former ministers Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Girish Mahajan, and Jaykumar Rawal. They were suspended for a year for misbehaving with the presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav during a heated debate on the issue of obtaining caste census data from the Centre. Jadhav said the legislators had hurled abuses at him, and added on Tuesday that he had received threats on social media for his action. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that the party was considering moving court to challenge the suspension.BJP legislators protested the suspension and boycotted the Assembly on Tuesday. They held a mock session outside the Vidhan Sabha building prompting security personnel to put an end to the protest. The legislators however continued the mock assembly in the press room. The incident occurred during a debate on the resolution moved by the state government on July 5 to seek empirical data from the Centre in order to restore reservation granted to members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) which stands to be abolished following a recent Supreme Court order. There is a 27% reservation in local self-government body elections for this category. The BJP opposed the resolution and as the discussions became heated, Opposition legislators approached Jadhav’s seat and tried to snatch the microphone and remove the mace on the table. “What was the need for the BJP to create a hue and cry over a resolution asking the Centre to provide census data of 2011 to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare empirical data of OBCs? Even if you feel the resolution wouldn’t yield anything, couldn’t you still support it?” Thackeray said. “The action taken against the BJP legislators was for their shameful and unprecedented behaviour. If they are calling it black chapter in democracy, what they are doing by using the Central agencies against us? (…) Is using Central agencies like CBI and ED a sign of a healthy democracy? If the priority is to grab power at any cost instead of providing relief to the people battling the Covid pandemic, then it’s a really sad state of affairs,” Thackeray added. MVA leaders have accused the BJP-led Centre of attempting to “destabilize” the state government through central probe agencies. Former state home minister Anil Deshmukh is under investigation for his alleged role in an extortion racket and a purported cash-for-transfer scam involving police officials based on allegations by former Mumbai police commissioner, Parambir Singh, while relatives of the deputy chief minister are also under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik is also under probe for alleged money laundering. “Yes, Uddhav Thackeray is right, what happened in the lower house on Monday was unprecedented. We have never seen an action against legislators like this before. The suspension came from a presiding officer, and not from the deputy speaker Narahari Zirwal (who is acting as Speaker). The action was taken on false charges. As far as Thackeray’s allegations about the so-called misuse (of power) is concerned, they should understand that the probe by the Central agencies is being conducted on the complaints of the police officers (Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze) in state government service,” Maharashtra BJP’s vice president Madhav Bhandari said. Bhandari said that there was no substance in the reports of any alliance between the two parties. “These are all speculations floated by the Sena,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-quashes-speculation-of-bjp-patchup-101625596695789.html
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Sahitya Akademi announces new awards||Haryana Sahitya Akademi on Tuesday announced to start 14 new ‘Yuva Shrestha Kriti Puraskar’ in different genres of Hindi and Haryanvi language from this year under which prize money of ₹31,000 each will be given to the winners.Haryana Sahitya Akademi director Dr Chander Trikha said that on directions of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the number of ‘Yuva Lekhak Samman Puraskar’ awarded in the state has also been increased from two to four.In addition to this, the winner will now be given an honorarium of ₹1 lakh instead of ₹50,000.He said that Khattar has also approved a new literature award in honour of folk poet Dayachand Mayna for his remarkable contribution towards folk literature and culture of the state through Haryanvi language.Dr Trikha said this award is being started by the Haryana Sahitya Akademi from this year under the category of folk literature and culture under the name ‘Lok Kavi Dayachand Mayna Samman’. The amount of this award will be ₹2 lakh.Few days back, the results of pending literary awards (38), Shrestha Kriti Puraskar (37) and manuscript (Pandulipi) awards (75) schemes for 2017, 2018 and 2019 were announced by the Akademi.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the amount of all these prizes has been deposited directly into the bank accounts of the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sahitya-akademi-announces-new-awards-101625596516665.html
07-07-2021||Other||52-year-old woman, her son murdered in Delhi||New Delhi: A 52-year-old wife of an accountant in Indian Air Force (IAF) and their 27-year-old son were found murdered at their home in Raj Nagar Part 1 near Palam in southwest Delhi on Tuesday evening, police said.A case of murder was registered at the Palam Village police station. The police are suspecting personal enmity as there were signs of a friendly entry into the house. Also, no valuables were found missing from the police, senior police officers associated with the investigation said.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that at 7.08 pm, the police was informed about a double murder on the second floor of a building in Raj Nagar Part 1. A police team reached there and found Babita Verma and her son Gaurav inside the flat.“Gaurav’s body was on the bed in a room while his mother was lying on the floor near its door. Both of them were attacked by a blunt object, probably a heavy dumbbell. Prima facie it appears that Gaurav was working on his laptop on a table when he was attacked. He may have tried to escape but was attacked again on the bed,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Police said the crime came to light when Verma’s husband, Krishan Swaroop Sudhir returned home from office at Palam Air Force Station and found the main gate open. He went inside and found the bodies of his wife and son. Sudhir alerted his neighbours and one of them informed the police control room about the double murder.Gaurav earlier worked in a computer manufacturing company in Hyderabad but was employed for the past one year. His mother was a housewife, the police said.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52yearold-woman-her-son-murdered-in-delhi-101625596455642.html
07-07-2021||Mumbai||Stan Swamy’s funeral held at Bandra church||The funeral service for activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, who died in a private hospital while waiting for medical bail in the Elgar Parishad case, was on Tuesday held under Covid-19 protocol at St Peter’s Church in Bandra, amid tributes and a small, brief vigil outside. Citizens, many representing civil society organisations, began gathering at the corner of Perry Road and Hill Road around 3pm, soon after Swamy’s body was brought over from Holy Family Hospital, a few hundred metres away.“We were prepared to come in larger numbers, but we have to consider the Covid-19 situation. The Priests Society of Jesus sent a message telling us not to gather, and to watch Father Stan’s funeral service online. But some of us have come to honour his martyrdom,” said Dolphy D’souza, spokesperson, Bombay Catholic Sabha, an organisation with over 60,000 members spread across four districts.Swamy, 84, who was in judicial custody, died of a cardiac arrest on Monday afternoon at the Holy Family Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for multiple ailments.The tribal rights activist was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Ranchi in October 2020 under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), based on his alleged Maoist links and was kept at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail since his arrest. However, after his condition deteriorated, an application for bail on medical grounds was moved in the Bombay high court (HC). Through an order on May 28, the HC directed the jail authorities to shift Swamy to a hospital of his choice. Swamy, who suffered from Parkinson’s disease, tested positive for Covid-19 and was kept in the ICU of the hospital. The court extended his stay after it was told that though the priest had recovered from Covid-19, he had some heart complications and his condition had deteriorated.Those present at the funeral service expressed varied responses to the death of Swamy. While some, like Aslam Ghazi of the Association for the Protection of Civil Rights, feared that Swamy’s death would discourage dissent against the state’s allegedly anti-poor, and undemocratic policies, others like Feroze Mithiborwala (who was one of the organisers of the Mumbai Bagh protests in 2019) said that Swamy’s death will mark a turning point for the other 15 accused in the Elgar Parishad case. “This shocking incident only redoubles our resolve. We will continue to demand that the other accused be released immediately. We will also continue to demand that Father Stan Swamy’s name is cleared of all criminal allegations. The court still has a responsibility toward the innocent. It is deeply disturbing that for all his cooperation with the authorities, Father Stan was not let out on medical bail. Else we may not have been here today,” Mithiborwala said.The Hindustan Times also attempted to speak to a few priests and nuns, who were not part of the vigil, but were passing through the closed church gates. All declined to comment. A larger gathering in support of Swamy is expected to take place today at Chaityabhoomi in Dadar, the cremation site of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.Swamy’s family in Viragalur village of Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district watched his funeral live on the YouTube channel of St Peters Church. The house where Swamy grew up was built in 1890. It is where Swamy’s 89-year-old elder brother, Irudayaswamy, and his wife live in a joint family with their children and grandchildren. Swamy’s 26-year-old grandnephew Benito Prabhu, who lives there, earlier in the day said the six family members in the house would gather together to watch the livestream of his funeral at 4pm on their TV. Swamy’s relatives, most of whom live in Trichy and Chennai, watched it online. Following his funeral, the family will hold a special mass at the local church in the village in his memory. They were denied permission to hold a procession due to Covid-19 norms.The family had requested for Swamy’s body and ashes, but it was not possible.“When he had visited us in 2016, he had said that his last rites should be in Ranchi. He wasn’t sure how long he would live because of his age and ill health. So his ashes will go to Ranchi, but his body will not be handed over due to the pandemic,” said Prabhu.The family has been coordinating with Joseph Xavier, the current director of Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute – a Jesuit Centre – since Swamy’s arrest last October. “We hope they allow for his things from his Ranchi home to be sent to us,” Prabhu said. “He didn’t have too many things anyway.”“One of our relatives saw a news channel and called us. That’s when we switched on TV. We knew he had died before we received the official information,” said Prabhu. Relatives and villagers have been coming to their ancestral home since the news of his death.The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made by some activists at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Police claim these speeches triggered violence the next day near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial located on the outskirts of the city and that the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy was the last and oldest of the 16 people, most of them academics and human rights activists, to be arrested in the case.(inputs from Divya Chandrababu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stan-swamy-s-funeral-held-at-bandra-church-101625596338410.html
07-07-2021||Other||HC orders North MCD to keep hawkers out of Library Road crockery market||New Delhi: Remarking that civic officials extort money from street vendors to allow them to operate in a no hawking zone, the Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the city police to keep a strict vigil against squatters on the Library Road Crockery Market in old Delhi.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to put up permanent and prominent display boards within two weeks to make it clear that the area is a no hawking zone.The court’s order and remarks came after the counsel for the MCD, Jyoti Taneja, tried to justify the non-existence of boards displaying that the market area as a non-hawking zone by pointing out that they have already filed an affidavit to that effect. However, the bench remarked, “You cannot ask the citizen to fish out your affidavit..How do people get to know if you don’t put up the display boards? We know how these hawkers keep coming again and again…They are paying hafta to your officers.”The city police’s counsel Pankaj Yadav, on a direction by the court to keep strict vigil against the street vendors, had also said that there were no display boards to let people know about the no-hawking zone. On Tuesday, the bench dismissed an application by the vegetable vendors’ association, which had sought to be heard in the petition, observing that the vendors have not been able to show any document that permitted them to squat in the no hawking zone. It also said that there is no dispute to the fact that the Library Road is a no-vending zone.The application was filed in a pending plea by the Crockery Merchants Association which had contended that despite the Library Road crockery market in Azad market being declared as a no-hawking zone, squatting and hawking activities were still continuing with the civic body and the Delhi Police turning a blind eye to it.The association, through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, had given photographs to the court showing that a vegetable market was being run in front of their shops.On April 8, the court had taken note of the pictures and said that even though the market claims to run only in the morning, it is evident from the photographs that it is not the case. “The photographs show that the vegetable market is operational while the crockery shops are open... In fact, the photographs placed on record by the petitioner carry a time-stamp declaring the time when the photographs were taken, which appears to be around 11.30 am,” the court had said in its order.The court had also asked the Delhi Police to ensure that unauthorised vending, hawking and squatting does not take place in the no-hawking zone and the SHO of the Bara Hindu Rao police station should be held personally responsible in case hawking is not “permanently stopped”.It had also expressed surprise as to how the civic body can issue licenses in no hawking zones after the police counsel contended that some hawkers claimed to have licenses from the North MCD.On Tuesday, advocate Taneja, appearing for the municipal body, told the court that action has been taken along with the local police and all temporary encroachments have been removed from the area.The court, while dismissing the plea of the vegetable vendors, posted the matter for further hearing on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-orders-north-mcd-to-keep-hawkers-out-of-library-road-crockery-market-101625596337859.html
07-07-2021||Other||Srinagar police, IB quiz vehicle thieves nabbed in Delhi last week||New Delhi: A team of Intelligence Bureau(IB) officials and the CID unit of Srinagar police on Monday reached Delhi to interrogate two men who were arrested last week for stealing vehicles and selling them in Kashmir. The two agencies questioned the suspects to get information about their contacts in Kashmir to whom they sold the vehicles. Officers privy to the development, however, said there was no evidence so far to suggest that the suspects were involved in terror activities. On Sunday, Delhi police said they busted an organised gang of vehicle thieves, and arrested Showkat Ahmad Malla, 25, a resident of Baramulla, Kashmir and Mohammed Juber, 22, a resident of Shamli, Uttar Pradesh. The two were arrested from central’s Delhi’s Paharganj area. Police said that the gang, to which the two men belonged, has sold more than 100 vehicles to buyers in the Kashmir valley. Explaining their operation, Delhi police officers said Showkat flew to Delhi and drove the vehicles to Sopore town in Kashmir’s Baramulla district, from where they were sent to other places. “A team of CID officers from DIG CID unit of J&K police came yesterday. Separately, the IB officials also came and interrogated them. Some photographs found on the phones of the two men aroused suspicion so they had to be interrogated. Though one cannot say it is linked to terror activities. They questioned the two men for their contacts. They will verify the information shared by the two men. There are some members of the gang, who are still believed to be hiding in the valley,” an officer, who asked not to be named, said. To be sure 90-100 vehicles are stolen across the city every day. Between January 1 and June 15, 2021, police registered 15,667 cases of motor vehicle thefts in Delhi. Police have in the past busted vehicle thieves, who took stolen cars to states as far as those in the Northeast. But this is the first major case of organised theft racket spread from western Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to the Kashmir valley, the officer said. As part of the probe, a Delhi police team is also going to Kashmir to find the associates of the two suspects. Police are on the lookout for a man named, Wasim Sheikh, a resident of Baramulla. “Wasim is our main link in the case. He has come to Delhi on several occasions and has taken cars to Kashmir. Showkat learnt the trade from him. We will seek the assistance of J&K police to trace him,” added a second police officer, who asked not to be named. Police said Shaukat also works as a civil contractor for the state government in Kashmir. Police said Shaukat and his accomplice Juber, received the stolen vehicles from one Rinku. Rinku tampered with the chassis and engine numbers, changed the registration plate of the vehicle before handing it to Shaukat. Police have recovered at least 100 registration number plates and 150 duplicate car keys from the two suspects, investigators said. When contacted, Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police(central), whose team arrested the two alleged vehicle thieves, said, “The investigation in the case is on. There are some missing links that we are trying to establish. We are probing who bought the stolen vehicles in Kashmir.” Singh did not comment on the joint interrogation of the two men by the IB and the J&K police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagar-police-ib-quiz-vehicle-thieves-nabbed-in-delhi-last-week-101625596336128.html
07-07-2021||Other||Over 1,400 register with Delhi Skill University on Day 1||New Delhi: Over 1,400 people applied for admission to the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) on Tuesday, when registrations opened for the university’s first batch. According to a university statement, 1,458 people registered for admission on Tuesday. The university will initially admit 6,000 students. The university will offer 12 job-oriented undergraduate courses, including BA programmes in digital media, business management, data analytics, and aesthetics and beauty, in addition to six BTech courses and 15 diploma courses, and two post graduate courses across 13 campuses in Delhi. The admission process will remain completely online this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Admissions to the diploma courses will be conducted through an online proctored common entrance test in August, and candidates applying to degree courses will be admitted on the basis of their Class 12 scores, performance in vocational subjects, and extracurricular activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-1-400-register-with-delhi-skill-university-on-day-1-101625596335594.html
07-07-2021||Other||Foreign applications decrease by 12% in DU this year||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) saw a 12% drop in the number of foreign applications this year compared to 2020, showed data shared by the university on Tuesday, a fall officials attributed to the nationwide second wave of Covid-19 between April and May.While the university received over 1,500 applications from 80 countries last year, 1,324 students from 61 countries have applied for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the 2021-22 academic year.A majority of the students are from Afghanistan (320), and the rest are from Nepal (185), Tibet (156), Vietnam (10), Thailand (7), Sri Lanka (5), Mauritius (4), Angola, Gambia, Lesotho (three applications each), and between one and two applications from other countries, including Peru, Russia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Uzbekistan, and Yemen, among others.Amarjiva Lochan, DU’s deputy dean (foreign students), said, “We receive two applications from two sources — through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) and directly through our online portal. This year we have not received fewer direct applications on the DU portal. The Covid-19 situation putting lakhs of families across the world in challenging situations is behind the drop in applications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foreign-applications-decrease-by-12-in-du-this-year-101625596277835.html
07-07-2021||Other||Delhi Commission for Women gets extension||New Delhi: Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal and her team’s tenure has been extended for another term of three years, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. “Delhi Commission for Women has been doing an excellent work. Their term comes to an end. I approved another one term for the present Commission today. Best wishes to Swatiji and her team. Keep doing good work,” Kejriwal tweeted.Maliwal was appointed at the head of the women’s welfare body in 2015. This will be her third consecutive term at the organisation. The commission comprises the chairperson, a member secretary and five other members. Responding to CM’s announcement, Maliwal tweeted, “We are grateful to the CM for giving us this opportunity to serve the people of Delhi.”She said the commission has handled more than six lakh cases over the past six years. “We have successfully rescued thousands of girls from traffickers. Our intervention has helped rehabilitate hundreds of rape survivors. Also, we have strengthened the 181 helpline to an extent that no call goes unheard,” said Maliwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-commission-for-women-gets-extension-101625596276940.html
07-07-2021||Other||In a first, DMRC launches FASTag-based parking facility in Kashmere Gate||New Delhi: In a first, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday launched a FASTag/UPI-based cashless parking at the Kashmere Gate metro station.DMRC, in a statement on Tuesday, said that as part of the multi-modal integration (MMI) initiative, dedicated intermediate public transport lanes for cabs, e-rickshaws and autorickshaws were also opened for Metro users at the Kashmere Gate station.“As many as 55 four-wheelers and 174 two-wheelers can be accommodated at this exclusively cashless parking facility, which is located at gate number-6 of the Kashmere Gate metro station,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. According to DMRC, commuters can now enter and exit, and also make payment for four-wheeler parking, using FASTag. “Only those vehicles with FASTags will be permitted to park in this facility. Two-wheeler users can swipe the Delhi Metro smart card, which will note the entry and exit time and help calculate the fare. Money will not be deducted from the smart card,” Dayal said.Metro officials explained that the parking fee in such cases can be paid using UPI applications after scanning a QR code. Officials said they are also working on allowing payments through DMRC or national common mobility cards as well.“The cashless parking facility is DMRC’s pilot project. Further, Delhi Metro is planning to establish similar systems at more of its parking facilities across Delhi-NCR,” DMRC said. Apart from this, the station also threw open dedicated lanes for cabs, autos and e-rickshaws near the station’s gate numbers six and eight. “These lanes will allow a smooth movement of vehicles as well as enhance the last mile connectivity at the Metro station. In MMI’s second phase, which is presently under construction, there will be a food court (to be set up by Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation) as well as a bus terminal (three lanes with a capacity of five buses each),” DMRC statement read. According to DMRC, these facilities will provide a big relief to passengers travelling to and from the Kashmere Gate metro station, which is connected to a major ISBT as well as several offices around the station. “We have taken this up as a pilot project. After observing the response, we will plan similar systems at more of our stations. In fact, we will explore more opportunities to go digital wherever there is a scope. This will not only help us in modernising the facilities, but will also help the commuters by saving their time and ease the process. Under MMI, we have many other projects, which will be implemented in a graded manner,” said Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-dmrc-launches-fastag-based-parking-facility-in-kashmere-gate-101625596276168.html
07-07-2021||Delhi||EDMC to set up app, call centre and collection points for safe disposal of e-waste||Soon residents, institutions, commercial and industrial units in east Delhi could dispose of their electronic waste in an environment friendly manner and even get some value back as the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) plans to engage an agency for collection and transportation of e-waste for further processing and disposal in a scientific manner. Citizens will be able to access the facility on the corporation website, municipal officials in the know of the matter said. The officials said the agency will have collection centres at suitable locations and will also facilitate the disposal process by way of a mobile app and a call centre with a toll-free number. “Additionally, users will be able to raise a request on the EDMC website mentioning details of the item(s) they need to dispose of and request a pick-up. The value of the discarded items will be decided and paid to those disposing of the goods,” said a senior EDMC official handling the project.E-waste includes old, discarded and unserviceable electronic items such as mobile phones, television sets, chargers and refrigerators, among others. Until now, the corporation did not have a strategy for handling e-waste and most such waste was segregated and processed illegally by the informal sector -- ragpickers and scrap dealers and small workshops -- in an unscientific manner that posed serious environment hazards. Officials said as e-waste contains toxic chemicals and minerals such as arsenic, cadmium and acid, among others, it was imperative that such waste is recycled in a scientific manner.“Our request for proposal (RFP) for the project is in the final stage of approval for appointing an agency. This maiden initiative will pave the way for handling of electronic waste in a responsible and environment friendly manner,” said EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand.The cash-strapped municipal corporation also aims to generate some revenue through the initiative. “We plan to earn some royalty from the agency executing the project, which will help the municipal body earn some revenue,” said an official, who asked not to be named.“Currently, most of the e-waste in the city is recycled illegally by informal groups such as ragpickers and small workshops to extract metals such as copper out of it. “A large volume of such waste from all parts of Delhi reaches pockets such as Seemapuri where a number of informal groups are engaged in extracting metals out of the junk. We will be creating larger awareness about our initiative so that people have a way to dispose of e-waste safely,” the official said.So far, there has been no assessment of the volume of e-waste being generated or recycled in the city. However, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and recently the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) have set up similar mechanisms for collection and disposal of e-waste in areas under their jurisdiction.The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) notified the E-waste Management Rules in 2016 following which all civic bodies were to implement the same in their jurisdiction. According to experts, there is still little awareness around the consequences of discarding electronic gadgets in an improper manner. These gadgets often land up in makeshift workshop, where metal is extracted using the crudest methods, releasing a range of toxic chemicals, which ultimately flows into drains and then into water bodies, thereby heavily polluting them. Satish Sinha, associate director, Toxic Link, said it is important to have a formal set-up for e-waste collection. “When recycled illegally, the methodology used is rudimentary in nature, releasing toxic heavy metals such as lead, mercury etc into the immediate neighbourhood. Processing of e-waste requires good technology, which is why a formal set-up is required,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-to-set-up-app-call-centre-and-collection-points-for-safe-disposal-of-ewaste-101625596215648.html
07-07-2021||Other||₹54 lakh robbed in two separate incidents in northwest Delhi||New Delhi: A total of ₹54 lakh was allegedly looted by bike-borne miscreants in two separate incidents of snatching and robbery reported from two places in northwest Delhi within two and a half hours on Monday, following which police have formed at least four teams to identify and nab the culprits. In the first incident, reported from Keshavpuram area, two bike-borne men allegedly snatched a bag containing ₹12 lakh from the accountant of a building construction material supplier based in Kundli near Sonepat in Haryana. The accountant, identified as Nitin Kashyap, was riding a motorcycle and returning to his office after collecting money from different clients in Azadpur, Roshanara Road, and Bharat Nagar in north and northwest Delhi, when the snatchers targeted him, said a police officer associated with the investigation.In his complaint, Kashyap said that two men on a bike waylaid him as he reached near the Keshavpuram metro station, and snatched his cash bag. “Kashyap could not see the faces of the suspects because they were wearing helmets. They did not use any weapon in the crime. Kashyap said he did not resist because he knew how snatchers stab or open fire at their targets if they showed any resistance in their attempts,” the officer said, adding that Kashyap informed the police about the crime and a case of snatching was registered at the Keshavpuram police station.Even as the district police teams were carrying out the legal formalities and investigation into the matter, around 2.30pm, the police control room was informed about another robbery at a rice merchant’s office in Maurya Enclave’s WP block, just about five kilometres away from the first crime spot. The police team met the rice merchant, Rajneesh Jain, who told them that four unidentified men had arrived on two bikes and carried out the robbery.Jain told the police that the robbers entered his office posing as customers and allegedly held him and his staff hostage under gunpoint. The robbers then allegedly forced him to open the almirah, took out ₹42 lakh and fled on their motorcycles. The four accused were wearing helmets so their faces were not visible, another police officer said, quoting Jain’s statement.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said the two crimes were committed by two sets of criminals, as the modus operandi were different. “Our teams have got certain clues in both the cases and are working on them. The suspects will be caught soon,” she said.Investigators said that they have not ruled out the role of an “insider” in the cases as the robbers knew about the cash and where it was kept.Delhi Police’s statistics show that the city witnessed 3,829 snatching and 942 robbery cases till June 15 this year. Last year during the same period, 2,612 snatchings and 701 robberies were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/54-lakh-robbed-in-two-separate-incidents-in-northwest-delhi-101625596216255.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Street eateries in Pune not adhering to 5pm deadline||PUNE Even though the Pune Municipal Corporation order states that only delivery and takeaway from restaurants is allowed after 4pm, street eateries in most of the areas continue to operate dine-in, with the police turning a blind eye.The PMC order states that dine-in with 50% capacity till 4pm is allowed on weekdays and after that take away service till 11pm; on weekends only parcel service is allowed.The order also applies to street eateries. “The action is taken every day by police stations at the local level. On the first few days warnings were issued, while we have also started collecting fines at many places,” said Amitabh Gupta, Pune’s police commissioner.The street stalls on Baner road and Bharati Vidyapeeth were full on Tuesday evening.Rajendra Tilak, a resident of Pashan said, “All the street eateries continue to provide service at their stalls. I have seen police taking rounds, but they are not taking any actions.”The owner of Kunal chaat on Baner road, on condition of anonymity, said, “Timings for serving at stalls should be increased. Our peak period for customers starts after 4pm and PMC allows only parcel service after. It is hurting business badly therefore, many street eateries continues to remain functional.”Tea stalls also remain functional at most places.“Most of the customers cannot carry tea for long distances and hence, we continue serving tea by keeping the shutter half-open. We make sure people dont gather at one place and they tend to stay far away from each other,” said he owner of tea shop owner on Pashan road.In Kondhwa and Camp area street eateries are functioning till 9pm.Oumar Aga, a frequent customer of eateries in Camp, said, “For a couple of days only parcel service was allowed, but in the last few days we are allowed to dine-in even after 7pm. Eateries were functioning till 10 pm yesterday. Although non- essential shops closed by 5pm.”Non-essential shops following ordersLaxmi road, a major shopping centre, is shutting down completely by 5pm. However, traders are unhappy with the ongoing restrictions.“Postivity rate is under control still traders have been told to shut their shops at 4pm. We continue to remain a soft target and the administration is not concerned about traders. We continue to follow order but we expect changes soon,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune.Reena Goswami, owner of boutique in Kothrud said, “PMC should allow us to remain functional even after 4pm. Current order are hampering our business hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/street-eateries-not-adhering-to-5pm-deadline-101625595078368.html
07-07-2021||Pune||Pune private hospitals out-jab govt centres for Covid vaccine in June||PUNE In June, a steady supply of Covid vaccines and more number of eligible beneficiaries, meant more people got the jab in Pune district. A total of 1.697 million people got the vaccine in June in the district. However, private hospitals saw more people get the vaccine, as opposed to government hospitals. As per the information from the district health office, of the 1.697 million doses administered in Pune in June, 0.984 million got the vaccine at private hospitals, while 0.712 million got it at government centres. As per the information, of the 1.697 million who got the jab, a total of 712,871 got it at government centres, of which 458,099 got their first dose, while 254,772 got their second dose. Of the 984,198 who got their dose at private centres, 916,205 got their first dose while 67, 993 got their second dose and were fully vaccinated. These include both Covishield and Covaxin. Private centres saw 15.98% or 0.27 million more vaccines administered as compared to government vaccination centres. While private hospitals saw more and uninterrupted vaccinations, government centres had to be shut due to a shortage of vaccines. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of PMC’s health department said, “Due to shortage of vaccines we had to shut down the vaccination drive on three days last week, Saturday, Sunday and Monday. However, the state has assured that we would now get an uninterrupted supply of vaccines from here on. “Earlier in May, when there was acute shortage of vaccines, the civic body had considered directly procuring the vaccines from manufacturers, since Serum is located in Pune. However, now that the supply is much better we have kept that plan on hold. It would be wrong to compare the vaccination at government centres with private centres, as the civic body covers the entire city and all sections of society. We have multiple drives aimed to vaccinate the most vulnerable through our Vaccine on Wheels initiative,” Dr Bharti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-out-jab-govt-centres-for-covid-vax-in-june-101625595077031.html
