08-07-2021||Mumbai||ED probe against him politically motivated, says NCP’s Eknath Khadse||Another senior leader from Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is in trouble. Eknath Khadse, former revenue minister, was questioned by the enforcement directorate (ED) for nine hours in the alleged money laundering case on Thursday.Khadse joined the NCP in October last year and has been facing investigation by the central agency since December 2020, two months after leaving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Wednesday, his son-in-law Girish Choudhary was arrested by ED in the same case. “In my view all this started after I joined NCP by leaving BJP… The case is politically motivated. Efforts are made to frame me in it by any means. For the last eight days, a message has been going viral on social media in Jalgaon (district) that something related to me is about to happen. The way (BJP) activists are aware of the ED action in advance indicates that it is a conspiracy but I’m ready to face it,” Khadse told reporters outside ED office on Thursday morning.He said that Maharashtra and the entire country is watching what is going on. The case has been probed five times by different agencies. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has given him a clean chit by submitting a C-summary report. “The land I bought is privately owned and not of MIDC. The corporation has not completed the process of acquisition. They have neither paid the compensation nor taken its possession,” Khadse stressed.“Khadse’s induction in NCP has irritated the BJP which is using central agencies to frame him in a case. He is innocent and we are sure he will come out clean,” said Jayant Patil, state NCP chief. Patil said that a commission formed by the erstwhile the BJP-led government has also given him a clean chit. Khadse is under scrutiny for allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal in Bhosari near Pune. The plot was bought by his wife Mandakini and son-in-law in 2016 for ₹3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of ₹30 crore. According to the ED officials, Khadse and his family fraudulently purchased the said land, despite having knowledge that it was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), so that they could claim the compensation of more than double the market rate when the MIDC acquired it.He would be the third NCP leader who would be going behind the bars on corruption charges, if arrested. Before him, senior NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal and Gularao Deokar have faced arrest over corruption charges. Bhujbal is currently out on bail and is holding food and civil supplies portfolio in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the state.Besides, one more NCP leader and former home minister Anil Deshmukh is also facing an investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED over charges of extortion made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh has moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from coercive action in a money laundering case.In 2016, Bhujbal, also former deputy chief minister, was also arrested in a money laundering case and was in jail for two years before he got bail on health grounds in May 2018. He was arrested by ED for allegedly receiving kickbacks worth crores for awarding various government contracts, including the Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi. Before him, Deokar, former minister and a NCP leader from Jalgaon district, was arrested in May 2012. He spent around three years behind bars before getting bail. He was found involved in a 1997 housing scam related to the construction of 11,000 low-cost houses in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra and was convicted by a sessions court in 2019, along with 47 others. Deokar was a member of the Jalgaon Municipal Council from 1995 to 2000 when the scam took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-probe-against-him-politically-motivated-says-ncp-s-eknath-khadse-101625768965890.html
08-07-2021||Noida||Birder spots little bittern at Okhla Bird Sanctuary||A birder reported spotting a little bittern at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS), a “rare and unusual sighting” for the National Capital Region (NCR), according to experts.Wing commander (retd) N S Khaira said he spotted three birds of the species in late June and managed to take a few photographs.A small heron with a dark back and cap, a white neck and patches on the wings, Little Bitterns breed in the Kashmir region and migrate to South India or Africa. A shy and crepuscular species that often lives low in reed beds near lakes or rivers, there are no records of the bird being spotted at OBS and, according to www.ebird.org (an online database of bird distribution), there is no record of it having been spotted in Delhi either, apart from some birders’ accounts of 1968.“I spotted two males and one female, flying low over the dense reeds. One male was chasing the other. They flew twice in circles, briefly, like in a chase depicting territorial behaviour. What caught my eye was the distinct pale panel on each upper wing of the birds. Rest of the wings were black. The cap and tail were also black, which made the pale panels stand out and eye-catching,” said Khaira. “Since I was on the tower and the birds were flying low, the upper side plumage was clearly visible. Had I been standing on the ground I may have missed noticing the distinctive pale panels and confused the birds with Yellow Bitterns. Size and shape of the Yellow and the Little bitterns are quite similar – both types flew low and would vanish quickly into the reeds.”Examining the pictures, which were slightly blurry as the birds were in flight, a number of experts confirmed it to be the Little Bittern.“The bird seems vagrant, which means it’s not in its normal habitat. This is indeed a good spot for Delhi. The bird has been spotted in Gujarat and Ranthambore,” said ornithologist and conservationist Bikram Grewal.“It’s a rare sighting for the NCR and it seems that the bird must be in passage, after breeding in Kashmir from April to June, and flying from the North, down to the South or to Africa. As far as I recall, one sighting was made at Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary, Jhajjar over 11 years ago,” said birder Kanwar B Singh.“This is something very rare. There are five Bitterns in India of which Yellow Bitterns, Black Bitterns and Cinnamon Bitterns are common, while Great Bitterns and Little Bitterns are rare,” said Anand Arya, another bird enthusiast.According to the forest department, there are “no clear records” of the bird in OBS. “This is great information for our sanctuary. There are no records of when this bird was last spotted here, though we are certain that there had been no spotting of Little Bittern over the past ten years at least,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/birder-spots-little-bittern-at-okhla-bird-sanctuary-101625768906469.html
08-07-2021||Noida||Noida: ₹80,000 cash, bank cards stolen from trial room of garment showroom||A customer of a garment showroom in a Sector 18 mall has alleged that someone stole ₹80,000 cash and his bank cards that he had left in a trial room.Satinder Singh Saluja, a resident of Noida, said he was at the mall with his family on Wednesday evening when he decided to try on some new clothes.“I left the clothes that I had been wearing inside the trial room while I went to seek my family’s opinion on some clothes I had tried on. In the meantime, a man went into the trial room. I asked the staff why they had let him do so. By then he came out and went away without trying anything,” said Saluja in his police complaint. “When I checked my clothes, my cards and ₹80,000 cash were missing. We immediately rushed out and tried to look for him but he was gone. We then informed the staff and the local police as well,” he said.The family has filed an e-FIR in the case, police said.“We have spoken to the complainant and have started a probe from our end. We have requested the necessary CCTV footage that will come from the showroom headquarters in Bengaluru. Due action will be taken,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-80-000-cash-bank-cards-stolen-from-trial-room-of-garment-showroom-101625768905936.html
08-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar aims to inoculate nearly 50K expectant mothers||Gautam Budh Nagar is moving to get around 50,000 pregnant women in the district vaccinated against Covid-19. The district will mobilise accredited social health activist (Asha) workers and auxillary nurse midwives (ANMs) to coordinate with families and spread awareness, and create special walk-in booths to encourage them to get vaccinated.Last week, the Centre had included pregnant women under the vaccination programme. GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said, “In any case, the vaccine is the best armour against fighting Covid-19. There is no known risk to the foetus as the studies have shown that pregnant women could even pass on their antibodies to the child. The health department officials have been asked to create awareness among the pregnant women about the efficacy of the vaccines. They have been asked to co-ordinate with the ANMs, Anganwadi and Asha workers to mobilise them for inoculation,” he said. Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said, “Out of the 50,000 pregnant women in the district, over 36,400 are pregnant for the first time. We’ve also planned special arrangements like walk-in vaccination and exclusive inoculation booths for them.” Doctors said it is important for pregnant women, especially those with comorbidities and those who go out for work, to get vaccinated. Dr Anjana Singh, head of obstetrics and gynaecology department in Fortis Hospital Noida, said that according to the ministry of health and family welfare and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), there is no study that mentions that pregnant women should not be vaccinated. “As per the government’s fact sheet, the Covid-19 vaccines are safe. Vaccination should be taken during the second trimester because by then the baby’s organs have also developed and it is the safe time to get vaccinated. However, it should be done after consultations with gynaecologists,” she said. According to the Co-WIN portal, till Thursday as many as 1,304,427 doses of vaccines have been administered in GB Nagar district, in which 1,122,680 people have taken their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-aims-to-inoculate-nearly-50k-expectant-mothers-101625768846360.html
08-07-2021||Noida||Vaccinated? Get discounts at eateries, gyms in Noida||Noida: Hit hard by the partial corona curfew, many in the hospitality and fitness sectors in Gautam Budh Nagar are offering discounts on bills at their establishments to those who are vaccinated against Covid-19, in a bid to drive up sales as well as to encourage more and more people to get their shots. The partial corona curfew was imposed from the night of April 30 in the district in view of rising Covid cases. While restaurants and eateries reopened on June 21, gyms reopened on July 5 after relaxations announced by the state government. At the Gardens Galleria mall in Sector 38A, pubs Time Machine and Duty Free Courtyard are offering a 50% discount to customers who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.“Most of the people coming to the pub are already vaccinated so when we released the offer a week ago, almost all of our customers were able to avail of the discount. All our staff is vaccinated as well which helps us ensure a safe environment for all,” said Sahil Joshi, general manager at Time Machine.Varun Puri, founder and director at Duty Free Courtyard, said the response after releasing the offer has boosted footfall. “We have been overwhelmed with the response from customers after releasing the offer. We had posted information on our social media page and saw that people tagged their friends online and asked them to get vaccinated so that they can get a discount. Footfall to the pub has also increased, as a result,” said Puri who is offering the same discount at his restaurant Imly located at DLF Mall of India, Sector 18.Restaurants like Punjab Grill in Sector 104, Soho Kitchen & Co in Sector 37 and 3Bros Kitchen in Sector 63 are also offering similar discounts. “We launched the offer from July 1 and people were excited to come to the restaurant. We hope this helps with business as well,” said Prayag Chaudhary, owner at SOHO Kitchen & Co.Ashish Tripathi from 3Bros Kitchen said the discounts have also led to conversations regarding vaccinations. “Since we started the offers, many people came up to us asking whether it is safe to get vaccinated and asked about the process as well. We are happy that the initiative is helping motivate people to get jabs,” he said.Varun Khera, president of the National Restaurant Association of India (Noida chapter), said such offers will help revive the hospitality industry.“With the scare of a third wave, vaccination seems like the only key to help revive the hospitality industry in Gautam Budh Nagar. Whether it is vaccination of 100% staff at restaurants or giving incentives to customers who have got their shots, all efforts are being made to ensure a safe environment as well as return things to normal,” said Khera, who is also offering discounts for vaccinated customers at two of his restaurants – Desi Vibes and Kaffiaa – in Sector 18.Meanwhile, at gyms too, discounts are being offered for vaccinated clients who are renewing their old memberships or getting new ones. “At least 50 gyms in Gautam Budh Nagar are offering a 10-15% discount for those who are vaccinated with at least the first dose and a 15-20% discount for those who have got their second dose,” said Chirag Sethi, general secretary of Uttar Pradesh Fitness Centres and Gyms, who also runs at Anytime Fitness branches in Sector 48 and 108, which are also offering discounts. Dr NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association, Noida chapter, lauded the initiative which he said will not only motivate people to get the shots but will also ensure better business for the hospitality sector.“Giving incentives to those who are vaccinated is a step in the right direction that will also ensure a safe environment for all. I suggest more and more establishments follow this model,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccinated-get-discounts-at-eateries-gyms-in-noida-101625768845793.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Why did Pune Police not approach special judge, Bombay HC asks state||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state as to why the Pune Police approached additional sessions judge KD Vadane instead of special judges for cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case filed against Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bhardwaj. This comes after Bhardwaj’s lawyers moved the court against the 90-day extension order passed by judge Vadane for her detention and filing of charge sheet. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), however, refuted Bhardwaj’s claims and held the process legal and proper. Additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh argued that sessions judge Vadane was competent as special judges under the prescribed act were no different from sessions judges. He further said that as speedy disposal was required in sensitive matters pertaining to national security, the judge was competent to adjudicate on the Pune Police application. The HC, after verifying the Right to Information (RTI) papers submitted by Bharadwaj, asked the state government to explain as to why the Pune Police approached the said judge rather than the designated special judges who were available to decide scheduled offences under the UAPA and posted further hearing to July 15. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the default bail application of Bharadwaj, confirmed that the information provided in the application regarding incompetence of the judge who passed the extension order matched with the records in the HC registry. In an earlier hearing, advocate Yug Choudhry for Bharadwaj had submitted that judge Vadane, who had signed the orders of extension and authorised the charge sheet in 2018 and 2019, had wrongly claimed to be a special judge though he was not. Choudhry had relied upon the information provided by the HC registry on the appointment of sessions judges wherein it was stated that Vadane was not a special judge. Choudhry had argued that as per the provisions of the NIA Act, only special judges could preside and hear cases under the NIA and UAPA, and hence the orders passed by Vadane were not valid, making the detention of Bharadwaj and eight others illegal. On Thursday, Choudhry further submitted that though there were other NIA judges at the sessions court in Pune, the Pune Police had placed the matter before judge Vadane. He added that since Bharadwaj and others had been charged under the UAPA, a sessions judge could have taken cognisance of the case only if there were specific instructions from the principal district judge (PDJ). The bench then sought to know from chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai, for the state, to show if there existed such an order. “Show us any document through which PDJ gave powers to Vadane to hear the matter,” the bench said. The bench said there were documents to show that while the Pune Police took the case and the charge sheet before Judge Vadane, designated special judges were officiating in special courts in Pune at the time. The bench also asked ASG Singh, for NIA, to respond to Chaudhry’s claims. Pai then sought time and said she would respond after taking instructions from relevant authorities. ASG Singh, however, refuted the submissions of Chaudhry that only a special judge could have taken cognisance of the case and said that offences under UAPA were serious and hence, there was focus on early disposal. “The purpose for this Act (UAPA) is to punish the offender. There has to be expeditious and early disposal of cases. Nothing is above national security,” said Singh. He added that special judges were not different from sessions judges as they were only appointed as a special judge. So, the claim that judge Vadane was not competent was not valid. The HC adjourned further hearing on the plea to July 15. It will also be hearing similar pleas filed by other co-accused in Elgar Parishad case Arun Ferreira, Anand Teltumbde and Sudhir Dhawale, which has been filed through advocate R Sathyanarayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-why-did-pune-police-not-approach-special-judge-bombay-hc-asks-state-101625768726469.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||No late fee for UG entrance exam aspirants: Maharashtra CET cell||Considering complaints of network connectivity issues and travel restrictions in certain districts of the state, the Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) cell has dropped late fee charges for those who are yet to complete registration for the upcoming entrance exams. Students seeking admission in undergraduate (UG) professional courses including engineering/technology, pharmacy and agricultural education had time till Thursday to complete the registration process, which has now been extended till July 15.“The registration window was supposed to be open till July 15, but starting tomorrow (July 9), there would have been a late fee charged for every application. Since some students mentioned they have not managed to get the necessary documents attested either due to strict lockdown in their districts or other problems, we are waiving the late fee till July 15,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. He clarified that there will be no further extension given on this deadline.Many students had approached the state CET cell in the past one week seeking an extension of the registration deadline. “Since the CET cell has not yet clarified eligibility for the entrance exam, more students are opting for registrations, causing the website to the crash regularly. We have been facing network trouble in our locality, so we needed an extension,” said Karan Rahane, a Palghar resident.While the state education department only recently gave clarity on Class 12 results, CET cell started registrations for entrance exams on June 8.“Maharashtra CET entrance exams for admission to professional courses including engineering/technology, pharmacy and agricultural education for the 2021-22 academic year will be held across various centres in Mumbai and across Maharashtra,” stated the circular signed by CET cell commissioner CD Joshi. “The online registration schedule and information brochure for the examination has been made available on the official website, https://mhtcet2021.mahacet.org. Payment for the exams will only be accepted in the online mode,” the circular added.Last month, both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced their decision to scrap their respective Class 12 exams keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic and instead promote students based on a 30:30:40 formula, giving 30% weightage each to Class 10 and 11 results and 40% weightage to students’ performance in Class 12. This same formula has now been implemented by the Maharashtra state board and the results are expected by month-end.“We are yet to finalise the dates for various exams and the work is on. For the time being, registrations have commenced to give ample time to applicants to complete the first step of the admissions process,” said an official from the state CET cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-late-fee-for-ug-entrance-exam-aspirants-maharashtra-cet-cell-101625768725846.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Monsoon to intensify over weekend in Mumbai||After a prolonged dry spell, the city received 17mm rain over nine hours on Thursday, the highest in the past 10 days. With the southwest monsoon growing stronger over the Arabian Sea and with a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal expected to form around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity is likely over both the west and east coasts in the next five days, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall” is expected till at least July 12 over the Konkan coast, indicating that more than 75% of monitoring stations are expected to receive some measure of rain with high changes of thundershowers and occasional intense spells of heavy rain in isolated locations. Westerly winds of speeds between 10 and 15 knots, gusting to 20 knots, have been forecast.“The synoptic situation is once again favourable for rains, and we will see a revival of monsoon over the next week. Mumbai has been placed under a yellow category storm warning alert on Friday, Sunday and Monday. There may be waterlogging in some areas. Till Tuesday, Mumbai may get up to 300mm of rain,” said a spokesperson with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. An independent forecaster predicted that Mumbai may get between 250mm to 400mm of rain by Tuesday, with 250mm being a “conservative estimate”.Normal to above normal rainfall is expected till around July 18, after at least a week of “large deficient” rains, as per rainfall data available on IMD’s website. From July 1 to July 7, Mumbai received only 25.7mm of rain, which marks a negative 88% departure from the seasonal normal of 221.8mm.Rainfall will be accompanied by a dip in temperature. While daytime maximum temperature stood at 31.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, a consistent decline is predicted touching 29 degrees Celsius on July 14. The minimum temperature on Thursday stood at 26.6 degrees Celsius and will settle at around 24 degrees Celsius on July 14, as per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the automatic weather station in Santacruz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-to-intensify-over-weekend-in-mumbai-101625768667808.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Cabinet reshuffle: MVA allies close ranks; Shiv Sena vs BJP to intensify||The uncertainty in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition seems to be over at least for now, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) giving a clear signal to the Shiv Sena, with the elevation of former chief minister Narayan Rane as a Union minister. Rane, a bitter critic of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, is expected to play a crucial role as the BJP launches an offensive against the Sena, which, according to the BJP, betrayed the mandate to form a government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. In fact, the induction of four ministers from Maharashtra in the union cabinet is expected to have several effects on state politics. The selection of ministers has shown that former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis continues to call the shots in Maharashtra BJP, although there have been murmurs of protests against “outsiders” being preferred for ministerial berths at the central government instead of party loyalists – three of the four new ministers from Maharashtra joined the BJP from the Congress or NCP in the past few years. The development will help the ruling MVA partners keep their internal differences aside. For several weeks, speculations were rife that the BJP and Sena would bury the hatchet and reunite to form a government in the state. It began on June 8 when Thackeray called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the Centre’s intervention to restore the reservation given to Marathas. After the formal meeting, Modi had a one-on-one informal meeting with Thackeray. With both the BJP and Sena keeping quiet on what was discussed in the Thackeray-Modi meeting, there were speculations that the BJP had given an offer to the Sena chief to return to the NDA and form the government with the BJP in the state. Following the June 8 meeting, the Sena softened its criticism of the BJP-led government at the Centre. BJP’s hardest critic Sanjay Raut even had a closed-door meeting with BJP leader Ashish Shelar. The developments assumed significance as they took place in the background of the Congress-Shiv Sena tussle as the latter launched a campaign to improve its organisational strength. There were also speculations that the makeover of union cabinet was delayed as the BJP wanted to accommodate the Sena in the cabinet reshuffle. However, Rane’s selection as a cabinet minister has cleared the air. Sena’s ruling alliance partners are now convinced there is unlikely to be a BJP-Sena reunion in the near future. In fact, a day before Rane was inducted in the union cabinet, Thackeray while speaking to the media ruled out a BJP-Sena reunion. “The BJP was trying to lure Sena back in the NDA as the party wants its government in a crucial state like Maharashtra. Rane’s induction is a signal that the BJP will go hammer and tongs against the Sena,” said a senior Congress minister. The first step would obviously be the elections to most of the civic bodies, including Mumbai and district councils, to be held in six to eight months. “We would not be fighting these polls, which are considered mini assembly elections, together, but there would be a mutual understanding with the aim of gaining an edge over the common enemy, the BJP. It will help us in fight against the BJP rather than fighting among ourselves. The BJP’s aggressive stand against the Sena will compel all three allies to ensure that the MVA remains at the top in local bodies,” said a Shiv Sena minister who is part of the team that is drawing Sena strategy for the elections. “The bonhomie between the Sena and Congress-NCP, which was seen initially but was missing for the past few months, is now visible again. The three parties closed the ranks and ensured that they dominate the two-day monsoon session that was held last week. The allies were on the same page when it was decided to suspend 12 BJP MLAs for misbehaviour with the presiding officer of the assembly. It not only took the BJP by surprise, but has also affected its floor strength significantly,” he added. Meanwhile, Thackeray charged up party leaders at district level by directing them to reach out to the people in a bid to prepare for the forthcoming local body elections. He also advised them to increase the party’s base across the state. On Thursday, Shiv Sena sought to downplay Rane’s induction. Raut has said that Rane’s induction cannot be linked with his rivalry with the Sena. “The ministers are not inducted in the cabinet to target any political rival, they are meant to serve the nation,” he said. Raut also taunted Rane that the latter got a “micro” (read insignificant) portfolio though he is former chief minister of Maharashtra. Narayan Rane, who assumed charge as the MSME minister on Thursday, took a dig at Thackeray and said the latter is not big hearted to congratulate him. He also said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar congratulated him for the success in his ministry. Devendra Fadnavis said on Thursday, “Rane has been inducted into the cabinet on the basis of his calibre and nothing else.” Referring to induction of Rane, Kapil Patil and Bharati Pawar all of whom crossed over to the BJP from Congress or NCP in past few years, Raut remarked: “Modi should thank us (three ruling parties in Maharashtra) for providing union cabinet ‘human resource’.” A BJP leader said, “Leaders are feeling left out. At the same time, leadership has opened the doors for leaders from other parties ahead of the crucial local body elections. The top leadership is more concerned about strengthening its base across the state.” Political analyst Pratap Asbe said there could be resentment within the BJP, but nobody will dare to speak against the leadership. “The BJP’s internal set-up is such that no leader can dare to speak against the leadership as they are aware of the repercussions.” “Fadnavis had inducted Bharati Pawar in the party and had recommended Karad for Rajya Sabha. Though he was not very keen on Rane’s induction in the party three years ago, he realised that the Konkan leader can be useful in tackling the Sena. Fadnavis was instrumental in Rane’s elevation as a union minister. There is no doubt that Fadnavis’s is the last word in the party, although it has led to resentment among senior leaders,” said a BJP functionary. According to leaders, prominent OBC face Pankaja Munde is unhappy over selection of Bhagwat Karad as a minister instead of her sister and BJP MP from Beed, Pritam Munde. Munde does not share cordial relations with Fadnavis. A group of party workers supporting her gathered outside her Mumbai residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cabinet-reshuffle-mva-allies-close-ranks-shiv-sena-vs-bjp-to-intensify-101625768666493.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police file FIR, send notice to GitHub after Muslim women ‘put up for sale’ on app||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it has registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified persons, four days after pictures of several Muslim women were uploaded without their consent on an app called “Sulli Deals” to imply that these women were “up for sale”. ‘Sulli’ or ‘Sulla’ is a derogatory slang used to refer to Muslims.The police have also sent a notice to source code depository platform GitHub, using which these images were uploaded, asking it to share “relevant details”. Police are awaiting a reply from Github to ascertain the exact number of women who were subjected to the sexual harassment, which came to fore only after a few of the targeted women took to social media with screenshots to highlight the harassment. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said a case of sexual harassment under Indian Penal Code’s Section 354-A was registered on Wednesday following a complaint received on National Cybercrime Reporting Portal regarding “Sulli Deals Mobile Application”. “The case has been registered by the cyber crime unit (CyPAD) and investigation has been taken up. We have also sent notices to GitHub for sharing relevant details,” Biswal said. Police said the images were uploaded on the app on July 4 and included those of several known journalists and activists in India and abroad. The app was hosted by GitHub, a provider of Internet hosting. The app was taken down following widespread criticism on social media and after a few women, whose images were uploaded, sought police action. One of them used Twitter to update that she has filed a case in this regard in Noida. When contacted for a statement, a GitHub spokesperson said, “GitHub has longstanding policies against content and conduct involving harassment, discrimination, and inciting violence. We suspended user accounts following the investigation of reports of such activity, all of which violate our policies.” A senior CyPAD officer, who asked not to be named, said they have sought details from GitHub to know who created the mobile app and used the platform to upload the objectionable content. “We also want to know from where that app was developed and who all were involved in its creation.Our investigation will proceed further, once we get the details from GitHub,” the officer said. On Wednesday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the Delhi Police, seeking an action taken report in the matter by July 12. “Many women had to leave social media platforms after their images got circulated. This is a very serious matter constituting cyber crime. We have asked the cyber crime cell of the Delhi Police to provide us with relevant information about the same,” DCW chief Swati Maliwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-file-fir-send-notice-to-github-after-muslim-women-put-up-for-sale-on-app-101625768546445.html
08-07-2021||Other||Taxi runs into vegetable vendors at Daryaganj, one dead||New Delhi: A 55-year-old man was killed, and another person seriously injured after a taxi, which was reportedly speeding, hit and dragged them along the road for nearly 30 metres in central Delhi’s Daryaganj in the early hours of Thursday. Residents of the area caught the taxi driver at the spot and handed him to the police, who arrested and booked him for rash and negligent driving causing death and injuries.A medical examination confirmed that the driver was not drunk when the incident took place, the officer added.The dead man was identified as Kallu, a resident of Seemapuri in northeast Delhi, and the injured man as 68-year-old Kanta Bhai, who lives with his family in Jahangirpuri. Both sold vegetables on the pavement outside the Daryaganj vegetable market for several years, a police officer aware of the matter said.The two men were arranging vegetables along the footpath around 3.45am on Thursday when the vehicle, which came from the Delhi Gate side, hit them.“The driver, Sachin, (25) told us that he was looking at the map on his mobile phone which was on his lap while he drove. He said that because he was distracted, he did not see the men and hit them with his vehicle. Three passengers were seated in the cab when the incident took place,” said the police officer, who asked not to be named.Kallu was taken to the nearby Lok Nayak hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Kanta Bhai was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taxi-runs-into-vegetable-vendors-at-daryaganj-one-dead-101625768485882.html
08-07-2021||Other||Delhi’s driving test tracks set for slew of reforms||The Delhi state transport department is rolling out a plan aimed at improving services at its automated driving test tracks by introducing an electronic queue management system, increasing operation timings, allowing people to take driving tests on all days of the week, and reducing human intervention in the testing process.The department floated a tender on Thursday to outsource the operation and maintenance of all ADTTs in the city, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said. “The idea is to offer a comfortable experience to applicants who visit our regional transport offices (RTOs) to give driving tests for a permanent driving licence (DL),” said Gahlot. “To give an example, the experience will be similar to what one witnesses during visa application for countries like the UK or Japan. Currently, the entire driving test system is manned by our own government officials, which leads to a lag in service delivery as the demand is high and the manpower scarce. So, outsourcing the job will help address all these issues, while simultaneously ensuring that the quality of the service offered to customers is premium,” said the state transport minister.Three years after the Delhi government introduced the city’s first ADTT in 2018, such tracks are operational in 10 locations.The tender document, a copy of which was seen by HT, states that the operation hours during which driving tests will have to be conducted will be from 8am to 8pm -- a 12-hour window against the seven-hour window, from 9am-4pm, currently in place for an applicant to take the driving test. It also says that driving tests will be conducted on all days of the week, instead of six days. The system is likely to be put in place in three months, once the tender process is complete, officials said. Ashish Kundra, Delhi’s transport commissioner, said that some of the operational tracks conduct tests for two-wheelers and four-wheelers sequentially. He said that, under the new system, the number of tests conducted in a single day will also increase as multiple applicants will be assessed parallelly on different tracks in a single centre. “Our automated test tracks have already reduced human intervention and the subsequent requirement of manpower. The test results are now given immediately without any scope of manipulation. But the existing operational hours and days limit the number of people who can take the test in a day. The idea is to further remove manual intervention and create a system where the transport department only has to play a supervisory role. Once appointed, the company will have to supply trained manpower for managing the driving licence test services and maintenance of hardware and equipment at the sites,” said Kundra. He said special focus will also be given to ensure people do not have to wait long at the centre for the test. “The applicants of DL skill tests will file online applications. The facilitation/DL test executives (two at each centre), will receive the applicants and will verify the documents as per the Department’s instructions; The applicants... will be taken to the test site in batches on their turn. They will be escorted to the test site by the site manager. The applicants will be entertained using the EQMS system and no candidate will need to stand in a queue. The DL test engineer (one at each site) will ensure that the tests are taken by automated software and he will be responsible to hand over the computerised results to the MLO/MVI. He will also ensure the compliance of other provisions of CMVR i.e. seat belt, rear view mirror etc,” said the tender document.The project will first be rolled out from ADTTs at Loni road, Rohini, Shakur Basti, Janakpuri, Sarai Kale Khan and Raja Garden. For other sites, the 12-hour shift will be decided by the transport department based on the volume of applications.Reshma Juneja (24), a consultant, said her recent experience of giving the driving test at the automated track in Mayur Vihar Phase 1 was good. “But I failed the test. I think practice is important because now in Delhi driving test is not like old times when the government official would pass your test even if you’ve performed miserably. It’s all sensor based now. I had to wait quite a bit for my turn to come, I hope with the new system that you’re taking about, this improves,” she said. Ravindra Kumar, senior principal scientist, transportation planning and environment division, CRRI said the government should also bring in other driver’s learning infrastructure to become holistic in its approach. “Simulators are important. The government should also bring in simulators in some of its centres to prep the applicants. It should also empanel a set of authorised driving schools and create a set of guidelines which need to be followed by such institutions as then it will help ensure all driving and traffic rules are imparted correctly and inculcated in all the learner’s,” he said. Delhi currently has 11 ADTTs, and another track being constructed in Hari Nagar will be ready by next January. The transport department is in talks with Maruti, which owns two automated tracks, and Ashok Leyland, which owns one, to use their centres for driving licence tests. The first automated driving test track was built at Sarai Kale Khan in February 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-driving-test-tracks-set-for-slew-of-reforms-101625768426497.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||DERC left with only one member as chief retires on July 4||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) is left with only a single member with its chairperson justice (retd.) SS Chauhan retiring on July 4, who, before demitting office, wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal urging him to extend the tenure of the DERC chief till he/she attains the age of 67 years or for a term of five years, whichever comes earlier. The DERC, which is a three-member commission comprising chairperson and two members, is currently left with lone member, AK Ambasht. The second member, AK Singhal, retired in January this year. The commission being left with a single member assumes significance as the power regulator is yet to announce the annual power tariff for 2021-22. “A meeting of the selection committee to appoint a new DERC chief was held on June 28, but there has been no progress since then,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity. As reported by Hindustan Times on on June 23, the schedule for the annual revision of electricity tariff in Delhi has been delayed by nearly three months. Similarly, the process of selecting a new chairperson for the DERC has also been delayed. Chauhan had joined the commission on July 5, 2018. Under the Electricity Act, 2003, chairman and members of the commission shall hold office for a term of five years or till the age of 65 years, “whichever is earlier”. He turned 65 on July 4. One June 29, Chauhan wrote to the L-G seeking an extension of his tenure till he attains the age of 67. He mentioned several court orders in his letter to back the demand. Chauhan said on Thursday he received no response from the L-G and, hence, had to retire from his position. “I joined this commission on July 5, 2018, and I have completed only three years and there cannot be any difference between a commission and a tribunal where the high court judge is appointed after his retirement. The only question is whether the age of retirement of the high court judge and chairman of the commission should be 67 years as ruled by the Supreme Court in the Madras bar association case… The commission is headed by me and would be without a chairman on July 4, 2021, when I demit office. In order to balance the public interest of the office and taking into consideration the welfare of electricity consumers, it would be proper for your honour to consider the extension of my appointment in the same terms as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Madras bar association (supra). It is therefore prayed that my appointment may also be extended to the age of 67 years or till the new incumbent joins. I will be 65 years of age on 4 July, 2021,” read Chauhan’s letter to Baijal. The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dercleft-with-only-one-member-as-chief-retires-on-july-4-101625768425880.html
08-07-2021||Other||BSES issues advisory ahead of monsoon onset||With monsoon likely to arrive in Delhi by July 10, the distribution companies (discoms) under BSES on Thursday issued an advisory urging people to follow simple safety guidelines and maintain distance from electricity infrastructure. Explaining its monsoon plan, a spokesperson of Reliance Infrastructure led-BSES discoms said, “We have geared up to ensure reliable power supply to our 4.5 million consumers while taking all safety measures required during the rainy season. Consumers can play a very important role in ensuring an incident-free monsoon by following simple safety guidelines.”To ensure that over 4.5 million consumers and 1.8 crore residents get uninterrupted power supply, Reliance Infrastructure led BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) are undertaking active measures to minimise moisture accumulation in the grids and panels.“The height of the foundation (base) of transformers in low-lying areas has been increased to safe levels. Proper fencing around all plinth and pole mounted transformers has been done. Due to water-logging, chances of electricity related mishaps are high during monsoon. Simple precautions will help the consumers stay safe. People, especially children, should stay away from electrical installations like electricity poles, sub-stations, transformers, streetlights etc,” said the spokesperson. He added the main switch should be turned off in case of water logging and earth leakage circuit breaker should be installed. Consumers should keep a ‘tester’ at their homes to check leakage in case of wet power switches, said the spokesperson adding people should also prune twigs and plants close to electricity lines.Helpline numbers 19123, 399 99 707 ( south & west Delhi) and 19122, 399 99 808 (east & central Delhi) areas have been set up for consumers to report broken cables, poles or exposed wiring, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bses-issues-advisory-ahead-of-monsoon-onset-101625768367676.html
08-07-2021||Other||DJB vice-chief Raghav Chadha inspects reservoirs amid water supply complaints||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha inspected reservoirs in central and west Delhi on Thursday and directed officials to ensure that the city receives uninterrupted water supply amid complaints of shortage from several parts of the city. “Inspected several water reservoirs of central and west Delhi with the Delhi Jal Board officials at 4am this morning to check water supply. Given strict instructions to officials to maintain pre-determined water levels at each such reservoir so that water supply is regular and uninterrupted,” tweeted Chadha. Over the last two weeks, several parts of the national capital have been facing acute water shortage with daytime temperatures remaining above the 40 degrees mark, and monsoon being delayed inordinately. Since June 20, parts of Rohini, Dwarka, Mayur Vihar phase-one and two, Patel Nagar, Prem Nagar, Baljit Nagar, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, South Extension and Greater Kailash, have either faced irregular water supply or received less than the prescribed amount because of high pollution in the raw water, and low water levels at the water treatment plants.The Delhi Jal Board supplies 935 MGD (million gallons per day) water to the city as against a total demand of around 1,200 MGD during summer. Last week too, Chadha chaired a high-level meeting with senior DJB officials to chalk out a plan for the equitable distribution of water, tackle issues of supply shortage and water contamination and set up an emergency response team to minimise water-related complaints. The senior Aam Aadmi Party leader also instructed officials to do a constituency-wise analysis of the amount of water received by DJB installations, at regular intervals to ascertain the gap between demand and supply. Many residents and resident welfare associations (RWA) complained about irregular and contaminated water supply being supplied by the DJB. Manoj Singh, a resident of Aya Nagar, said his locality has been receiving water supply only once a day--that too for 30 minutes for the last 15 days. “We used to get water supply from the DJB in the morning and in the evening. These days, they have reduced it to only once a day and that too for only half-an-hour, compared to the one-hour supply earlier. We are a family of six, how do they expect us to make do with limited quantity of water and that too in this weather?,” asked Singh. Arun Kumar, a resident of Badarpur, said despite repeated complaints to local DJB officials, the water supply in his street has not been regularised. “We have not got water for the last one week, and now we are surviving on drinking water cans. The local DJB staff has also stopped answering our calls,” Kumar alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/djb-vice-chief-raghav-chadha-inspects-reservoirs-amid-water-supply-complaints-101625768367082.html
08-07-2021||Other||Illegal in central Delhi busted||An illegal telephone exchange through which international voice calls were converted into local calls by surpassing the legitimate gateways was busted in central Delhi’s Ansari Road near Daryaganj, said police on Thursday adding that the illegal activity caused revenue loss to the government and posed a threat to national security. The Delhi Police, along with officials of the telecom department, conducted raids at Ansari Road on Tuesday. However, nobody was arrested from the premises where the illegal telephone exchange was operating, said police. A police officer, who did not want to be named, said several items used for running the illegal telephone exchange, such as routers, servers, an SIP trunk that is the virtual version of an analog phone line, and fake documents and IDs, were recovered. The people who were running the illegal telephone exchange have been identified and raids are being conducted in Delhi and adjoining states to nab them.“Further details regarding the exact purpose of setting up the illegal telephone exchange will be known when we arrest the people who were operating it,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-in-central-delhi-busted-101625768365905.html
08-07-2021||Other||DU yet to verify caste certificates submitted by aspirants in 2020||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) is yet to verify caste certificates submitted by students last year even as it was set to begin the admission process for the current session, officials privy to the matter said.After the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year, DU shifted to online admissions. Students who sought admission under the SC/ST and OBC quota submitted an online copy of their reservation certificate on DU’s admission portal. The university announced that it will perform a “forensic verification” of documents once students join the campus and submit the original copies with their respective colleges. However, due to the pandemic, in-person classes are yet to begin. Last year, around 70,000 students applied for seats under the OBC quota, 42,000 in SC quota, 8,600 in the ST category, and 10,173 sought admission under the EWS category. According to the reservation policy of India, 50% of the total seats are reserved for OBCs (27%), SCs (15%), and STs (7.5%) in government educational institutions and government jobs. Besides, the Centre has introduced a quota for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) this year as well.DU colleges forensically check certificates submitted by students at the time of admission, and any forgery leads to cancellation of admission. Hansraj Suman, the chairperson of the forum of academics for social justice and a former academic council member, said, “We have raised the demand of verification of reservation certificates with the university vice-chancellor and Dean of Colleges because in the past we have seen admissions based on fake caste certificates. In the last several years, fake caste certificates of SC, ST, and OBC quotas were found in colleges. What if the same has happened this year as well?”Explaining the process in the previous years, Suman said, “At the time of admission college first verifies the certificates on its own with the help of experts. It then sends the certificates to the authorities who had issued the certificates to verify them. After that, they confirm the admission of students. Nothing like that happened last year due to the pandemic. This can lead to chaos later.”DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani confirmed that the verification has not been done so far. “Even the government offices that could have verified the certificates remained closed for a long time due to Covid-19,” he said.Principals of several colleges said that they will have to cancel the admission of students, if their documents are found to be fake at any point in time. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “We have accepted the self-attested copies of documents of students. In case, they are found to be fake at any point of time, we will have no option but to cancel the admission of such students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-yet-to-verify-caste-certificates-submitted-by-aspirants-in-2020-101625768305788.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Farmhouse owner, two others held for beating teenager to death on suspicion of theft||Three men, including a father-son duo and the owner of a farmhouse, were arrested for allegedly assaulting and killing a 16-year-old boy in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera on Wednesday, on the suspicion that he and his two friends had entered the farmhouse with the intention of committing a theft, police said.The arrested men were identified as Prakrit Sandhu, 35-year-old owner of the farmhouse that is spread over four acres; Binod Thakur,62, and his son Rohit Thakur, 20. They were booked for murder after a case was registered at the Kapashera police station, deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said.DCP Singh said around 5pm on Wednesday, an e-rickshaw driver, Nawab Ansari, spotted a teenager’s body on a debris heap near the farmhouse in Samalkha near Kapashera and informed the police. A police team reached there and saw that there were laceration wounds on the teenager’s back and a cut mark on the lateral side of the hand. They were also dog bite marks on his body, the DCP said.“Through local inquiry, we identified the boy and met his family members who live in another farmhouse in Samalkha itself. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up,” he said.During the investigation, the police said it was learnt that around 11am on Wednesday, the teenager and his two others entered the farmhouse owned by Sandhu. The guard of the farmhouse thought that they had entered to commit a theft. He raised the alarm and caught the teenager, while his friends escaped. Sandhu was also present at the spot.“We learnt that Sandhu and the father-son duo assaulted the boy with sticks. The boy suffered injuries to his head as well. When he tried to flee, some dogs chased and bit him. He finally collapsed on the debris heap, around 60 metres from Sandhu’s farmhouse, and died,” said DCP Singh.Police said the alleged attackers fled the scene after the crime. The investigating team conducted searches and caught Sandhu and the other two attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmhouse-owner-two-others-held-for-beating-teenager-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-101625768248471.html
08-07-2021||Other||R-Day violence: 2 accused of attacking policemen get bail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to two men who allegedly attacked policemen during the violence that unfolded at the Red Fort during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day this year.Additional sessions judge Kamini Lau granted bail to accused Boota Singh and Maninder Singh on furnishing a personal bond to the tune of ₹50,000 with one local surety of like amount.On January 26, farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws clashed with police after the tractor rally planned by them diverted from the designated route and stormed into the Red Fort. They hoisted a religious flag and that of the farmers’ union on its domes and injured scores of policemen.According to police, Boota attacked police personnel and ransacked the Red Fort. Maninder brandished two swords on the ramparts of the monument and attacked policemen on duty. Granting relief, the judge said Maninder’s face is not clear in the photographs and videos relied upon by the prosecution in the case. In Boota’s case, the court said the videos and photographs only show his presence at Red Fort and that there is no material on record to show that the accused was involved in any kind of violence or was attacking the police. Lau also observed that the investigating officer is not sure as to whether the act of carrying a ‘talwar’ (sword) or ‘pharsa’ (battleaxe) by Sikhs and Nihangs is prohibited or that the presence of the accused at the Red Fort is a grave offence.The judge also relied upon the observations in the bail order passed by the Delhi High Court in the UAPA case filed against student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, and Asif Iqbal Tanha.“Delhi High Court observed that at a time when the society is polarized and fractured across various lines and ideology reaching a vanishing point, the Court will do all within its mandate to prevent the misuse of the law and alleviate the anxiety which has come to surround these individuals,” the judge noted.Additional public prosecutor Pankaj Bhatia, representing the police, told the court that the case is very sensitive in nature and that the accused should not be granted bail. Advocates Jaspreet Singh Rai and Jagdeep S Dhillon, representing the accused, told the court their clients were being falsely implicated in the case and had no role in the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-violence-2-accused-of-attacking-policemen-get-bail-101625768246442.html
08-07-2021||Other||Delhi: DDA finalising tenders for in-situ houses for 10,000 families living in slums||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is finalising the bids for six in-situ slum redevelopment housing projects for 10,000 families who live in these clusters. The in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters is part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), a flagship mission of the Union government implemented by the ministry of housing and urban affairs that ensures a pucca house to all eligible urban households by 2022. A senior DDA official said, “We have received the bids for five projects so far. We might have to re-tender for one of the projects. A decision will be taken in this regard soon. We are technicallly evaluating these bids, after which work will be awarded to the contractors.”The six projects have been planned in Rohini, Pitampura, Shalimar Bagh, Dilshad Garden, Pooth Kalan and Haiderpur, where 10 JJ clusters will be redeveloped. There are four clusters with over 4,000 households in Rohini’s Sectors 18,19 and 20. Similarly, flats will be constructed for 1,991 households in Haiderpur and 2,645 families in Dishad Garden respectively. Of the 675 slum clusters in Delhi, 499 are on central government land. Under the PMAY, DDA has to carry out in-situ redevelopment of 376 clusters which have come up on its land.The housing agency has completed surveying households, which started in 2019, in 23 slum clusters.Currently, the DDA has three in-situ redevelopment projects in west Delhi’s Katputhli Colony, Jailorwala Bagh in north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar and Kalkaji extension where a total of 5,990 flats are under construction. The official quoted above said the land owning agency plans to take up redevelopment of 16 slum clusters on a public private partnership (PPP) basis by the end of this year, just like the Katputhli Colony project---the first in-situ redevelopment project to be implemented on PPP mode. “Close to 30,000 flats will be constructed as part of these in-situ redevelopment projects. For the first time, DDA has taken up slum rehabilitation projects on such a large scale,” said the official.He added the Katputhli Colony redevelopment work, which was conceived in 2009 but the work started in March 2018, is likely to be completed by early next year. “The work got delayed due to the lockdown that was imposed following the outbreak of Covid-19,” said the official. DDA plans to hire private developers for the in-situ slum development projects, who will construct a multi-storey housing facility for slum dwellers (or beneficiaries identified through the survey), along with commercial spaces on the land where the slum exists. The commercial component will be used by the developer to recover the total cost of the project. The land will be leased to the developer, the period of which will be decided by the DDA.Earlier this year, the DDA had eased the redevelopment norms to allow developers to recover the cost of the project. “The in-situ projects have to be financially viable. For this, some norms were changed. The detailed project report of 10 projects is being finalised and we plan to float tenders for these projects as well,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-dda-finalising-tenders-for-in-situ-houses-for-10-000-families-living-in-slums-101625768247147.html
08-07-2021||Other||Tweaking assessment policy for Class 10 will have disastrous consequences, says CBSE||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday told the Delhi high court that any direction to the board for tweaking its policy of evaluation or publication of results will hamper its credibility, besides being disadvantageous to the students as well.In an affidavit filed before the court, the central board defended its assessment scheme devised for Class 10 students against a petition by an NGO which alleged that aspects of the evaluation plan were unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students. The Class 10 board exams were cancelled on April 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board announced an assessment scheme for the students on May 1. However, several teachers and students called the policies flawed, saying that they were unfair to meritorious high scorers whose marks will likely be standardised downwards based on the average performance of their school. An NGO, Justice For All, challenged the assessment in the high court. According to its petition, the moderation policy will be “an injustice to the students as the performance of school [is] not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student”.In its affidavit, the board said that in no manner any school will be able to take undue benefit from the policy. It said that if schools ignore the need to ensure that the average marks in each subject are within 2 marks of the subject-wise average reference year marks, according to the petitioner, it will damage the credibility and image of the CBSE across the globe resulting in disadvantage to the students in future.On May 1, the CBSE released a special marking scheme for Class 10 students stating that their results will be tabulated based on their performance in unit tests, half-yearly examination, and pre-board examination conducted by schools.The board, however, said each school should keep a check on inflation of marks and award marks in consonance with its best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years--2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20.The selected year will be the reference year for the schools, and subject-wise marks allotted by the schools for 2021 will be within a range of + or - 2 marks obtained by the school in the subject in the reference year. The board has also said that the overall average marks of the schools for 2021 should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by it in the reference year.However, a plea by an NGO Justice for All through advocates Khagesh Jha and Shikha Sharma Bagga challenged the policy saying that the moderating of the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student.”It has also said that moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average “was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time”, with no previous data of performance. The NGO has alleged that it can also lead to the manipulation of marks and exploitation, extortion of the students and parents.Defending its scheme through an affidavit, CBSE has said that the policy has been prepared by a team of experts from the schools, CBSE and it has been kept in mind that no school should be able to do injustice with the students and marks be awarded based on the learning of the student.“Also, the result should not be more than the best result of the past three results. Accordingly, while allowing moderation to the result committee, limits have been fixed. Responsibility has been given to the Result Committee for ensure just, fair and reliable result. Similar policy with extended liberty has been extended in Class-XII policy which has already been approved by the Supreme Court,” the CBSE said.It said that the petitioner had failed to show “any ex-facie perversity or illegality in the process adopted in the evaluation policy”.“…there is neither any illegality in the Evaluation Policy for Class X nor there is any arbitrariness in the Wednesbury sense or unreasonableness or illegality,” the board said.It also said that school management has no role to play in evaluation of students which has to be done by the Result Committee having external members as well adding that there are various checks in the Evaluation Policy for Class X in the form of verification of records by CBSE.It contended that the record would be sealed under the signature o f all members of the Result Committee, kept in the safe custody of the principal.“Further, the said Evaluation Policy provides that in cases where the school deliberately indulges in practices that are not consistent with fair, unbiased and objective practices of assessment, the answering respondent will take serious actions against such schools including action of disaffiliating the said school and/or imposing penalty against the school,” the reply read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tweaking-assessment-policy-for-class-10-will-have-disastrous-consequences-says-cbse-101625768245858.html
08-07-2021||Other||PMC begins search for site to dispose of garbage from 23 merged villages||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun the process of identifying sites to accommodate garbage disposal from the 23 villages merged into its limits.Ajit Deshmukh, head of the solid waste management department said, “Daily, 200 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in these villages. Main villages are Manjari, Wagholi, Shivane and Ambegaon, from where maximum garbage is generated.”Deshmukh added, “Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has instructed us to utilise the grampanchayat’s facility for a few days. PMC will identify new solutions for garbage management. We are trying to ensure garbage once collected, is not transported for disposal over long distances.”In the past three days, the solid waste department has been visiting different sites in the area to identify possible land masses that can be used as garbage dumps.Deshmukh said, “For now we will continue the grampachyat’s practice of collecting the garbage. We are checking the status of contractors which are appointed by the panchayats. In the next few weeks, new systems will be get introduced in these villages.”Sources from the PMC administration confirmed that the municipal commissioner has given instructions for new sites for garbage management in these areas to be identified. Once identified, permissions will be needed from agencies like the environment and forest departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-begins-search-for-site-to-dispose-of-garbage-from-23-merged-villages-101625768126478.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal inaugurates Delhi’s second genome sequencing lab at ILBS, Vasant Kunj||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated the Delhi government’s second laboratory to sequence genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, a day after he flagged off the first such facility at the Lok Nayak hospital.The laboratory at ILBS will be able to sequence over 300 samples a week and provide results in five to seven days, the government said in a press statement.“Yesterday [Wednesday], we launched a similar laboratory in Lok Nayak hospital, but this is going to be even more advanced,” Kejriwal said at the inauguration event.He further said, “Till now, we were dependent on NCDC [National Centre for Disease Control] and other central government facilities to sequence genomes. But now, we are independent and will be able to identify variants on time, take the right actions and strategise for any of the next waves (of Covid-19), if they break out.”“The facility will help sequence data of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to identify and screen new strains and variants with clinical significance, circulating in and around Delhi NCR [National Capital Region]. This facility can sequence nearly all 30,000 molecules of the coronavirus, in fact, the whole length of the virus. By doing this we can find out any mutations in any part of the virus, not merely the spike protein area.”Dr SK Sarin, ILBS director, said, “After the sequencing, we will be able to identify through the results whether the variant is new or an existing one. It’s not that every variant is extremely dangerous, but we need to be well informed about the new cases logged in Delhi and their variants.”“We already have more than 100,000 samples from previous months and upon the requests of the health minister or the chief minister, we can sequence a portion of them as well. We can sequence more than 300 samples in a week and their results can be made available within five to seven days,” said Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-inaugurates-delhi-s-second-genome-sequencing-lab-at-ilbs-vasant-kunj-101625768125839.html
08-07-2021||Other||Pune rural police collect ₹9.20 crore in fines from Covid violators in 12 mths||OUNE The Pune rural police claim to have recovered ₹9.20 crore in fines from 0.270 million violators of Covid norms over a period of 12 months, dating back to June 2020.Fines levied by the Lonavala police station were the highest, followed by Indapur and Baramati police stations.Citizens were fined for spitting in public, violating social distancing norms and not wearing face masks in public. Superintendent of police, Pune Rural, Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The fine collection took place across the district and it has been on ever since the lockdown was enforced, as per directions of the government.” Rural Police have currently made all tourist destinations in and around Pune, like Tiger Point, Khadakwasla dam, Bushy dam, Rajgad Fort, and Malshej, amoing others, out of bounds for visitors. Deshmukh said, “We are at level 3 and all of Maharashtra is in the same category. So according to directions of the government, we have banned entry of tourists to these spots. There is a huge floating population visiting hotels and resorts, but we are not stopping them. Areas where crowds can gather in large numbers are being made out of bounds for visitors.” The Lonavla city police have also cordoned the Naval Garden area on the way to Bhushi dam. Thousands of tourists had arrived in Lonavala last week, leading to a four-km traffic jam on the old Mumbai-Pune highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-rural-police-collect-rs-9-20-crore-in-fines-from-covid-violators-in-12-mths-101625768067834.html
08-07-2021||Other||Yerwada building to house all state govt offices in city soon||PUNE Pune is to have a second premises that will house state government offices soon.Pune city has a central building in front of the collector’s office where state government offices like agriculture, forest, prison, information, anti-corruption and tourism are located. Other prominent government offices are at the administrative building located in front of the Council hall.Now the government is planning to bring all offices under one roof in Yerwada.The Maharashtra government had given the nod for the project with an assurance of enough budgetary provisions.This second “central building” will be located in in Yerwada, land for which has already been earmarked. The public works department will construct the building.Sunil Tingre, MLA from Vadgaonsheri, said, “Recently Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar took a review. As Pawar also holds charge of the finance ministry, enough provision will be made to construct the building. Initially, five acres were earmarked and if needed, it can increase to 10 acres.”Pune has many state offices scattered all over the city. An official from the public works department speaking on condition of on anonymity said, “Many state properties are rented. If all these offices are at one place, it will be easier for both, administration and citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yerwada-building-to-house-all-state-govt-offices-in-city-soon-101625768067280.html
08-07-2021||Other||Sus residents believe PMC will be answer to drinking water problems||PUNE Residents of Sus village believe merging into the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits is a ray of hope for problems being faced with the supply of potable water.Sus villagers are dependent on water tankers for drinking water. Many walk till the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway to fill up drinking water in cans from a PMC tap there.It is a single tap near the subway where large queues form to get drinking water.“Water has been one of the major problem in Sus village, and putting pipelines and connecting it from the Baner central line is the proposal. It has been already sent to PMC, but will still take time. For now, we have told PMC, to provide water tanks in every home and to provide water tankers,” said Baburao Chandere, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), corporator from Balewadi. Chandere has been given additional charge by the NCP as “guardian” of Sus and Mahalunge villages.Sus village has a population of 11,000 according to the 2011 census. The village is accessible via Pashan, and many IT professionals opts to stay here.“The population of Sus, can be divided into three different sections - villagers, tenants and service class. Open lands are also always in demand. Developed societies manage to rent water tankers, but villagers are the ones facing a lot of trouble,” says Chandere.Bharat Barde, a tenant in the area said, “We buy water, but our landlord and his son queue up at the PMC tap (on the highway) to get drinking water.”Another resident, Vikas Phadtare said, “During the second partial lockdown, water cans were not easily available. Many times we have seen people quarrelling at the PMC tap near the highway.”An official of the PMC water department, on condition of anonymity, said, “Tenders of pipelines will be issued after everything is finalised. First step will be a survey of all the new villages and finding out the problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sus-residents-believe-pmc-will-be-answer-to-drinking-water-problems-101625768065831.html
08-07-2021||Other||Pune Zilla Parishad identifies 106 villages as possible Covid hotspots||PUNE The Pune Zilla Parishad has identified 106 villages in nine tehsils as a areas of concern regarding the Covid situation. According to officials, these villages have been reporting an upward trend in Covid cases. Of these 106 villages, 23 are in Bhor tehsil, 20 are in Junnar, 11 are in Baramati, 13 are in Khed and 11 are in Maval. The rest of the villages are in the Ambegaon, Mulashi, Purandar, and Velhe tehsils.“After a deep analysis of trends, we have identified these villages to have a high chance of rising Covid cases. We are going to strengthen the Covid prevention measures in these areas,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad. “To take stock of the situation, I will hold a meeting through video conference with all these Gram panchayats,” added Prasad. The higher Covid caseload in the rural parts has remained a matter of concern for the administration. For the duration of July 2-July 8, rural parts, including municipal councils, have reported an average positivity rate of 7.46%. On Thursday rural parts recorded 644 new cases. The number of active patients in the rural areas as of Thursday is 5,679.Rural parts are still under level 4 restrictions with stricter curbs than urban areas. A demand to lift the curbs has been made from business operators in rural areas as well. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that any decision regarding relaxations will be taken after the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-zilla-parishad-identifies-106-villages-as-possible-covid-hotspots-101625768007115.html
08-07-2021||Other||200 international students vaccinated at Savitribai Phule Pune University||PUNE At least 200 international students were vaccinated on Thursday at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The drive was an initiative by the International Centre at the SPPU, the Indian Council for Cultural relations, Pune, and World Organisation of Students and Youth. The students were given vaccine after booking an online slot.The vaccine was administered at the SPPU health centre. Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune, during the vaccination programme, said that every educational institution in Pune will carry out vaccination for students.Vijay Khare, director of the International Centre said that this vaccination drive will help students.“This vaccination drive will be an excellent example of how efficient India is. International students will be ambassadors to put forth the word of how well we are handling the Covid situation,” said Khare.Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU, said that this is a first-of-its-kind initiative.“We are aiming to inoculate foreign students to ensure their safety. This initiative is to ensure that we are able to give a safe environment to the students,” said Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/200-international-students-vaccinated-at-savitribai-phule-pune-university-101625768005818.html
08-07-2021||Other||1,250 fresh Covid positive cases and 12 deaths in Pune district||PUNE As per the district health officer, Pune district reported 1,250 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Also, 12 deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of these, 8 are from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), two from Pune rural and three from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), all in the last 24 hours.As per the District Health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 480,913 Covid cases and 8,636 deaths as of Thursday. PCMC has reported 259,969 cases so far, and a total of 4,301 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 319,705 total cases so far and 5,118 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,060,587 Covid cases. Of this, 1,032,457 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 18,055 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 10,075 active cases in Pune district. Of the total active cases of 10,075, currently 4,468 are in home quarantine and 5,607 are in institutional quarantine in the district.On Thursday, 19,557 samples were tested for Covid in the district. So far, a total of 5,736,671 samples have been tested till date. In PMC, 6,099 samples were tested, whereas in PCMC 4,865 samples were tested. Also, 8,593 samples were tested in Pune rural on Thursday as per the district health officer.The case fatality rate for Pune district on Thursday was one per cent, as per information provided by the district health officer. And the recovery rate for the district is 97.35%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1250-fresh-covid-positive-cases-and-12-deaths-in-pune-district-101625767885771.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board says several parts of city may face water shortage||The Delhi Jal Board on Thursday informed citizens that water supply will be affected in certain parts of Delhi on Friday morning and evening due to depletion of water level at the Wazirabad pond and also due to the reduction in the release of raw water by Haryana in the Yamuna. The DJB in a press release also said that the water supply will be affected until the level of water in the pond returns to normal.The release said that water production has been curtailed from water treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla.The DJB pointed out that areas like Civil Lines, Hindu Rao Hospital and adjoining areas of Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bagh, Pahar Ganj along with areas under north Delhi civic bodies will be affected.It also said that residents living in old and new Rajinder Nagar, East Patel Nagar and West Patel Nagar, Baljeet Naga, Prem Nagar, Inderpuri and adjoining areas of Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Tughlaqabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar along with Prahladpur will also face water shortage.Areas like Ramleela Ground, Delhi Gate, Subhash Park, Model Town, Gulabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Burari and adjoining areas along with parts of areas near Delhi Cantonment will also face water issues. The release said parts of South Delhi, Central Delhi, West Delhi and North Delhi will face water scarcity as well.“The public is advised to make judicious use of water and store sufficient water when water supply is available,” the DJB said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-says-several-parts-of-city-may-face-water-shortage-101625761695582.html
08-07-2021||Other||Decks cleared for demolition of houses in Khori village||Ahead of a full-fledged demolition drive in Khori village of Faridabad, officials on Thursday razed all buildings at the entry and exit points of the village to clear the passageways for vehicles to reach constructions inside the village.Officials said that more than 100 houses that were partly demolished in a drive on June 16 were completely razed and the ground levelled. A joint team of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), police and district administration initiated the process, while residents were asked to evacuate the village at the earliest ahead of the Supreme Court-ordered demolition drive.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that they have cleared the portions that were demolished in previous drives so that residents do not reconstruct their houses using the construction and demolition (C&D) debris. “We are set to start the drive and have given the last chance for residents to remove their valuables and belongings from their houses, as, once the drive starts, they might lose their valuables. We will not be responsible for any loss,” Yadav said. Four excavation-cum-loader machines, earthmovers and trucks, to ferry debris, were parked outside the village, while the police barricaded the entry and exit points. Visitors were not allowed to enter the village. The trucks made around 100 trips to shift the debris and clear the route, said officials. The drive started around 7.30am on Thursday, when most residents were at Jantar Mantar in Delhi to participate in a demonstration. On June 7, the Supreme Court had directed the MCF to “take all essential measures to remove encroachments on the subject forest land without any exception, not later than six weeks” from the date of the order. Since then, residents of Khori village have been protesting against the order, seeking rehabilitation.Yadav said that they will now start demolishing all unauthorised houses. “We have assigned the responsibilities to four duty magistrates, who, along with police, will carry out the drive. Also, we have constituted 10 teams, that will have officials from civic agencies and police,” he said. Yadav chaired a meeting on Thursday with the district administration officials, police and MCF to review the preparations for the drive. Residents said that despite pressure from the police and the administration, many do not have alternative places to go to.Fifty-two-year-old Kamla Devi, a resident, said, “We are ready to move to the rehabilitation site but where is it? Where will we take our children if we move out? Despite having so many resources, they (authorities) are unable to find a solution and are expecting us to fend for ourselves.” Some residents, however, insist that they will not leave their homes until they are accommodated elsewhere. “Heavy police deployment is seen every day. They come to us and threaten us to leave at the earliest. This has been happening for the past week. We are being treated as criminals, who are not allowed to move in or out, and are also being deprived of basic amenities,” said Hari Singh, a resident.Faridabad Police said their personnel are equipped with anti-riot equipment to handle any escalation of the law and order situation. Senior officials said they are expecting resistance and stone-pelting when the drive starts.OP Singh, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that the police personnel were not threatening residents and were only requesting them to vacate the village. “We are only following the apex court’s order and helping the civic agencies with the demolition drive. The teams are deployed for their safety and security, and are even helping them shift out,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decks-cleared-for-demolition-of-houses-in-khori-village-101625764232281.html
08-07-2021||Other||Khori residents: We are ready for the worst, will die here||Residents of Khori village in Faridabad on Thursday refused to move out of their houses, saying they will resist the demolition drive despite a lack of basic amenities, such as water and electricity.Ramesh Sharma, who constructed his house in 2006 and lives with his wife and two teenage sons, said that he shifted here from Madhya Pradesh and has cut all ties with his village of origin. “The four of us are ready to die here. No one can force us to leave the house. If anyone tries to force us, we will commit suicide. We are ready for the worst,” he said. On Thursday morning, residents gathered outside their residences around 9.30am in a protest against the demolition drive, even as structures at the village entrance were being razed to pave the way for the upcoming drive. Residents alleged that they have been facing hardships as the supply of drinking water has been stopped for almost a month. Six-year-old Mohit Kumar, who was born in Khori village and lives with his parents, said he has not had any water to drink in two days. “I requested the police uncle to give me one bottle of water but he scolded me,” he said. Residents of Khori were dependent on water tankers and water cans, but the supplies have been cut off. A few residents said they are smuggling water bottles through longer routes to evade the police.Seventy-year-old Shakunta Devi, who recently lost her husband and has two ailing sons, said that she could not take them for treatment as they would not be allowed back into the village. “The small shops in the area also do not have water bottles and the shopkeepers have been directed not to get drinking water so that we are forced leave the village,” she said. Twenty-five-year-old Priya Sharma, who is pregnant, said, “Officials should at least make some arrangements for pregnant women who are in dire need of medical care, food, and water.”Another resident said her two-year-old daughter has been sitting under a tree to protect herself from the heat. “We have no place to go to or money to buy food. We will sit inside our house even when they raze the houses,” said 35-year-old Shabnam Khatun, a single parent who has been living here for the past 15 years. Around 10,000 houses are built illegally on the Aravalli forest land in Khori village. The Supreme Court, on June 7, ordered the demolition of slums encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, holding that there cannot be a “compromise or concession on forest land.” The police refuted the allegations and said residents were allowed to move freely, and that there is a regular water supply through tankers. “We have deployed our teams and checkpoints have been set up at all entry points of the village, but only to ensure that outsiders do not spread violence or misinformation in the village,” said OP Singh, the commissioner of police. Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that water tankers are sent thrice a day and stationed outside the village for residents to get their fill. “Our aim is to get the village vacated and not to harass anyone. We are helping them in every possible way and also providing food to those who are in need. If anyone is facing any kind of water or ration issue, they can approach the district administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khori-residents-we-are-ready-for-the-worst-will-die-here-101625764231224.html
08-07-2021||Gurugram||KMP Expressway to have green belts on sides, flowers on central verge||Over the next year, the greening and plantation work of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway will be done by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in collaboration with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), officials said on Thursday. The project will be taken up in phases from Pachgaon Chowk to Pataudi Chowk and to begin the process, officials have prepared the area around Pachgaon Chowk for plantation of trees, shrubs and flowers. Apart from this year-long project, the two authorities will also work on the greening of central verges and sidewalks of all sector-dividing roads in the city. As per an agreement with Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), which owns the KMP Expressway, the GMDA will plant flowering shrubs on the slopes of the expressway, while trees would be planted on the right of way, wherever it is available and not being utilized by the irrigation department, and orbital rail corridors. The 10-kilometre stretch between Pachgaon Chowk and Pataudi Chowk will be lined with colourful but hardy shrubs and native trees on roadsides, said officials. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, who also holds the additional charge of additional CEO, GMDA, said that they have been working on a plan to increase tree cover in the district. “There is a long stretch of land available on both sides of KMP (expressway), which can be turned into thick green belts and the work on the plantation would be started as soon as the monsoon hits the city. The stretch from Pachgaon Chowk to Pataudi exit will be taken up in phases and both sides of the expressway, and central verge, would be turned into green belts,” said Yadav.Officials said that the project would later be extended to Dwarka Expressway, Southern Peripheral Road and city roads where there is a scope for the same.“The objective is to reduce the excess heat caused by the creation of heat islands. It has been observed that there is less pollution and heat along roads and areas where there is a high green cover. This work would be carried out in phases and GMDA would be responsible for the upkeep of this plantation,” Yadav said. Subash Yadav, the in-charge of the environment cell of GMDA, said that roundabouts on this stretch will have flowers, green shrubs and trees with a light footprint, wherever there is infrastructure underground. “We will plant native trees along the roadside on the external side and smaller trees on the inside. Slopes will have shrubs and flowers to support the road. The idea is to develop a model plantation that can be replicated along the entire KMP Expressway,” he said. He said that the same process would be undertaken for the internal sector roads of the city. “Pollution will be reduced and the area along the roads would be cooler,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kmp-expressway-to-have-green-belts-on-sides-flowers-on-central-verge-101625764228999.html
08-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG officials to be under constant vigilance of commissioner||Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be under the constant supervision of the commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who directed the civic body’s IT wing to link all cameras on the office premises to his office and residence. Ahuja issued the directions after finding absenteeism during a surprise check on Wednesday, officials said on Thursday.On Wednesday afternoon, Ahuja visited the planning branch, engineering branch, accounts branch, audit branch, IT branch, tax branch, GIS Lab, establishment branch and the sanitation branch at the MCG’s Sector 34 office.He directed the officers concerned to check the close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the MCG’s offices in sectors 34, 42 and Civil Lines offices and ensure they are operational and linked for his perusal.“There had been complaints of officials not being present at their seats, coming late to office, or being absent without any official reason. Hence, to curb such negligence and laxity, I have directed the IT wing to ensure all cameras are functioning and link them to my office and home,” said Ahuja. Ahuja said that he will also check if Covid-appropriate behaviours, such as social distancing and mask discipline, are followed.According to MCG officials, there are around a dozen cameras each at all three office premises.“The CCTV cameras in Sector 34 office were installed just before it became the MCG’s main office. A lot of workers have forgotten about their presence, while most new staff members are unaware of its existence. Hence, it is being firstly checked to verify if they are functional,” a senior MCG official said.The official cited above said that the process is expected to be completed by mid-August.Absenteeism among officials has been a major topic of discussion. After senior MCG officials missed the MCG’s finance and contract committee (F&CC) meetings, mayor Madhu Azad announced in September last year that show-cause notices will be issued to officials who don’t attend the F&CC meetings in the future.In April last year, 30 officials were served show-cause notices after it was found that officials of the establishment branch had stopped coming to the office since a nationwide lockdown was announced in March. Municipal workers were among those exempted from the lockdown.In September last year, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) also installed 15 CCTV cameras at its Sector 14 office to keep a check on the functioning of officials, daily visitors and suspected middlemen, who were allegedly misguiding plot allottees. A senior HSVP official said that all cameras are functional and extensively being used to ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-officials-to-be-under-constant-vigilance-of-commissioner-101625764227811.html
08-07-2021||Gurugram||Traffic snarl continues at Sirhaul border over RFID payments||For a second consecutive day, traffic flow on the Gurugram to Delhi carriageway of the expressway remained slow as Delhi agencies strictly implemented toll collection through radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags and refused to let commercial vehicle drivers pay cash.Officials of the concessionaire appointed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that a traffic jam was witnessed from 9.30am to around 1pm, on the second day of digital toll collection, implemented on the orders of the Supreme Court.A senior official of Sahakar Global Venture JV, concessionaire of the SDMC, said that they are trying to streamline toll collection through FASTags but there were some problems on the first two days. “We are issuing RFID tags on the spot and also asking vehicle operators to maintain [minimum] balance. Due to lockdown and lack of business, the truck owners are reluctant. We are also working with Gurugram and Delhi traffic police to ensure there are no jams,” the official said. Ravinder Tomar, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram, said that they have asked the concessionaire to collect the toll in lanes dedicated for the SDMC so that traffic is not affected on the main carriageway. “We have also asked them to install signage at different spots so that commercial and other traffic gets segregated. A meeting will be held again on Friday to discuss the matter. The issue of congestion will be resolved in the next couple of days,” said Tomar.The RFID tags issued by SDMC are meant to collect environmental cess and toll from commercial vehicles entering Delhi. These tags are different from the ones issued by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said officials.An order issued by Hemant Kumar Fauzdar, additional deputy commissioner (toll tax), SDMC, on July 1, stated that the Supreme Court and Commission for Air Quality Monitoring have directed a cashless collection of environment compensation cess (ECC) and toll for specified commercial vehicles entering Delhi. “It has also been directed that commercial vehicles without RFID tags and sufficient recharge be not permitted to enter Delhi from July 1,” the order stated. Commuters, meanwhile, said that the traffic situation worsened after 11am as trucks and container vehicles started lining up. “Vehicles were stuck from Sirhaul border up to Shankar Chowk, and even beyond,” said Parvesh Kumar, a commuter. Another commuter, requesting anonymity, said that many people bound for the airport suffered due to the delay as many vehicles either did not have the RFID cards or did not have sufficient balance. “The jam spills over to the main carriageway and this causes problems to all commuters,” the commuter said.Bhushan Yadav, a truck driver who was stuck on the service lane, said that he makes only two trips across the border per month, due to which balance is not maintained. “The environment cess, when the truck is empty, is exempted, but despite that, it is being deducted in full through RFID and returned later. We don’t want the money to get stuck in the system as it is easier to pay cash. Also, at some entry points, the payment is manual,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/traffic-snarl-continues-at-sirhaul-border-over-rfid-payments-101625764226263.html
08-07-2021||Other||BSF Museum ready, to open with restart of Beating Retreat ceremony||Attari (Amritsar) With the re-opening of the Beating Retreat ceremony for spectators at the Attari-Wagah border expected to be announced soon, a museum depicting the glorious history and evolution of the Border Security Force (BSF) will be another major centre of attraction of tourists. The ₹3.5 crore, 8,000-square feet BSF Museum, in the spectator gallery on the right side of the Swaran Jayanti Dwar, will also be thrown open for the public with the Retreat ceremony. BSF director general (DG) Rakesh Asthana had inaugurated the museum in April. The fully air-conditioned, state-of-the-art museum can accommodate over 300 people at a time. A combination of silicon and wax has been used in the museum to craft bunkers, battlefields and sculptures of our bravehearts. There are eight galleries in the museum. The first is the reception desk, where information about the DGs of the force is displayed. The second gallery defines the role of BSF in peacetime and wartime. Two small horizontal LED screens have been installed here that provide detailed information on frontiers that the force mans. The third gallery is dedicated to the Bangladesh Liberation War with pictures of the 1971 being displayed. The next and fourth gallery is dedicated to give a real like experience of a battlefield in which sculptures of soldiers in uniform with their guns holding mochas and bunkers are displayed. The fifth gallery has a large projector screen in which a documentary about the training of the BSF jawans is shown.The sixth gallery has pictures and descriptions of our brave-hearts. The seventh gallery is a storehouse of information about gadgets that the BSF uses. The other part of the gallery is for entertainment of visitors; it can be used for clicking pictures with backgrounds of battlefields. This gallery also has an exhibition of old and new weapons, including obsolete ones. Pictures of high-tech weapons that the BSF uses, add to the attractionThe last and the eighth gallery has been converted into a theatre. A large screen with a projector and a seating capacity for 50 people has been arranged here and a 20-minute movie will be shown on the working of the BSF. A BSF inspector, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “The motive behind opening the museum was to make people aware about the BSF’s role in guarding the most sensitive and geopolitically significant borders of India with Pakistan in the west and Bangladesh in the east.” A sub-inspector, who oversees the technical work of the museum, said, “The museum is equipped with high-definition CCTV cameras. We will control the museum’s working and security from a control room in the facility itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsf-museum-ready-to-open-with-restart-of-beating-retreat-ceremony-101625763569141.html
08-07-2021||Other||Historic gurdwara handed over to ETPB; first in north Pakistan||Amritsar In a far-reaching development, the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) in Pakistan has been given possession of the Gurdwara Singh Sabha at Manshera in the north of the country for opening to local followers of Guru Nanak and the Sikh diaspora. The ETPB was established to look after the Evacuee Trust Properties/land left over by Sikh/Hindus who migrated to India during partition in 1947-48. The provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), formerly known as the North West Frontier Province, took the decision to hand over the gurdwara to the ETPB on July 7 (Wednesday). A source in the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) claimed that this will be the first gurdwara in the north of Pakistan, where the Sikh diaspora will now have an opportunity to visit. An architectural masterpiece, the Kashmir Road multi-storey gurdwara built in 1905, still retains its original architecture. “On July 7, a meeting was held in the Peshawar civil secretariat; from the ETPB, Imran Gondal, additional secretary, shrines, attended it. After thorough deliberation, special secretary, local government, KPK showed willingness to give possession back to the ETPB. The possession has been given back after 20 years,” an ETPB spokesperson claimed, adding that presently, a library is being run in the gurdwara.A group of people wanted to destroy the gurdwara during the Partition, but failed due to the resistance of influential landlord Khan Ayub Khan. Khan believed that after the departure of Sikhs/Hindus from the region, this and other architectural places abandoned by them should be preserved as great assets of the newly-formed country. A story published in English daily Dawn quoted Mohammad Tariq, an assistant at the library, as saying, “Sikh saint Sardar Gopal Singh Saithi of Hazro had laid the foundation stone of gurdwara in 1905.” Tariq is also quoted as saying, “This building remained under the control of several government departments for years, while a school was established here after the Partition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historic-gurdwara-handed-over-to-etpb-first-in-north-pakistan-101625762846358.html
08-07-2021||Other||Woman who accused Bains of rape she won’t end protest till an FIR is lodged||The woman who accused Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA from Atam Nagar constituency Simarjit Singh Bains of rape has stated that she will end her protest only after the police lodge an FIR in the case.She said she has been running from pillar to post for eight months but even after the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the police to lodge an FIR, cops failed to act.“I have all proof against the atrocities and sexual assault meted out on me by Bains, and I will prove it in the court. My protest will continue till the police lodge an FIR and hand me a copy of the FIR,” she added.Former MLA and advocate Harish Rai Dhandha, who reached the office of the police commissioner in support of the woman, said cops were reluctant to take action against the MLA at the behest of a Congress minister. Without naming the minister, Dhanda said, “Police are helpless puppets in the hands of the man who lives in Model Gram area and is stopping the police from taking action against Bains.” Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said police will lodge an FIR after recording the statement of the woman. The woman has not appeared before the police for recording her statement, the ADCP claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-who-accused-bains-of-rape-she-won-t-end-protest-till-an-fir-is-lodged-101625762486566.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata man arrested for raping 26-yr-old, robbing her at home||Kolkata: A 26-year-old man was arrested by the Kolkata Police on Thursday on charges of rape and robbery in the city earlier this week, a senior police officer said.“We have arrested one Asgar Shah. He is around 26 years old and was known to the woman,” a senior officer of the Kolkata Police said.Police had earlier this week said the woman was raped by two to three men who broke into her house and looted ₹15 lakh on Tuesday.On Thursday, police said the incident took place between 12 noon and 1 pm on Tuesday when the woman was alone at home. Her parents had gone to the garment factory that they run. Like every day, they had locked the flat from outside.Citing a statement by Shah, police said the suspect knew the woman, entered the house and raped her before robbing her.“The accused, during interrogation, claimed that he had been to the victim’s flat earlier too. He had a duplicate key with which he sneaked into the house. He then raped the woman and looted the cash by breaking the almirah. He had brought cutting equipment with him as he knew there was cash,” said the officer.“Investigation is still going on. As of now we are going by whatever she has alleged. We are yet to verify some things including the motive. Our teams are out. The stolen money would be recovered soon,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-man-arrested-for-raping-26-yr-old-robbing-her-at-home-101625761767571.html
08-07-2021||Other||Fisheries dept in Prayagraj to keep strict vigil on rearing, sale of Thai mangur||: After seizure of tons of banned Thai mangur in Prayagraj, fisheries department has decided to increase vigil to identify the illegal rearing and sale of this variety of fish.Restricted by national green tribunal or NGT, Thai mangur is considered to be a threat to indigenous fishes and is also said to be harmful for human health.“Now fresh campaigns will be launched to check if the fish is being reared in the district. Awareness programmes will also be conducted to educate people about the harm which rearing of Thai mangur can cause. Moreover, fish breeders will be encouraged for cultivation of local breed of fishes,” said district fisheries officer SR Yadav.Handia police on Monday intercepted a truck carrying around 30 quintals of Thai mangur that was being transported to Haryana from West Bengal for sale and consumption. The estimated cost of the fish was around ₹10 lakh. The consignment was disposed of by the fisheries department. Three persons who were accompanying the consignment were booked under relevant sections. Police officials said that fishes were kept in a large polythene sheet that was shaped into a pond inside the truck.“Thai mangur or African catfish is banned by NGT some years back. It is a highly aggressive breed of fish. The carnivorous fish survives and breeds rapidly in any type of water and environment. As it can also survive in contaminated waters it poses serious threat to people’s health,” said Yadav.As Thai mangur grows upto 3 kilograms within few months, fish breeders often rear it for more profits. A kilogram of fish could be sold for upto ₹100 in fish markets. As it was profitable and easy to breed, Thai mangur farming still goes on illegally despite being banned by NGT and the government, he added.Many awareness programmes have been launched in the past to stop farming of Thai mangur in the district as it is harmful for ecological balance and human health, Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fisheries-dept-in-prayagraj-to-keep-strict-vigil-on-rearing-sale-of-thai-mangur-101625761768073.html
08-07-2021||Other||Punjab Police restoring British-era building in Tarn Taran||TARN TARAN Punjab Police is working to restore a British-era building to its old glory. The building, with a plot size of seven kanal was lying abandoned now, but had served as a police station till recently. Nanakshahi bricks are being used in the restoration. These are decorative bricks that were used for structural walls during the Mughal era. The building, located near the Tehsil Chowk in Tarn Taran city, is among eight buildings constructed by the British government in Amritsar and Lahore in the 1900s. Amritsar railway station and the city’s post office are two more instances. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale inspected the progress of the work on the building on Thursday. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had sanctioned ₹2 crore for restoration; of which ₹35 lakh has been received. Nimbale, who had earlier initiated a drive to clean the historic Patti Fort, said, “British government notes show that the building is 110 years old. Previously, it housed the tehsil and treasury offices of Tarn Taran. It was converted into a police station in 1942. This building has also served as a set for films like Udta Punjab and Punjab 1984, due to its historic importance.” He added that the Punjab Police Housing Corporation is carrying out the restoration after consulting archaeological experts. “All artefacts in the building are being restored and nothing will be razed, so that our future generations can learn from history,” he said, claiming that work was likely to completed in two months and the City Police Station will again be shifted here. “We are planting saplings for greenery and plan to shift DSP-City office in this building,” the SSP said, adding that Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, has also been engaged for installing a water harvesting system in the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-restoring-british-era-building-in-tarn-taran-101625761766321.html
08-07-2021||Lucknow||KGMU, HBTU sign MoU to promote research||: A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between King George’s Medical University (KGMU), and Harcourt Butler Technical University(HBTU), Kanpur to promote mutual research and cooperation. Lt Gen Bipin Puri, vice chancellor of King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, and Prof Samsher, vice chancellor, Harcourt Butler Technical University Kanpur signed the MoU at KGMU on Thursday. “This will bring together the disciplines of engineering and medicine to conduct research and development in the field of biomedical application,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. Both the universities agreed to enter into this agreement for the purpose of academic and educational cooperation, establish a collaborative program in research in healthcare technologies using reverse engineering and 3D printing and cooperate in their mutual interest for a range of higher educational research activities. This will bring together the two disciplines of engineering and medicine to conduct research and development in the field of biomedical application of 3D printing and medical device designing, said Dr Singh. Prof Divya Mehrotra, Faculty In-charge of the 3D DHR GeMS Lab, Prof RK Garg, Faculty incharge MoU Cell at KGMU were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-hbtu-sign-mou-to-promote-research-101625761645405.html
08-07-2021||Other||Sangrur tubewell spews out polluted water; PPCB blames dismantled factory||Sangrur Amid hue and cry over a tubewell spewing out chemically-contaminated water in Aloarakh village near Bhawanigarh town of the district, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has laid the blame on a private factory dismantled 15 years ago. The PPCB had sent a team to the site, after a video of the tubewell went viral on social media on Thursday. Farmers and owners of the land where the tubewell is located, claimed that they had been raising the issue for over ten years, but no one listened to their pleas.Kulwinder Singh, 60, the tubewell owner, said a private unit had polluted groundwater. On digging up to over 200metre, the problem started. “The tubewell of my nephew Amrit Singh is also throwing polluted water. Today, a team came to inspect the site. The waste chemicals of the factory were being disposed of into the land using a borewell. This polluted the entire groundwater of the area,” said Kulwinder Singh, who owns five acre. “I irrigate my fields from the tubewells of neighbours. I am not raising this issue for my land, I want to save the next generations from contaminated water,” he claimed.Harmail Singh, a leader of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said the government should punish those polluting the groundwater. PPCB executive engineer Rajeev Gupta said the factory was dismantled in 2005 and the department had taken up the matter with National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had imposed a fine of ₹2 crore on factory owners, who did not pay up. “Our team has visited the sites. As of now, a tubewell was found throwing out coloured water, but we were told that there are two or three other tubewells. We have sent a report to the state government,” added Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-tubewell-spews-out-polluted-water-ppcb-blames-dismantled-factory-101625761465985.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Pune constable held on rape charges||Pune: The Lonikand police have arrested a constable on charges of allegedly raping a woman. The constable attached to Worli police hails from Latur and has been remanded in police custody till June 12 by judicial magistrate SJ Dolare. The accused identified as Sandeep Baliram Waghmare (29) was booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) following a rape complaint lodged against him by a 20-year-old woman. The complainant stated that between January 2020 and 2021, the accused maintained physical relations with her on the pretext of marrying her but failed to fulfil the commitment. He also took gold ornaments and cash estimated to be worth ₹2.50 lakh from her parents, the complaint stated. Assistant public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More demanded police custody for conducting medical and other examination after he was brought before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-constable-held-on-rape-charges-101625761225414.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||New report highlights mismanagement of fly ash||A new report released Wednesday has flagged the continuous mismanagement of fly ash produced by thermal power plants in the country. Researchers analysed eight fly ash related accidents that occurred in the last two years, across five states, and found a common thread of “persistent violations” and “neglect”. Despite the scale of damage to communities and the ecology, criminal prosecution has been initiated in only one of these incidents, the authors note. The report has been authored and reviewed by members of three organisations -- including ASAR Social Impact Advisors, Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), and Manthan Adhyayan Kendra -- on behalf of the Fly Ash Watch, “described as a collective of individuals and organisations working on the social, environmental, and human health impacts of fly ash on communities and ecosystems.” Fly ash is a byproduct of coal combustion, which generates more than 70 percent of India’s electricity. In 2018-19, the country produced 217 million tonnes of it, up 76 percent of from Coal ash is typically mixed with water and stored in large ash ponds, lined with dykes to hold the slurry in place. These dykes frequent collapse, flooding nearby farms, fields and even homes with toxic ash, which is known to pollute soil, air, water, damage crops, and cause cardio-pulmonary illnesses. “Causes cited for the accidents in official reports range from substandard construction of ash dykes, hydraulic pressure induced by excessive rainfall, to ‘overflow’ in storage units. It is apparent, however, that subpar technical design and a lack of consistent monitoring and revaluation of ash storage methods and structures are the larger issues at hand,” the authors note. Sehr Raheja, co-author, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra said, “The case studies are of structurally unstable ash ponds and leaking ash slurry pipelines that have caused the farms and areas to be covered in toxic coal ash. This can be seen across the incidents in different states.” The report assesses eight such accidents in Jharkhand, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh (which reported three instances in two years), and presents the aftermath of ecological damage, non-compliance with law, non-payment of dues to regulatory authorities and affected communities, poor clean-ups and environmental assessments, protracted legal proceedings conducted in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), and inadequacy of ash disposal infrastructure. For example, on August 7, 2019, the ash pond of the Essar TPS breached, trapping six children in their homes, covering more than 100 acres of land in ash slurry, and destroying kharif crops of 500 farmers. A resident of Amelia Village in Singrauli, MP, shared that some of the fly ash is still lying in the fields while another from Sidhikala village, Singrauli, said that some wells within the vicinity of his village were still covered with ash, rendering them unfit for use. Compensation has allegedly not been disbursed in full to many of the affected people, who are now growing wheat in the ash-laden fields with reportedly lower yields. The authors go on to prescribe deterrent and remedial actions, ranging from criminal prosecution, mandatory routine technical assessment of ash ponds, and increasing transparency and public access to information. The report exhorts civil society to hold relevant authorities to account. Medha Kapoor, co-author, ASAR said, “All the flyash breaches are strung by a common thread, which is lack of industrial will towards transparency, accountability, compliance; and a governance system with law enforcement, penalization, and monitoring that routinely fall short.” The Union environment ministry on April 22 published the draft notification to utilise fly ash or legacy ash which is stored by thermal power stations. The notification extended the deadline for TPS’ to ensure “100% utilisation of fly ash by coal- or lignite-based thermal power plants” by 3 to 5 years and “sustainability of fly ash management system” among other provisions, and is open for public feedback for a period of two months from April 22. Shripad Dharmadhikary, Policy Researcher, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra questioned the provision on the term utilisation in the draft notification.“The draft notification as it exists does not make any distinction between the use or utilisation of fly ash, and its disposal. It’s like dumping fly ash on low lying land and dumping ash in abandoned mine voids is called ‘utilisation’, whereas it is nothing more than mere disposal of ash,” he said, highlighting the need to have more safeguards for disposal of this type of waste. Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust, said: “Since ash it is not treated like a raw material that can be used for manufacture of cement and concrete, it is invariably dumped in ash ponds, which are not lined to prevent seepage. As thermal power plants grow older or upgrade their capacity, the height of the dykes are raised without proper engineering because land availability becomes a problem. And even if stored in properly engineered ash ponds, shortage of water in summer results in the ash flying around for several kilometres and poisoning the environment. A better way is to mandate that dry fly ash is stored in silos and transported in air tight bulkers. This would also ensure that the fly ash can be productively used for manufacture of cement, concrete. The MoEF has to recognize that 100% utilization of ash will remain a pipe dream. Wanton dumping should result in prosecution and heavy financial penalties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-report-highlights-mismanagement-of-fly-ash-101625760085352.html
08-07-2021||Other||The Lucknow link to how Yusuf Khan became Dilip Kumar||LUCKNOW Dilip Kumar, the legendary actor, was given many titles like ‘Tragedy King’ and ‘God of Acting’ in his illustrious career. But there’s a story to how he got his screen name. Noted writer, Bhagwati Charan Varma of Lucknow, gave him the name – Dilip Kumar in 1944.“Bhagwati Charan Varma also penned the script of his first film Jwar Bhata,” said Dhirendra Varma,” the writer’s son. “Super star Ashok Kumar used to work with Bombay Talkies as a lead hero in the 1940s. At that time, heroes were employed by production houses on salary basis and were not allowed to work for other production houses. Ashok Kumar had given many hits for Bombay Talkies and was the most popular of all actors of his time. But after the movie ‘Kismat’, Ashok Kumar decided to set up his own production house. So he moved away from Bombay Talkies and the owner of Bombay Talkies Devika Rani was quite upset about it,” he said.Dhirendra Varma said, “She wanted a handsome and versatile actor to replace Ashok Kumar in her production house. She also had a script ‘Jwar Bhata’ penned by my father for the next film. Devika Rani spotted Yusuf Khan and called him for a screen test, which he passed easily. However, she wanted a romantic name for the actor because the script was an intense love story. She thought the name Yusuf Khan didn’t gel with the role.”In fact, Dilip Kumar was also interested in changing his name as he never wanted his father to come to know about him working in a Bollywood film as he was against all this. “And Devika Rani looked up to Bhagwati Charan Varma for a new name for Yusuf Khan,” said Dhirendra Varma.Noted writer Chandra Shekhar Varma, grandson of Bhagwati Charan Varma, said: “My grandfather suggested three names to Devika Rani – Dilip Kumar, Vasudev and Jehangir. Devika Rani wanted Dilip Kumar to choose Vasudev. But Yusuf Khan chose Dilip Kumar for himself. And the rest is history. Dilip Kumar shot to fame from his very first film, but he always remained thankful to Bhagwati Charan Varma for giving him a new identity in the cine world. He always considered Dilip Kumar as a lucky name for himself.”Dhirendra Varma said, “In 2005, I, along with my daughter Shivani Varma, visited Dilip Kumar’s house in Mumbai. He didn’t allow us to leave for 4 to 5 hours and spoke a lot about Bhagwati Charan Varma, literature, Lakhnawi culture, mangoes of Malihabad and Peshawar (where the actor was born). The warmth was exemplary…he was so loving and caring.”“It was the first Monday of Saawan and we were fasting. When he came to know about this, he arranged lassi, mewa and best of phalahari cuisine for us. Such was his eagerness to welcome anyone,” he added.Bhagwati Charan Varma also penned another script ‘Chanakya’ for Dilip Kumar, but that film didn’t work out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-lucknow-link-to-how-yusuf-khan-became-dilip-kumar-101625759125236.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Two minor boys apprehended for sexual assault and extortion||Two minor boys were apprehended for sexual assault and extortion of another minor boy in a densely populated area of Sahakarnagar. All three boys are in the age group of 15-16 years and are all high school students, according to the police. “It first happened in November 2020 and they used the incident to extort money from him and continued abusing him. His father started realising that the money had been going missing and found out where it was going,” said senior police inspector Swati Desai of Sahakarnagar police station. All three boys live in the same area and come from economically moderate families, according to the police. The survivor boy has so far stolen ₹1, 72,000 cash from home to pay the extortion money, according to senior police inspector Desai. However, the police are searching for places where they spent it and investigating whether that is the correct number. The boys were sent for medical examination and the two apprehended will be produced in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) later. A case under Sections 377 and 384 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-minor-boys-apprehended-for-sexual-assault-and-extortion-101625758885295.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Pharmacist duped of ₹10 lakh by two imposters||A pharmacist from Pune was duped of ₹10 lakh by two people who claimed to be pharmaceutical suppliers. The Pune police are looking for a man and a woman in the case. “The complainant owns a business and has a shop,” said police sub inspector VM Deshmukh of Vishrambaug police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shashikant Fand (43), a resident of Sus road area of Pashan who owns a shop in Appa Balwant Chowk, Budhwar peth. In December 2019, the complainant paid ₹10, 52,800 to the man-woman duo who promised to supply medicines to his shop. However, the two did not supply medicines and are suspected to have used the money for personal gains. The woman among the two later on transferred ₹52,800 to the man’s bank account but they have, since then, failed to return the remaining money. Therefore, a case was regsitered agaisnt the two and the police are on a lookout for them. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pharmacist-duped-of-rs-10-lakh-by-two-imposters-101625758825187.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Launches of new real estate projects in Pune fall by 30 per cent: report||According to the latest Gera Pune residential realty report for the period January 2021 to June 2021, Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions imposed to curb the virus spread has adversely affected new launches in Pune’s residential realty sector during June 2021. While the new residential property launches have declined by a significant 30 per cent, the available inventory for sale plunged to a nine-year low, which according to the report, was mainly due to the robust sales coupled with a lack of new supply to replace the sales. For every 100 units sold only 59 units was added, stated the report. The report is an outcome of the census-based study of the residential realty market of Pune. It is based on primary and proprietary research conducted by Gera developments and covers all existing projects in a 30-km radius of the city centre. Talking about the latest trends in Pune’s residential real estate market, Rohit Gera, managing director, Gera developments, said, “The market has been in an ongoing state of consolidation. With the number of new project launches declining, the unsold inventory has plunged to a seven-year low. Going forward, we believe that price rise seen in the past one year will gain further momentum. The surge in residential real estate prices will be due to decline in adequate inventory to meet the growing demand. Whenever demand outstrips supply, prices tend to go up.” According to the report, fewer new schemes and units were launched in the first half of 2021, which saw a fresh supply of 26,611 units. This was 26 per cent higher than the same period in 2020. However, sequentially it has come down by 30 per cent compared to second half of 2020. Comparing it with pre-Covid times, it is still half of what it was in December 2019 just before Covid hit the country, indicating supply squeeze prevailing in the Pune residential real estate space, stated the report. In fact, comparing the period from January 2020 to June 2021 against the corresponding period, there is a reduction of 39 per cent in new inventory being added to the market. “With new project launches at unprecedented lows, the robust demand will face supply-side bottlenecks. This has already propelled a 3.73 per cent surge in property prices on an average, over the past 12 months. However, as new project launches firm up, the prices, while maintaining their upward bias, will stabilize in the medium term,” further added Mr. Gera. He also underlined the increase in cost structure for developers. “In addition to the supply crunch, there is a tremendous increase in the cost structures for developers. The last 15 months have seen slower construction and project launches and as a result, the overhead costs for developers have increased. More significantly, the cost of several raw materials including the most critical items such as cement and steel have risen by 25% - 40%,” he further went on to say. According to report, inventory levels plunged to a 9-year low in June 2021. The report stated, the inventory available for sale has also reduced to 59,224 units, a reduction of 21% from 75,421 units a year ago. The total number of ongoing projects has also dropped significantly from a peak of 3,733 projects in Jun 2017 to 2,730 in Jun 2021. Assessing the percentage inventory available for sale indicates that 79.5% of the total inventory has been sold. This means, the level of 20.5% of the unsold inventory is the lowest level seen in the last decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/launches-of-new-real-estate-projects-in-pune-fall-by-30-per-cent-report-101625758765281.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Hidden cameras found in doctor’s accommodation; case registered||A doctor working at a major hospital in Pune found a hidden camera in the official accommodation provided to her by the hospital. The 30-year-old woman discovered two cameras on Tuesday in the house that she shared with one other person. The camera was discovered in a light bulb in the bedroom and one in the bathroom of the house, according to the police. When found, the woman immediately reported it to the police. “They are both resident doctors and lives in those official quarters. In the bulb inside their house, where they had been living, one of them saw something unusual. So, when she inspected further, there was new circuit attached to it. Even in our houses, if something new is installed, we will notice. We have started work on this and there will be detection soon,” said Rahul Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2 of Pune police. The police are on a lookout for person or people who may have had access to the doctor’s residence. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hidden-cameras-found-in-doctor-s-accommodation-case-registered-101625758705237.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Three booked for siphoning stipends of students||Three people, including two women and one unidentified person, were booked for siphoning funds from students at an educational institute in Chinchwad. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prasad Prabhakar Shaligram (41), a resident of Budhwar peth area of Pune. One of the three allegedly stole the password to the complainant’s computer to gain access to the data related to student funds. “We have traced the funds to the accounts of these women. We are yet to find out who they are. The third unidentified person is accused of stealing the computer access details of the complainant. The complainant is a manager at the institute and managed 25 branches,” said police inspector Vishwajeet Khuke of Chinchwad police station. The accounts were found to have received entire funds meant for stipend of three students. The total amount was of ₹28,937, according to the police. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 43(b), 66(c), and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-for-siphoning-stipends-of-students-101625758645260.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Book on veteran economist Dandekar released by SPPU Economics department||A book titled “An Unparalleled Economist: Professor VM Dandekar”, was released in an online function by Dr Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor, SPPU on Tuesday. The background of the book was explained by Prof Vilas Adhav, head, department of Economics. Two of the prominent contributors, namely Prof RS Deshpande and Prof Pradeep Apte expressed their thoughts about the stalwart. Dr Manasi Gore anchored the program while Dr Meenal Annachhatre presented the vote of thanks. The online release was attended by various dignitaries from the academic community across the country. Prof Vilas Adhav in his introductory speech said that the academic year 2019-20 saw the birth centenary of the visionary Indian economist Prof V M Dandekar. Prof Dandekar contributed in a varied manner to socio-economics, politics and mainly to agricultural economics and left his imprint on numerous domains such as logic of price policy in agriculture, crop insurance, irrigation policy, and cattle population of the country. His seminal work on estimation of poverty, carried out along with Prof. Nilkanth Rath, gave rise to a very significant debate on poverty and poverty line in India, he explained. In order to commemorate Prof Dandekar, a book titled “An Unparalleled Economist: Professor VM Dandekar” was jointly edited by Dr Manasi Gore, Dr Meenal Annachhatre and Prof Vilas Adhav, all from the Economics department, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/book-on-veteran-economist-dandekar-released-by-sppu-economics-department-101625758525340.html
08-07-2021||Patna||₹6.82 lakh looted from Muzaffarpur bank||Robbers on Thursday looted ₹6.82 lakh at gunpoint from Saraiya branch of SBI in Muzaffarpur district, the police said.Muzaffarpur’s superintendent of police Jayant Kant, who visited the spot, said the police were trying to identify the suspects through the footage of CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the bank. “No one was hurt in the incident. Police recovered three empty cartridges from the spot. Preliminary investigation suggests robbers reached the bank on two motorcycles,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/682-lakh-looted-from-muzaffarpur-bank-101625757805704.html
08-07-2021||Other||Flood fury: Approach road to bridge collapses in West Champaran||An approach road to a small bridge collapsed while communication through over 160 rural roads continued to be affected in East and West Champaran districts amid the fear of flood in parts of Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj districts where the water level in rivers passing through the regions kept rising ominously, an official said on Thursday. According to officials, an approach road to a small bridge over Kataha, a hilly river originating from Nepal, collapsed at Marjadi village in Gaunaha block at West Champaran on Thursday morning, disrupting the communication between Marjadi and Marjadpur villages. Ajay Prakash Rai, block development officer (BDO), Gaunaha, said, “The approach road to the bridge collapsed owing to the erosion. We are looking forward to restoring the communication between the two villages.” Meanwhile, in the wake of heavy water discharge from the Valmikinagar barrage on Thursday afternoon and incessant rain in the catchment area, the Gopalganj district administration has alerted the villagers dwelling in the low lying area along the Gandak river. “Around 1000 people have been shifted to the safer location. Things are under control,” Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj, said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flood-fury-approach-road-to-bridge-collapses-in-west-champaran-101625757625211.html
08-07-2021||Patna||Both EVMs and ballot papers in Bihar panchayat polls||The panchayat polls in Bihar, due to begin in August this year, will be conducted both through electronic voting machines (EVMs) and ballot papers, a top poll official said, citing shortage of EVMs.Earlier, State Election Commission had said these polls would be conducted entirely through EVMs.Under the new plan, elections for all four posts in the three-tier panchayat raj institutions of gram panchayat, mukhiyas, panchayat samiti members and district board members, would be held through EVMs. In case of gram kutcheries, which have judicial functions, election to the posts of sarpanch and panch would be held through ballot papers, sources said. SEC secretary Yogendra Ram said the preparations were afoot to hold the polls through both EVMs and ballot papers. The SEC had foreseen a requirement around 7-8 lakh EVMs for conducting the polls for all posts through EVMs in less number of phases. But reports from various states about lack of availability of single-post EVMs (an old model) has put paid to plans. “As per our latest assessment, we expect to get around 2 lakh single-post EVMs from southern and northern states. So far, there is confirmation of about 1.83 lakh EVMs. That’s why we have to think of conducting the polls both through EVMs and ballot papers,” said an SEC official engaged in poll preparations. In all, there are total 2.58 lakh posts in the PRIs, of which 1.14 lakh are of ward members in gram panchayats and an equal number of panch in the gram kutcheries. The panchayat polls, scheduled to held in March and April, have got delayed first due to dispute between SEC and Election Commission of India ( ECI) over getting EVMs and later due to the second wave of the Covid pandemic in April. Meanwhile, sources said nodal officers from all 38 districts in the state have been already dispatched to various states to ferry the EVMs within next one week so that the first level checking of voting machines could begin from July 15. There are possibilities that the SEC will be sending the schedule of polls to the state government for approval in the next few days so that a formal notification is issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/both-evms-and-ballot-papers-in-bihar-panchayat-polls-101625757565914.html
08-07-2021||Patna||Children with hole in heart to be operated free in Ahmedabad||Around 16 children, up to six years of age, suffering from congenital heart diseases, left for treatment from Patna to Ahmedabad on Thursday as part of the state government’s initiative to treat such children free of cost. The children, some as young as three months old, left along with their guardians by air for specialised medical treatment to the Ahmedabad-based hospital, run by the Prashanti Medical Services and Research Foundation. The state government has an agreement with the foundation for free medical treatment and care of children suffering from congenital heart diseases like hole in the heart or ventricular septal defect. Among the children, three each were from Gopalganj, Madhubani and Vaishali; two each from Madhepura, Saran and Begusarai and one from Gaya. This is the second batch of children which has been sent to the foundation’s hospital. Earlier, 20 children were sent to the Ahmedabad-based hospital on April 2. Of them 20 had been cured while one was still undergoing treatment, said a communique by the state health department. The children were shortlisted by a team of experts from the foundation as well as doctors from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. The state government, based on previous experience, has decided to allow an additional attendant, besides the mother in case of children below six years of age. The state government bears the transportation cost up to ₹10,000 each for the child and the eligible attendants, for treatment outside the state. The Bihar government launched the Bal Hriday Yojana (BHY) this year after the state cabinet approved it on January 5. The BHY, conceived last year and linked with the government’s “Saat Nishchay (seven resolves) Part 2” programme, provides free additional medical and healthcare to children afflicted with heart-related ailments. The state health department had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Gujarat-based foundation on February 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/children-with-hole-in-heart-to-be-operated-free-in-ahmedabad-101625757565228.html
08-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Online nomination allowed for panchayat poll candidates||The State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to allow candidates for panchayat polls to file their nomination papers either through online or in conventional method, as was done in assembly elections last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The candidates will be allowed to take only one proposer and one vehicle to during the nomination process to the returning officer’s office. As per guidelines issued by the SEC for panchayat polls amid the pandemic, all voters would be screened through thermal scanners and voters not wearing masks would be fined ₹50 as per provisions of Bihar Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulation, 2020. Like the last assembly polls, all voters would be given hand gloves for pressing the EVM button and signing at the voters’ register. Hand sanitisers and help desk would be available at all booths. The guidelines state that voters having temperature above normal would be asked to come at the last hour of polling and provided tokens to cast their votes. There are 1.14 lakh polling stations in the panchayat polls and maximum number of voters in each polling station has been capped to 850. The total number of voters in panchayat polls is around 6 crore. During the last polls, 10 lakh candidates were in fray for 2.58 lakh posts. As per the guidelines, candidates would have to ensure social distancing norms at the venues earmarked to hold election meetings and the number of attendees would be fixed by district officials as per norms of the state disaster authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-online-nomination-allowed-for-panchayat-poll-candidates-101625757505190.html
08-07-2021||Patna||Bihar heading for mid-term polls, says Chirag||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan, who has been battling a coup in his party, on Thursday said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) could split anytime and that the state was staring at mid-term polls.Accusing Kumar of engineering the split in LJP, Paswan said the Bihar CM had undermined his own party leaders and party just to keep one man (Chirag) out of the union cabinet. “I never craved for a ministerial berth, but I still don’t know from which party’s quota my uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras has been inducted in the union cabinet. It appears Nitish Kumar has sacrificed his own party leaders, especially Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh, to thwart me,” Paswan said from Samastipur, where he stayed overnight as part of his ongoing “Ashirvad Yatra”. Paras, the younger brother of LJP founder and Paswan’s father late Ram Vilas Paswan, recently led a rebellion by five of the six party MPs and successfully ousted Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in Lok Sabha. On Wednesday, Paras was inducted as a minister in latest reshuffle of Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi cabinet. On whether he felt let down by the BJP, Chirag said when he was cheated by his own, he could not carry a grudge against anyone else. “Time will tell everything. I never had any personal expectations from anyone,” he said. The Jamui MP said the way Lalan Singh, who played a key role in orchestrating split in the LJP at the behest of Kumar, was overlooked clearly points to an impending upheaval in JD(U), which could lead to mid-term elections. “Kumar went to lengths to see Paras through and that is why the ministerial berth that belonged to Lalan Singh was snatched from him. This has caused dissatisfaction within JD-U and could lead to a split. Many JD-U leaders are also in touch with us,” he said. Chirag said he was currently busy building up his own party organisation and his “Ashirvad yatra” would crisscross the state after which he would launch a trek (paidal yatra).On the two factions of LJP claiming to be the real one, he said the matter was pending with the Election Commission and till it was decided, he continued to be the president of the LJP. “Making anyone minister is the prerogative of the Prime Minister. I have also written to the Lok Sabha Speaker to review his decision to accord the legislature party leader status to Paras, citing the party constitution. Now the matter is also in the court. Justice will be done one day. I had also written to PM Narendra Modi in this regard and that is why I am surprised which party quota my uncle belongs to,” he said. He said that rest of the LJP MPs, who went with Paras, would also realise as to what did they achieve. “My uncle became a minister, but what did others get eventually? The realization will sink in sooner than later,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-heading-for-mid-term-polls-says-chirag-101625757445382.html
08-07-2021||Bangalore||Congress’ Siddaramaiah terms Cabinet reshuffle ‘insignificant’||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets on Thursday demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister of finance Nirmala Sitharaman. Siddaramaiah said that the Prime Minister is responsible for all the failures that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suffered since 2014 and held Sitharaman responsible for ‘failed policies’.If the performances of ministers were the yardstick to reshuffle the cabinet, @narendramodi should have been removed from @PMOIndia first.He is directly responsible for all the failures of @BJP4India govt since 2014.#FailedReshuffle“If the performances of ministers were the yardstick to reshuffle the cabinet, Narendra Modi should have been removed from PMO first. He is directly responsible for all the failures of the BJP government since 2014,” the former Karnataka chief minister tweeted, tagging official handles of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Prime Minister’s office and of Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself.It was @narendramodi who appeared on TV repeatedly to announce all #Covid19 related decisions including that of banging vessels.But @drharshvardhan was removed for #Covid19 mismanagement.Is it not @narendramodi who had to resign?#FailedReshuffleSiddaramaiah took potshots at the Union finance minister next, blaming her for what he termed ‘failed policies’. He said that the demonetisation exercise and the implementation of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) regime ‘pushed the country to distress’. In his tweet he tagged Nirmala Sitharaman and asked her to step down while claiming that she was ‘responsible for all the economic failures.’.@narendramodi had called for ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governence’ when he came to power.Now there are 77 ministers.Is this Minimum Government?This is 'Maximum Government, Minimum Governance'#FailedReshuffleIn his series of tweets, Siddaramaiah used the hashtag ‘Failed Reshuffle’ to criticise the induction of the new ministers to the Union cabinet. He also lamented the stepping down of Harsh Vardhan from the post of Union health minister claiming that major Covid-19 related decisions were undertaken by the Prime Minister.He also said that with 77 ministers the BJP-led government walked back on its promise of ‘minimum government, maximum governance’ and said that the inductions show ‘maximum government, minimum governance’. He also said that the induction exercise was insignificant as the Prime Minister ‘takes all the major decisions’.None of the 6 ministers from Karnataka are from backward classes. 3 are Brahmins and 1 each from Lingayat, Vokkaliga and SC community. I have no objection to ministers from any caste but what happened to the social justice?There is no representation for more than 50% Ktaka.Siddaramiah in reference to the recent reports of factionalism in Karnataka BJP said that the party lacks internal democracy. Several Congress leaders including Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi and senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge attacked the government after the Cabinet reshuffle.However, four MPs from Karnataka were inducted into the Union cabinet as Union ministers of state on Wednesday. The Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje, Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy, Rajya Sabha MP from Bengaluru Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba were inducted as Union ministers of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-siddaramaiah-terms-cabinet-reshuffle-insignificant-101625753412289.html
08-07-2021||Jaipur||After 9-years, Rajasthan govt again pushes for a legislative council||The Rajasthan government has decided to ask the Central government to constitute a legislative council, a move, which the opposition leaders and experts see as aimed to control dissent in the ruling party.According to a government statement, a proposal to constitute the legislative assembly will be sent to Parliament after getting a nod of the state assembly. Amid talks of the cabinet reshuffle on cards, the state’s decision to push for legislative council has surprised many. If the Centre approves its constitution then the cabinet’s size will increase - 15% of the total members of the state assembly and council. Earlier also, such a proposal was sent to the Centre twice – in 2008 by Vasundhara Raje and in 2012 by Ashok Gehlot when the UPA was in power at the Centre. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice had sought the opinion of the state government regarding the suggestions of the Standing Committee of Parliament on the proposal to constitute the Legislative Council, which was passed in the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly on 18 April 2012. After nine years, the state government is submitting its opinion, according to a government official. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan took the decision on legislative council two days after the West Bengal passed a resolution supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured the creation of a legislative council amid opposition by the BJP. West Bengal Legislative Council was set up in 1952 and abolished in 1969.Currently, there are only six states in India that have Legislative Councils. They are Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. Jammu and Kashmir also had the Upper House until the state was bifurcated into two Union territories in 2019. According to the Constitution, any legislative council of a state cannot have more than one-third of members of the state assembly or less than 40. The council cannot be dissolved and its member’s tenure is of six years. Commenting on the constitution of the council, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said, “The proposal for constituting legislative council has been passed by the cabinet unanimously as Narendra Modi government was continuously delaying it, and a letter was sent again asking whether you want it or not. A unanimous decision has been taken by the cabinet and we want that people and workers should get an opportunity, as this decision was taken unanimously by the previous Gehlot government but BJP government was delaying it.” “I want to urge all BJP leaders, they have their party government led by Modi in the Centre and can get the decision swiftly on this,” he said Deputy leader of Opposition, Rajendra Rathore said after nine years the state government is replying to the letter – it is clearly a move to suppress growing resentment in the Congress party. “The state is not in a healthy financial state due to the pandemic and the ruling government, just to pacify and please their leaders, is making such political stunts. When the BJP government moved such proposal in 2008, the state finance was healthy,” he said. Rathore continued by saying that the move of the Congress government is a ‘lollypop’ to leaders – giving hope of accommodating more, those who are sidelined and even the sitting MLAs, who if lose, can be brought back through council. “The government is constantly being cornered by party MLAs and leaders over the demand of cabinet reshuffle and political appointment. Such circumstances are proving to be challenging for the party as it is difficult to satisfy them,” he said. Political analyst Manish Godha said, “It looks like a message from the chief minister that I am trying to accommodate all. Even the Congressmen know that it is not possible, and mere a political gimmick.” He said this is a political move as in the last 40 years approval has not been given to constitute legislative council to any state. Besides, the constitution of the council requires a two-thirds majority of the parliament, and such approval doesn’t seem to be easy for a Congress-ruled state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/after-9-years-rajasthan-govt-again-pushes-for-a-legislative-council-101625752527042.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Four held in Kolkata for running job scam, one posed as police officer||The detective department of the Kolkata Police on Wednesday arrested four men for running a racket that duped youths by offering them jobs as home guards in the police department on payment of cash, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime).The case was filed on the basis of a complaint from 20-year-old Samaresh Mahata, a resident of Salboni in the West Midnapore district. He said that he and five of his friends gave the accused men ₹35 lakh in June. The youths were given fake appointment letters, khaki beret caps and belts. One of the accused, Masud Rana, a resident of Ranitala in Murshidabad district, used to pose as a deputy superintendent of police. He even flashed a fake identity card, said Sharma.The accused were arrested from a hotel in central Kolkata. Police seized ₹1.85 lakh in cash, fake appointment letters, beret caps and belts during the raid. It is suspected that the accused cheated more youths. A probe has started. The other three arrested persons are residents of North 24 Parganas, Malda and East Midnapore districts. This is the fourth case in recent weeks in which police have arrested imposters. On Tuesday, a man named Sanatan Roy Chaudhury, who claimed to be a lawyer working for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and also the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was arrested on charges of cheating. A receipt for the BJP membership fee was recovered from him. After the arrest, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “Millions of people become BJP members by paying membership fees by calling up the toll-free number. It is not possible to keep track of everyone. The guilty have to be punished. It is the government’s job to detect imposters.”In a second case, also recorded on Tuesday, eight people were held by the Bengal police at Memari in East Burdwan district for running a job racket. To dupe youths, the accused allegedly flaunted a document purportedly showing the signature of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. These arrests came days after the detective department of the Kolkata Police arrested Debanjan Deb who posed as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer working for the Kolkata civic body and ran a fake Covid vaccination racket. He was exposed after Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member Mimi Chakraborty got a job at a camp Deb held in Kolkata and informed the authorities when she did not receive any certificate. Deb held at least two camps in Kolkata last month where more than 800 people were allegedly given shots of Amikacin, an antibiotic. The ampules seized from his office have been sent for laboratory examination. He ran a job racket as well, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-held-in-kolkata-for-running-job-scam-one-posed-as-police-officer-101625750125422.html
08-07-2021||Other||Goa minister seeks relief for tourism businesses, says he’s affected too||Goa’s Minister of Ports and Solid Waste Management Michael Lobo sought relief for Goa’s tourism businesses in paying back their loans and seeking that no account would be declared as a non-performing asset (NPA) during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, HT has learnt.Lobo, who represents the Calangute constituency, which is arguably the epicentre of Goa’s tourism industry, said that he had written to the Union finance minister and the prime minister on behalf of beach shack and restaurant owners, taxi operators, car and bike rental operators and other tourism businesses, who, he said, were in no position to pay back their instalments until their businesses can resume.“I also have a business and I am getting calls from banks from which I have taken loans. A manager of a bank told me yesterday that if I do not pay my loan instalment, it will be declared NPA. Once it is declared an NPA then the process of recovery is initiated,” Lobo said.“If a bank manager can call me and inform me that my account will be declared as an NPA, what about the common man? What about people who live hand-to-mouth and run small businesses? How will they pay instalments? This is an issue which is plaguing people in Goa as well as the rest of India,” said Lobo, who had once exuberantly said he would be buying a plot of land in Kashmir no sooner article 370 of the constitution was rescinded by Parliament back in 2019.“I am writing to our government, to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister that the RBI should issue a circular to all nationalised banks that no account should be declared as an NPA during the second wave of the pandemic,” Lobo said.“Right from February till now, no businesses have been open and instalments have not been paid since then. Most affected are the small businesses,” Lobo said.Goa Tourism Development Corporation had conducted a state-wide survey through a consultant KPMG to understand the impact of the first wave of Covid-19 and lockdown on the Goa Tourism Industry. As per the survey, the overall loss of earnings in the tourism industry during lockdown has been estimated at Rs.2,062/-crores. Potential loss of earning for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at Rs.7,239/- crores and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 1.22 lakh (58%). The second wave is expected to erase a similar amount of value from the industry.Goa’s tourism sector is a big source of revenue for the state with the industry directly contributing 16.43% towards the state Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-minister-seeks-relief-for-tourism-businesses-says-he-s-affected-too-101625749045495.html
08-07-2021||Patna||Boy killed by friend for making obscene video, threatening him in Bihar’s Jamui||A Class 12 student was allegedly murdered by his friend for shooting videos of women in his family, blackmailing him with those, and trying to extort ₹50,000 from him, in Bihar’s Jamui district.The 17-year-old boy’s decomposed body was recovered from a hilly and forest area of Maoist-hit Jhajha police station limits of Bihar’s Jamui district on Wednesday. Police said that the deceased was a resident of Purani Bazar. On June 18, his father lodged a First Information Report that the boy had been abducted.Inquiries revealed that the boy was last seen with one of the friends. When the 18-year-old friend was questioned, he allegedly misled the police by claiming that the boy had run away on his own to escape his father’s beating.Technical surveillance led the police to two of the victim’s friends -- one of them had already tried to mislead them. The duo admitted they had strangulated the boy and thrown his body in Tarakuda forest. Police recovered the motorcycle and a rope which were allegedly used in crime.Jamui SP Pramod Kumar Mondal said the mobile locations of the victim and one of the alleged killers also showed they were at the same spot on June 18. During interrogation, one of them revealed that the deceased had fitted a small device in his bathroom. With video of the women of his family, the deceased was blackmailing him to pay ₹50,000 or the video would be uploaded on social media, he alleged.“Due to his blackmailing, I decided to eliminate him. I called him near Nagar Panchayat on the pretext of a picnic with alcohol near the dam. We strangulated him with a rope once he had had enough of liquor and threw his body from the hill. We also threw his cell phone in the dam to mislead the police,” he said. The duo has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boy-killed-by-friend-for-making-obscene-video-threatening-him-in-bihar-s-jamui-101625748985560.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||HP BJP chief Suresh Kashyap hospitalised following chest pain||Himachal Pradesh BJP president Suresh Kashyap was admitted to Shimla’s Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) hospital after he complained of chest pain on Thursday.He is out of danger and will be discharged after keeping him under supervision for some time, IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said, adding that he suffered from a mild problem in the chest.His preliminary examination report is normal, he added. Meanwhile, Kashyap in a statement said he was feeling uneasy for the past some days and went to the IGMC for a regular checkup. The Shimla MP was admitted to the hospital as he felt uneasiness when he visited former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s family to express grief over the leader’s death, a BJP leader said.The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader breathed his last after prolonged illness at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in the early hours on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bjp-chief-suresh-kashyap-hospitalised-following-chest-pain-101625748568506.html
08-07-2021||Bhopal||Vyapam scam accused cop robs businessmen of ₹60L, says did it to fight case||A Madhya Pradesh Police constable, accused in Vyapam scam, was arrested and his services terminated for his alleged involvement in robbing three businessmen of ₹60 lakh in a train in Gwalior, officials said on Thursday.The accused constable cited expenses to fight Vyapam case as the reason for committing the crime.Satendra Gurjar and two other constables posted at cyber cell, Gwalior, Abhishek Tiwari and Vivek Pathak, were arrested by Gwalior police a few days ago, said Amit Sanghi, superintendent of police, Gwalior. The SP said, “Sanjay Agrawal, Sanjay Gupta , and another businessman, are wholesalers of gold bullion in Jhansi. They purchased it from Delhi to supply it to jewellers in Jhansi. They were going to Delhi on June 17 on Jabalpur- Nizammuddin Express when the three police personnel and a Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable, Yogendra, asked them to show their bags at Dabra Railway station near Gwalior. The personnel introduced themselves as Crime Branch officers of Rajasthan Police. Threatening them to falsely implicate them in hawala racket, the police personnel confiscated their bag with ₹60 lakh and got off the train.” Also Read | Delhi’s Vasant Vihar murder: Help’s statement helped cops nab killers within 24 hours“Once the businessmen lodged a complaint with GRP Gwalior, the personnel were identified through CCTV footage. During interrogation, they admitted that Gurjar was the mastermind,” the SP said. During interrogation, Gurjar confessed to the crime and said he was suspended in 2015 after CBI filed a charge-sheet against him for using illegal means to clear the constable recruitment exam under the Vyapam scam. He was facing a financial crisis due to the court case. He had to return the money borrowed from private money lenders,” said an investigating officer, who is not authorised to talk to media. Police are interrogating them to find out if they were involved in any other crime. They are also trying to find how the accused knew all the details about the businessmen they robbed. The SP said, “We have written to RPF to take action against the fourth accused.”The Vyapam scam came to light in July 2013 when Indore Police arrested 20 impersonators who appeared for the medical entrance examination to help undeserving candidates secure high ranks. The cheating net also involved a clique of politicians and bureaucrats that facilitated the fraud in exchange for bribes, according to investigators. The CBI took over the case in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/vyapam-scam-accused-cop-robs-businessmen-of-rs-60l-says-did-it-to-fight-case-101625746586546.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||NHRC member says Bengal police ‘threatening’ victims of post-poll violence||A member of the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC) team which visited West Bengal on Thursday to interact with the victims of post-poll violence claimed that people who voted for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were tortured by the police, according to news agency ANI.National Commission for Minorities vice-chairman and member of the NHRC team, Atif Rasheed, said that police are allegedly threatening the victims of post-poll violence in West Bengal and asking them not to file a complaint.During his meeting with the Murshidabad superintendent of police, Rashid said that cops are intimidating the victims of violence. “The public is scared of the police. Their fault is they voted for the BJP. Police are threatening victims not to file a complaint,” Rasheed was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rashid, who is on a three-day visit to West Bengal to investigate the post-poll violence in the state, is scheduled to visit Malda and Murshidabad. He claimed that during his previous visit to the state on June 29, he was attacked in Jadavpur when the NHRC team was investigating the allegation of post-poll violence.NHRC chairperson Justice (Retired) Arun Mishra constituted a committee led by former Intelligence Bureau chief Rajiv Jain to look into the allegations of post-poll violence in Bengal. The inquiry started after the Calcutta high court in June which ordered to examine all cases of post-poll violence in West Bengal, complaints about which were received in the NHRC or which may be received.A team from the Union ministry of home affairs visited the areas affected by the alleged post-poll violence after such incidents were reported following Trinamool Congress’ victory in the recently concluded West Bengal assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nhrc-member-says-bengal-police-threatening-victims-of-post-poll-violence-101625745699921.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Taste of life: The khanaval... a life-saving appetiser to Poona’s main restaurant course||December 1899. When a 23-year-old Dharmanand Damodar Kosambi came from Goa to Pune to study Sanskrit, he had nowhere to go, and no place where he could eat. He went hungry for almost a week before he met Dr RG Bhandarkar, an eminent orientalist, and social reformer, who enrolled him in the Sanskrit school in Nagarkar wada. But, Kosambi still did not know where to have his daily meals. Most of the khanavals in the city refused to feed him because of his caste.In those days, the floors of houses (and those of the khanavals) were smeared with a mixture of cow dung, soil, and ash. In the khanavals run by and meant for Brahmins, Brahmin helpers would smear the floor after the khanaval members finished their meals. But because Kosambi was a “Saraswat”, the Brahmin khanaval-owners and their helpers did not want to “pollute” their space by feeding him and leaving the floor “un-smeared”.Finally, with the help of one of his acquaintances, Mr Redkar, Kosambi was successful in convincing a khanaval owner from Budhwar peth to let him have his meals at his eating house. The proprietor of the khanaval wanted Kosambi to smear the floor with cow dung daily after finishing his meals. Kosambi offered to pay 8 annas extra, and the owner agreed to take care of the smearing himself.There were many students and male workers like Kosambi who did not know where to sleep and have food when they arrived in cities like Bombay and Poona in the nineteenth century. When someone arrived in the city, they either stayed with relatives, friends, or acquaintances from their villages, boarded with a private family who accommodated one or two lodgers, or joined a khanaval. The khanaval would serve them food at a minimum cost and suit their traditional dietary beliefs and practices.The khanaval was an eating “house”, or sometimes a boarding “house”, to which people could subscribe and have their meals cooked for them. Also known as jevanaval or jevanghar in the nineteenth century, they were formal or informal public or semi-public eating houses for Indians in Bombay and later Poona. Occasionally, the traditional term Bhatiyarkhana, apparently was used, particularly to identify inns or eating houses run by and for Muslims. Molesworth’s monumental Marathi dictionary, in referring to the alternative terms jevanaval and jevanghar, reports that the eating houses had recently been set up in Bombay. The first edition of the dictionary was published in 1828, which means it could be estimated that the institution arose sometime around 1820 in Bombay.Society accepted the helplessness of a hearth-less person, and dining in the khanaval was tolerated strictly as a necessity. Because of the social proximity involved, many khanavals served men of the same village and caste. Some khanavals allowed homeless or unemployed people to use their space to sleep.NV Joshi, in his book “Pune Varnan” written in 1868, mentioned that there were almost 20 khanavals in Pune, and were mostly run by widows. The growth of the khanavals was a response to the growth of Bombay, and later Pune, as a market for rural labour and an education hub, and the consequent pattern of migration to the city by male workers. Most of these workers sought to minimise expenses to be able to send money home to their villages, so the khanaval food had to be inexpensive.JS Karandikar, the ex-editor of “Kesari”, wrote in an article published in “Navayug”: “In 1890, one paid ₹5 per month in a khanaval. For ₹2 extra, one could get ghee and chapati, instead of bhakari. Most students could not afford to pay the monthly fees. A few wealthy students carried ghee in small bowls with them. These khanavals never took a day off. Most of the students did not visit their villages during festivals and holidays. The khanavals made sure they were properly fed during the holidays.”After khanavals were established, students either had to secure membership in a khanaval or had to depend on the charity of certain families who would feed a few students as a charity in their homes. There were around 4,000 students studying in Pune in 1880, according to the Bombay Gazetteer published in 1885. This number swelled to 10,000 in 1910, according to a report in the newspaper “Jnanaprakash”.Before the British Raj, poor Brahmin boys coming to towns or cities from villages for education and would typically stay at the premises of a temple or a choultry. But, they had to make arrangements for their own food. To spare the students the trouble and humiliation of begging every day, compassionate families volunteered to feed the students once a week. So a student had to find seven or 14 sponsors depending on whether he chose to eat once or twice a day. This was known as “vaar laavoon jevane” (feeding every week, “varanna” in Kannada) and was in vogue till the First World War. Some students lived by begging food-grains which they would cook themselves. Known as “madhukari”, it helped poor students acquire education.In 1880, Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, along with Bal Gangadhar Tilak established the New English School in Pune. It was one of the first “native-run” educational institutions in India to offer Western education. Keenly aware of the hardships faced by students and workers in arranging for meals daily, Chiplunkar, around the same time, helped establish another modern intuition, a restaurant, in Pune which would feed students, workers, and guests coming to Pune. After Chiplunkar’s death, Gopal Ganesh Agarkar took it upon himself to convince the residents of Maharashtra of the importance of restaurants.Let’s keep the story of the first restaurant in Pune, and Maharashtra, for the next week.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-the-khanaval-a-life-saving-appetiser-to-poona-s-main-restaurant-course-101625745565660.html
08-07-2021||Other||Murder accused killed in police firing while trying to escape in Assam||Police in Assam’s Chirang district shot dead one person, allegedly accused of murdering a home guard constable, while he tried to flee from custody on Wednesday night. Abdul Khaleque was arrested on charges of murdering Wahed Ali, a home guard posted at Bijni police station, on Tuesday evening. Ali had been attacked with sharp weapons and was believed to have been killed due to some personal dispute. “When we took the accused to the spot where he had allegedly thrown the murder weapon, he snatched the pistol of sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Bijni and fled towards the jungle while pointing the weapon at the police party,” Chirang superintendent of police Gaurav Upadhyay told journalists. He added that “in the interest of safety of police party, to secure the snatched weapon and to apprehend the accused” police tried to stop him by using “controlled minimum firing aimed at non-vital organs”. “We were able to apprehend the injured Khaleque and immediately rushed him to the nearest health centre at Bhetagaon in a police vehicle. But he was declared brought dead,” said Upadhyay. Incidents of police firing at alleged criminals while the latter try to flee from custody have increased in Assam in the recent weeks. According to police records, since June this year, at least 8 persons were injured in police firing while allegedly trying to escape. They include persons accused of drug peddling, cattle smuggling, dacoity and kidnapping. Defending the police action chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who handles the home portfolio, said on Monday, “Police shouldn’t shoot them in the chest, but law permits shooting them in the leg. Police in Assam shouldn’t be scared in taking such action. But no such action should be taken against innocent persons,” he said, while addressing officers in-charge of police stations in the state. “If police don’t retaliate, they themselves would die. But before we take such action, which is permitted by law, our conscience should be clear that whatever tough action we are taking, it is for the public good and not in our own interest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/murder-accused-killed-in-police-firing-while-trying-to-escape-in-assam-101625740226285.html
08-07-2021||Other||Assam cabinet approves cow protection bill, to be tabled in next assembly||As per its commitment made earlier, the Assam cabinet has approved legislation to ensure the protection of cattle in the state, parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika informed about it on Thursday. The legislation will be tabled in the next assembly session to be held later this month. “We had earlier announced that our government would bring a cow protection bill. The cabinet yesterday approved the introduction of the bill in the state assembly,” Hazarika said. While the exact contents of the legislation are not yet known, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had earlier mentioned that the legislation would ban the movement of cattle from other parts of the country into Assam and also from the state to outside. The move is aimed at ending the smuggling of cattle to Bangladesh through the international border. At present, cattle from many states of the country are illegally transported to the region via Assam smuggled to the neighbouring country along with the border areas of the state and Meghalaya. Addressing the first session of the newly elected assembly in May, Governor Jagdish Mukhi informed that the proposed bill would adopt a zero-tolerance policy for the protection of the sacred animal, which provides us with ‘life-sustaining milk’. Defending the move, CM Sarma had said in the assembly in the first session that beef shouldn’t be consumed in those areas where Hindus live and where the animal is worshipped. “We believe cow is our mother. We don’t want cattle to enter our state from West Bengal. We want that beef is not consumed in areas where cows are worshipped. I am not saying people who consume beef should leave their habit, but there should be sensitivity towards others who don’t,” he said. Consumption of beef is not illegal in Assam. The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950 allows the slaughter of cattle above 14 years of age with proper approval by local veterinary officers. Once enacted, Assam would join other BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, which have similar legislation to protect cows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-cabinet-approves-cow-protection-bill-to-be-tabled-in-next-assembly-101625739806913.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Son rise in Himachal: Vikramaditya to take Virbhadra’s legacy forward||In a political career spanning six decades, Virbhadra Singh was chief minister of Himachal Pradesh for six terms besides being a member of Parliament five times and member of the legislative assembly nine times. There’s hardly any leader who can match up to such popularity. So, when people woke up to the news of the 87-year-old leader’s passing away, it was termed as the end of an era. Also read: Raja Sahib who ruled hearts for 50 years loses last battleWith the state Congress at the crossroads ahead of the crucial 2022 assembly elections, it’s a challenge for the family to carry forward the legacy of Raja Sahib. His son Vikramaditya Singh, 31, is the obvious heir apparent with Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh, who has been a two-term MP from Mandi, staying away from active politics since her defeat in the 2014 general election. Making way for his son Vikramaditya entered politics in 2013 when he was elected president of the Himachal Pradesh Youth Congress, a post he served for five years. In 2017, he was elected to the assembly from the Shimla Rural segment. Virbhadra had vacated the seat for his son and chosen to shift to Arki constituency in neighbouring Solan district. Though Vikramaditya entered politics at almost the same age as his father, stepping into his shoes and matching his popularity is going to be one tall order for the young scion of the Bushahr princely state. Virbhadra was known for his political acumen, administrative grip and compassion and Vikramaditya knows he has a long way to go. Congress, a divided house The Congress remains a divided house in the state with many claimants to the chief minister’s post though none of the present crop of leaders is a crowdpuller of Virbhadra’s stature. Prominent party leaders in the state are All India Congress Committee secretary Asha Kumari, leader of the opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former minister and Virbhadra’s trusted lieutenant Sudhir Sharma, and former state chief Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu and five-time legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan. Time to give younger leader a chance “After this colossal loss, it’s time for the Congress to give space to the younger leadership like its rival BJP has done,” said Harish Thakur, the chairman of the department of political science at Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla. He said Sukhu or Agnihotri could be appropriate to lead the party’s charge given their experience in state politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/son-rise-in-himachal-vikramaditya-to-take-virbhadra-s-legacy-forward-101625738426453.html
08-07-2021||Patna||2017 rape case: Bihar POCSO court issues non-bailable warrent against suspended cop||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court of Gaya has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against suspended senior DSP Kamlakant Prasad of Bihar Military Police, who is accused of raping a Dalit girl and is on the run. Police have also decided to announce a reward for his arrest and a file in this regard has been sent for clearance to the Bihar police headquarters. Prasad is charged with raping a minor girl at his official quarters in Gaya during Dussehra in 2017.Also Read | 2017 rape case: Suspended DSP’s bail plea rejectedKamlakant’s anticipatory bail application was dismissed by the court on July 5 after Bihar’s CID wrote to the additional chief secretary (home) seeking a probe into the conduct of Gaya’s special public prosecutor for POCSO, Syed Qaaiser Sharfuddin, who allegedly let off a senior suspended police officer accused of raping a minor Dalit girl off the hook twice during court hearings. Following this, the home department replaced Sharfuddin with Sunil Kumar. “A CID inspector, Harendra Kumar, moved an application before the court of ADJ-7-cum-special POCSO court of Neeraj Kumar and issued an NBW against the absconding DSP,” said special public prosecutor Sunil Kumar on Thursday. The suspended DSP has been on the run since May 26 when the FIR was registered against him under separate sections of IPC and POCSO at the women police station in Gaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2017-rape-case-bihar-pocso-court-issues-non-bailable-warrent-against-suspended-cop-101625736924751.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Finding heaven on earth in serenity of Pahalgam||I was already ruing my impulsive decision. Commandos togged up like space travellers, airport personnel, anonymous and ominous in their billowing personal protection kits, black menacing cameras whirring down at us from every conceivable angle, reminiscent of a disapproving Big Brother, sniffer dogs that somehow managed to single out our innocent luggage, Srinagar airport eerily resembled the sets of a Korean zombie film. It had taken a while to convince my daughter and a friend to visit Kashmir last week, but stepping out into the harsh sunlight, my heart was beating an uneven staccato as incidents of previous disruptions and terror attacks came to mind. The strange sight of rows of tables for rapid Covid-19 testing, the unfamiliar sing song dialect of the locals, the numerous paper checks and questions by gun-toting security further added to the feeling of unease and apprehension. Also read: Chance encounter with a raconteur par excellenceWearing our masks and insisting the taxi driver don his despite protestations that “there is no Covid in our beautiful valley, madam”, we wove our way into that heaven on earth that is Pahalgam! As the gushing waters of the Lidder river came into view, we watched in awe and hushed silence, the splendour of the tall pine trees, perfectly positioned like sentries clad in various shades of green, the imposing Pir Panjal range standing like a fortress behind them, while an azure blue, spotless sky cast its shadow and gave colour to the rocks and whirlpools of the singing river as it continued on its tireless journey to join the mighty Jhelum. The many-hued slanting roofs of charming little cottages looked surprisingly akin to Swiss chalets, while the herd of sheep and goats skittishly running around completed the picture-perfect postcard like landscape. The township of Pampore came into view and though it wasn’t the season for saffron, I could visualise the infinite fields of the Crocus Sativa flower, blooming in all their glory, their vivid gold competing with the sun, waving their magical powdered anthers and dispersing the scent of saffron in the cold, pure air. Soft-spoken with a shy demeanour, the Kashmiri people win your hearts with their hospitality and warmth. I wondered aloud as to why we didn’t see more women in public places and was told quite frankly and unapologetically that their women folk usually stay at home. Sampling Wazwan in a typical village home, we relished the astounding variety of lamb and chicken dishes, finger-licking fermented breads and of course, the mandatory and delicious finale to every meal, Kahwa, the aromatic Kashmiri tea. The locals were delighted with the influx of tourists but reticent on their personal views regarding the Government of India’s policies on the status of their state. Our garrulous cook opened up a little to proffer that politics were best left to the big leaders in Delhi and all that the general populace desired were conditions conducive to a peaceful and harmonious existence where they could earn an honest living, educate their children and envision a secure future for them. Is that too much to ask, I wonder? As for my fear and hesitation, it vanished at the sight of this most serene and exquisite place, touched by the very Hand of God, where surely nothing bad can ever happen. pallavisingh358@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor . Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finding-heaven-on-earth-in-serenity-of-pahalgam-101625735304847.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police arrest man for impersonating CBI counsel||A man, arrested by Kolkata Police for allegedly masquerading as a special counsel of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), has claimed during interrogation that he attended the 2018 BRICS summit, police said. Further interrogation also revealed that the man, Sanatan Ray Chaudhuri, had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha elections from Dum Dum constituency as a candidate for Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party, but lost. “The accused claimed to have attended the BRICS summit held at Johannesburg, South Africa, in 2018. He said he was part of an international delegation to Tokyo in 2013...We have got some documents. His statements are being verified,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Chaudhuri was arrested on Tuesday while he was allegedly impersonating a standing counsel for the state government as well as the CBI. A receipt for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) membership fee was recovered from him, police said.Also Read | Dilip Ghosh jabs Babul Supriyo over ‘asked to resign’ Facebook postHe was held by officers of the Gariahat police station for allegedly trying to grab property by using forged documents. An officer said on condition of anonymity that Chaudhuri moved around in a car fitted with blue beacon light. “We recovered a receipt for BJP membership fee and various kinds of visiting cards in which the accused claimed to be a CBI lawyer as well as a national executive member of the BJP’s human rights cell. A city court remanded him to police custody till July 16,” the officer said.  Police also found a picture of the accused posing with actor-turned-BJP leader, Rudranil Ghosh. “As far as I recollect, he came to meet me at least five years ago with some friends and took a picture. He told me he was a lawyer. Many persons come as fans and meet like that. If he is found guilty, he should be punished,” said Ghosh. Chaudhuri’s arrest came days after the detective department of the Kolkata Police arrested Debanjan Deb, who posed as an Indian Administrative Service officer working for the Kolkata civic body and ran a Covid vaccination racket. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, “Millions of people become BJP members by paying fees or by calling up the toll-free number. It is not possible to keep track of everyone. The guilty have to be punished. It is the government’s job to detect imposters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-police-arrest-man-for-impersonating-cbi-counsel-101625732904784.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Man dies as truck hits his bike in Maharashtra’s Raigad||A 28-year-old man died after his bike was hit by a truck on the old Mumbai-Pune highway near Khopoli exit in Raigad on Wednesday. Just a while before that, the truck had hit another biker who sustained injuries. According to the police, the truck was on way to Mumbai from Pune. As it was crossing the bridge at Khopoli, the driver lost control over the wheel and hit a biker. The biker fell on the road and suffered minor injuries. Also Read | Gadkari: Hope road accidents are reduced by 50% by 2025“After that, the truck rammed into a side wall of the bridge. Due to the impact, it crashed into another bike coming from the other side. The second biker, Karjat resident Mohan Borse, suffered severe injuries. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said a police officer. “The truck’s driver fled the spot just after the accident, and we are now searching for him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-dies-as-truck-hits-his-bike-in-maharashtra-s-raigad-101625731644570.html
08-07-2021||Other||Man booked for raping 3-year-old stepdaughter in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur||A 30-year-old man has been booked for allegedly raping his three-year-old stepdaughter in Chhattisgarh capital city, Raipur, police said on Thursday . Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Ajay Yadav said the girl was sexually assaulted on July 3 at home. “She told her mother who lodged a complaint with Telibandha police on Wednesday. Police have registered a case and launched a hunt for the accused,” he said. Also Read | Woman allegedly gang raped by robbers at Kolkata home; ₹15 lakh lootedThe girl had been medically examined, he said. The accused was booked under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376(2)(F) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman) and 376AB (rape on woman under twelve year of age), 342 (wrongful confinement), and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SP said. “ Investigation in the case is going on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-booked-for-raping-3-year-old-stepdaughter-in-chhattisgarh-s-raipur-101625730444822.html
08-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand announces free electricity scheme ahead of assembly elections||The Uttarakhand government has announced up to 100 units of free electricity every month to domestic consumers. Power consumption beyond that, and up to 200 units, will be charged at 50% the tariff, said the government on Wednesday. Cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat, who was given the additional charge of energy and renewable energy in the state on Wednesday, made the announcement soon after a meeting of senior officials of the department. Rawat said, “This will cost the state exchequer around ₹ 400 to 500 crore annually, but it will provide relief to a large section of the state’s population .” He said the department was preparing the proposal to present to the Cabinet in its next meeting.The minister also rejected the speculation that the scheme is being introduced to check the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) from taking root in the state, as free electricity and water are poll promises of the latter.With less than a year left for the state assembly elections, AAP has been attacking the ruling BJP on issues like corruption, unemployment and health through various political events and on social media. In December last year, senior AAP leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited the state and announced that the party will fight on all 70 assembly seats.In the Himalayan state, Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL), a government of Uttarakhand undertaking, is the sole distributor of electricity in the state. UPCL is currently supplying electricity to over 2.5 million consumers across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-announces-free-electricity-scheme-ahead-of-assembly-elections-101625729544355.html
08-07-2021||Patna||JD(U) may split anytime, claims LJP’s Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on Thursday said Janata Dal (United), JD(U), could witness a split anytime as Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had undermined his own party leaders just to keep him [Paswan] out of the Union Cabinet. Speaking in Samastipur, where he made a stop during his ongoing Aashirwad Yatra, Paswan said, “I never craved for a ministerial berth, but I still don’t know from which party’s quota my uncle Pashu Pati Kumar Paras has been inducted in the Cabinet. The way things have unfolded, it appears Nitish Kumar sacrificed his own party leaders, especially Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh.” Adding that he has informed the Prime Minister about the suspension of the five party MPs, including Paras, from the party as per its constitution, Paswan said Lalan Singh, who allegedly played a key role in orchestrating the LJP split, has been overlooked in Union cabinet expansion, clearly points to the impending upheaval within the JD(U). “The ministerial berth that belonged to Lalan Singh was snatched from him. This has caused dissatisfaction within the JD(U) and could lead to a split,” he added. Also Read | NDA ties may be on the mend as BJP allies find space in new CabinetPaswan, who is a member of Parliament from Jamui, said he was busy building his own party organisation and his yatra would crisscross the state before he begins a padyatra to connect with the masses. “Whatever has happened [Paras’s induction in the Cabinet] is not good. I have already moved the court and the matter may come up for hearing soon,” he added. He said the matter was still pending with the Election Commission and he continued to be the party chief till it was decided. “Making anyone a minister is the prerogative of the Prime Minister. I have written to the Lok Sabha Speaker to review his decision to accord the legislature party leader status to Paras’s group, citing the party constitution. I had written to PM Modi in this regard and I am surprised under which party quota my uncle was accommodated,” he added. He said that those LJP MPs who supported Paras would also realise their folly. “My uncle became a minister...but what did the others get? The realisation will sink in sooner than later,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-may-split-anytime-claims-ljp-s-chirag-paswan-101625725404346.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal declares three-day mourning after Virbhadra’s death||The Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday declared a three-day state mourning as a mark of respect to its six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who passed away at 87 in Shimla after a heart attack early on Thursday. No official functions shall be held in the state till July 10. Also read: Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passes awayThe mortal remains of the Congress leader have been kept at his private residence, Holly Lodge in Shimla for people to pay their last respects. The body will be taken to the state Congress office on Friday and later to Rampur Bushahr, his native place, for the cremation on Saturday. President, PM, leaders across parties mourn death President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, outgoing Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda condoled the Virbhadra Singh’s death. Terming his death as an irreparable loss for Himachal, Thakur said: “The void created due to his death will never be filled. His contribution to the development of the state is exemplary which will never be forgotten. His strong will power and significant work will be an inspiration for us.” Shimla MP and BJP state president Suresh Kashyap and BJP HP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna also expressed their condolences on his death. In his condolence message, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said, “No words, speechless, end of the era.” In a Facebook post in Hindi, leader of opposition in the HP assembly, Mukesh Agnihotri, said “End of an era. The king of hearts is no more. Humble tribute.” Condoling his death, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh described the former Himachal chief minister as an able administrator and a gentleman. “Deeply saddened to hear of the passing away of former Himachal CM Raja Virbhadra Singh Ji. An able administrator and a gentleman who was loved by the people, he was not just an elder brother but also a mentor to many to us. May God grant his soul eternal peace,” Capt Amarinder said in a tweet. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda also expressed condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-declares-three-day-mourning-after-virbhadra-s-death-101625724984506.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Dilip Ghosh jabs Babul Supriyo over 'asked to resign' Facebook post||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Thursday hit back at party leader Babul Supriyo, who was recently "asked to resign" as a Union minister. According to a report by HT Bangla, without naming anyone, Ghosh said that of the 12 ministers who resigned on Wednesday, only he (Supriyo) had made such remarks indicating his displeasure with the decision of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership.Also Read | 'Without a spot of corruption': Babul Supriyo says he is sad but he was 'not asked to quit'Babul Supriyo had said in a post from his official Facebook account on Wednesday that he was "asked to resign" from his post as the Union minister of state of environment, forest and climate change ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's much-anticipated reshuffle of his council of ministers. "Yes, when there is smoke there must be a fire somewhere," wrote Supriyo in his post.He, however, later took to Facebook later to clarify that he had “resigned” from his post as the Union minister of state, and said it would be improper to frame his statement as if he has been asked to go.Taking a note of his earlier statement, Dilip Ghosh said, "They asked for his (Supriyo's) resignation so that someone else can take up the responsibility. That is how a party functions; you need to have faith in the due process. If he were to be fired instead, would that have made things any better?"Ghosh said that of the 12 ministers who resigned, no one else had made such a remark about the party.Supriyo recently lost in the state assembly election from Kolkata's Tollygunje assembly seat against Trinamool's Aroop Biswas, who was the incumbent MLA of the seat. Since then, the singer-turned-politician was found missing from the central leadership and his political presence appeared confined only in the criticism of the TMC leadership in the state.Just a day before his resignation, however, Babul Supriyo was present at an event in which his ministry signed a joint communication with the ministry of tribal affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dilip-ghosh-jabs-babul-supriyo-over-asked-to-resign-facebook-post-101625719819252.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Nearly 5 decades after demolition, Urdu medium school awaits a new building||At a time when the Delhi government is inspecting newly built schools and prepping them before students return to campus, an Urdu medium school operating out of a derelict temporary accommodation at Shahi Eidgah has been left unattended.Located in Old Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area, the Shahi Eidgah serves as a campus for Qaumi Senior Secondary School that was demolished nearly 45 years ago. With tin roofs and rickety furniture making up its mise-en-scène, it has students studying in classes 1 to 12 who are in urgent need of attention. Despite multiple efforts and interventions aimed at securing land for a school building, the school’s fate remains unchanged.In 2018, the Delhi High Court directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to allocate land for the school and the Delhi government to initiate work within six months. Four years later, uncertainty prevails over the future of the school as the stalemate over land allocation continues.Also Read | Schools in no-Covid zones can reopen for classes 8 to 12 starting July 15A 45-year wait continues The Urdu medium school was demolished during the 1976 Emergency and has been operating out of the Eidgah premises ever since. Residents said that since the Covid-19 pandemic has forced schools to shift classes online, the time is ripe for the construction of the building.School in-charge, Abdul Wahab, said that while online classes are ongoing, old battles await students when physical classes recommence.“Holding classes under tin roofs is not an easy task. Be it the excruciating heat of summers or incessant monsoon downpour, there are multiple challenges that students face. In non-pandemic days, we used to hold classes in two shifts due to the paucity of infrastructure. Online classes are taking place right now, but eventually, students will return to the school and the old challenges that come along with it,” said Wahab, who has been associated with the school in different capacities for the past 50 years.He is also a former student, who remembers the old campus. “Our old school was a double-storey building in Sarai Khalil. It was demolished in 1976. When no alternative was space, school authorities placed tents at the Eidgah premises, and since then, the school has been operating out of here,” said Wahab.Over the years, many students have dropped out or changed schools due to the absence of a school building. “Parents continue to call us and enquire if there has been any progress on the development of a school building. Since the school is in shambles, many students continue to move out,” said Wahab.Weathering the stormFormer students and residents of the area have sought land allocation for the school, but to no avail. Abdul Malik Qureshi, former manager of the school, has lodged a contempt petition to seek accountability for the delay in land allocation for the school. “In 2018, then chief justice Gita Mittal of Delhi high court had directed both the DDA and Delhi administration to allocate land for the school. DDA had promised to give 4,000 acres, but later said that they would give 1,600 acres. I had filed public litigation last year just before the lockdown. We have sought that 4,000 acres be granted to the school. The case is sub judice,” said Qureshi.Another former student, Shadab Qureshi, who graduated from the Eidgah campus, said that a new school building was long due. He said that the school had weathered many storms and recalled how teachers made efforts despite the constraints under which they worked. “During our time, we saw sheets getting replaced with makeshift tin roofs. We studied under these roofs in the late 1990s and the condition was quite bad. During the monsoon, the whole school would get flooded and the roofs would often get damaged due to strong winds. Things don’t seem to have changed. We did not get to see a new building while we studied there, and after all these years, generations of students after us are stuck in the same circumstances,” said Qureshi, who lives near the school.He added that locals had high hopes for the Aam Aadmi Party. “When the government came to power, we thought that the school will finally get a building. However, nothing has happened so far,” he said.The right to educationWaseem Siddiqui, an activist and Delhi resident, said that a proper school building is essential. “In line with the Right to Education (RTE) Act, the school needs a campus. The rights of children are important over other considerations. Urgent attention is needed towards the issue since the issue has remained unresolved over the years. The school has not received any attention from the government despite the court order,” said Siddiqui.HT contacted the DDA and the Delhi government multiple times for their comments, but they have not responded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-five-decades-after-demolition-urdu-medium-school-still-awaits-a-new-building-101625721803968.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||In 15 years, Mumbai doctor gives 17-year-old Kolkata boy new lease of life twice||A Mumbai doctor has removed a coconut-sized stone weighing 1 kilogram from an augmented (enlarged) urinary bladder of a 17-year-old Kolkata resident. As the boy is an orphan, the surgery was done for free on compassionate grounds.This is for the second time that Dr Rajiv Redkar gave Reuben Sheikha new lease of life.Sheikh was born with an exposed urinary bladder and a malformed penis. He suffered from Exstrophy-Epispadias Complex (EEC) which is a rare condition, found in 1 in 100,000 live births. The biggest complication in such cases is that the exposed bladder can’t store urine or function normally, resulting in urine leakage.Almost 15 years ago, when Dr Redkar practised at Wadia hospital, he treated the boy for EEC. He had performed a bladder augmentation—an operation performed to increase the size of the bladder and Mitrofanoff Procedure which creates a new tube on a child’s belly through which a child can urinate by using a catheter.Also Read | Mumbai University teachers hold protest, demand health insurance, other benefits“The tube was made from the appendix, and it connected the bladder to a small hole created in the belly button. However, after his treatment, he went back to Kolkata and did not follow up,” said Dr Redkar who currently works as a consultant paediatric surgeon, SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim-Fortis Associate.Last month, Dr Redkar got a call from the boy who was experiencing severe discomfort, pain and inability to control urination. The teenager travelled 2,000kms and landed at Dr Redkar’s clinic with a local guardian.On June 30, Dr Redkar along with Dr Suresh Bhagat, consultant urologist and Dr Asmita Mahajan, consultant neonatologist from SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim, performed a surgery where they removed a large calcium oxalate stone from his bladder which was almost 13.4” in length and weighed a kilogram. Later, they reconstructed his augmented urinary bladder which was a challenging procedure, said the doctors.“Reuben has responded to the surgery extremely well. His kidneys are well protected and functioning fine. Such a case needs long-term management of the condition with regular follows and check-ups,” said Dr Redkar.“The boy travelled with a local guardian without any money. If left untreated, it could have proved fatal. So, when the hospital was informed about the case, they agreed to treat him free of cost to save his life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctor-removes-1kg-stone-from-teenager-s-urinary-bladder-101625719224134.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University teachers hold protest, demand health insurance, other benefits||Academic staff of the University of Mumbai (MU) held a protest at the Kalina campus, demanding life insurance and promotion.Members of the University of Mumbai Academic Staff Association (UMASA) demanded medical group insurance and general insurance, timely promotions under the Career Advancement System (CAS), opening of National Pension Scheme accounts, investigation into funds misused by the university that were issued by the Rashtriya Uchatar Shikshya Abhiyan (RUSA). Other demands include an audit of the finance department of the university and that teachers from reserved categories be treated well.Also Read | Schools in no-Covid zones can reopen for classes 8 to 12 starting July 15“We the teachers’ union, are putting our demands in a democratic way but unfortunately the university administration is not responding to our demands. Therefore, we are left with no alternative but to resort to agitation,” said Balaji Kendre, general secretary of UMASA.University’s pro vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni did not respond to calls and messages.Kendre said that if the demands of the teachers are not met, they will be forced to hold an agitation at the Fort and Kalina campuses again on July 13. After that, from July 20, teachers will continue to protest until their demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-teachers-hold-protest-demand-health-insurance-other-benefits-101625718443918.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare: Alleged Hiran killer seeks bail over ‘illegal detention’||Manish Soni, one of the alleged killers of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran who was linked with the Antilia bomb scare case, has moved a bail plea before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, contending that he has been illegally detained as he was not produced before the special court on Tuesday on completion of his NIA custody period.Soni was arrested on June 17, along with Satish Mothkuri and former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma. According to NIA, Soni made a confession statement on Saturday before a metropolitan magistrate. Earlier, he had been sent to judicial custody by the magistrate court itself. His NIA custody ended on Tuesday, whereby NIA was required to produce him before the court for further remand. However, the NIA informed the special court that Soni had been remanded to judicial custody by the magistrate. The agency therefore pleaded to the special NIA court to pass an order remanding him to judicial custody.Also Read | Mumbai housing society vaccination fraud: Fifth accused brought from MPSoni’s lawyer Rahul Arote has objected to this, claiming it to be a case of illegal detention. He has now moved a bail plea for Soni as he was not produced before the NIA court for authorising his further custody. The plea is slated to be heard on July 17.On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. On March 5, Hiran – the owner of the SUV – was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.NIA has claimed that, Soni, Mothkuri and two others arrested in the case had killed Hiran and dumped his body in the creek near Mumbra.The murder, NIA claimed, was part of larger conspiracy and committed at the behest of former policemen Sachin Waze and Sharma. Besides Waze and Sharma, dismissed Mumbai police officers Riyazuddin Kazi and Sunil Mane had also been arrested in connection with the bomb scare case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-alleged-hiran-killer-seeks-bail-over-illegal-detention-101625717363977.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Another hot day ahead; mercury may drop slightly||The national Capital is likely to have another heatwave day on Thursday, as per forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, forecasters say that the maximum temperature is expected to drop slightly from today, which may bring relief from the ongoing heatwave conditions in the city. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 42.6 degrees Celsius (°C), six degrees above normal for this time of the year. According to IMD forecast, on Thursday also, the day temperature is likely to hover around 41°C. In the plains, heatwave days are classified as when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C.Scientists said that the maximum temperature is likely to subside now that the monsoon is gradually progressing over the northwest region, including Delhi. “By Friday, there are chances of thundershowers, which will intensify on July 10-11. Hence, a further drop in the day temperature is expected by July 10, bringing much relief from the soaring heat and humidity,” said a senior IMD official. The IMD had on Monday revised the dates for monsoon arrival in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. So, this year is likely to make a record in terms of the most delayed onset over Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-another-hot-day-ahead-mercury-may-drop-slightly-101625713583687.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||End of era in Himachal as Congress leader Virbhadra Singh passes away||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and veteran Congress leader Virbhadra Singh, who was hospitalised at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, passed away after a cardiac arrest around 3.30am on Thursday. He was 87.“He passed away this morning and his family members were beside him,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janakraj Pakhretia.Also read: Raja Sahib who ruled hearts for 50 years loses last battleVirbhadra Singh was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of IGMC and was put on ventilator support on Monday night after he suffered a heart attack. He was undergoing treatment in the cardiology department since April 23.On April 13, he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was taken to Max Hospital in Mohali. He was discharged after treatment on April 23 but on his arrival in Shimla, he developed breathing difficulty and was admitted to IGMC.Virbhadra Singh contracted the coronavirus infection again on June 11 and recovered.He turned 87 on June 23.Virbhadra Singh, a nine-time MLA and five-time member of Parliament, was Himachal Pradesh’s chief minister for six terms since 1983. Singh also remained the leader of Opposition from March 1998 to March 2003.He represented Arki constituency in Solan district in the present state assembly.His wife Pratibha Singh and son Vikramaditya Singh are also politicians. Pratibha is a former MP from Mandi, while Vikramaditya is the sitting MLA from Shimla Rural.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda, who visited Virbhadra Singh recently in hospital, expressed condolences, a BJP spokesperson said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/end-of-era-in-himachal-as-congress-leader-virbhadra-singh-passes-away-101625711603489.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Raja Sahib who ruled hearts for 50 years loses last battle||A scion of the Rampur-Bushahr royal family, Virbhadra Singh or Raja Sahib as he was known, didn’t rule a kingdom, but the hearts of the people of Himachal Pradesh for nearly six decades. The six-time chief minister, nine-time state legislator and five-time member of Parliament, passed away at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla on Thursday. Part of the older generation of the Congress, he began his political career at 27 with the Lok Sabha elections in 1962. He went on to serve as a member of Parliament for four more terms, though not successive, in 1967, 1971, 1980 and 2009. Also read: Virbhadra Singh, former Himachal Pradesh CM and Congress leader, passes awaySeasoned at Centre, back to state His first stint as chief minister was in 1983 and lasted till 1990 when he was succeeded by Shanta Kumar of the BJP. In 1983, the Congress high command was considering a change of guard in Himachal Pradesh as the government helmed by Ram Lal Thakur was in the eye of a storm for sheltering the forest mafia. A loyalist of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, Thakur was appointed Andhra Pradesh governor. It was easy to shunt him out but difficult to find an acceptable replacement. The state Congress was divided into a camp loyal to Thakur and the other opposed to him led by Sukh Ram, who was keen to become chief minister. Virbhadra successfully contested the byelections from Thakur’s turf of Jubbal Kotkhai in 1983 and 1985 and won over his loyalists, forcing him to float the Him Jan Kranti Morcha that merged with the Janata Dal. Though Thakur defeated Virbhadra from Jubbal Kotkhai, Virbhadra survived by winning from Rohru. Such was his popularity that he was re-elected chief minister in 1993, 2003 and 2012. He also won the Lok Sabha election in 2009 and served as Union minister of steel and later as minister of micro, small and medium enterprises. Fighting battles, winning warsVirbhadra survived nearly every curve ball thrown his way, including corruption charges and waning influence within the party. He fought off threats by many a party rival. Sukh Ram posed a formidable challenge. The Congress had won 52 of the 68 assembly seats in 1993. Sukh Ram, close to then Prime Minister Narasimha Rao, was still keen to become CM. He had the support of 22 legislators but Virbhadra, known for his political acumen, secured the backing of 29 MLAs along with five independents to stake claim to power, forcing then Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, who was sent as an observer by the high command, to do a rethink. Virbhadra regained a foothold after Sukh Ram’s name cropped up in the telecom scam. In 1998, Sukh Ram again threw the gauntlet at Virbhadra after floating the Himachal Vikas Congress that won five seats and helped the BJP wrest control under Prem Kumar Dhumal on March 24. The Virbhadra Singh government resigned following the withdrawal of support by the lone independent MLA. The assembly election, held along with the Lok Sabha poll, threw up a hung House. Unmatched popularity None of the state leaders from his party or the rival BJP were a match to Virbhadra’s public connect. Affectionate, he listened to people with compassion. “Meri janata meri sabsay badhi takat hai (People are my biggest strength),” he would say in his speeches. Such was his public appeal that he would never campaign in his own constituency after filing his nomination papers yet he would win comfortably. His trusted lieutenants managed his constituency, while he would tour the state, leading the Congress campaign. Rough patch in sunset years Though Virbhadra weathered many a storm, outwitting rivals from Anand Sharma to Vidya Stokes and outmanouevring even the Congress high command simply because he was popular and could keep his flock together, he hit a rough patch in the sunset years of his political career when he was faced with charges of financial irregularities. Sharma often asserted his proximity to the Gandhi family but Virbhadra didn’t allow him to find a toehold in state politics. Though Stokes was given the sobriquet, Indira Gandhi of Himachal, she remained the state party chief and could not fulfil Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s aspiration to see her as chief minister. The high command chose Stokes as the leader of the opposition but Virbhadra was back in control in 1993. Even former state party chief Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu tried to pose a challenge but eventually, Virbhadra prevailed. His popularity forced the party high command to send him back to state and he replaced Kaul Singh Thakur as the state Congress chief and steered the party to victory in the 2012 assembly elections. Virbhadra spent most of the time in his last tenure as CM shuttling between Delhi and Shimla, battling money laundering charges. He eventually fell out with the high command. His worries compounded when he was forced to quit as Union minister as allegations of laundering disproportionate assets by investing in LIC policies surfaced. While serving as a Union minister from May 28, 2009, to June 26, 2012, the Enforcement Directorate accused him of investing huge amounts in LIC policies in his own name and that of his family members through an agent who was later jailed. The Central Bureau of investigation also chargesheeted Virbhadra, his wife Pratibha and others in the matter though he denied the allegations. Personal journey and legacy Born on June 23, 1934, Virbhadra was educated at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehradun, St Edward’s School, Shimla, and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, before he graduated in English honours from St Stephen’s College, Delhi. He was married to Ratna Kumari in 1954 and had four daughters. He remarried in 85 and his wife, Pratibha Singh, went on to represent Mandi parliamentary constituency. Their son, Vikramaditya Singh, is the MLA from Shimla Rural, and daughter Aparajita is married to Angad Singh, the grandson of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raja-sahib-who-ruled-hearts-for-50-years-loses-last-battle-101625707463429.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||120 city hospitals have O2 facilities within premises: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi government on Monday informed the Delhi high court that of the 135 private hospitals in the city with more than 50 beds, 120 have installed oxygen generation devices such as pressure swing adsorption plants and liquid medical oxygen tanks within their premises, and data on 15 others is awaited.On May 20, the high court nudged the city government and the hospital authorities for their failure to set up oxygen generation plants even as a devastating second wave of Covid-19 was sweeping through the Capital, overwhelming the medical infrastructure and leading to an acute shortage of medical oxygen across hospitals. The court said as the demand for medical oxygen in Delhi has gone up by nearly five times the normal consumption, it was time to make provisions so as to reduce dependence on outside sources, if a similar situation were to arise in the future.The Delhi government on May 28 directed the owners and management of hospitals to take steps to avert an oxygen crisis.The government directed hospitals with 100 beds or more to install PSA/refilling plants and create other necessary infrastructure with sufficient capacity to produce at twice their normal requirement of oxygen.Hospitals with 50 to 99 beds were told to set up PSA/refilling plants to meet at least their normal requirement of oxygen and those with 50 beds were asked to augment their infrastructure and add capacities.The government told the hospitals and nursing homes to provide a timeline for setting up these facilities by June 5.On Wednesday, in a status report filed through additional standing counsel Satyakam, the Delhi government informed a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that 15 hospitals did not respond despite the deadline being extended till June 11.During the hearing, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that they have created storage capacity for buffer oxygen and 171 tanks have been installed. He added that another 150 are being set up.The court was hearing a bunch of pleas including one from lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking better facilities to manage the Covid crisis in the city.During the proceedings, the bench also directed the Centre to file a status report on availability of Liposomal Amphotericin B and other drugs, used for treating patients of black fungus which primarily affects those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease.“If we are preparing for the third wave of Covid-19, we need to see the arrangement for it,” it said, asking the Centre to indicate the status of quantities of Liposomal Amphotericin-B actually imported and the outstanding supplies along with its domestic production. The court also asked the Centre to file a status report on export, production and stocks of remdesivir, which is used for treatment of Covid symptoms.The court posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/120-city-hospitals-have-o2-facilities-within-premises-delhi-govt-to-hc-101625697210577.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal inaugurates first genome sequencing lab at Lok Nayak hospital||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in the presence of health minister Satyender Jain, inaugurated the first laboratory under the Delhi government to sequence genomes of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 at the Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday. The lab, which has one sequencing machine, will start with eight to ten samples a day and expand the capacity to test more than 40 samples per day.“We hear about new variants emerging in news every day. So far, we were dependent on Centre’s NCDC lab to sequence the samples. Now, Lok Nayak will also sequence the Covid-19 virus and look for variants that are causing the infections in the city. This will help us frame a strategy to tackle the problem,” said Kejriwal at the inauguration.The other lab, which can test up to 400 samples a week, will be inaugurated on Thursday at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The lab has two machines for genomic sequencing that were used for other viral research so far.“Currently, the researchers are working on standardising the data, after which the capacity will be increased to 40 to 50 samples a day,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director at Lok Nayak hospital.The labs together aim to sequence 5% of the samples that return positive in the RT-PCR test to keep an eye on concerning mutations that might lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases in future. So far, Delhi depended on the labs at National Centre for Disease Control and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, that are part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG).“With the Central labs sequencing samples from across the country, there was always a delay of two to three weeks in getting results of the samples sent for sequencing. At the beginning of the year, when the UK variant was first detected, our hospital was the designated centre for isolating such cases and it took long to get their reports,” said Dr Kumar. Lok Nayak had admitted 140 patients with UK variant in its special isolation ward. The hospital did not receive any patient who contracted the South African or Brazilian variant of Covid-19.The hospital has formed an inter-department committee that will refer random samples and samples of patients with atypical symptoms for genomic sequencing.“If we receive Covid-19 cases where the symptoms are different or the patient is taking long to recover, the samples will be sent for sequencing in addition to random sampling of admitted patients from within the hospital. We will also receive samples from the districts for sampling,” said Dr Kumar.The districts currently send some samples of mild, moderate, and severe Covid-19 cases, along with cases of re-infection, and infection after vaccination to INSACOG for sampling. The two labs by Delhi government will now share the load of testing samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-inaugurates-first-genome-sequencing-lab-at-lok-nayak-hospital-101625696917470.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Vasant Vihar murder: Help’s statement helped cops nab killers within 24 hours||It was planned less than two hours before it happened, but it was still supposed to be a perfect robbery and murder.The three men were so confident that they would find the elderly woman, Kitty Kumarmangalam, alone that they did not even bother to carry weapons with them. But at 8.10 pm on Tuesday, when the three men entered the flat, the door was opened by Kitty’s recently hired domestic help, Mithila, 33.To make sure there were no loose ends, they strangulated Mithila with a belt, and left her for dead. But she was only unconscious; she regained her senses about an hour later and it was her statement that helped the police zero in on two of three killers within 24 hours of the murder and robbery.“The three men, Raju Kanojia, Rakesh Kumar and Suraj, were drunk and believed they had successfully pulled off the heist. Before leaving the building, Raju even checked if Mithila was breathing. Maybe, he was drunk and failed to notice her faint breath. Had Mithila not survived, it would have taken us more time to catch the murderers,” one of the investigating officers, who asked not to be named, said.Police said the three assumed that both Kitty and Mithila were dead; they divided the loot among them and returned to their lives as if nothing had happened. Raju was asleep when police came knocking on his doors around 3am Wednesday. The second arrested man, Rakesh Raj, reported for work at the ministry of external affairs office on Wednesday morning, where he works as a contractual driver.“Rakesh went for work as usual and was returning home to Munirka in the afternoon when we arrested him. He could not believe Mithila had survived,” the investigation officer quote above said.Police officers privy to the probe said Kitty hired Mithila only a few days ago. Police suspect that Raju may not have seen Mithila when he last visited the flat to collect clothes for laundering. Mithila also did not know Raju and could only share with police the basic details about Raju and his two friends. Suddenly, every laundryman in the colony was a murder suspect.A SLEEPLESS NIGHT FOR LAUNDRYMEN OF VASANT VIHAR In Block A of Vasant Vihar, there are at least 10-12 laundrymen, who collect clothes from homes for ironing or washing. While some such as Geeta Ram,74, run their shop from the lanes in the block and also live there, others live in the nearby Bhanwar Singh camp -- a small slum settlement next to the bungalows of Vasant Vihar. There are several embassies in the block, including the embassy of the Republic of Lebanon, which is right next to Kitty’s flat.Geeta Ram said, “Police initially did not know who Raju was and so they picked up several laundrymen for questioning. I was also taken to the police station. There I saw several others who work in Block A. Although police did not abuse or harass us, it was still troubling as until Raju was arrested, we were all suspects.”Another laundryman, who asked not to be named, said inside the police station, around midnight on Tuesday, they were busy calling their friends and fellow laundrymen to help the police find Raju. “ All our life, we have lived there. Geeta Ram ji has lived here for over 50 years. Most of the upscale residents treat us like family and we visit their homes regularly to do the laundry and ironing. Now because of one incident, we are all under a cloud of suspicion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vasant-vihar-murder-help-s-statement-helped-cops-nab-killers-within-24-hours-101625694751542.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Wife of former Union minister murdered in her Vasant Vihar house||Kitty Kumarmangalam, 70, wife of former Union minister P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, was murdered at her house in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar on Tuesday night, allegedly by her laundryman and his two accomplices, Delhi Police said on Wednesday, after arresting two of the three suspects.Kitty lived alone in a second floor flat in Vasant Vihar’s A block. Her late husband served as the minister of state for law, justice and company affairs in the PV Narasimha Rao government between 1991 and 1993, and as Union minister for power in the Vajpayee government from 1998 to 2000.Police identified the two arrested men as Raju Lakhan Kanojia, 24, the laundryman, and Rakesh Kumar Raj, 34, a contractual driver with a central ministry. The third alleged accomplice, Suraj, identified only by his first name, also a driver, is yet to be arrested. Police said robbery was the motive and the plan was hatched just a few hours before the murder.The three men also strangled Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila,33, with a belt and left the house believing her to be dead after she fell unconscious. After coming back to her senses, Mithila alerted neighbours, who informed the police control room.Also read | Vasant Vihar murder: Help’s statement helped cops nab killers within 24 hoursPolice said prime suspect Kanojia was known to Kitty as he did her laundry for the past five years. He visited the house once every few days to collect clothes.Around 6.30pm, exactly an hour and forty minutes before the three men entered Kitty’s flat, Raju called his two friends and asked them to join him for drinks. Police investigation shows that Raju reached PVR Priya Market in Vasant Vihar on his scooter, where Rakesh and Suraj joined him. Police have found CCTV footage showing the suspects at the market.“They bought three bottles of strong beer and drank it. Then, Raju bought a bottle of whisky and drank in a corner of the market. It was during this drinking session that Raju told them about an elderly woman (Kitty), who lived alone in a “posh” flat. He knew she was the wife of a former minister and may have seen the woman open her locker when he went to collect clothes. He said he could pull off the heist by murdering the woman without any resistance. He shared his plan with his friends and they decided to immediately execute it,” said an investigating officer, who asked not to be named.Around 8pm, the three rode together on Raju’s scooter’s to Kitty’s house. Nobody stopped them on the way. “Everyone in the colony knew Raju; he did the laundry and ironing in most houses there,” said Geeta Ram,74, another laundryman, who irons clothes in a lane near Kitty’s house.The CCTV camera outside the house shows Raju and his two friends entering the building. “At 8.10pm, Raju rang the doorbell and Mithila opened the door. Mithali told us that on hearing the doorbell, Kitty came out of her bedroom to see two new faces with Raju. She objected and asked Raju about them,” another investigating officer, who spoke to Mithila, said.Before the two women could raise the alarm, the three suspects overpowered both Kitty and Mithila. Police said Suraj slapped Mithila and took her to one of the bedrooms, where he strangled her with a belt. In the other room of the three-bedroom flat, Raju and Rakesh pinned Kitty to the floor. Suraj, who thought he had killed Mithila, walked in and they used a pillow to smother Kitty. Police later found her on the bedroom floor.“She must have died on the spot. They ransacked the house, took about ₹2.5 lakh cash, some jewellery and a small safety locker. At 9.10pm, they exited the building, got on the scooter and rode to Nelson Mandela Marg. Hiding in the bushes there, they divided the money (about ₹80,000 each) among them and broke open the locker. They found nothing valuable inside; it only had some papers, which they threw on the road. We have recovered these. Then, they went to their homes,” a third investigator said, requesting anonymity.Around the same time, police said, Mithila regained consciousness.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police(south west), said Mithila called her husband and also alerted the security guards, who informed the police control room at 10.10pm. The neighbours informed Kitty’s daughter, Ruchira, who lives in Gurugram and son R Mohan, who lives in Bengaluru.“The most independent and powerful woman I knew, the one who taught me right from wrong, who raised me to be who I am, who suffered through my pain, laughed loudest for my joy, loved me unconditionally, left this realm on the date she gave birth to me. 6pm,Lodhi crematorium,” Mohan Kumaramangalam tweeted on Wednesday.A police team reached the flat and found Kitty unconscious on the floor, and the room ransacked. Police took the two women to Safdarjung hospital, where Kitty was declared brought dead. At the hospital, Mithila told police about what had happened.“Mithila told us about the laundryman who had come to the flat. Based on her statement, we checked multiple CCTV cameras, spoke to other laundrymen in the area and located Raju’s address in Bhanwar Singh camp in Vasant Vihar. He was arrested. His accomplice was also arrested on Wednesday morning. We have recovered the cash and the stolen locker from Raju’s house,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wife-of-former-union-minister-murdered-in-her-vasant-vihar-house-101625694744482.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for killing two relatives with dumbbell in Palam Vihar||A day after a woman and her son were found murdered in their home in southwest Delhi’s Palam area, the police on Wednesday arrested the woman’s nephew for the crime.Police said the accused, Abhishek Verma (33), a resident of northwest Delhi’s Burari, allegedly killed his aunt Babita Verma (52) and her son Gaurav (27) at their home on Tuesday evening. Police said that in order to evade suspicion, Abhishek was present during the post-mortem of the bodies, and was detained from outside the mortuary.“ Verma alleged his aunt used to taunt and mentally torture him and his family to return ₹50,000 that they had taken for his sister’s marriage in 2019,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.Babita’s husband Krishan Swaroop (55), who works as an accountant with the Indian Air Force at Palam, was not home at the time of the incident. He informed the Palam village police station about the murders after he found his wife and son lying in a pool of blood.After registering an FIR, a police team started scanning the CCTV footage of the area and found a man leaving Babita’s house in an e-rickshaw, wearing blood-stained clothes. “Around 12pm on Wednesday, the police team traced the e-rickshaw, which the suspect had taken to leave from the woman’s house. The driver of the e-rickshaw said he had dropped a person, who had blood stains on his face and clothes, near Dashratpuri metro station,” said the DCP.“The driver told police that he had refused to accept the soiled currency notes that the suspect gave him, following which he was paid ₹30 using a mobile payment application. The account linked to the payment was traced to Verma,” said a senior police officer.Police said Verma had visited his aunt’s house on Sunday when an argument broke out over money. “On Tuesday, he went to their house with the intention of killing both the mother and the son. He reached Dashratpuri metro station on a two-wheeler, took an e-rickshaw from there and went to his aunt’s house. He was even carrying extra clothes with him. After killing them, he took the DVR attached to the CCTV camera and fled. When he was coming downstairs, he left open the cupboard open to give an impression that it was a robbery,” Singh said.“Babita kept on pestering and verbally abused Abhishek who, in a fit of rage, killed her. Later, he killed Gaurav as he had seen him killing his mother. Both of them were bludgeoned to death with dumbbells,” said Singh.The family lived in a three-storey bungalow and an army hawaldar lived on the ground floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-killing-two-relatives-with-dumbbell-in-palam-vihar-101625694295425.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Another heatwave day in Delhi, but IMD says relief in sight||Delhi continued to reel under the ongoing heatwave with the maximum temperature, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), reaching 42.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, six degrees above normal for this time of the year. However, forecasters said relief is in sight as the mercury is likely to drop by at least two degrees from Thursday onwards.IMD data shows that Delhi experienced a spell of heatwave from June 29 to July 2 with the day temperature rising to as high as 43.5°C on June 30, seven degrees above normal which the IMD classifies as a ‘severe heatwave day’. However, thunderstorm and light showers on July 2 brought the mercury down, pulling the city out of the heatwave spell. From July 4, the city has been again experiencing heatwave-like conditions with the maximum temperature remaining above the 40°C-mark.In the plains, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C or when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees or above from the normal temperatures.“The mercury is likely to subside Thursday onwards and so will the level of discomfort people are facing right now,” said a senior IMD official.On Monday, the IMD revised the dates for the arrival of monsoon in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10. According to the Met department, this will be the most delayed monsoon in at least the last 17 years. The last time the monsoon had arrived this late was on July 9, 2006.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, said on Thursday, the maximum temperature is likely to drop by at least two degrees. By Friday, there are chances of thundershowers, which will intensify on July 10-11 in what could be called the “most delayed” monsoon in recent years. Hence, a further drop in the day temperature is expected by July 10, bringing much relief from the soaring heat and humidity.“This has been by far the most delayed monsoon in almost two decades. Now, that the monsoon trough is slowly progressing over northwest India, a drop in temperature is likely. Thundershowers are likely to intensify and bring in rainfall by July 10, with the day temperature likely to drop to around 35°C,” said Palawat.He further said so far, Delhi has been experiencing a combination of soaring heat and high humidity. “On Thursday, even if humidity is high on account of south easterly winds coming from the Bay of Bengal, the drop in temperature will bring some respite, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-heatwave-day-in-delhi-but-imd-says-relief-in-sight-101625693501429.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges North MCD not distributing mid-day meals||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi municipal corporation has failed to distribute mid-day meal ration to about 350,000 children in around 700 schools.“It is surprising that in the North MCD, not even a single child has been given dry ration under the mid-day meal scheme. It is very shameful that about 3.5 lakh students in about 700 schools are not receiving ration. The North MCD, that was supposed to distribute 2,924 tons of ration, has failed to distribute even 1 kg of it,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj, addressing a press conference.“In the schools run by the Delhi government and the MCDs, mid-day meals are served to the young children. However, due to Covid-19, all schools have remained shut. So, the Delhi government took this initiative to give the children their due share in the form of dry ration by calling their parents and giving it to them. In this regard, all the schools run by the Delhi government made sure to give dry ration to their students last year. This practice is being carried out this year as well,” said Bhardwaj.The Delhi BJP, however, said that the civic body has already dispatched dry ration to most of its schools and that students will start receiving it in four-five days.“The North MCD last distributed dry ration to school students in March 2021, after which agreement with the NGO distributing the mid-day meal lapsed and new arrangements took time due to the lockdown. After this new agreement, dry ration in lieu of mid-day meal will be distributed every month,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“Bhardwaj should first ensure distribution of dry ration in Delhi government schools before accusing the North MCD. Even in Saurabh Bhardwaj’s own GK Assembly constituency, dry ration distribution is erratic,” he added.North MCD officials did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-alleges-north-mcd-not-distributing-mid-day-meals-101625693942875.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Police bust call centres duping US citizens, arrest 95, detain 2||Ninety-five people, including 19 women, were arrested for allegedly running two fraud call centres in Delhi’s Kirti Nagar and Mangolpuri from where they contacted the US citizens impersonating as officials of the country’s social security administration and duped them of their money by threatening to revoke their social security number (SSN), police said on Wednesday.The alleged suspects were using illegal techniques, VOIP calling, bypassing the legal international long distance (ILD) gateways for cheating the US citizens. A total of 82 computers, five laptops, 84 mobile phones and 48 identity cards were seized from the two call centres following simultaneous raids conducted at both the premises by teams of the crime branch on Tuesday night. Two minor boys working as tele-callers at the Mangolpuri call centre were also apprehended, the police said.This is the second such operation carried out by the Delhi Police in less than a fortnight against fraud call centres involved in cheating the US citizens. On June 24, 84 people were arrested for allegedly running an illegal call centre and duping thousands of the US citizens of their money by posing as employees of a leading e-commerce company and offering assistance in solving technical issues regarding the company’s services. Ninety-three laptops, four computers and two SUVs were seized along with ₹64.30 lakh from the arrested persons.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Manoj C said in the latest raids both the call centres were running for the past three to four months. The exact number of the US citizens cheated by the arrested persons and the total amount is still being ascertained. The fraudsters were running the call centres in the garb of a travel agency ’The Global Airfares’.Explaining the modus operandi, the DCP said the mastermind and other key players of the racket obtained the database of the US citizens through their contacts, whom they call “blockers”, based abroad. The database having details of the citizens such as their names, social security numbers, addresses and contact numbers, were given to the tele-callers, who are trained in speaking English with the American accent .The tele-callers contacted the US citizens by impersonating the officials of the US Social Security Administration and intimidated them that their social security number will be revoked because of some fraudulent transactions detected by the department. They tricked the citizens into buying online gift cards of an amount ranging between 100 US dollars to 1,000 US dollars and obtained their coupon codes and the PIN codes from them, said DCP Manoj C.“The gift card was considered a security deposit till the alleged investigation into the fraudulent transaction and verification of the antecedents of the SSN card holder was over. The fraudsters used to pass on the coupon code and passwords to the blockers, who redeemed them and transferred the amount to the fraudsters through hawala channels or by transferring cryptocurrency into their accounts,” said the DCP.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar said the crime branch teams first raided the fake call centre running in a rented building in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar around 8.30 pm on Tuesday, where 25 tele-callers were busy calling US citizens.“We arrested 30 people, two team leaders – Amit Kumar and Chandrahas Patel – and the manager, Narendra Mishra. The owner of the call centre, Amit Tyagi was also among the arrested persons,” said Kumar.Tyagi’s interrogation, the joint CP said, revealed that he ran a similar call centre in Mangolpuri as well. Another team conducted a raid and caught 67 people, including two juveniles, from the call centre named ‘TeleOne E-commerce Agency’.“We asked Amit Tyagi to produce the licence and other documents for running the call centre but he could not produce any documents. A case of impersonation, cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered and further investigation is on,” added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-bust-call-centres-duping-us-citizens-arrest-95-detain-2-101625693278311.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab industry cries foul as power shutdown extended by a day||Manufacturers in Punjab on Wednesday condemned the decision of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to extend the three-day shutdown on industrial units by a day. With a number of industrialists willing to pay penalties to keep their units running, the corporation also increased the fine for violation of orders by as much as two-and-a-half times. Also, a delegation of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and other bodies from various parts of the state met the PSPCL managing director (MD) seeking a breather, but to no avail. CII (Punjab) vice chairman Amit Thapar said the situation has turned from bad to worse. “There were many industrialists who in the absence of power back-up wished to operate and were willing to pay penalties to save export orders from being cancelled. They were threatened by PSPCL officials that their supply will be snapped,” said Thapar. Shingora Textiles managing director Mridula Jain said, “Since Europe and the US are opening up now, the buyers are placing orders at the last minute. But with factories non-functional, the delayed shipments are to be shipped by air at our cost or we run the factories on generators incurring a daily expense of ₹2.5 lakh.” The PSPCL had earlier announced power regulatory measure with three weekly-off days for general industry (large scale), rolling mills, arc and induction furnaces consumers from July 7 to July 10. With the fresh extension, the industries will now be shut till 8am on July 11. Corporation MD A Venu Prasad said the power situation is “tight” in view of the prolonged dry spell, increase in demand of power from agriculture sector and the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) units going out of operation. “Rain is expected on Sunday and we hope we will soon be out of this situation. We are not imposing any domestic cuts and hope to give a breather to the industry soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-industry-cries-foul-as-power-shutdown-extended-by-a-day-101625690362298.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of assets: Pearls group owner Bhangoo’s daughter held from Delhi airport||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) on Wednesday arrested Barinder Kaur, an accused in a case involving alleged illegal sale of properties of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, despite a Supreme Court stricture. The officials said that Barinder Kaur, daughter of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, was reportedly leaving for the US when she was detained by the authorities at Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, on the basis of a Look Out Circular (LOC) issued by the Punjab Police. “Delhi airport authorities intimated Punjab Police and a police team was sent to take Barinder in custody on Tuesday evening. Barinder was produced before a Ferozepur court and sent to a day’s police remand,” official sources privy to matter said. On May 28, Barinder’s husband Har Satinder Singh Hayer, also an accused, was arrested in the case and the SIT also filed a chargesheet against him. As many as 57 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangoo, were booked on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Zira police station in July last year. In April this year, the SIT filed a chargesheet against multiple accused in a Ferozepur court, saying despite the SC’s 2016 stricture, the PACL and its associate companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-assets-pearls-group-owner-bhangoo-s-daughter-held-from-delhi-airport-101625689642574.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Blazing sun no deterrent to BSF jawans manning barbed fence along Indo-Pak border||At 1pm, the sun was blazing hot at 42 degrees Celsius in the Kahangarh border outpost (BoP) area on the India-Pakistan border near Amritsar district’s Attari village on Tuesday. But the soaring temperature was no deterrent to the dedication of the Border Security Force (BSF) jawans manning the barbed-wire fence. Carrying water bottles with guns strapped around their shoulders, every jawan patrols the unpaved dusty road along the fence on foot for nearly 12 hours a day in two shifts, keeping an eagle eye on any suspicious movement across the fence. There is a lack of greenery along the border and the mercury sometimes touches 45 degrees here, but these troops’ willpower in guarding the sensitive border remains as high as ever. “After joining the force, we undergo special training for some months. The training not only makes us physically strong, but also equips us mentally to stay determined. Though we are also allowed to patrol on jeeps and motorcycles, we prefer to do it on foot given the sensitivity of the area,” said a head constable patrolling the fence. The company commandant, who took the HT team along to the border outpost, said they are responsible for manning the 5.5-km long area, including parts of the rail track connecting the two countries. “We have 80 personnel, including some women, who are deployed for 24x7 patrolling. Those patrolling the fence are from the ranks of the constable to assistant sub-inspector (ASI). Our jawans keep a strict vigil by using binoculars are from seven observation posts in the area. I never came across an incident when a jawan expressed unwillingness to go out citing severe heat,” he says. “When an alert is sounded, more jawans are sent from the headquarters for patrolling and sentinel duty. We have four horses for patrol and two sniffer dogs,” he adds. With the paddy season going on, several jawans are deployed across the fence and before the zero line when farmers go to their fields in the area for sowing the crop. These jawans stay with the farmers from 10am to 5pm. “The jawans are deployed to ensure the farmers’ safety. We ensure the farmers and labourers don’t cross the zero line. We thoroughly search the farmers and their vehicles during their entry and exit from the fencing gates,” says head constable Ram Das Sharma, who is posted as a sentinel. Another jawan demanded that scanners be installed along the fence to check vehicles to save time. When it rains, the dusty unpaved road along the fence turns marshy, making it difficult for the personnel to patrol the area. The company commandant says, “We have special rain suits and shoes for our jawans to perform duty. Since the drone sighting incidents are being reported, our jawans remain extra careful. We have issued shoot on sight orders.” Apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat, Punjab shares a 553-km-long frontier with Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blazing-sun-no-deterrent-to-bsf-jawans-manning-barbed-fence-along-indo-pak-border-101625689524688.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Give financial package to industry for losses due to power shutdown: Sukhbir to Capt govt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to announce a financial package to the state industry for the losses suffered due to the current forced shutdown in the wake of power supply mismanagement. In a press statement, the SAD chief said after suffering huge losses due to the Covid lockdown in the last one-and-a-half years, the industrial sector is under shutdown with the government imposing a three-day compulsory off for units besides closing large-scale industries for five days. “This has broken the back of the state industry which is suffering losses of crores of rupees on a daily basis besides losing orders,” he said. Claiming that the CM was directly responsible for this mess as he holds the power portfolio, Sukhbir said required electricity purchases should be made immediately to ensure adequate power for the industrial sector. “Power should also be provided at ₹5 per unit as promised by the chief minister. The industry is currently paying nearly ₹10 per unit,” he said. The SAD chief called for holding a special Vidhan Sabha session to discuss the complete mismanagement of the state power utility. “The PSPCL, which was declared as the best power utility in 2015 during the SAD government-led tenure, is now finding it difficult to even supply adequate electricity to consumers. Rampant corruption, mismanagement and the Congress government’s failure to add a single megawatt of power in more than four years has led to a situation where farmers are not getting adequate supply for sowing paddy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/give-financial-package-to-industry-for-losses-due-to-power-shutdown-sukhbir-to-capt-govt-101625689523366.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||7 Jalandhar hospitals issued notices for not installing PSA oxygen plants||The district administration on Wednesday issued show-cause notices to seven private hospitals in Jalandhar for not installing pressure swing adsorption (PSA)-based oxygen generation plants despite repeated requests. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the erring facilities are Sharanjit Multispeciality Hospital, Kidney Hospital, Sikka Hospital, Oxford Hospital, Ghai Hospital, NeuroNova Hospital, and Caremax Hospital. On the other hand, the Sarvodya Hospital, Maan Medicity, Innocent Hearts Hospital, Johal Hospital, and Military Hospital have initiated the process of installing oxygen plants.“During the second peak of the pandemic, the hospitals were among those where demand for oxygen cylinders was above 50 per day. They were asked to install PSA plants by August. But no efforts were made by these hospitals to set up these plants to meet their oxygen requirement in view of the next wave. A number of hospitals have set up plants to be self-reliant in terms of oxygen,” he added. The administration may even recommend to the health department to cancel their licences as Covid care facilities in case they do not adhere to the guidelines issued by administration, he said. “Also, these hospitals would be held accountable in case of causality amid the third wave if there is a lack of oxygen,” he added. The hospitals having oxygen plants would get priority in the admission of Covid-19 patients in their facilities, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-jalandhar-hospitals-issued-notices-for-not-installing-psa-oxygen-plants-101625689522290.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Book Simarjeet Bains in rape case: Court to Ludhiana cops||Acting on a complaint by a woman who had accused Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains and six others of rape, sexual harassment, destruction of evidence and criminal intimidation, a local court here on Wednesday directed the police to register an FIR in the case. The 45-year-old woman, a widow, had lodged a complaint against the legislator with city police chief Rakesh Agrawal on November 16, 2020. In view of the serious allegations levelled in the complaint, proper and thorough investigation should be carried out by the local police, said the additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh in his order. “The SHO of division number 6 police station is directed to register an FIR in the case without any further delay,” the court added. The court further stated the footage of CCTV cameras installed at various places near the scene of the crime are required to be collected. The woman said that she had approached Bains for help in 2019 in connection with a property issue after her husband’s death. However, she alleged that the MLA took advantage of her situation and raped her inside his office cabin. Bains, on his part, rubbished the allegations, terming them as politically motivated. Accused used political clout, says court The court said it is quite evident from the material on record that the victim is a hapless woman stricken by adversity who was unabashedly exploited. “The police have turned a blind eye as the accused exercised his political clout forcing the victim to knock the doors of the court for justice,” said the court. “The cries of help by a common man against an overbearing and powerful political figure are often found too faint to be heard at some forums. The complainant had been steadfastly pursuing the complaint against all odds and the extraordinary narrative of the sexual exploitation warrants a thorough investigation,” added the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/book-simarjeet-bains-in-rape-case-court-to-ludhiana-cops-101625689463647.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet meets Rajnath, seeks 2 more sainik schools for Punjab||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday met the Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and urged him to approve two more sainik schools in Punjab, citing the state being the most decorated one in India in terms of military honours and gallantry awards. “Punjab has only one sainik school in Kapurthala. The state seeks two more sainik schools — one in Gurdaspur and the other in Bathinda. States like Haryana, Bihar, and Maharashtra have two sainik schools each, while Uttar Pradesh has three,” he said. The Union defence minister assured him of due and adequate action, stating that he personally appreciates the role played by Sikhs and Punjabis in the defence of national security and the defence of India’s social and cultural values. Manpreet also presented a letter by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to the Union minister, stating that the state government has allocated 40 acres of land at Dalla Gorian in Gurdaspur for the sainik school. However, Punjab desires another sainik school in Bathinda. Manpreet also sought defence ministry’s approval and clearance for establishing in Bathinda a modern bus terminus, which is adjacent to the Bathinda military cantonment. Manpreet also invited Rajnath to visit the Punjab War Heroes Memorial and Museum at Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manpreet-meets-rajnath-seeks-2-more-sainik-schools-for-punjab-101625689402393.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Charuni gives ‘mission Punjab’ call, exhorts farmers to fight 2022 polls||Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday called upon the farmers agitating against Centre’s three farm laws to launch ‘mission Punjab’ ahead of assembly elections to form a “kisaan-majdoor sarkaar” in the border state. It is for the first time that Charuni, who has emerged as the prominent face of the agitation in Haryana, has candidly floated the proposal of pursuing political ambitions by turning the ongoing standoff with the Centre into a political movement. Ever since the current seven-and-a half-month-old agitation was launched against the three farm laws (now on the hold) it has united farmers from Punjab and Haryana in massive numbers who have been camping on Haryana-Delhi borders. Charuni’s call for ‘mission Punjab’ is set to give the much-needed ammunition to the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana which has been repeatedly saying that by misleading the farmers in the garb of agitation, some self-styled farmer leaders were chasing a political agenda. “Our adversaries will raise questions over this idea...Why we should stay away from politics...Is politics a sinful field? With what authority those already in politics ask others to stay away from politics,” Charuni said while addressing his supporters through a digital platform on Wednesday from the protest site at Delhi-Haryana border. Earlier, the panel of farm unions that has been spearheading this agitation had decided to start “mission UP” in order to topple the BJP government. Differences have cropped up between Charuni and BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who hails from UP. Now, Charuni wants the farm unions to give top priority to his ‘mission Punjab’ call. According to Charuni, even if farmers as voters succeed in defeating the BJP in the states and at the Centre, there is no guarantee that the new government will fulfil their demands. “You have the capacity to change the governments as 65% of the voters are farmers and labourers. In the past, you changed one government after the another in Haryana also, but your demands were not accepted,” he said, adding the solution now lies in forming a “kisaan-majdoor ki sarkaar”. Asking for putting in place a plan to launch mission Punjab, he urged all the farm unions of Punjab participating in the agitation to unitedly jump into the political battle ground of Punjab and “capture power.” He said: “We have tested all the political parties and now the time has come to form a kisaan-majdoor ki sarkaar and set an example in good governance. People of Punjab want change. Hence, launching mission Punjab is imperative.” In an address lasting about 20 minutes, the Haryana BKU leader, whose political ambitions are not hidden, repeatedly appealed “people of Punjab” and “farmers, farm unions and intellectuals of Punjab” to immediately launch ‘mission Punjab’. “All the political outfits of Punjab will run for cover soon after you start ‘mission Punjab’. This is my guarantee,” he said, asking the farm unions to immediately hold discussions on this subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charuni-gives-mission-punjab-call-exhorts-farmers-to-fight-2022-polls-101625689282281.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Gulshan Kumar murder case: Abdul Rashid Dawood Merchant surrenders to serve life term||A week after the Bombay high court (HC) convicted Mumbra resident Abdul Rashid Dawood Merchant in connection with the murder of T-Series founder and film producer Gulshan Kumar, he surrendered before the sessions court on Wednesday to serve the life sentence.Merchant on Wednesday appeared before the sessions court through his lawyer Ganesh Iyer and surrendered for serving the life term, following which the court took him in the custody and sent him to Arthur Road prison. He would subsequently be shifted to some other central prison.The HC had, on July 1, reversed Merchant’s acquittal and sentenced him to life imprisonment for charges of conspiracy and murder. The bench had directed him to surrender either before the trial court or before DN Nagar police station where the first information report (FIR) was registered in connection with the murder.Accordingly, in his plea, he claimed he came to know about the verdict and appeared before the court to surrender.Kumar was killed by three assailants who shot 16 bullets, killing him on the spot, on August 19, 1997. A total of 19 persons were arrested in connection with the murder. On April 29, 2002, Mumbai sessions court acquitted all except Merchant and sentenced him to life imprisonment.Merchant, who was absconding after the murder, was first arrested in 2001. In March 2009, he jumped parole and went to Bangladesh. He was then arrested from there at the behest of Indian authorities and was brought back in November 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gulshan-kumar-murder-case-abdul-rashid-dawood-merchant-surrenders-to-serve-life-term-101625687841617.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||A first since 2005: Chembur society flooding worries residents||On June 9 this year, when heavy rain caused severe waterlogging across Mumbai, disrupting public life, most ground-floor homes in Chembur’s Sindhi Society were submerged in at least 3-feet deep water and muck, as furniture floated around their rooms, elevators in multi-storey buildings were waterlogged and non-functional for days afterwards, and vehicles parked in residential premises were damaged.In response to the annual monsoon audit conducted by HT on June 23, residents from Sindhi society reached out to HT, sharing similar problems. “There was a little over knee-deep water on the ground floor in my home. A lot of our furniture was damaged, and we had to simply wait for the water to recede from the street and then out of our home. We then picked up buckets, mugs, jars and mops, to dry up our waterlogged rooms,” said Hitesh Rupani, who lives in an independent ground and two-storey in Sindhi society.While residents with homes on higher floors were luckier in this regard, Dutta Wadhone, who lives on the second floor of a seven-storey building, said, “Water did not enter our home luckily, but it submerged the elevator shaft in the high-rise building next to ours. The building's lift was non-functional for four days after June 9, and residents who live on the topmost floors were forced to use the staircase.”Every monsoon, residents of Sindhi Society, which is a colony of over 162 plots, witness waterlogged streets. However, this year is the first time since the deluge of 2005 that water entered most homes, leaving the residents running from pillar to post to ensure it does not repeat.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities, Sindhi Society is located in a low-lying area and is prone to flooding due to its natural topography.A senior civic official from the storm water drains department said, “I have not yet inspected this particular waterlogging spot after June 9. However, over the years, as road level has increased due to repair and resurfacing work, the private premises in this area have naturally become low-lying. BMC has individual plans for mitigating waterlogging in chronic flooding spots. In this case, the Mahul pumping station will bring relief.”Owing to repeated encounters with waterlogging every year, residents have come up with solutions for their houses.Davinder Gupta, who lives in an independent building inside Sindhi Society premises, raised the elevation of his entire house by 4feet, after the 2005 deluge. He said, “Earlier, if water entered my house during the monsoon, I have seen my fridge being lifted off the floor, and float on the water surface. I raised the elevation of my entire house after the 2005 deluge. However, I still had ankle deep water in my house this monsoon.”Prithviraj Chauhan, additional municipal commissioner of the M/West ward, with jurisdiction over this area, said, “Immediately after June 9, I visited the area and directed the localised work to be taken up to mitigate waterlogging during the rest of the monsoon. BMC staff checked all drains in the area end to end for blockages. I also directed all drains in the area to be inspected and re-cleaned.”Chauhan attributed the incident partly to the very heavy rain in Chembur on June 9. He said, “Chembur recorded among the highest amount of rainfall across the city, in a very short span.”Residents of this society met with their elected representatives earlier this week, seeking a resolution to the problem. Rahul Shewale, MP representing the area, said, “I met the residents and have taken note of their issues. The BMC is already working on short-term localised solutions for this problem. In the long run, once the Mahul pumping station is set up and operational, it will bring relief to waterlogging problems in this area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-first-since-2005-chembur-society-flooding-worries-residents-101625687783193.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Cabinet reshuffle: Four Union ministers from Maharashtra, BJP goes by poll call||Political calculations in Maharashtra, as the Shiv Sena chose to stick to its new allies and the considerations for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, seem to have guided the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) choice of ministers to represent the state in the union cabinet. With chief minister Uddhav Thackeray remaining BJP’s top target in the state, his biggest critic and former chief minister Narayan Rane has been inducted as a cabinet minister, which is an indication that the party is likely to become more aggressive against Thackeray and the MVA government in the state. Besides Rane, MP from Bhiwandi Kapil Patil, MP from Dindori in Nashik Bharati Pawar and Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad have been inducted in union council of ministers. The BJP is expecting multiple political benefits by inducting Rane who wields influence over coastal Konkan area. The Sena is strong in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Konkan where Rane can help the BJP grow. Besides, he will come in handy for civic polls especially in Mumbai where Sena’s main support base in Marathi speaking population a significant chunk of which comes from Konkan. Rane is also a prominent Maratha leader and has been vocal on the demand for reservation to Maratha community in government jobs and education. With Supreme Court scrapping the reservation provided during the Fadnavis-led BJP government rule, the BJP is blaming the Sena-led government. Rane will come in handy to gain further support of the community which has been a traditional support base for both the Congress and NCP. Most importantly, Rane is now expected to lead the BJP’s campaign against Thackeray. Rane spent over two decades in Sena before he quit the party in 2005 following power tussle with Thackeray. Since then, he has been the latter’s fiercest critic. Within two hours of taking the oath, he launched an attack on the Thackeray government, blaming it for the SC order to strike down the Maratha reservation. “The Maratha reservation was struck down as the Maharashtra government failed to fight the legal battle in the right spirit. I will ensure that the reservation is restored,” he said. Not just Rane, BJP’s other choice from the region, Kapil Patil too is aimed at countering the Shiv Sena which is strong in Thane and Palghar districts. Patil is elected from Bhiwandi in Thane district and comes from Agri community which has significant presence in Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts. BJP expects Patil to get the community’s support. Of the four ministers, two are from Other Backward Classes (Kapil Patil and Bhagwat Karad) and one each from Maratha (Rane) and tribal community (Dr Pawar). With OBC community protesting against scrapping of political reservation it had in local self-government elections, the move assumes significance. Dr Pawar’s selection is also aimed at strengthening party’s presence in north Maharashtra where Sena and NCP have significant presence. The selection of ministers from Maharashtra also has a clear stamp of Fadnavis. According to party leaders, Fadnavis had a clear say in the selection. The selection is also a snub to Munde clan as the party picked Bhagwat Karad over Beed MP Pritam Munde, who is daughter of late Gopinath Munde and sister of prominent leader Pankaja Munde. A senior BJP leader said by choosing Karad over Pritam Munde, the leadership has tried to send out a message against dynasty. “Former CM and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has a clear imprint on the choice from Maharashtra. Exclusion of Sanjay Dhotre may disturb the equations in Vidarbha as no replacement has been given for him from the region comprising of 11 districts. We have only one union minister, Nitin Gadkari, who represents the region which is the stronghold of the party,” the leader said. “The BJP is in no mood to compromise with Sena politically and by inducting Rane and Patil, the message sent out is loud and clear. Secondly, had there been any plan of joining hands between the two, Sena would have been taken on board in NDA and given a few berths,” another state BJP leader said. The leader however said there is strong sentiment among party loyalists over the upper hand given to outsiders. Three of the four MPs from Maharashtra who were made union ministers have been new entrants to the BJP in the past five-six years. “I do not think the party has overlooked its loyalists. It is in fact a fair balance between the loyalists and new faces. Rane has been chosen to represent the cabinet for his seniority and his experience not because he is bete noire of Shiv Sena,” said union minister and former Maharashtra BJP chief Raosaheb Danve. Rane said, “I do not think much about the purpose behind my choice by the party leadership and if it to give a fitting reply to Sena.” Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The BJP has given chance to the new faces like Dr Pawar and at the same time sent out the message against dynasty politics. The cabinet expansion has also ratified that the Sena and BJP are now unlikely to come together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cabinet-reshuffle-four-union-ministers-from-maharashtra-bjp-goes-by-poll-call-101625687721578.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s daily Covid cases remain below 300 for 3rd day in row||Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded four Covid-related deaths and 280 fresh infections. The UT’s single-day tally remained below 300 for the third consecutive day. With 419 patients recovering, the UT’s active caseload dropped to 3,439. The Valley logged 149 cases and one death, while Jammu saw 131 infections and three fatalities.The overall recoveries reached 3,09,973, which has increased the recovery rate to 97.54%. So far, J&K has reported 3,17,761 cumulative cases and 4,349 deaths.Officials said with 49 cases each, Srinagar and Reasi clocked the highest number of new infections, followed by 36 in Doda. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.22 lakh cases and 1,967 deaths of the total. At 1,137, Jammu has the highest number of fatalities, followed by Srinagar, which has recorded 830 deaths.The daily fatalities have been in single digits since June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-daily-covid-cases-remain-below-300-for-3rd-day-in-row-101625687482200.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai students protest ‘institutional murder’ of Stan Swamy||Students from various institutes in the city including the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay protested against the “institutional murder” of Jesuit priest and activist Father Stan Swamy who died on Monday. Swamy was among 16 activists who are under trial under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in an ongoing investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Bhima-Koregaon case. NIA has maintained that all the accused have links with the banned CPI(Maoist) party. On Wednesday, students came together at Chaityabhoomi in Dadar under the Joint Action Committee for Social Justice (JACSC), Maharashtra, to protest against NIA and demand that the judiciary acquit those arrested in the case. “In a chilling and cold-blooded manner, Father Stan Swamy has been institutionally murdered by the fascist Brahminical state. Fr Stan has been a life-long human rights activist, a tribal leader, an academician, an intellectual and a loved Jesuit. The murder of Fr Stan is the latest development in the well-planned state conspiracy against dissenting voices under what is to be known as Bhima-Koregaon case. It exposes the real face of the government, its investigative agencies and the judiciary,” JACSC said in a statement.Rafid Shahab, zonal secretary, Student Islamic Organisation, South Maharashtra, said, “We are deeply anguished by Father Stan’s killing and offer our deepest condolences to his family and near and dear ones. He was arrested on trumped up charges in a bogus conspiracy case and was denied bail as well as basic amenities in prison despite his old age and worsening health condition. Father Stan has been killed in judicial custody not because of any crime he committed, but because his ceaseless fight for justice was making the powers that be uncomfortable. Once again, this case has highlighted the fundamentally unjust nature of UAPA and other draconian laws.” “The demands of the protesting students and activists included release of the 15 accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, quashing of the case, release of all political prisoners, and complete repeal of UAPA,” said a student from IIT-Bombay who is part of Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-students-protest-institutional-murder-of-stan-swamy-101625687301460.html
08-07-2021||Pune||Girish Chaudhari’s arrest a step in the right direction, says whistleblower in Eknath Khadse case||The whistleblower in the money laundering case against Eknath Khadse termed the arrest of Khadse’s son-in-law Girish Chaudhari by the Enforcement directorate (ED) a step in the right direction. Hemant Gawande, the whistleblower who brought the case to light, said, “Chaudhari was involved in the sale of deed and the Bombay high court directed to register his name as an accused in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has been inquiring for the past two years and it seems like a result of that inquiry. This is an open-and-shut case with no hidden points. He (Khadse) was the revenue minister and he directed revenue officers to forge the papers,” said The investigation following Gawande’s allegation had shown that Khadse had wrongfully acquired the land for ₹3.75 crore whereas the value of the land was more than ₹31 crore. The land located in Bhosari was first acquired from a private citizen in 1971. The original owner of the land was also an accused in the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) case.In 2017, ACB had lodged an FIR against then revenue minister Khadse, who was with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the time, his daughter Mandakini and son-in-law Chaudhari on the direction of the Bombay HC. In 2020, Khadse left the BJP and joined the Nationalist congress party (NCP).Reacting to Chaudhari’s arrest, Gawande said, “This is a legal process now. It never was and is still not pleasant news for me, but it does feel like a step in the right direction. Politicians enter politics for serve the people and eventually they forget why they entered the system and the only agenda that remains is earning money. This is bound to happen when money becomes more important. It should be a message to all politicians. I simply exposed this act.” Lawyer Asim Sarode, who had given some documents to ED regarding the case, said the ED action was following a trail of evidence. Sarode represents anti-corruption activist Anjali Damania who opposed ACB’s clean chit to Khadse in a Pune court in 2019. “ED is investigating in the right direction. Considering all the documents I have seen and prima facie evidences in the case, it is clearly a case of money laundering and misuse of power and position. He has asked and gotten many documents to be forged by officers working in the revenue department. I have a set of documents which clearly show that he changed many details to benefit him in the purchase of that land. Crores of rupees were siphoned through Mandakini Khadse and Girish Chaudhari. My client Anjali Damania found a pooja-essentials selling kiosk owner in whose name a shell company was formed. She came up with a list of such shell companies created to launder the money, and it was submitted in court. So we opposed the clean chit given to Khade in the Pune court,” said Sarode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/girish-chaudhari-s-arrest-a-step-in-the-right-direction-says-whistleblower-in-eknath-khadse-case-101625687301981.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||8 drown in Thane water bodies in 3 weeks as lockdown restrictions ease||Eight people have drowned in various lakes and water bodies in Thane city over the last three weeks. The officials claimed that since the lockdown restrictions were eased, many youngsters have started crowding the water bodies to enjoy with friends. However, none of them are trained swimmers. The Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) officials have requested the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials to install barricades and signages along the water bodies to discourage people from entering.The body of the 35-year-old man who drowned in a quarry in Diva on Tuesday, was found 24 hours later with the use of underwater telescopic cameras.After the Thane city relaxed restrictions, the cases of drowning were witnessed since June 20, when three people drowned in two different ponds in Yeoor. The next day, two more drowned in Yeoor. The other drowning incidents were witnessed in Upvan Lake and the quarries in Kalwa and Diva.Santosh Kadam, head of the TMC’s RDMC, said, “Last year, there was a strict lockdown and thus not many ventured to the water bodies or quarries in the city. However, this year with the easing of the norms, many go out to have fun with friends at the water bodies. In all the cases, the deceased neither knew to swim well nor could they judge the depth and flow of water. A well-trained swimmer can analyse the risk. People should avoid getting in the water bodies, especially during the monsoon.”Additional commissioner of TMC, Sandeep Malvi, added, “We will be putting some warning signs at the water bodies frequented by the people.”The Vartak Nagar Police, under whose jurisdiction six out of the eight cases were reported, said that they have also increased the vigil at the spots where the incidents occurred. Santosh Ghatekar, senior police inspector of Vartak Nagar Police Station, said, “We have increased patrolling along the Upvan Lake. However, Yeoor forest is huge and we cannot cover it entirely. We have taken the help of forest officials to keep a watch on the people going near Nilapani Lake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-drown-in-thane-water-bodies-in-3-weeks-as-lockdown-restrictions-ease-101625687242832.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||700 Adani consumers face power disconnection due to non-payment of bills||Adani Electricity Mumbai Ltd (AEML) has decided to disconnect power supply of around 700 consumers from Siddharth Colony in Chembur who have not paid their electricity bills since the past two years. The decision has sparked discontent among the residents who said it was unfair to deprive them of power, especially when most of them are in a financial stress due to the Covid-19 lockdown.AEML has defended the move saying it was acting against those who are not complying despite multiple remainders. “We have initiated disconnection action against only those consumers who have failed to make their electricity bill payment since June 2019. AEML has given multiple notices to these consumers. The continued payment default by them is resulting in undue tariff burden on other paying consumers. Therefore, we are constrained to disconnect power supply of defaulting consumers,” said AEML spokesperson.AEML, which provides electricity to nearly 3,250 customers at Siddharth Colony, said the 700 consumers owe ₹2.5 crore as unpaid bills.Residents said they have defaulted on bill payment as things are beyond their control. “My son lost his job last May and since then has been jobless. He is getting a job at Churchgate but he cannot travel as trains are shut for common citizens and buses are full. The company should not cut electricity on humanitarian grounds,” said a 56-year-old homemaker who is among the defaulters.Last August, AEML had put on hold their mass power disconnection drive after protests and a compromise was reached where the residents agreed to clear the bills. However while a majority of them paid the same, around 700 are still to do the needful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/700-adani-consumers-face-power-disconnection-due-to-non-payment-of-bills-101625687241598.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs MU to issue degree certificates of Mithibai College students||In a relief for Mithibai College at Vile Parle and 1,763 of its students whose degree certificates were withheld by the University of Mumbai (MU) as the college changed its marking system midway through the courses pursued by the students, the Bombay high court (HC) recently directed MU to hand over the degree certificates. The court added not giving the degree certificates to the students was illegal and would prejudice the interest of some students. The college had changed its marking system after being deemed an autonomous institution by the University Grants Commission (UGC) in March 2018. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang, while hearing the petition of Mithibai College and its in-charge principal Dr Krutika Desai, was informed by senior advocate Prasad Dhakephalkar and advocate SK Srivastav that the college was granted autonomous status by UGC in March 2018, following which a governing council was constituted. He added that in June 2020, based on feedback from students, the council decided to include total marks and percentage along with grades in statement of marks and notified grading system for all its courses for academic year 2019-20. He further submitted that in light of the decision, MU withheld the issuance of degree certificates of 128 students who were allowed to keep term (ATKT) from 2018-19, 1,380 students of the regular undergraduate course from 2019-20, and 255 students of postgraduate courses stating that the college could not have changed the marking system midway through a course and the same should have been applied from the beginning. The college then approached the HC as the decision to refuse issuance of degree certificates was illegal and would prejudice the interest of some students who have enrolled themselves for further studies and taken up employment. Advocate Akshay Shinde for MU submitted that the varsity had issued letters to the college on July 6 and August 16, 2020, and again on March 5 this year stating that as per rule and precedents, the petitioner college was not entitled to mid-way change of grading system of a course that has commenced before the autonomy was granted. MU added that the college should change the system from first year of the course. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “The ground taken by MU to withhold degree certificates is not tenable and is vague. There could be various reasons that other autonomous colleges have followed a pattern of introducing the grading system from a point in time. It does not mean that they have surrendered their autonomy... Therefore, this ground taken is incorrect and has to be rejected.” The court noted that exams have already been held and students had been given a statement with percentages and marks, based on which some of them have taken admissions for higher studies in India and abroad while some have taken up jobs. It was not possible to recall and resubmit the results for change of grades, HC noted. “This practical difficulty is not considered by the board of examination of MU... The action of the university in not issuing the degree certificate to the students at this stage is, in fact, prejudicial to these students. We hold that reasons given to withhold degree certificates are not legal and valid,” the bench said and directed MU to issue the same within four weeks from the date of order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-mu-to-issue-degree-certificates-of-mithibai-college-students-101625687242245.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh case: Widen probe, says Bombay HC to CBI||Referring to the observation of the Supreme Court that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh were working in close confidence, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to inquire in it. The court noted that as per the April 5 order of the HC which directed CBI to conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations of corruption, bribery and criminal conspiracy against Deshmukh and others, the inquiry would not be complete unless the role of everyone including the unknown persons was considered in the April 21 first information report (FIR). On its part, CBI assured the court that it was carrying out a comprehensive probe and all those involved in the case had been identified and their roles had been ascertained, hence Deshmukh’s petition was misconceived and deserved to be dismissed. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition filed by Deshmukh challenging the FIR filed by CBI based on the HC order, was informed by senior advocate Amit Desai along with advocate Kamlesh Ghumre that the FIR was vague and inconsistent as it had not disclosed the names of persons between whom the alleged cognisable offences had occurred and also did it mention the place where it took place or the amount involved.Desai reiterated that the CBI’s FIR was filed with mala fide intent and vested interests as it named only Deshmukh and did not disclose names of other accused. In light of these submissions, Desai sought setting aside of the FIR. The HC had, on July 5, sought to know from CBI the names of the “unknown persons” mentioned in its FIR against Deshmukh and had observed that since it was over two months since the FIR was lodged, it expected the CBI to disclose the names as well as give a report on the progress of the investigation in a sealed cover. The bench then observed, “The highest functionaries cannot be let off. The minister might have been told to reinstate (suspended police officer Sachin Vaze), but can the person holding the main post say I will obey them and not perform my duties? The committee which reinstated Vaze can be probed.” The court then said that whoever held the top post could not plead innocence saying that he was helpless in the face of orders by someone superior. It was equally the duty of that officer, who was holding the main post to prevent the wrong. While expressing hope that CBI would conduct a broad base investigation, the bench said, “At this stage, hopefully the probe agency has found conspirators...If Sachin Vaze was such a dangerous man, then subject to what CBI counsel has to say, the committee that reinstated him can also be added as an accused in the case. We are not naming any individuals now. Who has inducted this inspector after 15 years?” Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi for CBI informed the bench that as per the investigating officer, persons involved in the case were identified and the amount of money involved was determined as well. Lekhi assured the bench the probe was comprehensive and no person covered in the complaint was excluded. He further said the grounds to challenge the FIR taken in the petition were misconceived. Justifying the CBI probe, Lekhi submitted it was necessitated as the state had failed to take adequate action on the March 20 letter written by Param Bir Singh.CBI will continue its arguments on July 12. Will not arrest Param Bir Singh, Rashmi Shukla till July 29: State to HC Due to paucity of time and other scheduled matter the Bombay HC adjourned hearing of the petitions filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, seeking quashing of an FIR lodged against him by the Thane Police under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act till July 28. Similarly, the petition filed by senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in the illegal phone tapping case registered by Mumbai Police was also adjourned to July 28. In light of the adjournments, the state assured the HC that no coercive steps, including arrest would be taken against Singh or Shukla till July 29 which was accepted by the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-case-widen-probe-says-bombay-hc-to-cbi-101625687181413.html
08-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC panel goes to Delhi, Rajasthan to study waste mgmt model||A 12-member committee comprising councillors and municipal corporation (MC) officials led by mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday went on a three-day visit to Okhla in Delhi and Barawadi in Rajasthan to study the waste management models there.The committee members include mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, councillors Dr Jai Prakash, Gurdeep Neetu, Harbhajan Singh Dang, Swarandeep Chahal, Baljinder Bunty, superintending engineer Rajinder Singh, secretary Jasdev Sekhon, health officer Vipal Malhotra and Harpal Aujla. As the civic body is working to hire new contractors for solid waste management in the city, the companies dealing with waste management in these areas have invited the committee to look into its work. An MC committee had also visited Chennai to study the solid waste management model there last month. While there is a waste to energy plant and waste to compost plants in Okhla, the MC committee will visit the factory unit of a company where machinery including, static compactors, etc., are manufactured.Mayor Sandhu said that the MC is studying different solid waste management methods/techniques adopted by various companies before finalising the contractor and the method/technique for disposing of waste generated in the city.The MC has been facing flak over its apathy in dealing with the solid waste in the city. The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also recently directed the PPCB to impose a penalty on the civic body for its failure to deal with over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste accumulated at the main dumpsite at Tajpur road. Over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage, which is generated in the city daily, is getting added to the legacy waste due to MC’s failure to deal with the issue. The residents have also been raising hue and cry over the open dumping of garbage at different points in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-panel-goes-to-delhi-rajasthan-to-study-waste-mgmt-model-101625687062221.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 172 fresh Covid infections, 1 death||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 172 fresh cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,03,117, while the death toll mounted to 3,470 after one more patient succumbed. Of the new cases, 46 were reported in Chamba, 33 in Kangra, 28 in Mandi, 20 in Solan, 15 in Shimla, nine in Bilaspur, six in Kullu, four each in Hamirpur, Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur and three in Una. The recoveries reached 1,98,282 after 159 people recuperated. The state has 1,338 infected people. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 45,997 cases, followed by Mandi (27,307), Shimla (25,319), Solan (22,271), Sirmaur (15,347), Hamirpur (14,421), Una (13,350), Bilaspur (12,739), Chamba (11,411), Kullu (8,958), Kinnaur (3,266) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,731). Tourists should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour: CMThe sudden spurt in the tourist influx in Himachal Pradesh after the government relaxed travel restrictions has raised concern. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “Corona has not ended, we all should understand this. There is heavy tourist influx in Manali, Shimla and Dharamshala. We have directed the district administrations to ensure that crowds and traffic are controlled. Tourist are welcome to the state, but they should not indulge in hooliganism and follow covid-appropriate behaviour.” A health department spokesperson also emphasised on the need to follow Covid protocol to prevent a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-172-fresh-covid-infections-1-death-101625687002385.html
08-07-2021||Other||Facing water woes for a month, residents in Ludhiana’s Peeru Banda protest against MC||Struggling with irregular water supply for around a month now, residents of Peeru Banda area near Salem Tabri staged a protest against the municipal corporation (MC) here on Wednesday.They complained that the civic authorities failed to provide adequate number of water tanks during the ongoing crisis and that they are forced to fetch water from nearby areas amid scorching heat.The protesting residents also slammed the area councillor, Surinder Atwal of BJP, for failing to resolve their problem despite several complaints.“We are forced to visit the houses of our relatives and friends for taking a bath. There is not enough water to meet our household needs such as washing clothes, cleaning, cooking etc. In the absence of adequate arrangements by the civic authorities, we are relying on private tankers which we are hiring on our own,” said a resident, Sukhminder Singh.Another local Moti Lal said the water supply is resumed for a few hours whenever a complaint is lodged with the councillors or MC authorities. But they are bearing the brunt of MC’s failure in finding a concrete solution to the problem. “It is very difficult to fetch water in buckets from afar in sweltering weather, especially for women,” he said.Despite several attempts, councillor Surinder Atwal could not be reached for comments.MC sub-divisional officer Sukhdeep Singh, however, said the tubewell installed in the area had developed a snag and it has been repaired now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facing-water-woes-for-a-month-residents-in-ludhiana-s-peeru-banda-protest-against-mc-101625686822164.html
08-07-2021||Bangalore||Govt looks to revive contact tracing to tackle Delta plus in Bengaluru||Bengaluru When Bengaluru reported its first Covid-19 case on March 8, 2020, the health department along with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) made a list comprising 2,666 primary and secondary contacts of the 40-year-old techie who had arrived from the US. In the following months, BBMP ensured that most of the contacts were traced and tested. This was one of the reasons why Bengaluru had only 385 cases on June 1, 2020, while Chennai, Mumbai and New Delhi had reported 15,770; 40,877 and 20,834 cases respectively on the same day. More than a year later, while there was a surge in Covid cases, authorities were tracing only four contacts, while government guidelines required 20 contacts per patient to be traced. The failure of contact tracing was one of the biggest reasons attributed to the spike in Covid cases in the state, among others. With the cases coming down and the new Delta variant posing a threat, authorities are now looking to revive the contact tracing efforts, at least in the case of Delta variants. So far, the state has recorded 725 cases of the Delta variants and two cases of Delta plus. As per BBMP records, out of the 725 cases of Delta, 525 are from Bengaluru, followed by 77 from Vijayapura and 40 from Udupi. Two labs in Bengaluru — Nimhans and National Centre for Biological Sciences — are involved in genomic sequences of samples. A day after the second Delta Plus variant was detected in Karnataka, on June 23, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar had said that the state is monitoring the emergence of new variants and announced six genome labs for genome sequencing. “Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genomic sequencing. We are doing random checks of five per cent of the total samples checked,” Sudhakar had said. The Delta variant was the most predominant variant circulating in May and June in Karnataka. Nearly 3,000 samples have been processed at the two labs and Nimhans has done more than 1,000 of them. However, health department sources said the samples are almost a month old and results are coming now. The increased genome sequencing comes with a challenge and an opportunity for the health department officials. Since the new variants are considered a bigger concern, the health department is now focusing on increasing contact tracing in these cases. “We want to trace as many contacts as possible in these cases,” said a senior health department official on Tuesday, who didn’t want to be named. He, however, added that the department is facing a big challenge in contact tracing since it takes at least 15 days for genomic sequencing of samples. “Since it takes time for these sequencing results to come, most of the patients have left the hospitals after recovering or it has been a considerable amount of time before we can go back to them,” he said. He added that contact tracing in normal cases has been affected in recent times because of the spike in cases during the second wave. “In most of the cases, we have to go back to ensure in-depth tracing is done in case of Delta variants. It is a difficult task,” the officials added. Experts, however, said there is no need to panic over the new variants. Dr Ravi, former head of the neurovirology department at NIMHANS and member of Karnataka’s TAC on Covid-19 said that unnecessary panic around the variant should be avoided. “Whether is it more infectious, there is no evidence to show that. They are tracking the patients to find if the virus spreads faster. We will know this soon,” he said on Tuesday. He added that it doesn’t seem that variant is more virulent. “The pattern of disease in Delta plus is no different from what is seen in the Delta variant. Most of the Delta plus cases are from samples collected more than a month ago. My reading is that if it was collected one month back, had it (the Delta plus variant) been so deadly, there would have been a higher number of cases and deaths. In fact, the numbers are low now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/govt-looks-to-revive-contact-tracing-to-tackle-delta-plus-in-bengaluru-101625686761520.html
08-07-2021||Bangalore||Four K’taka MPs join Modi’s new Cabinet||Bengaluru Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inducted four new faces from Karnataka into his cabinet that included a mix of senior and debutant parliamentarians. While DV Sadananda Gowda, the union minister for chemicals and fertilizers, was dropped, Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayana Swamy, Bhagwanth Khuba and Rajya Sabha member of parliament from Karnataka, Rajeev Chandrashekar, were inducted as ministers of state into the cabinet at the centre. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a higher priority to Karnataka and inducted four ministers from the state. On behalf of the people of the state, I thank the Prime Minister. He has done a very good selection. All four are influential, works impactfully and this will also give the state more strength,” CM BS Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. Analysts and observers said that the induction of Karandlaje, the firebrand member of parliament from Udupi-Chikmagalur, raises several possibilities and has a bearing on the power struggle between the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national leadership and CM Yediyurappa. “The induction of Shobha Karandlaje can be seen in one of two ways. One is it can be seen as Yediyurappa is secure or as a kind of prelude to attacking Yediyurappa,” said one Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named. BY Raghavendra, MP from Shivamogga and Yediyurappa’s son, who was among the probables; did not make it to the union cabinet. The analyst cited above said that the induction of Raghavendra would have been a clear sign that Yediyurappa would be replaced to further emphasize the BJP’s unwritten rule that only a person per family would be able to hold an administrative post. “The current selection is not going to have any political dividends for the BJP in Karnataka,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University told Hindustan Times on Wednesday. Karandlaje is a Vokkaliga, Khuba a Lingayat and Narayana Swamy is from the scheduled caste, which was seen as giving representation to all the major communities in Karnataka. Chandrashekar, a Brahmin, is likely to have been considered as a “technocrat”, analysts indicated. Karandlaje has long held a reputation of making provocative and communally charged statements, courting controversies, especially in the run up to the 2018 assembly elections. The selection also indicates how Yediyurappa’s powers have waned over the last decade where the BJP has ignored the choices put forward by the state and selected its own candidates even in the past for nominations for Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha and even the legislative council. Barring Chandrashekar, the other three candidates are proficient only in Kannada, which puts them at a disadvantage in Hindi, a dominant narrative in Delhi, analysts said. They add that this would help the continuing consolidation of powers with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and very little with the ministers. The BJP is yet to come to an agreement with Yediyurappa who hopes to not just continue in the top chair for the remainder of the two-year term but also placate his sons within the party and government, people aware of the developments said. The 78-year-old Yediyurappa has been left to fend for himself amid attacks from all quarters, including from within his own government and party, alleging corruption, non-performance, mismanagement of the covid-19 pandemic and charges that his other son, BY Vijayendra, is running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father. His past cases have also returned to haunt him, making the negotiations harder between the BJP and the chief minister over a possible replacement. Though Yediyurappa was hailed as an unchallenged leader of the Lingayats, believed to be the single-largest community in the state, the sub-sects of the groups have now started to question this title, threatening to further dilute his core-support base, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/four-k-taka-mps-join-modi-s-new-cabinet-101625686703221.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP MP attacks Suvendu Adhikari after quitting party post; then withdraws letter||Kolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament Saumitra Khan on Wednesday announced his resignation as chief of the party’s youth wing in West Bengal and launched a blistering attack on party colleague Suvendu Adhikari. Khan, whose outburst led another BJP leader Rajib Banerjee to target Adhikari as well, however, withdrew his resignation nearly seven hours later, reportedly after the intervention of the BJP’s central leaders.“I take an opportunity to inform that under the instruction of our BJP leader’s BL Santhosh ji, Amit Shah ji and Tejasvi Surya ji, I withdraw my resignation as a mark of respect,” Khan, who represents Bishnupur seat in the Lok Sabha, tweeted late on Wednesday evening.The brief message did not refer to his scathing attack on Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Bengal assembly, earlier in the day that accused Suvendu Adhikari of promoting himself and misleading the party leadership.“The present LoP (leader of opposition) of the assembly is trying to project himself and not the party (BJP). He is frequently going to Delhi and misleading the central leaders while trying to project himself as the top leader. The way the party’s Bengal unit is moving nothing good can happen. I had even pointed out some flaws to the central leaders before the polls, but I was side-lined,” Khan, who subsequently clarified that he would remain with the BJP, said in his video message on Facebook. Soon, Rajib Banerjee also joined in. The leader of the opposition shouldn’t unnecessarily attack the chief minister who has returned to power for the third time with a sweeping victory, and instead should focus on how to check the rise in fuel prices, Banerjee said in a social media post.Suvendu Adhikari and his two in-house critics, Saumitra Khan and Rajib Banerjee, were earlier with the Trinamool Congress.In January 2019, Saumitra Khan was the first among the three to join the BJP, and won the Bishnupur Lok Sabha seat in the general elections that he had won in 2014 as a TMC candidate. Suvendu Adhikari joined the party in December 2020, contested from Nandigram and delivered chief minister Mamata Banerjee first electoral defeat in her political career of over three decades.Rajib Banerjee joined the BJP in January 2021, just two months before the assembly elections, and fought elections on a BJP ticket but did not clear the electoral test. This isn’t the first time that Rajib Banerjee has spoken out against his party and sparked speculation about his next move in June when he went to meet Trinamool Congress’ state general secretary Kunal Ghosh at his residence.Adhikari brushed aside the darts that his two colleagues were throwing at him.“Many people have this habit of posting on social media. These shouldn’t be taken seriously. When the state cabinet was formed, some TMC MLAs had made some comments on social media. They were not taken seriously. Today I am not taking this seriously,” said Suvendu Adhikari.Kunal Ghosh said Rajib Banerjee had made a valid point.“Saumitra may have spoken his mind. But whatever he has said is absolutely right. Adhikari joined the BJP to escape from central agencies and overnight he started personally attacking TMC leaders. But that didn’t help BJP. Instead, his joining triggered an ugly fight between the old times and newcomers,” said TMC’s Kunal Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-mp-attacks-suvendu-adhikari-after-quitting-party-post-then-withdraws-letter-101625686642004.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Cabinet eases curbs on public gatherings||In the wake of the ebb in coronavirus cases in the hill-state, the Himachal Pradesh Cabinet eased coronavirus restrictions on Wednesday and told deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour at prominent tourist destinations amid an influx of visitors. In a Cabinet meeting, presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, curbs on social, academic, entertainment, cultural and political gatherings were eased. The number of attendees permitted will be 50% of the total capacity of the venue or a maximum 200 people indoors. Earlier, 150 people were allowed in closed spaces.Monsoon session from August 2 The Cabinet also recommended that the governor convene the monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha from August 2 to 13. The council of ministers gave its consent to bring children who have lost both their parents to Covid under the ambit of the Mukhya Mantri Bal Uddhar Yojana to provide them an additional monthly financial assistance of ₹1,500 per month. It decided to bring orphaned children and senior citizens above the age of 70 under the fold of HIMCARE Scheme. This will benefit about 1,500 orphaned children and 16,304 senior citizens.It consented to increase the additional honorarium being provided to Asha workers from the existing ₹2,000 to ₹ 2,750 per month. This will benefit around 7,964 workers in the state.To implement the New Education Policy, question papers for Classes 3, 5 and 8 will be set by HP Board of School Education and their results will be declared at cluster, block and district levels, respectively.The Cabinet granted a six-week exemption in school internship with respect to diploma in elementary education for the 2018-2020 batch .Schools to remain closed, college students to be promotedIt was decided that schools will remain closed for students till further orders and online classes will continue in the meantime. The Cabinet also decided to promote first year and second year college students. New admissions and renewal admissions for colleges will start in the last week of July and the new academic year for undergraduate classes will commence from August 16.The Cabinet was informed that around 90% teaching and non-teaching staff had been vaccinated till June 30. Posts to be filled in hospitals The Cabinet decided to create one post of medical superintendent in the 200-bedded Civil Hospital, Nurpur, in Kangra district and fill two post of radiographers at Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC). One post each of assistant professor, medical social worker and psychologist, two posts of medical officers and five posts of staff nurse will be filled in palliative care services, one post of assistant professor in medical oncology services and one post of assistant professor in general surgery at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Nerchowk in Mandi district. One post of professor of obstetrics and gynaecology will be created at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. An MRI machine worth ₹ 12.5 crore will be set up at RPGMC, Tanda. The Cabinet gave its approval to upgrade the primary health centre in Chamba district to Community Health Centre along with creation of five posts for its smooth functioning.The traffic police assistance room, Kufri, in Shimla will be converted into a permanent police post. The post of additional and joint director in the fisheries department at Bilaspur will be created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cabinet-eases-curbs-on-public-gatherings-101625686592627.html
08-07-2021||Other||Kerala HC pulls up state over rush at liquor shops||Thiruvnaanthapuram: As Kerala continues to contribute more than 40% of total Covid-19 cases in the country, the High Court on Wednesday pulled up the state government for its failure to ensure virus protocol outside liquor outlets controlled by the state-run Beverages Corporation. It expressed serious concern over winding queues and heavy rush outside liquor outlets across the state. The state reported 15,600 new cases with a test positivity rate of 10.36% on Wednesday. The experts’ team sent by the union health ministry has asked the government on ramp up its virus control measures on a war footing. Health is more important than revenue, the court reminded the government and summoned the excise commissioner in this regard. A bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice P Chaly observed that Kerala is number one in Covid case share in the country and although the government is trying to control the spread, some places like liquor outlets continue to witness heavy rush and it can’t be allowed. The court expressed concern over flouting pandemic norms in liquor outlets and directed the government to furnish a reply by next Tuesday. The court said that even though periodic orders were issued by the central and state governments regarding virus protocol guidelines, “they do not seem to be observed in letter and spirit at some places, particularly in liquor shops.” “It is clearly mentioned in the above orders (of the Centre and states) that any lapse in following the restrictions would be viewed seriously. But we find that no action is taken against the defaulters so far,” it said. It also reminded the government that health is more important than revenue. In Kerala, booze and lottery are main revenue earners of the government. The corporation said in the 40-day lockdown during the second wave, the state lost ₹1000 crore. The court was hearing two public interest litigations - one filed by a lawyer P Vijayan who has sought directions to the state to prevent overcrowding outside liquor vends and the second initiated by the court on its own based on a letter by one of its judges. After checking some of the photographs furnished along with the petition by Vijayan, the court noted that there was large-scale gathering or big queues in front of liquor shops. Meanwhile, there is no dip in cases in the state. With 1,50,630 samples tested, 15,600 came back positive taking the TPR to 10.36%. Kerala also reported 148 deaths taking total fatalities to 14,108, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-pulls-up-state-over-rush-at-liquor-shops-101625686401366.html
08-07-2021||Other||War of words between AIADMK and BJP over Tamil Nadu electoral loss||Chennai: Two months after the state elections, AIADMK and BJP have been sparring over former AIADMK minister CV Shunmugam’s statement that the Dravidian party lost the assembly polls due to its alliance with the saffron party. In the assembly elections, the AIADMK won 66 seats, BJP won four and their combined alliance with other regional parties won a total of 75 seats.Speaking at an event in Vannur, the video of which began circulating on Wednesday, the former law minister says, “Since we had an alliance with BJP, we entirely lost the minority votes...The most important reason for loss is our alliance with the BJP. Minorities don’t have any issues with our party and governance. But due to ideological differences they have with the BJP, they didn’t vote for us.” Shunmugam lost to DMK’s R Lakshmanan by a margin of 22,291 votes in Villupuram. Reacting to the speech, BJP’s general secretary KT Raghavan said that minorities across India are voting for the party. “Even some of our cadre think that we lost in a few places because we allied with the AIADMK and due to certain decisions they took while they were governing in the last four years,” said Raghavan. “But we have to see if CV Shunmugam’s statement is the party’s opinion.” BJP’s Khushbu Sundar shared a Tamil newspaper report of his speech and tweeted, “Actually it’s the other way around.”The AIADMK said it’s not a formal statement but an off the record comment made during an internal meeting. “It was an internal party meeting. Several party members can share their opinions. That’s off the record,” AIADMK’s former minister and spokesperson D Jayakumar said. “He spoke among the party cadre internally so I cannot give my opinion on his statement.”Amid the war of words, AIADMK’s coordinator and deputy opposition leader O Panneerselvam tweeted a statement that the AIADMK has full faith in the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Considering the interests of the nation and also the welfare of Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK-BJP alliance will continue and there is no second opinion on this,” he said.In a joint statement, without mentioning BJP, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami reiterated that the alliance formed ahead of the 2021 assembly elections will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/war-of-words-between-aiadmk-and-bjp-over-tamil-nadu-electoral-loss-101625686345234.html
08-07-2021||Lucknow||First two Delta Plus cases confirmed in Uttar Pradesh after genome sequencing, one dead||Genome sequencing has confirmed the first two cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. One of them is a medical student from Gorakhpur who recovered in May, while the other patient, a resident of Deoria, died the same month. Both are from eastern Uttar Pradesh. “These were old Covid cases. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing, and they tested positive for the Delta Plus variant of Covid,” said additional chief secretary (medical health) Amit Mohan Prasad at a press conference here on Wednesday. The 23-year-old doctor of BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur had tested positive on May 23 and her sample was sent for genome sequencing, which tested positive. The medical student recovered in home isolation. All her contacts tested negative for Covid. The health department took samples of all the people who came in contact with her in the past over two weeks. “Till now, the samples of two patients have been confirmed for the Delta Plus variant,” said Dr Ganesh Kumar, principal of the Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College in Gorakhpur.The 66-year-old man from Deoria had fallen ill in the first week of May. He tested positive and was admitted on May 7. During this period, only his sample was sent for genome sequencing which tested positive for the Delta Plus variant.The man died on May 29 at BRD Medical College where he was admitted, said a senior health official. “There were six family members in close contact with the man. They tested negative for Covid,” said the health official. Over 100 people on the contact list of these two patients were screened. The close contacts are still being monitored and their health update is being taken by the health department The samples were sent to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi. Among the samples sent to Delhi from Gorakhpur, 27 tested positive for the Delta variant and two for Delta Plus.In Uttar Pradesh, the genome sequencing facility has recently started at King George’s Medical University and samples are now being sent to KGMU. UP’s first case of Kappa variant reported from Gorakhpur The first case of the Kappa variant of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh has been reported from Gorakhpur following genome sequencing. The B.1.617.1 variant of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 has been designated as Kappa while the B1.617.2 variant has been named Delta. Kappa is a variant that is linked to the B.1.617 lineage of mutations that has also given rise to the Delta variant. Dr Amresh Singh of the microbiology department at the Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College Gorakhpur said, “We have received results of 30 samples till now. Of the 30 samples, 27 tested for Delta, two for Delta Plus and one for the Kappa variant of Covid.” In all, 72 samples were sent from Gorakhpur to New Delhi for genome sequencing. The results of the remaining 42 are awaited. As it evolved, the B.1.617 branched out into new lineages. One of those, B.1.617.2 is called Delta and is the most prevalent variant at present in India. The other lineage, B.1.617.1, is called Kappa and it was designated as a VoI by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in April this year. According to WHO, a VoI is one that “has been identified to cause community transmission/multiple Covid-19 cases/clusters, or has been detected in multiple countries”. B.1.617 has been found to carry more than a dozen mutations of which two stand out: E484Q and L452R, which is why this variant has also been called the “double mutant”. Kappa was first detected in India and more than 3,500 of the close to 30,000 cumulative samples submitted by the country to the GISAID initiative, which maintains a global database of novel coronavirus genomes, are of this variant. In the last 60 days, the Kappa variant has made up 3 per cent of all samples submitted by India. India, in fact, leads the GISAID table for Kappa submissions and is followed by the UK, US, Canada, etc. GISAID is a global science initiative and primary source established in 2008 that provides open-access to genomic data of influenza viruses and the coronavirus responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/first-two-delta-plus-cases-confirmed-in-uttar-pradesh-one-dead-101625686344726.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sanitation: Chandigarh MC chief fixes accountability of officials||Municipal officials will now be held individually accountable for poor cleanliness in Chandigarh.Taking a serious note of garbage piling up in several parts of the city, MC commissioner KK Yadav on Wednesday issued an order to fix individual responsibility of officials and made it mandatory for them to stay in the field every day.“To ensure proper cleanliness and removal of garbage piles, medical officer of health (MOH), MC, has been made the single nodal person,” states the order. The order details the duties and responsibilities of the MOH and other MC staff regarding sanitation in the city, for which they would be made accountable and against which their performance will be measured.The MOH will ensure that sanitation is regularly being performed in all parts of the city and there shall not be any garbage dumping points, other than the designated ones, the MC commissioner has directed.The area chief sanitary inspectors (CSI) and sanitary inspectors (SI) will be personally responsible for regular cleanliness activities and attendance of field staff. Removal of any visible eye soars, garbage dump, piling of waste along roadside or any vacant areas will be personal responsibility of the area SI. In case, an unclean area is found, disciplinary action will be initiated against the SI concerned, states the order.Officials to stay in the fieldTo prevent absenteeism among sanitation workers and ensure effective supervision, the presence of the MOH and other MC officials on the ground has been made mandatory. “MOH will ensure his presence in the field to supervise cleanliness activities in the forenoon and he will compulsorily spend this time in the field,” states the order. Area SIs will have to remain in the field the whole time the sanitation workers are on duty, while CSIs will also spend the first half of the day on the ground and submit a daily report to the MOH, which will be further submitted to the commissioner through the joint commissioner.The monitoring cell of commissioner office has been directed to ensure that the daily report is presented before the MC chief after collecting it from the MOH office. Residents decry poor sanitationHitesh Puri, chairperson, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said, “The sanitation situation in the city leaves much to be desired. In the past few months, we have seen garbage getting piled up on the roadside. Also, construction waste is being openly dumped in residential areas. It’s high time the MC enforces discipline among its workers to ensure cleanliness in the city.”Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said: “There should be no visible garbage points in the city, as per the directions of the Swachh Bharat Mission and Swachh Survekshan 2021 protocol. The city’s star rating was reduced to three last year from the self-assessment of five because of the garbage eye soars across the city. This year, the situation has worsened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sanitation-chandigarh-mc-chief-fixes-accountability-of-officials-101625686343585.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||PU to conduct golden chance exam offline in August||Panjab University (PU) will conduct the golden chance exam in physical mode. It is tentatively scheduled in the second week of August.The varsity has allowed students of all professional courses (annual and semester system), undergraduate semester system to fill application forms for the exam for sessions 2014, 2015 (odd and even semesters) and 2016 (odd semesters only).The website will be operational from July 12 and the last date for online registration and submission of forms is July 22.The students who had already applied for golden chance in February 2020, whose examination was not conducted due to Covid-19 pandemic, can also apply. Those candidates who have already applied in February 2020 need not apply again.The centres for the golden chance exam are Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Abohar and Muktsar. For even semester examinations of BA/BSc courses etc will be held later on as per the decision of the university.Improvement exam in physical mode The improvement/ additional examination will also be conducted in the physical mode. The university will issue the detailed instruction in this regard soon.Meanwhile, around 21,790 students of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses appeared on Wednesday in the ongoing online semester examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-to-conduct-golden-chance-exam-offline-in-august-101625686342100.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: PU teachers to suspend evaluation work, may delay results||Amid the ongoing semester exams, Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Wednesday asked its members to suspend evaluation work in order to press for the implementation of University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales. It has also asked the faculty not to submit award lists. The move comes a day after Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) made a similar appeal to teachers, and is expected to delay the declaration of exam results.The federation had held a meeting on Tuesday to deliberate on the delay by the Punjab government to implement pay scales recommended by the UGC and 6th Punjab Pay Commission. It was hosted by PUTA and attended by all constituents. The PU teachers’ body has said the delay is adversely affecting its members as well. It also wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday informing him about the decision to suspend evaluation work. “While demanding immediate implementation of UGC pay scales and regulations, PFUCTO decided to give an ultimatum of two weeks to the Punjab government. They have decided to suspend all the evaluation work at the university level,” states the letter.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said: “We are forced to take such a harsh step due to the delay in implementation of UGC pay scales by the Punjab government. We hope that the state government will take necessary steps so that students do not suffer.”While PU officials were not available for comment, it has been learnt the authorities are likely discuss the matter with PUTA on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-pu-teachers-to-suspend-evaluation-work-may-delay-results-101625686162027.html
08-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: No new deaths for second day in row, 19 Covid infections added to tally||Nineteen new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Wednesday while no death was reported for the second consecutive day. The number of active cases too fell below 200 and settled at 197. The total number of deaths in Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic is 2,087 while the total number of cases is 87,085. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to people to avoid stepping out unnecessarily and strictly observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even after getting the vaccine. Addressing Ludhiana residents in his weekly Facebook live session, the DC said crowding must be avoided and people must wear a mask, maintain social distance, wash hands frequently and get vaccination immediately to build herd immunity. He said that as per doctors, the third wave may hit due to violations of Covid-19 protocols and if we follow the rules and get the life-saving jab, we can prevent the wave. Reiterating the need for people to get vaccinated immediately, Varinder Kumar Sharma said the vaccine is a shield in the fight against the pandemic and there is a stock of 25,000 doses of vaccine with Ludhiana. He said that vaccination against Covid-19 is critical to break the chain of transmission and the administration has already stepped up the pace of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-no-new-deaths-for-second-day-in-row-19-covid-infections-added-to-tally-101625686041932.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-Covid fight: 5-year-old Dharamshala boy becomes police mascot||The little ‘corona warrior’ who won the internet after a video of him asking people to wear masks in a crowded Dharmashala street went viral has been made the local police’s mascot for coronavirus protocols. Five-year-old Amit, who sells balloons to supplement his parents’ income, was seen barefoot on the streets of Bhagsunag near McLodganj asking people to wear a mask. His video was shared on the Instagram page, Dharmshalalocal, and was widely circulated. “This little kid was seen on the streets on Dharamshala asking people to wear a mask. He doesn’t even have shoes to wear. See the smirking faces of these people. Who is educated and who is uneducated here?” read the caption of the post. The precocious child, who hails from Gujrat, said, “I would see policemen asking people use a mask. So, I thought I should also do it, as people were not following protocol.” As a token of appreciation, the local police honoured Amit and presented him with a pahari cap, snacks and an energy drink. The administrators of ‘Dharamshalalocal’ gifted pairs to Amit and his brothers.Abhay Karki, who runs the Instagram page, said help is also pouring in from locals.“An elderly couple gifted him clothes while many want to fund his education,” he said, adding that they will speak to his parents, who are out of town, once they return. Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan said that the situation in the hill state was alarming as tourists were not following Covid norms. “I have directed that police assistance rooms be set up at McLeodganj and Bhasunag to tackle the massive tourist influx. We will impose heavy penalties on those not following the norms,” Ranjan said, adding that he would visit McLeodganj and Bhagsunag on Thursday to review the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anticovid-fight-5-year-old-dharamshala-boy-becomes-police-mascot-101625685862376.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Former Congress leader Kripashankar Singh joins BJP||Former Congress leader and former minister of state for home Kripashankar Singh joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday in presence of leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. Singh’s induction in the party is assumed to be an attempt by the BJP to woo north Indian voters in forthcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections.Singh, who was Mumbai Congress chief during 2008-2012 quit the party in September 2019 after he felt sidelined by the party leadership. The leader is believed to have moved closer to BJP after he was discharged from a multi-crore disproportionate assets case by a special court in 2018. “I got everything in my political career without asking for anything. Likewise, there are no conditions put forth for any position. I was upset with the Congress over its stand of abrogation of Article 370 and I had asked for the reason on party’s stand on it. I would definitely work in the interest of party during the BMC elections,” he saidThe induction of Singh, however, has not gone well within the party. A few BJP leaders took to the social media to remind the party that the leader had blamed RSS for the 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-congress-leader-kripashankar-singh-joins-bjp-101625685501215.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||NO2 pollution in Mumbai shoots up in a year||The city witnessed a 52% increase in the level of gaseous air pollution caused by nitrogen dioxide (NO2) in April this year (as opposed to April 2020), says a new report by Greenpeace India (Behind the Smokescreen) released Wednesday. The report also claims that the general quantity of NO2 — a byproduct of fuel burning by motor vehicles, power generation and industrial activity — rose during this one month period in eight capital cities across India, also includingDelhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Jaipur and Lucknow.Delhi saw the most dramatic increase in NO2 levels during the study period, at 125%, followed by Chennai (94%), Bengaluru (90%), Hyderabad (69%), Mumbai, Jaipur (47%), Lucknow (32%) and lastly Kolkata (11%). NO2 can severely impact respiratory, circulatory and neurological systems in humans. With recent studies establishing a direct correlation between ambient air quality and the prevalence of severe Covid-19, the increase has elicited worry from experts.Many said these results, based on data from satellite observations, point to the heavy burden of tailpipe emissions from vehicles and other emissions from non-essential industries, which were all shuttered during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year. This year, however, the movement of vehicles has been allowed to continue.“Tailpipe emission is a major reason for the rise in NO2 levels in air pollution of Mumbai. There are around 40 lakh private vehicles in Mumbai. The immediate agenda should be to restrict the number of private vehicles, increase public transport, phase out older automobiles, and promote clean mobility,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat of Waatavaran, an organization that works on air pollution.The sheer scale of these emissions sources becomes clearer when one looks at the deweathered scenario, which gives a picture of air pollution after removing the cleaning effect of the weather. “The deweathering model suggests that 2020 air pollution (in Mumbai) was strongly influenced by weather conditions and that the increase would have been as much as 164%, had weather conditions been the same in both years,” the Greenpeace report says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no2-pollution-in-mumbai-shoots-up-in-a-year-101625685441418.html
08-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana shootout: Day on, police arrest accused’s mother for drug peddling||A day after a 75-year-old passerby suffered bullet injuries in a clash between two groups in Preet Nagar of Shimlapuri, police arrested the mother of one of the accused in a drug peddling case on Wednesday.According to Shimlapuri station house officer Balkar Singh, eight persons have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act. Four of the assailants have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Jagga and Varinder. The case has been registered on the complaint of Chanpreet Singh.Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskaran Singh Teja said the mother of one of the accused has been apprehended in connection with a drug peddling case. Police also found that the weapon used in the crime was not registered and was illegally procured. “Raids are on to nab the accused. Once they are nabbed, we will find out where they sourced the illegal weapon from,” said ADCP-II Teja.Gunshot victim stableMeanwhile, a day after the incident, residents of Preet Nagar area are still in shock.Victim, Surinder Singh, 75, a retired irrigation department employee, who had received a bullet injury on his left arm, is recuperating at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H). His condition is said to be stable.Surinder’s son Sukhdev Singh said his father had gone out to get ice-cream for his mother, who had her tooth extracted on Tuesday. “My father had stepped out around 7.30pm to bring ice cream for my mother. When he was about to pay the ice-cream vendor, he saw a youth running and two youngsters chasing him. One of the assailants opened fire and the bullet hit my father,” said Sukhdev.“My father fell on the road after being hit by the bullet. He was first rushed to the civil hospital, from where he was referred to CMC&H where he was operated upon. The bullet extracted from his shoulder has been handed over to the police,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-shootout-day-on-police-arrest-accused-s-mother-for-drug-peddling-101625685322604.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Second vaccination turns woeful for 68-year-old Panchkula woman||Amid administrative oversight and a dwindling stock of Covid vaccine, a 68-year-old Panchkula woman, due for her second jab, was made to endure a harrowing experience.Over a five-day period, she went from pillar to post all by herself, waited in long queues for hours, met health officials, wrote applications — all this over a confirmatory text message, that the health department never sent.Suresh Rani of Sector 4 received the first dose of Covishield on April 7, but she neither got a text message nor any certificate confirming the administration of the jab to her.“On July 2 morning, I visited the Sector 16 dispensary to get my second jab. I waited for 2.5 hours in the scorching heat as there was no seating arrangement for the beneficiaries. Despite this, I waited another hour, only to be told by the health staff that there was no record of my first vaccination. It was then recommended that I visit the civil hospital in Sector 6,” said Rani, who had arrived at the dispensary at 10am that day and had to leave at 1pm without the jab.The next day, she trudged up five floors to meet the civil surgeon at the Sector 6 hospital, but the latter was out for a meeting.“Someone told me to visit Dr Meenu, who sits in room 104 of a building near Laxmi Narayan Temple. On July 5, I went to see her. After waiting for half an hour, she met me and explained the procedure. She asked me to write an application and give it to the chief medical officer,” said the elderly woman, who wrote to civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur highlighting the issue.Rani said that the civil surgeon listened to her with patience and called another doctor who told her to visit the Sector 7 dispensary at 12.30pm. However, this only added to her ordeal.“The situation was bad at the dispensary. There was a long queue of people waiting for jabs in the sun, including elderly citizens and women with little children. Within minutes, they announced that the centre had run out of vaccine,” she said.Seeing the panic, she decided to leave. But that is when a doctor came looking for her. “She took me to her room, made me drink water and called someone who gave me the jab and certificate,” Rani said, questioning the poor arrangements. “They should have mercy on people, especially the elderly, during this pandemic,” she said.When asked, immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan said, “Those who haven’t got the confirmation of first dose should write an application to the principal medical officer (PMO). It’s after PMO’s confirmation that we can give the second dose.”Covishield vaccine stock is almost over in Panchkula. There are hardly over 200 doses left, whereas Covaxin is only available for those seeking a second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-vaccination-turns-woeful-for-68-year-old-panchkula-woman-101625685263319.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Despite searing heat, no end to power pangs in Mohali||Unscheduled power cuts running into four hours continue in Mohali city, Zirakpur, Kharar and Dera Bassi, compounding the woes of residents, who are already reeling under soaring temperatures. Overloaded transformers and lines due to inadequate transmission network are leading to outages through the day and night, leaving residents sweating.There are nearly 2,00,000 consumers in different categories in Mohali. As many as 1,70,000 are domestic connections, which have become even more crucial amid the pandemic, with residents required to work from home and attend online classes. According to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) records, nearly 50% of the 19 grid sub-stations in the district do not have sufficient infrastructure to cater to the rising power demand in urban areas, leading to overloading and crippling of supply. Among them 66 kV grids in Sunny Enclave and Gillco Valley in Kharar; Tuer village near Mullanpur; Seonk; Phase 9, Industrial Area; Bhabat at Zirakpur; and Mubarikpur remain fully loaded and any further increase in demand leads to power cuts.In several locations, power cables are also lying damaged.Kamal Tiwana, a resident of Kharar said, for the past one week, they had been facing unscheduled power cuts for two to three hours daily. A resident of Zirakpur, Jandial Naresh said a power outage started at 11pm on Tuesday and was not over until 11am the next day. Random outages through the night are prevalent across GMADA sectors in Mohali city as well.Worse, residents’ calls to the power department for resolution also evoke no response. In July 2019, with a move to resolve complaints swiftly, PSPCL has outsourced the relevant services to UK-based Teleperformance company. Yet, while the 1912 helpline is often unavailable, another helpline number 9646-115-973 always remains busy when the power is out, complain residents.PS Virdi, member, Punjab State Advisory Committee, regulatory electricity commission, said despite repeated reminders, the corporation had failed to upgrade the basic infrastructure. “The cables should have been replaced and capacity of the transformers increased, but no steps were taken over the past one year,” he said.PSPCL superintending engineer Mohit Sood said transformers were getting overloaded with demand peaking over the past week. “Work is in progress to sort this out at various sub-stations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-searing-heat-no-end-to-power-pangs-in-mohali-101625685202003.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Heatwave again sweeps Chandigarh, relief ahead||With the maximum temperature on Wednesday rising up to 40.2°C, five notches above normal, the India meteorological department (IMD) again declared heatwave in Chandigarh. Heatwave had last swept the city on June 30 and July 1, for the first time this summer. Meanwhile, the city also experienced the first warm night of the season, with the minimum temperature going up to 29.5°C, five notches above normal, in the wee hours of Wednesday. Similar conditions are likely to continue on Thursday, with the mercury expected to rise even further, said IMD officials. However, light rain is expected in the city from Thursday night, and will likely bring down the temperature by around five degrees within the next three days.According to the IMD, a heatwave is declared in the plains if the maximum temperature is more than 40°C and at least 4.5°C above normal, or if it crosses 45°C. A warm night is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40°C and the minimum temperature is at least 4.5°C above normal. “While chances for heatwave will continue on Thursday as well, some relief can be expected from Friday onwards. Light to moderate rain up to 30 mm is likely with easterly winds starting to blow in the region again. Monsoon is expected to become active and cover the remaining parts of Punjab and Haryana by July 10,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh.A low pressure area will also develop over the northern parts of Bay of Bengal from July 11 and an increase in rainfall is expected in the region after that. With 127.8 mm showers in the city till Wednesday (since June 1), against a normal of 180.5 mm, the monsoon is 28% deficit, according to the IMD.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 35 and 41 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 29 and 30 degrees, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heatwave-again-sweeps-chandigarh-relief-ahead-101625685142313.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Dilip Kumar never joined politics, but was close to leaders||Actor Dilip Kumar never joined active politics, but shared cordial relations with politicians in Mumbai as well as Delhi. The thespian was also actively involved in social work in the city. His attempts to bring two communities together following the 1992-93 Mumbai riots were widely appreciated. Right from the late prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, to Maharashtra politicians such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar and the late Shiv Sena supremo, Bal Thackeray, the actor shared cordial relations across the political spectrum. He had even campaigned for former defence minister VK Krishna Menon, who was contesting the general elections from Mumbai North constituency in 1957, according to cinema chroniclers.“He used to insist and come to campaign in almost all my elections. I have been an admirer of ‘Yusuf bhai’ (Dilip Kumar) since childhood. We came in contact when I became active in politics and moved to Mumbai. We have shared a special bond since the past 40-50 years,” Pawar told ABP Majha on Wednesday .In 1999, Kumar campaigned for former prime minister Manmohan Singh, for the South Delhi Lok Sabha constituency. In 1994, he accompanied former prime minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh on a fundraiser tour of Dallas, US.Though Kumar and Thackeray were on friendly terms, his relations with the latter strained after the Sena supremo chose to take a hardcore Hindutva stance. Thackeray also opposed his decision of accepting Pakistan’s highest civilian honour called Nishan-e-Imtiaz. In 1999, he decided to retain the award after consulting with the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In a 2000 interview with NDTV, Kumar had said only the Shiv Sena and its leader had demanded he return the award and that if he did not, he should leave India and go back to Pakistan. “I think it is an abominable pronouncement by an irresponsible person. It has no legal validity. It is hurtful. It offends one’s sense of personal dignity and one feels wronged…,” he had said.In 1991, he was conferred with ‘Padma Bhushan’ (third highest civilian award) and ‘Padma Vibhushan’ (second highest civil award) in 2015. The then Union home minister Rajnath Singh visited his residence to present him the award along with then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Kumar was also active in social work. In 1980 he was appointed as Sheriff of Bombay. “As he was active in social work the then state government appointed him as Sheriff,” Pawar said.Kumar also led a relief campaign that started post the communal riots in Mumbai, as thousands of families were affected.“Dilip Sahab was the face of the relief campaign started in the city with the help of Bombay Aman Committee and several other social organisations to provide relief to the people. A control room was set up for the people for SOS calls and other relief work. The meetings related to the campaign used to be held at his residence at Pali Hill. Victims were provided with ration, their houses were repaired and they were also rehabilitated wherever possible,” said Sarfaraz Arzoo, editor, Daily Hindustan, an Urdu newspaper.Arzoo used to be part of the campaign as he used to provide contacts of the victims. According to Arzoo, many bureaucrats also helped Kumar for this campaign in personal capacity.Maulana Mehmood Dariyabadi, senior cleric and general secretary, All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), said Kumar used to contribute in every possible way whenever the city was in crisis. “Soon after the communal riots in 1984, Kumar made attempts to restore peace in Mumbai and took help of several leaders from Dalit community. He also helped in relief work for lots of people post the 26/11 floods in Mumbai. He used to contribute in every possible way whenever the city was in trouble.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reached his residence, along with son and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, to pay their last respects. “We have lost one who has enriched the Indian cinema and a shining star. He played everlasting roles and he will remain in the hearts of cinema lovers forever,” Thackeray said.Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari described Dilip Kumar as a “Mahanayak” of his generation. In his condolence message, Koshyari said, “Dilip Kumar was the first super star of Indian cinema. He represented the golden era of Indian films. I was so fascinated by his Mughal-E- Azam that I saw the film back to back twice. Unfortunately, I didn’t watch any film thereafter and Mughal-E- Azam remained the first and the last film I watched.”He said the Indian film industry is undoubtedly the most popular in the world. The credit for this success goes as much to film stars such as Dilip Kumar as it goes to great filmmakers, directors, lyricists, technicians, musicians, playback singers and others. “Dilip Kumar was a legend. Nobody can take his place. To me he was a ‘Mahanayak’,” he added.“I hardly have any friends in the cinema world. However, Dilip Kumar has been an exception. Like his fans, I admired him immensely as a thespian although I do not quite remember when we met for the first time,” wrote Sharad Pawar in his autobiography, ‘Sharad Pawar, On My Term’.“As a personal friend, he volunteered to address many of my election rallies in Baramati. He would call up my Pune-based childhood friend, Vitthal Maniyar, and ask, ‘Suna hai elections ayee hain. Bataaiye kab jaana hai?’ (I hear elections have been announced. Tell me when I should go.) Keeping aside his other engagements, he stole time between his shooting schedules and travelled all the way from Mumbai to Baramati to address my poll rallies. The turnout was always huge and the crowd lapped up every word he said,” Pawar said, hinting at a special bond he used to share with the veteran actor.Another politician, who he was close to was Rajan Patel, former Bombay Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief, a veteran Congress leader. Pawar believes he met Dilip Kumar through Patel. “The three of us grew quite close. Since our families also got acquainted, all of us went on long vacations in India and abroad whenever time permitted,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dilip-kumar-never-joined-politics-but-was-close-to-leaders-101625685141196.html
08-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC to conduct survey to identify dry, dead trees in city||To prevent loss of life and property during thunderstorms, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has decided to conduct a survey to ascertain the number of dry or dead trees standing in different parts of the city. Dry, dead and bent trees have high chances of being uprooted during storms so the MC plans to replace such trees with new ones. The civic body has issued instructions to its staff to click pictures of such trees for proof. The MC has also roped in some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for the survey. Punjab road safety council member Rahul Verma said it is a good move as trees uprooted during thunderstorms pose a threat to residents’ lives and also hinder smooth traffic movement. Such incidents also cause damage to property and disrupt power supply due to snapping of electricity wires, Verma added. Dry and dead trees can be found across the city, but most commonly in Sarabha Nagar, Civil Lines and nearby areas.On June 10, during a late evening thunderstorm, trees got uprooted at as many as 55 locations in the city. Near Jamalpur Chowk, commuters had a narrow escape as trees fell on two cars that were stuck in traffic. The occupants of the car managed to get out safely. In Haibowal Kalan area, the boundary wall of a plot collapsed on a park car. Similar incidents were reported in Civil Lines, Model Town Extension, Model Gram, Haibowal, Dugri, Jamalpur, Gill road, Chandigarh Road, Rakh Bagh among other areas. Movement of traffic was hit at a few points, including Jamalpur Chowk, Civil Lines, Gill Road etc, after the damaged trees fell on roads. Electricity wires were damaged in most parts as trees fell on power supply lines. MC chief to take final decisionMC junior engineer (horticulture wing) Kirpal Singh said once the staff submits the reports of their respective areas, along with the pictures of trees, a compiled list will be submitted to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal for the final decision on replacement of trees. “This is with the view that there is no unnecessary replacement. Sometimes healthy green trees also fall during thunderstorm, but this activity will minimise the risk,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-to-conduct-survey-to-identify-dry-dead-trees-in-city-101625685082105.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Ensure businesses not hurt in case of 3rd wave, says Uddhav||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 9,558 new Covid-19 cases, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities to ensure economic activities across the state are not disrupted in the eventuality of a third wave. Thackeray also asked his officials to spread awareness about vaccination among the masses and not let their guard down due to the decline in the number of cases.Thackeray, while addressing the collectors and commissioners of various districts, asked them to hold dialogues with the various industrialists in their districts to keep their units running in the eventuality of a third wave. “Those industrialists who are able to house their workers in their premises itself should be encouraged and if that is not possible, they should be accommodated in the nearby premises. The officials should offer all possible help to them,” said Thackeray. “The two waves were very challenging and we were able to restart the economic activities to some extent. However, in view of the third wave, it was necessary to maintain the momentum of the economic activities and hence the movement of the workers needs to be curtailed,” said Thackeray.Currently, an overwhelming number of businesses are facing huge losses due to the restrictive business timings and lack of sales. The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), the apex body of traders in the manufacturing and retail sector, welcomed the move, but wanted the government to ease current restrictions. “It is a good move, but we need to assess how much it will succeed. However, the state needs to extend timings of the retail shops as the current one (7am to 4pm) is not enough and also allow common people to travel on trains,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 662 new cases and nine deaths, with its toll reaching 15,573.The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,122,893.There were 216,512 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,899.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 114,625, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 123,857. There are currently 114,625 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,708 patients, followed by Thane with 16,657 active patients. The toll has now reached 123,857, with Pune leading with 17,034 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,573 patients..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ensure-businesses-not-hurt-in-case-of-3rd-wave-says-uddhav-101625685021137.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress starts reorganising party structure ahead of MC polls||After three successive electoral defeats at the hands of the BJP in Chandigarh, the city Congress has started preparing early for the municipal corporation polls scheduled for December this year. The Congress lost two Lok Sabha elections from the Chandigarh seat to BJP and also got a drubbing in the last MC elections (2016), where it could win only four of 26 seats. In view of the civic body elections, the party has started reorganising its party structure in the city, and is aiming to finalise a panel of probable candidates, three each from every ward, by the end of July. The total number of wards for the MC elections were recently increased from 26 to 35. Currently, Congress has five councillors in the 26-member MC house. Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla said the emphasis is now on building a strong party structure. “We will soon appoint secretaries, vice-presidents, general secretaries, organisational secretaries, special invitees and permanent invitees. After constitution of the state executive, a sub-committee will initiate the process of selection of candidates from each ward.” A panel of shortlisted probable candidates will be prepared from each ward. “Generally, we have eight to ten names of candidates from each ward. After discussions and analysing the ground report, we will shortlist three probable candidates from each ward,” said Chawla. The party has already started block-level meetings with the upcoming MC elections as the main agenda. “We have changed the strategy this time around. Instead of asking block level members to come to the party office, we are holding meetings in blocks.” Chawla’s tenure marred by factionalism Notably, it hasn’t been a smooth sailing for Chawla, who took over the party presidentship in February this year. The internal strife in the party had repeatedly come to the fore, particularly with the previous city chief Pardeep Chhabra openly criticising the incumbent city party leadership on multiple occasions. At the same time, the Chawla faction had indicated that action could be taken against Chhabra for his public criticism of the party’s leadership. “The factionalism in the party is set to flare up again. There is a concern in the party’s old guard over the new president favouring younger candidates over them. Chawla had even stated earlier that nearly 50% of the tickets would go to youngsters,” said a local Congress leader, requesting anonymity. The anti-incumbency factors against the ruling BJP can work in its favour. The entry of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) in the city’s MC polls might cut into its vote share. On his recent visit to the city, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal had asked the local party leadership to start preparing for the MC elections. But, Congress leaders have downplayed the relevance of AAP in the coming MC elections. “It will be a two-cornered fight between BJP and Congress. AAP organisationally is not in a position to make any major dent in the electoral fortune of the party,” said a Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-starts-reorganising-party-structure-ahead-of-mcpolls-101625684841344.html
08-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana dowry death: Take her home or she’d be killed, victim’s husband told her father||A night before 34-year-old Mandeep Kaur succumbed to her burn injuries, her father had received a call from her husband, stating that if she is taken back home, she would be killed.The worried father, Surinderpal Singh, who lives in Samrala, which is about 30 kilometres away from her in-laws’ house in Kakowal Majra village, made a frantic call to the village sarpanch, pleading him to check up on her. The sarpanch assured him that his daughter would be fine and asked him to visit the in-laws’ house the next morning.Later in the night, Surinderpal received another phone call, this time from Mandeep’s father-in-law, stating that she had received some burn injuries and was taken to the civil hospital.“I wasted no time and rushed to the civil hospital. But my daughter had been referred to the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala by then. She died on the way (Tuesday morning). When I finally got to see her body, I was shocked to find that she had suffered wounds on her head and jaw, and there burn injuries all over her body,” said the inconsolable father.He revealed that the dowry harassment had started right after marriage. “My daughter had got married to Balram Singh about three years ago. They have a one-year-old daughter. Balram as well as her family members used to frequently assault my daughter,” said Surinderpal.“We had raised the matter with the village panchayat. Some responsible people in the village helped us settle the issue but my daughter continued to suffer abuse at her in-laws’ house,” said Surinderpal. He added that he regrets not being able to bring his daughter back home to safety. “My son-in-law told me that he would kill my daughter if I didn’t take her home. Had I brought her back home on time, she would have been alive today,” said the father.In-laws yet to be arrestedMeanwhile, Mandeep’s husband, Balram Singh, father-in-law Chand Singh, mother-in-law Rajwant Kaur, sister-in-law Rajvinder Kaur, and brother-in-law Kulbir Singh are yet to be arrested. They have been booked under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code. Investigating officer, Puran Singh of Sahnewal police station, said a hunt is on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dowry-death-in-sahnewal-take-her-home-or-she-d-be-killed-victim-s-husband-told-her-father-101625684781904.html
08-07-2021||Lucknow||New Union ministers of state from Uttar Pradesh welcome their new assignment||The new faces from Uttar Pradesh who were inducted into the Modi government at the Centre on Wednesday said their new position meant more responsibility, adding that they would work to popularise the Prime Minister’s initiatives.“This is additional responsibility. It now means more work, more people-connect,” said BJP’s Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore while reacting to his inclusion in the Modi government. At Kishore’s residence, his wife Jaya Devi, a lawmaker in Uttar Pradesh, along with other family members and neighbours, celebrated his inclusion in the Modi government. Agra MP SP Singh Baghel, who has also been inducted into the government, said that they would popularise various schemes and initiatives of the Prime Minister.Apna Dal (Sonelal) leader Anupriya Patel said the BJP-Apna Dal alliance had been liked by the people as it had yielded the results thrice.“We would continue the alliance as it has the people’s backing,” she said. BJP MP Ajay Mishra ‘Taini’ said, “The Prime Minister is a performance-oriented person. He himself works hard and expects the same from others. We engage in the politics of development.”Yogi, other party leaders congratulate new faces from U.P. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, other ministers and BJP functionaries in Uttar Pradesh welcomed the increasing representation of the state in the second Modi government’s first reshuffle on Wednesday. All the new faces in Modi ministry from U.P. have been made ministers of state. In his individual congratulatory tweets to all the new ministers, Yogi wished them best of luck in their new roles. He also praised those leaders who were associated with social causes. For instance, he congratulated Kaushal Kishore, the MP from Mohanlalganj who has at times been critical of the government’s handling of Covid, by praising the social efforts he was engaged in. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev also congratulated the new ministers from UP. “The increasing representation of U.P. is good news. I wish the new ministers all the best. We would take the policies of Modi and Yogi governments to the people and, together, we would ensure the BJP wins the 2022 UP polls,” the U.P. BJP chief said. Former ally Rajbhar hits out at BJP While the BJP focused on placating various castes in ministry expansion, BJP’s former ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar described the reshuffle as a “farce”. Rajbhar is a former UP minister.“Caste groups like Banjara, Rajbhar, Biyar, Arkvanshi, Aarak, Prajapati, Pal, Bind, Nishad, Kashyap, Kewat, Nai, Gond, Lonia and Vishwakarma feel cheated. In the 2022 UP polls, all these neglected caste groups would teach this government a befitting lesson,” Rajbhar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-union-ministers-of-state-from-uttar-pradesh-welcome-their-new-assignment-101625684721813.html
08-07-2021||Other||Assets case:CBI files charge-sheet against doctor couple||Lucknow The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge-sheet against a doctor couple, Dr Sunita Gupta, the then senior divisional medical officer (DMO), Modern Coach, Northern Railway, Divisional Hospital, Charbagh, Lucknow and her husband Dr Rajeev Gupta, a professor at King George Medical College, Lucknow for possession of disproportionate assets, said senior CBI officials on Wednesday. The officials said the investigation revealed that the senior DMO was allegedly found to be in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of over ₹ 1.59 crore and her husband was found to have abetted the alleged offence. They said the charge-sheet was filed against the doctor couple in the court of special judge (west), CBI cases, Lucknow. CBI spokesman RK Gaur said a case of disproportionate was registered against the couple on May 23, 2019. Another CBI official privy to the investigation said the FIR was registered by inspector Anmol Sachan after finding substantial clues against the doctor couple during the probe conducted after registering regular case against Dr Sunita Gupta on January 21, 2016. He said the regular case was registered on the complaint of deputy chief vigilance officer of Northern Railway. He said the searches conducted earlier on the premises of said Dr Sunita Gupta had led to recovery of documents pertaining to properties. He said cash around ₹ 1.59 crore was recovered from Dr Sunita Gupta’s house near Fateh Ali crossing behind Charbagh railway station on July 12, 2016. Moreover, cash to the tune of ₹ 9.43 lakh was recovered from her bank locker and ₹ 19.23 lakh from her bank accounts, he added. He said the detailed probe revealed the doctor couple’s properties worth over ₹ 3.02 crore at different places in Lucknow. He said the calculation of their earning and expenditure showed that the couple had disproportionate assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assets-case-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-doctor-couple-101625684361918.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Only 15% eligible population fully vaccinated In Chandigarh||In nearly six months of the vaccination drive, only 15% of the Chandigarh’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The UT, however, is performing much better than many states, as nationally, only 5% of the adult population has received both doses.According to the latest electoral list, around 7.1 lakh people are to be jabbed in Chandigarh. As on July 6, 1.05 lakh (15%) have completed their vaccination cycle while 4.75 lakh (67%) have taken the first dose. Even as the population in the 18-44 year age group was the last to be covered under the drive, as many as 2,12,973 have got the first dose, as compared to 2,09,440 in the 45+ age group.However, the younger population will have to wait for the second dose as the gap for the Covishield was extended to 84 days a couple of weeks after they became eligible for the first dose. Only 1,301 (0.6%) have completed the vaccination cycle, as compared to 69,693 (33%) in the 45+ group. Among healthcare workers and other frontline workers, who were the first target group, as many as 59% and 65%, respectively, are fully vaccinated.“When the vaccination drive began, people in Chandigarh were showing hesitancy to take even the first dose. By the time people started coming forward, the time gap between the doses was increased. Most of the population will become eligible for the second dose from next month,” said UT principal health secretary Arun Gupta, adding that special camps are being set up at public places and mobile vans are going to every locality to vaccinate people.“The first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus, especially with more deadly variants spreading fast. The beneficiaries get a message from the Co-WIN app when they get eligible for the second dose, and they must end hesitancy and come forward to take the jab,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health services, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-15-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-in-chandigarh-101625684302452.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||12% of Mohali’s 7.43 lakh eligible population fully vaccinated||In the seven months since the vaccination drive started nationwide, Mohali district has fully inoculated around 88,000 (or 12%) of its 7,43,000 eligible population, while 5,39,014 (72.5%) have received only the first dose.Though over 6,00,000 people have been vaccinated, the response by senior citizens trails behind those aged between 18 and 44.According to figures from the CoWin portal, out of the 6,26,542 Mohali residents vaccinated as of July 7, the population covered the most is in the 18-45 age bracket, with 3,67,723 people in this group having received at least one dose.Among those in the 45-60 age group, 1,45,756 have come forward for vaccination, and among senior citizens 1,13,063 have received the jab.Health workers are last on the list with only 24, 000 having been immunised, even though they were the first target group when the vaccination drive began on January 16.Phase 2 of the drive for senior citizens and comorbid people aged above 45 began on March 1, that for all people above 45 years on March 23, while the 18-45 age bracket was covered from May 1 under the third phase.Notably, out of the total number, 3,76,427 beneficiaries are men and 2,50,056 women.In Mohali, vaccines are being administered at 49 government sites and five private hospitals.Among the population covered so far, 5,44,908 have received Covishield and 79,901 Covaxin.While the second dose of Covishield is being provided only after 84 days as per central government guidelines, Covaxin’s second dose is being administered after 28 days.Dr Vikrant Nagra, in-charge for the vaccination drive in Mohali, said hesitancy towards the vaccine was still prevalent in the rural areas. “We are holding camps in villages to elicit more response, while in urban areas people are readily coming forward and complete coverage will increase as the 84-day period between two Covishield doses starts lapsing from August onwards,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-of-mohali-s-7-43-lakh-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-101625684182786.html
08-07-2021||Other||Dilip Kumar loved Lucknow’s cuisine, Dussehri mangoes||LUCKNOW: Actor Dilip Kumar’s love for Urdu and typical ucknowi zaban’ was unparalleled. He spoke chaste Urdu and won millions of hearts with his command on poetry. But each time he came to Lucknow, he would say, “Yahan aakar meri zabaan ladkhadane lagti hai,” ( I stammer whenever I come here) recalled Athar Nabi, founder of Hindi Urdu Sahitya Award Committee, who was very well connected with the actor. When the thespian breathed his last in Mumbai on Wednesday morning, Lucknow remembered his visits to the city. Dilip Kumar visited the city five times and left the people craving for a handshake and a mere glimpse, said Nabi. The lanes of Hewett Road were packed when the actor visited Athar Nabi’s house for lunch in the ‘90s with a select few. He recalled that people gathered in large numbers at the Begum Hazrat Mahal Park and Safed Baradari and KD Singh Babu stadium echoed with applause when the legendary actor aid a visit to these places. Nabi said, “Dilip Sa’ab was a true caregiver to the poor and needy. He was always there to help the downtrodden. I invited him to the city of nawabs and requested him to be a part of a friendly cricket match to raise money for drought-hit people. I told him that the funds would go to the chief minister’s relief fund and he agreed. I requested him to give me his confirmation in writing and he asked me to get it done and he signed it right away.” The actor came here with Pran, Om Puri and many other actors to take part in the event. “He relished the Lucknowi food and admired the culture and handicrafts. No matter where he stayed, food packed from the lanes of the Old City was brought for him and he would feast on the famous galawati kkabab and nihari kulcha of the city,” recalled Athar Nabi, who got a chance to show his hospitality to the actor each time he came to the city. Recalling his first first meeting with the actor, Nnabi said, “I was in Bombay when I expressed the desire to meet him.. Om Prakash ji took me to his home. Dilip saheb had a peculiar style-the staircase from his bedroom opened in the drawing room and each time he came down to meet the guests, he would come rolling his sleeves. I observed the same thing whenever I went to his house. May be this was his style.” Then actor became a part of the Muslim OBC conference held at the Baradari in August 1997. Lucknow also honoured him with Awadh samman given by Hindi Urdu Sahitya Award Committee and celebrated Jashn-e- Dilip Kumar in his honour. “Mulayam Singh Yadav was chief minister and Moti Lal Vohra was governor. The award committee gave ₹1 lakh and Lucknow Nagar Nigam gave ₹1 lakh,” Nabi said. “One thing that was very nice about him was his command on all subjects. He never required a script or a paper to speak on any issue,” said Nabi. “During one of his visits, he was offered custard apple (shareefa) and he liked it so much that whenever he came to the city, he asked for it. He also relished the Dussehri mangoes and regretted that they were not available in Mumbai in those years,” recalled Athar Nabi, who was closely associated with him. Retired bureaucrat Anis Ansari also recalled his first meeting with the actor at the OBC conference in Safed Baradari at Qaiserbagh area in the late ‘’90s. The event was organised by Athar Nabi. The actor was staying at Raj Bhawan. And Ansari was impressed with the actor’s humility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dilip-kumar-loved-lucknow-s-cuisine-dussehri-mangoes-101625684121802.html
08-07-2021||Other||Police bust two fraud call centres in Delhi, arrest 95||New Delhi: Ninety-five people, including 19 women, were arrested for allegedly running two fraud call centres in Delhi’s Kirti Nagar and Mangolpuri from where they contacted the US citizens impersonating as officials of the country’s social security administration and duped them of their money by threatening to revoke their social security number (SSN), police said on Wednesday.The alleged suspects were using illegal techniques, VOIP calling, bypassing the legal international long distance (ILD) gateways for cheating the US citizens. A total of 82 computers, five laptops, 84 mobile phones and 48 identity cards were seized from the two call centres following simultaneous raids conducted at both the premises by teams of the crime branch on Tuesday night. Two minor boys working as tele-callers at the Mangolpuri call centre were also apprehended, the police said.This is the second such operation carried out by the Delhi Police in less than a fortnight against fraud call centres involved in cheating the US citizens. On June 24, 84 people were arrested for allegedly running an illegal call centre and duping thousands of the US citizens of their money by posing as employees of a leading e-commerce company and offering assistance in solving technical issues regarding the company’s services. Ninety-three laptops, four computers and two SUVs were seized along with ₹64.30 lakh from the arrested persons.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Manoj C said in the latest raids both the call centres were running for the past three to four months. The exact number of the US citizens cheated by the arrested persons and the total amount is still being ascertained. The fraudsters were running the call centres in the garb of a travel agency ’The Global Airfares’. Explaining the modus operandi, the DCP said the mastermind and other key players of the racket obtained the database of the US citizens through their contacts, whom they call “blockers”, based abroad. The database having details of the citizens such as their names, social security numbers, addresses and contact numbers, were given to the tele-callers, who are trained in speaking English with the American accent .The tele-callers contacted the US citizens by impersonating the officials of the US Social Security Administration and intimidated them that their social security number will be revoked because of some fraudulent transactions detected by the department. They tricked the citizens into buying online gift cards of an amount ranging between 100 US dollars to 1,000 US dollars and obtained their coupon codes and the PIN codes from them, said DCP Manoj C.“The gift card was considered a security deposit till the alleged investigation into the fraudulent transaction and verification of the antecedents of the SSN card holder was over. The fraudsters used to pass on the coupon code and passwords to the blockers, who redeemed them and transferred the amount to the fraudsters through hawala channels or by transferring cryptocurrency into their accounts,” said the DCP.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar said the crime branch teams first raided the fake call centre running in a rented building in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar around 8.30 pm on Tuesday, where 25 tele-callers were busy calling US citizens.“We arrested 30 people, two team leaders – Amit Kumar and Chandrahas Patel – and the manager, Narendra Mishra. The owner of the call centre, Amit Tyagi was also among the arrested persons,” said Kumar.Tyagi’s interrogation, the joint CP said, revealed that he ran a similar call centre in Mangolpuri as well. Another team conducted a raid and caught 67 people, including two juveniles, from the call centre named ‘TeleOne E-commerce Agency’. “We asked Amit Tyagi to produce the licence and other documents for running the call centre but he could not produce any documents. A case of impersonation, cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered and further investigation is on,” added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-bust-two-fraud-call-centres-in-delhi-arrest-95-101625684121180.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula civil surgeon was suspended without CM’s nod||The orders to place Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur under suspension, issued on the directions of Haryana health minister Anil Vij, were not in conformity with the Rules of Business of the state government. The Rules of Business of the state government are framed under Article 166 of the Constitution for convenient transaction of the business of the government and for the allocation among ministers of the said business. As per Clause 28 (1) (xxiv) of the Rules of Business, a proposal for suspension of a Class-1 officer has to be submitted to the chief minister before an order is issued. This means that the chief minister has the power and authority to decide the proposal of suspension of a Class-1 officer. Dr Kaur, who is a Class-1 officer, however, was placed under suspension on the order of the health minister, a glaring omission unlikely to stand legal scrutiny, officials who have dealt with such matters said. While an ex post facto (done after an action has been taken) approval was accorded on file by the chief minister, questions are being asked in the health department about the tearing hurry shown by the health minister in ordering Dr Kaur’s suspension without sending the file to the competent authority — the chief minister. Dr Kaur’s suspension orders, signed by the superintendent health–1, additional chief secretary, health department, Haryana, were issued on the evening of July 6.Haryana speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had confirmed the suspension was a fallout of personal reasons: “It seems Anil Vij had given some direction, which was not followed by her.”While Dr Kaur refused to talk, Vij and Rajeev Arora, Haryana’s additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, did not revert to HT’s multiple attempts to contact them.Support pours in from residents, fraternityDr Kaur had taken charge as the Panchkula’s civil surgeon in February 2020, a month before the pandemic, and led the fight against it from the front. “It is quite unfortunate... Dr Jasjeet Kaur deserves promotion for her dedication during the peak pandemic period; instead she has been put under suspension,” said SK Nayar, president of Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), an apex body of resident welfare associations in Panchkula, adding that he has received messages from many residents, who have shown their disappointment over the government action.The CWA members have also written letters to the Haryana chief minister besides Vij and Gian Chand Gupta, demanding that Dr Kaur be reinstated.People also criticised the move on social media. While a PGIMER doctor called it a “very poor treatment for a frontline worker”, a resident wrote: “Horrible! Only because she could not blindly follow the political bosses.” The government action has also been called “arbitrary” and “unjust” by many. Meanwhile, Dr Rajiv Arya, president, Indian Medical Association, Panchkula, said: “This is not a way to suspend a person who has done so much for Panchkula by making the civil hospital the top public hospital in the state. She did her job really well and must have been given proper opportunity to explain her point before taking the final decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-civil-surgeon-was-suspended-without-cm-s-nod-101625684061999.html
08-07-2021||Other||Delhi govt to bring in colour-coded graded plan to fight Covid-19||New Delhi A colour-coded graded response action plan, proposed by an expert committee formed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to guide the government’s Covid-19 preparedness in case of a possible wave of the pandemic in future, will see shopping malls and shops dealing in non-essential goods and services coming under an odd-even system when the alert level is raised to ‘Yellow’ in the Capital.The proposed plan documents seen by HT show that shops in malls will witness a further reduction in timings under the ‘Amber’ alert and will be shut altogether, along with weekly markets, when the alert is raised to ‘Orange’. Only essential services, stand-alone shops and construction activities, with on-site labourers, will be allowed during the ‘Orange’ alert.The alerts — Yellow, Amber, Orange and Red — have been arranged in terms of their severity, taking into consideration factors such as positivity rate, cumulative new positive cases, and average weekly occupancy rate of oxygen beds, said the documents.“While ‘Red’ is the highest level of alert in terms of severity, most economic activities will come to a halt with the announcement of an orange alert itself. Further restrictions will be planned under ‘Red’ alert when the situation arises,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.The plan, however, is yet to be submitted to Kejriwal or Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).A government spokesperson did not offer a comment.WARNING SYSTEMAccording to the expert committee’s plan, the Yellow alert will be issued if the positivity rate remains over 0.5% for two consecutive days, or cumulative new positive cases for seven days touches the 1,500-mark, or the average occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals remains 500 for a week.With this alert, shops in markets and malls dealing with non-essential goods and services will be allowed to open between 10 am to 8 pm as per the odd-even formula. While one weekly market will be allowed per municipal zone at half the capacity of vendors, construction activities and industrial establishments and manufacturing units will be allowed to operate, said the government documents.An Amber alert will be issued if the test positivity rate remains over 1% for two consecutive days, or 3,500 new positive cases surface in a week, or average oxygen bed occupancy remains over the 700-mark for a week. Under this alert, construction activities and manufacturing units will be allowed though shops in markets and shopping malls will have to close by 6 pm, said the documents.The Orange alert kicks in if the city records a positivity rate of more than 2% for two consecutive days, or 9,000 cumulative new positive cases over a week, or average oxygen bed occupancy remains over the 1,000-mark for a week. This will entail closure of shopping malls and markets, except shops dealing with essential goods. Orange alert will also bring construction activities, which don’t accommodate labourers on-site, to a halt. Shops selling construction materials are not covered under essentials and, hence, they are likely to remain closed. For factories, only those producing essential commodities will be allowed if workers can live on site, the documents said.A Red alert will be issued if test positivity rate remains over 5% for two consecutive days, or the city touches the 16,000-mark for cumulative new positive cases in seven days, or average oxygen bed occupancy rate remains 3,000 or more for a week. Restrictions on economic activities under the orange alert will remain and more curbs will be introduced depending on the situation, said the senior official quoted above.Under the current plan, the committee has not yet taken a final call on phase-wise restrictions to be imposed on social activities – such as weddings, and political, religious and cultural gatherings, etc – and public transport. “However, the committee is planning to impose a 50% operational capacity curb on the metro service on an ‘Amber’ alert and on buses on an ‘Orange’ alert. The metro is likely to be closed for the general public during ‘Orange’ alert,” said the senior official. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Such a strategy can be very useful in sending the right message to the masses. Currently, the government shares only numbers. Numbers that appear as a threat to me can seem relatively safe to another person. A colour-coded system can help bring in more objectivity and people can better assess what level of precautions to take at what stage. A graded action plan will also ensure better allocation of resources, protect the contact tracing and home isolation models and make triaging easy for the surveillance teams.”The colour-coded alerts in the graded response action plan for Covid-19 are similar to the system imposed by the state to tackle air pollution in the city in the winter. Under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) for pollution in the Capital, air quality scale is divided into four levels — moderate, poor, very poor, severe and severe plus or emergency -- with the government and enforcement agencies implementing a list of do’s and don’ts as and when the pollution level breaches a particular level.The graded response strategy for Covid-19 was drafted by an eight-member expert committee set up by Kejriwal on May 27. On the same day, Kejriwal formed another 13-member expert committee to guide the government on technical and healthcare-related measures in case Delhi sees another wave of the pandemic. At its peak, the Capital witnessed more than 28,300 new cases in a day on April 20, and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-bring-in-colour-coded-graded-plan-to-fight-covid19-101625684001941.html
08-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Wife of former Union minister murdered in her Vasant Vihar house||Kitty Kumarmangalam, 70, wife of former Union minister P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, was murdered at her house in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar on Tuesday night, allegedly by her laundryman and his two accomplices, Delhi Police said on Wednesday, after arresting two of the three suspects. Kitty lived alone in a second floor flat in Vasant Vihar’s A block. Her late husband served as the minister of state for law, justice and company affairs in the PV Narasimha Rao government between 1991 and 1993, and as Union minister for power in the Vajpayee government from 1998 to 2000. Police identified the two arrested men as Raju Lakhan Kanojia, 24, the laundryman, and Rakesh Kumar Raj, 34, a contractual driver with a central ministry. The third alleged accomplice, Suraj, identified only by his first name, also a driver, is yet to be arrested. Police said robbery was the motive and the plan was hatched just a few hours before the murder. The three men also strangled Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila,33, with a belt and left the house believing her to be dead after she fell unconscious. After coming back to her senses, Mithila alerted neighbours, who informed the police control room. Police said prime suspect Kanojia was known to Kitty as he did her laundry for the past five years. He visited the house once every few days to collect clothes. Around 6.30pm, exactly an hour and forty minutes before the three men entered Kitty’s flat, Raju called his two friends and asked them to join him for drinks. Police investigation shows that Raju reached PVR Priya Market in Vasant Vihar on his scooter, where Rakesh and Suraj joined him. Police have found CCTV footage showing the suspects at the market. “They bought three bottles of strong beer and drank it. Then, Raju bought a bottle of whisky and drank in a corner of the market. It was during this drinking session that Raju told them about an elderly woman (Kitty), who lived alone in a “posh” flat. He knew she was the wife of a former minister and may have seen the woman open her locker when he went to collect clothes. He said he could pull off the heist by murdering the woman without any resistance. He shared his plan with his friends and they decided to immediately execute it,” said an investigating officer, who asked not to be named. Around 8pm, the three rode together on Raju’s scooter’s to Kitty’s house. Nobody stopped them on the way. “Everyone in the colony knew Raju; he did the laundry and ironing in most houses there,” said Geeta Ram,74, another laundryman, who irons clothes in a lane near Kitty’s house. The CCTV camera outside the house shows Raju and his two friends entering the building. “At 8.10pm, Raju rang the doorbell and Mithila opened the door. Mithali told us that on hearing the doorbell, Kitty came out of her bedroom to see two new faces with Raju. She objected and asked Raju about them,” another investigating officer, who spoke to Mithila, said. Before the two women could raise the alarm, the three suspects overpowered both Kitty and Mithila. Police said Suraj slapped Mithila and took her to one of the bedrooms, where he strangled her with a belt. In the other room of the three-bedroom flat, Raju and Rakesh pinned Kitty to the floor. Suraj, who thought he had killed Mithila, walked in and they used a pillow to smother Kitty. Police later found her on the bedroom floor. “She must have died on the spot. They ransacked the house, took about ₹2.5 lakh cash, some jewellery and a small safety locker. At 9.10pm, they exited the building, got on the scooter and rode to Nelson Mandela Marg. Hiding in the bushes there, they divided the money (about ₹80,000 each) among them and broke open the locker. They found nothing valuable inside; it only had some papers, which they threw on the road. We have recovered these. Then, they went to their homes,” a third investigator said, requesting anonymity. Around the same time, police said, Mithila regained consciousness. Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police(south west), said Mithila called her husband and also alerted the security guards, who informed the police control room at 10.10pm. The neighbours informed Kitty’s daughter, Ruchira, who lives in Gurugram and son R Mohan, who lives in Bengaluru. “The most independent and powerful woman I knew, the one who taught me right from wrong, who raised me to be who I am, who suffered through my pain, laughed loudest for my joy, loved me unconditionally, left this realm on the date she gave birth to me. 6pm,Lodhi crematorium,” Mohan Kumaramangalam tweeted on Wednesday. A police team reached the flat and found Kitty unconscious on the floor, and the room ransacked. Police took the two women to Safdarjung hospital, where Kitty was declared brought dead. At the hospital, Mithila told police about what had happened. “Mithila told us about the laundryman who had come to the flat. Based on her statement, we checked multiple CCTV cameras, spoke to other laundrymen in the area and located Raju’s address in Bhanwar Singh camp in Vasant Vihar. He was arrested. His accomplice was also arrested on Wednesday morning. We have recovered the cash and the stolen locker from Raju’s house,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wife-of-former-union-minister-murdered-in-her-vasant-vihar-house-101625683941242.html
08-07-2021||Lucknow||UP’s trillion dollar economy goal: Next move on appointment of consultant likely soon||The Uttar Pradesh government may soon take a call on making the next move about the appointment of a consultant to draw a roadmap to make the state a trillion dollar economy in the next five years.The state government had cancelled the global bids for the appointment of a consultant on March 22, 2021 after making a high-profile announcement earlier. The decision to cancel the global bids came nearly four months after zeroing in on the selection of a bidder.Those aware of the developments said the state government was in the process of holding discussions and a decision on the issue may be taken soon.“Agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha has convened a meeting to discuss the issue on July 13, 2021,” said additional chief secretary (planning) Suresh Chandra.Although Chandra refused to elaborate on the agenda of the meeting, there are indications that a call on the issue will be taken after the meeting at APC’s level. The state government had decided to cancel the bids due to some lacunae in the process of examination/evaluation of bidders. No reason was, however, given for cancelling the bids in the notice issued by the special secretary (planning department) in this regard on March 22, 2021.“The tender process is hereby cancelled with the approval of the competent authority. Fresh tender notice in this regard is likely to be published soon,” read the notice.The consultant is expected to draw a five-year roadmap (2020-2025) to accomplish the task and the state government may have to rework the timeline as a considerable chunk of the given period has already lapsed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had floated the idea of making the state a trillion-dollar economy at the Uttar Pradesh Investors’ Summit 2018 here on February 21, 2018. Referring to his association with the investors’ summit as the chief minister of Gujarat and later with the UP Investors Summit-2018 as the PM, Modi said Maharashtra, too, had set a target to become a trillion-dollar economy.“Can Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh compete with each other to become the trillion-dollar economy? Will the Uttar Pradesh government compete with other states? More the competition, the more will be the investment. This will result in the creation of more jobs and strengthen the concept of cooperative federalism,” he said at the UP Investors Summit here.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team soon began working on the idea. After holding various rounds of discussions, the formal process of floating global bids for the appointment of a consultant began on June 19, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-trillion-dollar-economy-goal-next-move-on-appointment-of-consultant-likely-soon-101625683882432.html
08-07-2021||Other||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal inaugurates first genome sequencing lab at Lok Nayak hospital||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in the presence of health minister Satyender Jain, inaugurated the first laboratory under the Delhi government to sequence genomes of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 at the Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday. The lab, which has one sequencing machine, will start with eight to ten samples a day and expand the capacity to test more than 40 samples per day. “We hear about new variants emerging in news every day. So far, we were dependent on Centre’s NCDC lab to sequence the samples. Now, Lok Nayak will also sequence the Covid-19 virus and look for variants that are causing the infections in the city. This will help us frame a strategy to tackle the problem,” said Kejriwal at the inauguration.The other lab, which can test up to 400 samples a week, will be inaugurated on Thursday at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The lab has two machines for genomic sequencing that were used for other viral research so far. “Currently, the researchers are working on standardising the data, after which the capacity will be increased to 40 to 50 samples a day,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director at Lok Nayak hospital. The labs together aim to sequence 5% of the samples that return positive in the RT-PCR test to keep an eye on concerning mutations that might lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases in future. So far, Delhi depended on the labs at National Centre for Disease Control and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, that are part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG). “With the Central labs sequencing samples from across the country, there was always a delay of two to three weeks in getting results of the samples sent for sequencing. At the beginning of the year, when the UK variant was first detected, our hospital was the designated centre for isolating such cases and it took long to get their reports,” said Dr Kumar. Lok Nayak had admitted 140 patients with UK variant in its special isolation ward. The hospital did not receive any patient who contracted the South African or Brazilian variant of Covid-19. The hospital has formed an inter-department committee that will refer random samples and samples of patients with atypical symptoms for genomic sequencing. “If we receive Covid-19 cases where the symptoms are different or the patient is taking long to recover, the samples will be sent for sequencing in addition to random sampling of admitted patients from within the hospital. We will also receive samples from the districts for sampling,” said Dr Kumar. The districts currently send some samples of mild, moderate, and severe Covid-19 cases, along with cases of re-infection, and infection after vaccination to INSACOG for sampling. The two labs by Delhi government will now share the load of testing samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-inaugurates-first-genome-sequencing-lab-at-lok-nayak-hospital-101625683881188.html
08-07-2021||Other||Delhi: Another heatwave day, but IMD says relief in sight||Delhi continued to reel under the ongoing heatwave with the maximum temperature, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), reaching 42.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, six degrees above normal for this time of the year. However, forecasters said relief is in sight as the mercury is likely to drop by at least two degrees from Thursday onwards. IMD data shows that Delhi experienced a spell of heatwave from June 29 to July 2 with the day temperature rising to as high as 43.5°C on June 30, seven degrees above normal which the IMD classifies as a ‘severe heatwave day’. However, thunderstorm and light showers on July 2 brought the mercury down, pulling the city out of the heatwave spell. From July 4, the city has been again experiencing heatwave-like conditions with the maximum temperature remaining above the 40°C-mark.In the plains, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C or when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees or above from the normal temperatures.“The mercury is likely to subside Thursday onwards and so will the level of discomfort people are facing right now,” said a senior IMD official. On Monday, the IMD revised the dates for the arrival of monsoon in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10. According to the Met department, this will be the most delayed monsoon in at least the last 17 years. The last time the monsoon had arrived this late was on July 9, 2006. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, said on Thursday, the maximum temperature is likely to drop by at least two degrees. By Friday, there are chances of thundershowers, which will intensify on July 10-11 in what could be called the “most delayed” monsoon in recent years. Hence, a further drop in the day temperature is expected by July 10, bringing much relief from the soaring heat and humidity.“This has been by far the most delayed monsoon in almost two decades. Now, that the monsoon trough is slowly progressing over northwest India, a drop in temperature is likely. Thundershowers are likely to intensify and bring in rainfall by July 10, with the day temperature likely to drop to around 35°C,” said Palawat. He further said so far, Delhi has been experiencing a combination of soaring heat and high humidity. “On Thursday, even if humidity is high on account of south easterly winds coming from the Bay of Bengal, the drop in temperature will bring some respite, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-another-heatwave-day-but-imd-says-relief-in-sight-101625683823358.html
08-07-2021||Other||L-G Anil Baijal reviews progress of Yamuna riverfront rejuvenation project||New Delhi: Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal reviewed the progress of development work on rejuvenation of Yamuna riverfront on Wednesday, and asked the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to complete each phase of the project within the specified timeline. “It was advised that provision of eco-friendly amenities and conveniences in the above areas, including zero-waste toilets, drinking water, sit outs, solar lights and signages be made available, so [as] to encourage increased utilisation of these assets and to foster strong ownership of the community,” the L-G tweeted.The DDA is working on rejuvenating and making the Yamuna riverfront accessible to the public by building cycling tracks, walkways, eco-trails in wetlands and a floodplain forest along the 22-km area between Wazirabad Barrage and Okhla Barrage, a senior DDA official said. The officials said the project will not only help people connect with the river but also check the dying ecosystem, both flora and fauna, of the Yamuna floodplains. Under the plan, the DDA will develop close to 1,400 hectares of land on the eastern and western banks of the river. The entire stretch has been divided into 10 projects, of which three — Kalindi Biodiversity, Park Asita East, Asita West — are in advanced stages of construction and will be completed in the next few months, officials familiar with the developments said. One of the biggest challenges in restoring the riverfront, DDA officials said, is removing encroachments and reclaiming the land. Baijal has asked DDA to take measures for adequate surveillance. “Advised DDA to take steps for adequate surveillance and security of the area in collaboration with local police to prevent any encroachment/unwarranted activity,” the L-G tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-anil-baijal-reviews-progress-of-yamuna-riverfront-rejuvenation-project-101625683822797.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power privatisation put on fast track in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has put the power privatisation process on the fast track. After finalising technical bids, it has now sought the nod of the Union ministry of power for proceeding ahead with the process.UT adviser Dharam Pal has written a letter to the ministry of power on the issue. In the letter, he has stated that since the Supreme Court has stayed the stay order of the Punjab and Haryana high court on the power privatisation process, the ministry should now take a decision on the report of the bid evaluation committee.Pal said that on his recent visit to Delhi, Pal said he also met the secretary, power, and requested him to take further action on the bidding process. Now, the consultant appointed by the ministry will go through the report of the bid evaluation committee and give its final recommendations.“On the basis of the recommendations of the consultant, we will open the financial bids and a final decision will be taken,” said Pal. The nod from the Centre is expected within a week.The bid evaluation committee of the administration has analysed and prepared a final report on the strength and weaknesses of different bids. “After technical bids, financial bids will be opened. After the approval of the UT’s report on financial bids, the final approval of the Union cabinet will be taken, and thereafter the department will be privatized,” said a senior UT official dealing with the privatisation process. Seven firms in the fraySeven companies are in the fray to take over the UT electricity department. They are Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company.The high court on May 28 had stayed the administration’s move to privatise the power department, but the order was stayed by the Supreme Court on June 28, clearing the decks once again. The HC order was passed on a fresh plea from the UT Powermen Union, which had approached court pleading that opening and finalising of the tender bids be stopped. It was argued that the administration is not justified in hurrying through the process amid the pandemic. Earlier, on December 1, too, the HC had slammed brakes on the privatisation process. However, the UT had approached the Supreme Court, which stayed the HC order and remanded back the case to it. The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The centre has been pushing for privatisation of electricity departments in all the union territories. The administration had assured the Centre to complete the process by the year end.The move to privatise the profit-making department is being opposed by both the employee union and a number of resident welfare associations. Even several political leaders have raised objections to the decision. Meanwhile, the administration has allayed the fears of hike in charges after the department is taken over by a private company, stating that only the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission can decide the tariff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-privatisation-put-on-fast-track-in-chandigarh-101625683821795.html
08-07-2021||Other||Rise in prices of petrol, diesel leads to spike in rates of veggies, poultry in Delhi||New Delhi: Rising fuel prices have led to a spike in retail prices of kitchen staples and poultry over the last few days in the national capital.On Wednesday, onions and potatoes were selling for around ₹40 per kg and 30 per kg respectively across retail markets in the city, compared to ₹30 per kg and 20 per kg respectively on Saturday. Chicken was being sold at ₹220 per kg and eggs at ₹180 per tray, against weekend retail prices of ₹180-200 per kg and ₹160 per kg respectively.“Price of vegetables have increased in the last two days in the wholesale market, which has had a cascading effect on the retail stores. It usually happens during the rainy season. But monsoon is yet to set in,” said Brijesh Kumar, a retailer based in Delhi’s Mehrauli retail market.Petrol prices crossed ₹100 per litre in Delhi and Kolkata on Wednesday after fuel retailers raised petrol rates by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise in early morning. The 36th price hike in last 65 days have made petrol costlier by ₹9.81 per litre and diesel by ₹8.8 a litre since May 4. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.21 per litre and diesel at 89.59 a litre in New Delhi. Adil Khan, chairperson of the wholesale fruits and vegetables market in Azadpur, said, “Wholesale prices have shot up because of two factors. First, demand has increased with the city scaling down lockdown regulations. Second, a disproportionate increase in fuel prices have increased transportation cost. The central government should intervene at the earliest. People’s livelihoods have been affected because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Such increase in the prices of essentials at this point would cause an immense amount of distress.”The poultry market too is witnessing a similar phenomenon. “We are paying higher transport costs because of increase in price of auto fuels. So, wholesale and retail rates of chicken and eggs have gone up. There was a slump in the market in the last few weeks because of the lockdown. But now demand is increasing. With that, the additional burden of the transport cost has started reflecting in rates,” said Iqbal Qureshi, a poultry trader and vice-chairperson of the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur.Delhi was under a hard lockdown since April 19, with Covid-19 cases witnessing an unprecedented surge that left the healthcare infrastructure in the city overwhelmed. As cases started declining, the government started scaling down restrictions in a phased manner from May 31. While restaurants and hotels in the city were only allowed to entertain home delivery during the lockdown, they were allowed to open their dine-in space to a maximum of 50% capacity from June 14. Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said in the last several weeks, even though the prices of auto fuels were increasing, it did not reflect proportionally in prices of kitchen staples and essentials because demand for goods was low during the lockdown, even though supply capacity was stable. “As cities started relaxing regulations and allowed more economic activities, the demand has shot up. The increased price of transportation is now more likely to reflect in increased prices of essentials in the coming days,” Gupta said.Haji Yusuf, a fruits and vegetables retailer in southeast Delhi’s Okhla said the prices are expected to go further up once monsoon arrives in the city. “It is a seasonal phenomenon,” he added. However, poultry rates are likely to reduce slightly if the fuel prices decrease, said Rashid Khan, who runs a poultry shop in Saket. “The market is in a bad shape because of the pandemic. Demand is very low even though it has slightly increased recently with scaling down of lockdown restrictions. Fuel prices are the main factor adding to the cost burden.”Delhi residents said the imminent price rise will add further stress on the domestic budget. “Soon the price rise will start reflecting in food grains. Edible oil prices have already gone up. Any further increase would make things very difficult,” said Nishtha Arora, a resident of Vijay Nagar neighbourhood in north Delhi.Omprakash Jha, a resident of Neb Sarai said a large number of households have witnessed decrease in monthly net disposable income because of the pandemic. “Prices of essential items going up during these times is a disaster. The states and union governments should do something about it.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rise-in-prices-of-petrol-diesel-leads-to-spike-in-rates-of-veggies-poultry-in-delhi-101625683761211.html
08-07-2021||Other||Now Allahabad University’s ‘Save Ganga Volunteers’ to protect the Ganga||: A team of faculty members from Allahabad University (AU), having expertise in diverse fields, have formed ‘Save Ganga Volunteers’ group to protect the river from pollution and rejuvenate its banks through community participation.Acting on the directives of the VC Prof Sangita Srivastava, who issued orders in this regard on the directives of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti, AU authorities have formed a special team headed by Prof IR Siddiqui of the department of Chemistry, said AU officials. The five-member committee constituted by the AU’s Registrar Prof NK Shukla includes Prof IR Siddiqui (chairman), Prof AR Siddiqui head of the department of Geography, Manoj Singh of material science department, Priya Kesari of the department of Home Science and Richa Mishra of JK Institute. The committee would keep a tab on the Ganga waters and its banks besides undertaking an extensive survey of the riverbanks to identify potential dangers. The aim is to protect the national river and help plug major sources of pollution endangering the river, they added. The committee will work in collaboration with experts of IIT-Kanpur, the officials explained.“Ganga is not just a river for us but a flow of civilizations and cultures. Thus, efforts should be made to make Ganga pollution-free and ensure the continuity of its stream. For this, we would monitor the river, survey all the villages along the river, geotag the drains falling in the river and most-importantly involve the community living on its bank for protecting the river”, said Prof AR Siddiqui, head of the department of Geography and a member of the panel. Community support, including that of students and teachers of college and schools located in the villages along the river, would be roped in because routine life of the village revolves around the river and once, they are made aware about the need of preserving the river, half of the battle is won, he added. Support of NCC cadets and volunteers of NSS would be taken in associating the village residents, students, women and gram panchayats, said Prof Siddiqui. Prof AR Siddiqui further said that a survey will be conducted along the Ganga, in the stretch between Kaushambi and Prayagraj, identify the polluting spots and then efforts would be made to stop the same. Along with this, community outreach programmes would be organised so that massive campaign for protecting the river could be initiated, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-allahabad-university-s-save-ganga-volunteers-to-protect-the-ganga-101625683041228.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai, Maharashtra’s ‘thick tail’ of cases a concern: Experts||As the second wave of Covid-19 abates in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra, the higher number of daily positive cases — a trend that medical experts term as ‘thick tail’ — has become a cause of concern.“A thick tail essentially means that there is a continuing circulation of the virus in the area and there is susceptible population to which the virus can latch onto,” said Jacob John, professor at the Department of Community Health, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Due to the relaxations in lockdown measures, this susceptible population may be mingling together leading to further infections,” said John.While Delhi has gone down to report cases in two digits, Mumbai has been hovering between 400-600 and Maharashtra has been recording anywhere between 8,000-9,000 cases daily. The concern among experts is that the daily numbers, clubbed with relaxations in the stay-at-home orders may drive the third wave closer.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “It is hard to pinpoint the exact reasons causing the thick tail, but there are several factors that could be contributing to it.”“The lack of adherence to protocols like sanitising, masking and overcrowding could be contributing factors. In addition, the population density, mobility, migration as well as lurking variants of the virus could be driving the thick tail,” said Dr Joshi.The proportion of the population exposed to the virus and the proportion of the vaccinated population also plays a role in the thick tail. Some experts believe that places that did not implement significant measures when the pandemic raged could be experiencing a ‘thinner tail’ as their population is already exposed to the virus. States like Maharashtra and Kerala are experiencing a thicker tail as they may have controlled the transmission with better measures during the peak of the pandemic.According to John, it appears that Mumbai was overall more efficient during the peak in terms of implementing lockdowns, testing, tracking, and managing patients. “Delhi, on the other hand, struggled. This could have exposed more people in Delhi to the virus, while Mumbai continues to have a susceptible population even now,” he said.While Delhi’s positivity rate dropped down to 0.12% on July 1, Mumbai’s positivity rate stood at 1.7%. Delhi had carried out 76468 tests that day, while Mumbai had carried out only 38652 tests. “Mumbai’s testing has to go up. The more we test, the more cases will surface,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “There should be more localised measures in terms of finding out where the cases are emerging from, the kind of population that is infected, etc. Such measures may provide more accurate answers to why Mumbai is experiencing a thick tail.”The civic body has already started focussing on wards that are recording higher cases. The Maharashtra Covid-19 task force is also working out various strategies to ensure that the thick tail does not trigger a massive spurt. Among various measures that have been suggested include aggressive campaigns to promote Covid appropriate behaviour such as masking, handwashing, and maintaining a physical distance. Other measures include random testing of the population and tackling vaccine hesitancy.“There is a pseudo sense of confidence among the population that has got vaccinated. We need targeted campaigns for such population so that they don’t drop the guard,” said task force member Joshi. “Vaccinating at a greater speed is also crucial to decrease the susceptible population,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-maharashtra-s-thick-tail-of-cases-a-concern-experts-101625682921205.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Schools in non-Covid zones can reopen for Class 8 to 12 from July 15: GR||Two days after releasing and immediately deleting a government resolution (GR) directing the reopening of schools for Class 8 to 12 in non-Covid zones, the state school education department released an updated GR on Wednesday. As per the updated GR, schools in zones with not a single Covid-19 case in the last one month will be allowed to restart physical classes for students from Class 8-12, after receiving the consent of parents. Since most cities are still recording Covid numbers daily, for the time being this GR will be implemented in rural Maharashtra only.The GR further specifies the formation of an eight-member committee consisting of local collectors, school principals and health officials to decide on Covid-free zones. In rural areas, this committee will be headed by the head of the gram panchayat to decide which school can be allowed to start physical classes. Similarly, each district will form the said committee and schools will need a go-ahead from the committee before reopening, states the GR.“Due to the lockdown, children from across the state have been holed up in their houses and missed out on quality education. Their education is limited to what they learn online which is leading to other troubles like addiction to screen time and even depression in some cases. Drop out rate has also increased in rural parts and the only solution for this is reopening of schools in a phased manner,” said the GR. It further stated that schools and junior colleges will follow basic standard operating procedures (SOP) and maintain social distancing and regular temperature checks of students when on campus. “Schools need to ensure that not more than 20 students should be seated in a class to ensure proper social distancing rules is followed,” adds the GR.In November last year, the school education department had released a similar circular announcing the reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. By January, another circular was released directing students from Classes 5 to 8 to be brought back to school in groups and maintain Covid appropriate behaviour on campus. “Both these circulars were revoked once Covid cases started rising again and the state government called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April,” said a state education department official.While the GR released on Monday was deleted after some stakeholders complained about loopholes in the process, the new GR on Wednesday specifies details of how the re-opening will take place. Schools in Mumbai, however, feel this GR will be impossible to implement in districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune. “The Covid situation in the state is still precarious and therefore, reopening of schools can’t be implemented across all districts. In cities like Mumbai, Thane and Pune parents will never give consent for school reopening unless zero cases are reported in the city, or government starts vaccination for children as well,” said the principal of a south Mumbai school. She added that continuing classes online for the current semester at least is the only feasible option for schools at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-in-non-covid-zones-can-reopen-for-class-8-to-12-from-july-15-gr-101625682860932.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Max city, expenses: Mumbai civic body has spent over ₹2K-crore on Covid||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), India’s richest civic body, spent around ₹2,000 crore in 2020-2021 on tackling Covid-19. While the third wave is anticipated later this year, the BMC projects that the expenditure in the ongoing fiscal will fall to half of 2020-2021. BMC officials said the expenditure may dip as there were only recurring expenses on maintaining and upgrading the health infrastructure and not much had to be spent on building new makeshift hospitals. This expenditure, however, will not include the administrative cost the BMC will bear to vaccinate citizens. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “The expenditure of the ongoing fiscal might not be much when we compare to that of the 2020-2021 fiscal. There is no concrete estimation, but it may be half, but again it depends [on the situation]. There are several factors behind the fall in the expenses and one of them is the ability to use the infrastructure already set up to handle the first and second wave.” However, according to BMC officials, these are just estimations, considering the third wave is expected to hit the city by September and the expenditure will depend on its intensity. Last year, the BMC’s expenditure of around ₹2,000 crore was towards enhancing health care in the form of jumbo bed facilities, setting up new Covid-19 care centres, followed by expenditure towards hotel bills for accommodation of frontline staff, along with recruiting new staff on contract basis. Money had to be spent on medical equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N 95 masks, 3 ply masks, gloves, face shields, hydroxychloroquine, thermometers, body-bags, protective eye-wear, sanitisers etc. Further, purchasing life-saving injections, including Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, was a substantial expenditure. In the ongoing fiscal, the BMC has spent over ₹400 crore on Covid-19, which include cost towards regular purchase of drugs and maintenance of Covid facilities. However, according to civic officials, in the coming days, an additional expenditure of ₹400 crore is expected for setting up oxygen plants in the city along with oxygen refilling plants. The BMC has plans to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 civic hospitals in the city along with setting up an oxygen refilling plant in Mahul. In the 2020-2021 budget, the BMC had last year reserved ₹2 crore for fighting Covid-19 and later had spent money from the contingency funds. However, in the ongoing fiscal, the amount is being spent from the health budget. The BMC had allocated ₹4,728.53 crore, 12% of budget, to the health sector in the ongoing fiscal. However, corporators have questioned the BMC’s estimations. Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator and standing committee member, said, “The BMC has spent over ₹400 crore and another ₹400 crore will be spent in the coming days. This takes the figure to ₹800 crore which is around 40% of the expenditure last year. I feel the expenditure might be anywhere around ₹1,500 crore in the ongoing fiscal.” Mishra added, “Also, there needs to be more transparency in the expenditure on Covid-19. In the standing committee, we are getting proposals for post-facto approval under which expenditure is done due to emergency and later administrative approval is taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/max-city-expenses-mumbai-civic-body-has-spent-over-2k-crore-on-covid-101625682740953.html
08-07-2021||Lucknow||Modi govt reshuffle: Seven leaders from Uttar Pradesh inducted as ministers of state||Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are due in about seven months’ time, featured prominently in the Modi 2.0 government’s first reshuffle as seven faces from the state got a look-in, a combination of caste, education and political experience. All of them are ministers of state.Along with nine existing ministers from Uttar Pradesh in the Modi government, after the surprise exclusion of Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar, the state now has 16 ministers in the Union council of ministers. Gangwar is an eight-term MP from Bareilly.“What’s heartening to see is that most of the new ministers are well-read and have been associated with some social causes,” said Manuka Khanna, head of the political science department of Lucknow University. Apna Dal (Sonelal) leader Anupriya Patel, 40, who prior to joining politics was a teacher with an MBA background, is the only woman among the seven new faces from U.P., the youngest of them all. She is the only non-BJP face too from the state. An ally of the BJP since 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Anupriya represents the Kurmi community and is a second-term MP from Mirzapur, a constituency that is adjacent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Varanasi Lok Sabha seat.Union home minister Amit Shah had met Anupriya Patel prior to the reshuffle. “BJP has been working hard to develop its own grown Kurmi leadership but Anupriya’s recall in the Modi ministry is proof that the effort hasn’t matured as yet,” a BJP leader said. Among the new ministers from UP, while Anupriya Patel, Pankaj Chaudhary and B L Verma are from the Other Backward Classes, three others — Kaushal Kishore, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma and S P Singh Baghel — are from the Scheduled Castes category. Ajay Kumar Taini is the lone Brahmin from the state among the new inductees.Rajya Sabha MP BL Verma, 59, a postgraduate and former chief of the party’s Braj region in western Uttar Pradesh. Verma belongs to the Lodh community and is considered to be a protégé of former U.P. chief minister Kalyan Singh. Ajay Kumar Taini, 61 is a second-term MP from Lakhimpur Kheri in the Terai region of Uttar Pradesh, is a science graduate with a degree in law.SP Singh Baghel, an MP from Agra, who was a former personal security officer (PSO) of Samajwadi Party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav who later made him an MP too, has been with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) before switching over to the BJP. “A PhD in military science, Baghel, 61, who has been associated with several social causes like checking child marriages and saying no to dowry, hails from Auraiya and has considerable experience as a fifth-term MP,” a BJP leader explained. Pankaj Chaudhary, 56, a graduate, is a sixth-term MP from Maharajganj and has been the face of the BJP in the district. He has served as the deputy mayor of Gorakhpur. “The belt he represents is associated with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. It’s generally understood that since BJP central leadership is backing Yogiji ahead of 2022 UP polls, the chief minister surely was consulted on the choice of the candidate from the region,” a BJP leader said. Kaushal Kishore, 61, the BJP’s second term Lok Sabha MP from Mohanlalganj (reserved) seat, was also inducted in the Modi government.A science graduate, he has taken up a campaign to make youths give up liquor after he lost his son to liver cirrhosis. Kishore, who belongs to the Pasi community, was described by a BJP leader as an extremely handy “all-rounder.” “He has a connect with his community, takes up social causes, is well read and has been rallying the youths with his no-to-liquor message,” a BJP leader said.As the then Uttar Pradesh BJP in-charge, Union home minister Amit Shah had dined at his residence in the run up to 2014 Lok Sabha polls to symbolically indicate party’s outreach to the Scheduled Castes in the state. “In 2014 LS polls if you recall, this outreach saw BSP not getting a single seat in UP,” the BJP leader said. Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, 63, a fifth-term MP from Jalaun, is a postgraduate with a degree in law. He represents the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/modi-govt-reshuffle-seven-from-uttar-pradesh-get-a-lookin-101625681422074.html
08-07-2021||Mumbai||Cinema legend Dilip Kumar passes away at 98||Screen legend and one of Hindi cinema’s earliest superstars Dilip Kumar was laid to rest with full state honours on Wednesday evening in Mumbai after suffering a cardio-respiratory arrest earlier in the day. The news of his demise prompted tributes from politicians, sportspersons and actors across India and Pakistan – a signal of the immense popularity that the veteran actor, whose career spanned six decades, enjoyed in the subcontinent. “Dilip Kumar summarised in himself a history of emerging India. The thespian’s charm transcended all boundaries, and he was loved across the subcontinent. With his demise, an era ends. Dilip Saab will live forever in the heart of India. Condolences to family and countless fans,” the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind wrote on social media platform, Twitter. “Dilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP,” prime minister Narendra Modi tweeted. State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the residence of Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu to pay his respects said, “We have lost the one who has enriched the Indian cinema and a shining star. He played everlasting roles and he will remain in the hearts of cinema lovers forever.” The 98-year-old actor, a Padma Vibhushan awardee, was wrapped in the Indian tricolor and buried in the Santacruz kabristan [cremation ground]. While not more than 25-30 people were allowed inside for the funeral, the venue was packed with media and fans of the late star. A crowd of nearly 100 people, had gathered outside, while others stood on their rooftops to catch a glimpse of the late star.According to the actor’s family friend Faisal Farooqui, a handful of Kumar and his wife Saira Banu’s relatives were present at the cemetery. Several state leaders, including Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, as well as actors Dharmendra, Shahrukh Khan, Shabana Azmi and Vidya Balan, among a host of others, visited the actor’s Pali Hill residence to pay their respects. Kumar was suffering from an advanced stage of prostate cancer as well as kidney failure, had been hospitalized twice last month and even underwent a blood transfusion. He was admitted to the Hinduja hospital once more on Sunday after he complained of breathlessness and was found to have bilateral pleural effusion (accumulation of fluid outside the lungs). “He he already had several health issues and was bed-ridden,” said a doctor who was part of the team treating Dilip Kumar. “He had a medical set up in his house for his daily treatment. He had an advanced stage of prostate cancer. Along with it, he also suffered from kidney failure,” the doctor said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Born Muhammad Yusuf Khan on December 11, 1922, to a Pathan family in Peshawar – the fourth of 12 children -- Kumar moved to what was then Bombay, and later studied in Deolali. After completing his college, he took up a job in an Army canteen in Pune. However, a chance meeting with silver screen legend Devika Rani changed the course of his life. Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand were Hindi cinema’s superstars in the 1950s and 1960s; but it was only Kumar – who took on the screen name to appeal to a wider audience – who earned the sobriquet, Tragedy King, for his performances in films like Devdas (1955). A proponent of method acting – where the actor identifies emotionally with the character he is expected to play – Kumar eventually moved to the comedy genre on the advice of a psychiatrist. His acting range won him several fans, and he was popular among cinema lovers in Pakistan as well. In 1998, he was awarded the “Nishan-e-Imtiaz,” Pakistan’s highest civilian honor-- the only Indian citizen to receive it. “For my generation, Dilip Kumar was the greatest and most versatile actor,’’ Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan tweeted. A large group of people on Wednesday offered ghaibana Namaz-e-Janaza (funeral prayers in absentia) for legendary Indian actor Dilip Kumar at his ancestral house in Qissa Khawani Bazaar area of Peshawar in Pakistan. The first of the Khans, as he was sometimes referred to, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha for one term, awarded the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan and also served as sheriff of Mumbai. He was also honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke award.Kumar was under the care of a team of specialists, comprising cardiologist Dr Nitin Gokhale, pulmonologist Dr Jalil Parker and pulmonologist and urologist Dr Anita Patel. Even among his care-givers, he was known for his command over the Urdu language and his love for shayari. During his treatment, he often recited couplets to the medical staffers. “He was an ardent reader. When I was younger, I had seen him reading books in his car under a reading light. In fact, in hospitals, he would read books while lying on the bed,” Dr Parker said. Last year, Kumar lost two of his younger brothers—Aslam Khan, 88, and Ehsan Khan, 90 — to Covid-19. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cinema-legend-dilip-kumar-passes-away-at-98-101625677400327.html
08-07-2021||Pune||31 non-functional signals slow down Pune’s traffic||The city’s roads are slowly getting back to pre-Covid times with bumper-to-bumper traffic, however with as many as 31 non-functional signals across the city, citizens are experiencing congestions at various intersections. In an attempt to find out the cause of the congestions, traffic police Pune in the past month conducted a survey and found 31 spots where traffic signals are not working or inoperable. The city is covered with 230 signals and the city police work along with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in maintaining and upkeep of the traffic signals at various locations across the city. But this year, the authority is lagging behind in their work of maintaining the signals. “We conducted a survey a month ago, and every division (17) in total sent in their report which we collated and created a list of 31 traffic signals which are not working or have been knocked off,” said DCP traffic Rahul Shrirame. “We have handed over the list to PMC to take action. Our job is to make sure that with unlock, the carriage way should be cleared and the traffic working should be smooth. We are the enforcing agency, supervising and informing the Municipal authorities about problems such as non-working signals, potholes as well as open man holes,” he added. The list of 31 signals consists of small and medium intersections like Ramoshi gate chowk, with the reason mentioned that the signal has been not working for many days, or the one at Narpatgiri chowk where the cable lamp is broken. The situation in Rameshwar chowk as well as in Sonya Maruti Chowk too is similar where the cable lamps, as well as the controller is also broken. In Dattawadi area, the signals in Muktangan chowk, Shinde high school, the signal is closed indefinitely while the signal in Nath P chowk, it was shut off due to beautification of the chowk. The traffic signal in Disulphate chowk, Dhakawdi phata, RTO chowk, Shrimaan Chowk, Parnakuti chowk, Abhimaanshri Pashan chowk, are all broken or not in working condition due to either Metro work or flyover construction work. While most of the other chowks like Solapur Bazaar, Jambhulkar chowk, Tarkeshwar, Kalas phata, Deep Bangla, Shivaji road, Pashan, Ambedkar chowk in Aundh, Rajwada chowk, Baner, Rohini Bhate chowk, Deccan, Dhayari Phata, Shinde pul, Dange chowk, Warje, Dhumal chowk, Bibwewadi gaothan, Kunte chowk, Umbraya Maruti chowk and New English school chowk in Vishrambaug area are all non-working with broken cable, lamp and controller. Shrinivas Kandul, head, electrical department of the PMC, “We have just received the list and will work on priority as we have the contractors ready to fix the problems. The sanctions have been moving slow as everyone was busy with Covid duties and now with the unlock, things are slowly coming back to normal.” He also added that the idea of holding monthly co-ordination meetings with all heads of departments of PMC with the traffic police used to be held regularly earlier but since Covid, this too has taken a backseat. “This list will be the first such list after two years that has been submitted to PMC,” said Kandul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-non-functional-signals-slow-down-pune-s-traffic-101625673379988.html
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||More trouble for Hooda: SC orders CBI probe into Rohtak land release||More trouble is in store for former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a CBI investigation into the release of land in Rohtak to a real estate developer, Uddar Gagan Properties Limited, during the Congress rule under Hooda.About 850 acre was proposed to be acquired in 2002 for residential and commercial sectors in Rohtak by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). However, the award was passed for 422 acre in April 2005. A realtor, Uddar Gagan Properties Limited, in March 2005 entered into collaboration agreements with some farmers, whose land was under acquisition, for development of a colony.The developer had applied for a licence to develop a colony on land covering 280 acres. The licences were granted by the town and country planning director in June 2006 and the corresponding land was released from acquisition.The licences were addressed to the owners but remitted to the builder. This was followed by execution of sale deeds in favour of the builder through power-of-attorney holder of the land owners.In May 2016, the apex court quashed the land released from acquisition and transferring developer’s licences to HUDA.In its May 13, 2016, order the SC had asked the state government to inquire into the legality and bona fides of the action of the persons responsible for illegally entertaining the applications of the builder and releasing the land to it, when it had no title to the land on the date of notification under Section 4 and proceed against them in accordance with the law.Despite announcing on the floor of the assembly on March 13, 2018, that the government has decided to refer the Uddar Gagan matter to the CBI, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had backed down and instead ordered an inquiry by retired judge, justice RS Madan.The retired judge’s report gave a clean chit to officials of town and country planning department at the headquarters and in the field, officials of the urban estates department, stating that nothing has come on record to doubt the bona fides of these officials on official files. This report was accepted by the state government after taking legal opnion from the advocate general.Justice (retd) Madan had also recommended another inquiry by a senior financial commissioner rank officer into the role of land acquisition officer (LAO), estate officer of HUDA and office of the Rohtak deputy commissioner regarding delivery of possession of the acquired land. This inquiry was done by senior IAS officer Anurag Rastogi, who concluded that no act of omission or commission can be attributed to the then Rohtak deputy commissioner, sub divisional magistrate, tehsildar, kanungo and other officials of DC office.Rastogi’s report also said there was no illegality about the actions of the LAO, estate officer and officials of the DC office.The matter was first probed by retired IAS officer Rajan Gupta, who only pointed to a systemic failure in the entire episode and did not fix anyone’s responsibility. Gupta’s report was not accepted by the state government.‘SC HAS DONE WHAT BJP GOVT IN HARYANA FAILED TO DO’Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala on Wednesday said that the Supreme Court has done what the BJP government in Haryana has failed to do.Reacting to the apex court’s directions for a CBI investigation in the Uddar Gagan matter, the former leader of Opposition said he had in 2018 raised objection on the volte face done by Khattar in ordering a probe by a retired HC judge instead of a CBI probe.Abhay had in 2018 written to the Haryana assembly speaker seeking action against the CM for committing contempt of the state assembly by backing off from fulfilling the “solemn assurance to the House” that a CBI probe will be ordered in the matter.BOX:Status of cases against Hooda:Manesar land scam: CBI and ED have filed chargesheets in the trial courtAJL plot restoration case: CBI and ED have filed chargesheets. High court has stayed trial proceedings in CBI caseGurugram land release case: Chargesheet filed by the CBI. Hooda named in the FIR but is not an accused in the chargesheet. Investigations still on. Charges yet to be framed by the courtPanchkula industrial plot allotment case: ED has filed prosecution complaint (a chargesheet) under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the trial court against Hooda and 21 others. CBI yet to file one as it is still investigating||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-trouble-for-hooda-sc-orders-cbi-probe-into-rohtak-land-release-101625645958991.html
08-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC judge recuses from hearing Banerjee’s plea against Nandigram loss, imposes ₹5 lakh fine||Calcutta high court judge Justice Kausik Chanda on Wednesday recused from hearing West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging her defeat in the assembly election from Nandigram but imposed a ₹5 lakh fine on the Trinamool Congress chief for the manner in which the recusal was sought.Justice Chanda also stressed that he did not think that there was any conflict of interest if he had continued hearing the case. “The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias,” the judge said as he stepped away from Banerjee’s petition which will be placed before another bench.In her petition, Banerjee has alleged voting irregularities in her narrow loss by 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, her first electoral loss in 32 years. The TMC had demanded a recount shortly after the results were announced in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate but the request was turned down by the Election Commission. Her case was slated to be heard by a single judge bench, Justice Chanda.Mamata Banerjee and her party asked for transferring the petition to another judge citing “apprehension of bias” since Justice Chanda had, before his elevation to the bench in 2019, represented the BJP and its leaders in court cases and was seen in photographs sharing a dais with BJP leaders including state unit chief Dilip Ghosh.Justice Chanda was upset that Banerjee did not raise their objections when he first heard the case on June 18 but her party leaders put out messages on social media, setting off what the judge described as a “media trial” with hundreds of tweets demanding that he recuse from the case.“Such calculative, psychological, and offensive attempts to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of ₹5 lakh is imposed upon the petitioner,” Justice Chanda said in his order on Wednesday. The money will be used to fight Covid-19.Mamata Banerjee declined to comment on the verdict. “This is a sub judice matter. I will not comment. The lawyers will decide whatever decisions need to be taken,” she said.TMC leaders hinted that the party might approach the Supreme Court over the ₹5 lakh fine.“We have full faith in the judiciary and Justice Chanda. But we had some reservations only in this matter because some pictures and old facts have come to the forefront. As far as the decision to move the SC, the party will take a decision soon,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.The BJP said it will not comment on a court order or a decision taken by a judge. “We have complete faith in the judiciary, Some political parties may not have faith,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.In his order, Justice Chanda emphasised that he did not agree with Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for Mamata Banerjee, that there was a conflict of interest since “I have a long, close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with a political party.“The argument of Mr. Singhvi takes too sombre a view of the integrity of a judge. When a litigant raises the question of bias against a judge, who has taken the oath to discharge his duties without any fear or favour, the test has to be a real likelihood of bias or real danger of bias. The appearance of impartiality, in such a case, should not be viewed from the perspective of a common man,” he said.“If a lawyer appears in several cases for a political party, his association with the legal cell of the party or with its leaders is natural. In this country, it is almost impossible not to get a person who may not have said to have some political views. Anyone interested in politics may be said to have an “interest.” Like any other citizen of the country, a judge also exercises his voting rights in favour of a political party, but he lays aside his individual predilection while deciding a case. A lawyer’s mind is trained not to identify himself with his client and at the same time be loyal to his duty towards his client,” Justice Chanda said.“When a lawyer moves from Bar to Bench, he carries with him the same sense of detachment already in-built in him. Ironically, two leading counsel engaged in the case have well known political identities adverse to the petitioner’s party,” the judge said in his order, referring to Abhishek Manu Singhvi who was a member of the Congress but representing the TMC president along with senior lawyer SN Mookherjee who was from BJP.“It is preposterous to suggest that a judge having a past association with a political party as a lawyer should not receive a case involving the said political party or any of its members. The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-banerjee-s-plea-against-nandigram-loss-101625643986757.html
08-07-2021||Pune||ED arrests Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law in Pune land deal case||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday arrested Girish Chaudhary, son-in-law of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, in connection with alleged money laundering linked to a land deal in Pune’s Bhosari. Khadse joined the party last year after exiting the Bharatiya Janata Party. Officials said Chaudhary was arrested since he did not cooperate during a 12-hour interrogation on Tuesday. Chaudhary was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Wednesday that sent him to ED’s custody till July 12..ED has booked Chaudhary and Khadse, a former revenue minister of the state, and is probing alleged money laundering to the tune of ₹61.25 crore in the land deal.The case pertains to the purchase of a plot on April 28, 2016 in Bhosari near Pune by Khadse’s family for ₹3.75 crore while the market rate was ₹31 crore. The plot’s ownership was contentious. The industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the plot was not made, and the owner was not compensated for it.The complainant, Hemant Gawande, alleged that Khadse defrauded the exchequer in the deal. ED’s case is based on the complaint filed by Anti-Corruption Bureau, or ACB, against Khadse and his family members in 2017. The ACB closed the case in 2018 after submitting a report to the concerned court that cleared the minister of any wrongdoing. However, ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities.Khadse has maintained that investigations, including those by ACB and Income Tax department, found no irregularities. He claimed that the central agency reopened the probe against him for leaving the BJP.According to the ED’s case, Khadse and his family fraudulently purchased the said land, despite having knowledge that it was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), so that when the MIDC acquired it, they could claim the compensation of more than double the market rate.ED said Khadse mobilised revenue officials to acquire the said land by MIDC so that his family could get compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ed-arrests-eknath-khadse-s-son-in-law-in-pune-land-deal-case-101625638578462.html
