09-07-2021||Other||Two Karol Bagh markets temporarily closed over violation of Covid norms||New Delhi: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday ordered temporary closure of Gaffar Market and Naiwala Market in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh -- popular for car accessories and electronic gadgets -- for at least two days, citing violation of Covid-19 regulations.“Shopkeepers, vendors, and the general public are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market associations and shopkeepers are not able to ensure Covid protocols over the last three days...which may cause super-spreading of the coronavirus,” said the temporary suspension order.The restrictions will come into effect at 10 pm on Friday and shall remain in force till 10 pm on Sunday, or until further orders, the notice said. However, shops dealing with essential goods and services will be allowed to open.In the last 10 days, the authorities have similarly cracked down on at least nine such popular markets in the city, including the Lajpat Nagar Central Market and Laxmi Nagar market. Earlier in the day, at a meeting of the DDMA chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, which was also attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, senior officials raised concerns over overcrowding in the city’s markets.“Grave concerns were expressed over the flouting of Covid appropriate behaviour and negligence. It was stressed that apart from enforcement efforts on the part of various agencies, the onus of ensuring and enforcing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour lay with stakeholder organisations like market welfare and resident welfare associations,” said an official who attended the meeting.The district administration on Friday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to sanitise markets in Karol Bagh and the surrounding areas, and requested the Delhi Police to ensure “strict compliance of the order”.Currently, markets and malls in Delhi are allowed to operate between 10am and 8pm. The market associations, traders and owners of shops are expected to ensure that customers follow Covid norms such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and avoiding spitting in the open. Delhi was under a complete lockdown from April 19 due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. Scaling down of restrictions started in a phased manner from May 31 and markets were allowed to open from June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-karol-bagh-markets-temporarily-closed-over-violation-of-covid-norms-101625855372074.html
09-07-2021||Other||Expedite work on identifying new Covid variants: CM to departments||Chandigarh Punjab chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday asked departments concerned to step up work on the Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) to expeditiously identify cases of new Covid variant. He also asked officials to fast-track the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the Regional Institute of Virology, Mohali. Though no fresh cases of Delta Plus variant (apart from two reported earlier, based on May sampling) had been identified in the state, the CM directed that the Whole Genome Sequencing Lab at GMCH Patiala, coming up with the support of PATH, must become functional this month. PATH has informed that the machine is likely to be installed by July 25 July. Reviewing the Covid situation, the CM noted with satisfaction that the state was also starting dry swab testing, with a pilot at GMC Patiala next week. Sensitivity of the dry swab variant method is 79% and specificity is 99% when compared with standard RTPCR test as the gold standard. Considering its lower cost and quick turn-around, the dry swab variant method can be used as a screening tool only in settings, where automated RNA extraction is not available. State running out of vaccine With the state running out of Covishield and left with only a day’s stock of Covaxin, the CM said, “Increase in supplies was critical given the gradual opening of sectors conditional to stakeholders having taken at least one dose,” the CM said, directing officials to aggressively pursue increase in the state’s quota with the Centre. Pointing out that Punjab had already vaccinated nearly 83 lakh eligible persons (approximately 27% of the population). While the 1st dose has been administered to 70 lakh people, 13 lakh people had received the second dose, he added. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan told the meeting that the administration was following up with the Centre for more doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expedite-work-on-identifying-new-covid-variants-cm-to-departments-101625855371501.html
09-07-2021||Other||Delhi riots: HC dismisses student activist’s claim of illegal detention||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed student activist Gulfisha Fatima’s claim of illegal detention in connection to the northeast Delhi riots, saying it was “completely misplaced” and “not maintainable”. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the writ of habeas corpus does not apply in respect of a person who is in judicial custody. A habeas corpus petition is filed seeking direction to produce a person who is missing or illegally detained.“The facts will show that the petitioner is in judicial custody and detention, therefore, cannot be termed as illegal,” the bench said.It further said if Fatima is aggrieved by court orders passed in judicial proceedings before the trial court, she can challenge them before the appropriate forum in proper proceedings.“This petition is completely misplaced and not maintainable. Same is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said.Fatima was arrested on April 11 last year and is currently under judicial custody. Besides this case, she is also accused in three other riots related cases.In the habeas corpus petition, Fatima, through her sibling, claimed that her custody in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case relating to the alleged larger conspiracy that led to the northeast Delhi riots last year was illegal, and that she should thus be released.During the hearing, the bench asked advocate Jatin Bhatt, representing Fatima, whether he was willing to withdraw the plea as it was of the view that the writ of habeas corpus was not maintainable in this case. To this, the counsel said his instructions were not to withdraw.Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police, said the habeas corpus petition filed by Fatima was not maintainable and that it deserves to be dismissed with cost as it is nothing but a blatant abuse of the process of law.He also told the court that a habeas corpus petition by Fatima’s brother seeking the same relief was dismissed by the high court last year.On July 5, another bench of the high court refused to hear the matter after taking strong exception to Fatima’s advocate Mehmood Pracha, for taking recourse to “heckling” and placing reliance on facts that were not on record.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-student-activist-s-claim-of-illegal-detention-101625855311517.html
09-07-2021||Other||Govt’s multi-modal transit project, which promises real-time public transport updates, enters ‘final lap’||New Delhi: State transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday chaired a review meeting of the government’s multi-modal transit project and said that it is currently in the “final lap” of integrating the public transit system with virtual maps, to allow residents to view real-time locations of public transport services like buses and metro trains on all routes.“Delhiites can very soon plan their bus journeys to the minute. We’re at the final lap of integrating all our public transit systems into Google platform, which will utilise Open Transit Data of Delhi Govt and live data of buses to create a reliable Multi Modal Transit planner,” tweeted Gahlot after the review meeting.Later, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet, “Delhi Govt is working hard to make Delhi’s transport system user friendly using technology.”The multi-modal transit project will enable commuters to see real-time locations of buses, intersection of routes and different modes of transport – including bus and metro – on their phones to allow them to plan economic and fast travel.Last year, the government had issued tenders in this regard but the project witnessed delays because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is also developing a mobile application in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govts-multi-modal-transit-project-which-promises-real-time-public-transport-updates-enters-final-lap-101625855192221.html
09-07-2021||Other||DIET’s free coaching helping have-nots prepare for UPTET||Lucknow The District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Lucknow is providing free online coaching to financially weak students for UP Teachers Eligibility Test. The scope of UPTET free coaching, which started on the lines of Abhyudaya coaching of the state government, is being expanded. Currently only 100 students are able to join online on the Zoom app, but soon as many as 1,000 students will be able to join the online class. Apart from this, DIET is also preparing to start online classes on YouTube. After every online session, aspirants will be able to get their doubts cleared and provide feedback to lecturers. Whatsapp groups have been formed to accommodate all the enrolled aspirants. The DIET has started free coaching for students preparing for UPTET, DElEd and Bed, just like Abhyudaya Coaching was started by the UP government. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the students to join the free DIET coaching. Here the toppers of UPTET and experts of various subjects will prepare the students for competitive exams free of cost. Dr Pawan Sachan, deputy director/principal of DIET, Lucknow said that currently only 100 students were able to join the online class on Zoom app, while the number of aspirants was very high. In view of the demand of the aspirants to increase the scope and capacity of coaching, a slot was being taken on the Zoom app so that 1,000 students could be accommodated, he said. The enthusiasm of students about online coaching of DIET could be gauged from the fact that uploading the video on YouTube garnered more than 3,000 views within just one hour, he said. DIET is also preparing to stream the classes live on its YouTube channel. Therefore, now preparations have been started to increase the scope of coaching. Mock test on July 10 Sachan said that students from all over the state were joining the free coaching of DIET. He said that along with studies, a mock test would also be organized on July 10 to assess the preparation of students. The questions in this test will be from the subjects that have been taught to the students between June 28 and July 9. The mock test will comprise 50 questions related to subjects of child development and teaching methods, environmental studies and mathematics. A model test paper of 150 questions for preparation of UPTET will be organized next month. The progress of preparation of the aspirants will be evaluated at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/diets-free-coaching-helping-have-nots-prepare-for-uptet-101625855191636.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to give cash prizes to athletes who win in Tokyo Olympics||: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said the Delhi government will award a cash prize ranging between ₹1 crore to ₹3 crore to athletes from the Capital representing the country in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 if they win a medal. Four athletes from Delhi will participate in the prestigious tournament this year. On Friday, Sisodia held a meeting with vice-chancellor of Delhi Sports University Karnam Malleshwari to discuss the matter. “The meeting stressed on the importance of boosting enthusiasm and providing multidimensional support to athletes from Delhi participating in the coveted Tokyo Olympics 2020, and the role of the Delhi Sports University in building the next cohort of athletes who will represent India in future Olympic games,” read a statement issued by the Delhi government. The state government has announced a cash prize of ₹3 crore for athletes from Delhi who bag a gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics. “ ₹2 crores will be awarded to those who win a silver medal and ₹1 crore to those who receive a bronze medal in the Olympics,” read the statement adding that ₹10 lakhs will be awarded to the coaches of the athletes who bag medals. The four athletes from Delhi who will represent the country this year are Deepak Kumar (shooting), Manika Batra (table tennis), and sprinters Amoj Jacob and Sarthak Bhambri. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “The Delhi government will provide such a platform where there is no dearth of opportunities and facilities for athletes. These talents will win medals in the Olympic games in future and bring glory to the country.”Discussing the role of Delhi Sports University, Sisodia said, “Preparations are in full swing for Delhi to produce future Olympians. We are ensuring that no stone is left unturned to build a world-class sports university. Delhi Sports University will work to prepare sportspersons who will win medals for the country in the Olympic Games. The university will develop Delhi as a massive sports hub. In order to promote sports, the university will organize sports events all over Delhi through community sports so that an active environment for sports is created in Delhi as well as in the whole country and we can host the 2048 Olympic Games.”Malleswari said that Delhi sports University will provide “future olympians” to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-cash-prizes-to-athletes-who-win-in-tokyo-olympics-101625855190899.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Industry reeling under power curbs in Punjab’s Doaba region||Curbs and cuts imposed by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) are leading to heavy financial losses to industrial units in the state’s Doaba region, which comprises the four districts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Hoshiarpur. Narinder Singh Sagoo, president of Focal Point Industrial Area, Jalandhar, said about 12,000 industrial units in the region are suffering around ₹500 crore losses daily. Sagoo said the power cuts have hit production and delayed exports, and there is a fear their clients will blacklist them.Also read: Punjab power crisis worsens as Talwandi Sabo plant shuts downAshwani Victor, director of Victor Tools, said the production cost has increased threefold as 250 litres of diesel per hour is being used to run the unit. “It is total mismanagement on the part of the state government,” he said.“We met the PSPCL director, distribution and generation, in Chandigarh on Friday, and raised our concerns. He assured us that power supply to industrial units with up to 100 KW load will be resumed the same day while the units having load of 500 KW will be resumed by Monday or Tuesday,” said Sagoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industry-reeling-under-power-curbs-in-punjab-s-doaba-region-101625855134112.html
09-07-2021||Other||NSG team recovers grenade found in west Delhi drain||New Delhi: A team of National Security Guard (NSG) officers from its headquarters at Manesar reached south west Delhi’s Nasirpur village late Thursday night and used a robot to lift the grenade that was found in one of the drains in the afternoon. The area was placed on high alert on Thursday after the grenade was spotted by a sanitation worker during de-silting work.Delhi police officers said the NSG officers confirmed that the recovered grenade, HE 36, is commonly used for drills by the Indian Army. “The grenade is in the NSG’s custody now,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.Police suspect the grenade may have been accidentally dropped in to a drain from one of the army vehicles in the nearby Delhi Cantonment area, following which it found its way through several connected drains and finally reached the drain at Nasirpur village in Sagarpur. The Public Works Department drain where the grenade was found on Thursday is about 5-6 kms from the Delhi Cantonment area. The grenade, rusty on the outside and parts of its surface chipped away over the years, was spotted by a sanitation worker cleaning the drains on Thursday morning as part of the civic body’s annual de-silting exercise before the monsoon.He informed the police control room after which an alert was sounded. The grenade was shifted to a “safe location”, surrounded by “improvised safe bags” and guarded by police for nearly 12 hours on a road outside Nasirpur on Thursday, till the NSG arrived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nsgteam-recovers-grenade-found-in-west-delhi-drain-101625855132147.html
09-07-2021||Other||Ahead of monsoon, PWD sets 20-cm flooding limit to halt traffic movement around underpasses||New Delhi: Ahead of monsoon arrival, the state Public Works Department (PWD) has written to the Delhi Police to temporarily halt traffic movement around underpasses and low-lying areas in case the depth of the flooding crosses 20 cm.PWD officials said that this is being implemented in order to avert any accident on account of waterlogging. The PWD move comes in the backdrop of a drowning of a mini-truck driver last year in the flooded Minto Bridge in central Delhi. Last year, the road-owning agency stopped traffic at Minto Bridge only after the water level reached 45 cm. “We will keep updating the traffic police about the water levels, following which they can barricade the areas. Besides, all the on-ground staff have been asked to stay vigilant and pay special attention on timely draining of water from areas that are prone to waterlogging,” said a senior PWD official.A senior traffic police officer said the department is “already coordinating with the PWD”. “We will be taking all measures for the same,” said a senior police officer. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the monsoon will reach the city on July 10, with widespread rainfall and ‘isolated’ heavy rainfall predicted across the Capital from July 11-13.“We have briefed our executive staff on regular monitoring and coordination with the police as and when rainwater starts accumulating at a point. They have been told to keep a watch on all such vulnerable locations, such as underpasses, where once there is heavy rainfall, the water starts rising in no time from 20 cm to, say, 40 cm. This arrangement can effectively prevent accidents due to heavy waterlogging,” the official said. According to officials, there are around 40-50 ‘vulnerable’ locations where there is waterlogging every monsoon. Of these, five are ‘most vulnerable’, including Minto Bridge, Moolchand, Zakhira, Pul Prahladpur, Peeragarhi. The other vulnerable locations include Ashram flyover, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, AIIMS crossing, Dwarka underpass, Ring Road, Outer Ring Road, near RTR flyover, Mathura Road, Punjabi Bagh, Vikas Marg and Laxmi Nagar, among others.Experts said that though the issue of waterlogging needs long-term solutions, such as redesigning of the drainage system and its separation from the sewerage network, accidents occur only due to “mechanical failure” or “human failure”. Some felt that the step taken by the agency to establish better coordination can help prevent untoward incidents as well as create a sense of urgency in responding to such events.Former PWD chief Sarvagya Srivastava said that accidents such as drowning due to submerged stretches can be avoided with effective coordination and vigilant staff. “In case of underpasses, which are below the ground level and have a natural tendency of accumulating water, functional pumps and round-the-clock vigil could help drain out excess water before it reaches the danger mark. Similarly, the pumping stations near the vulnerable points must be alert and keep coordinating with the traffic police so that traffic movement can be halted in time,” he said. Sewa Ram, professor (transport planning) at the School of Planning and Architecture, however, said that these are temporary measures and that the government agencies must also focus on fixing drain and road designs on stretches that are routinely inundated during monsoon showers.“This could work as a measure to immediately tackle the problem and to avoid any mishap due to waterlogging, but it is still a little short-sighted. While doing this, we must also focus on fixing the problems on these stretches so that a permanent solution can be found,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-monsoon-pwd-sets-20-cm-flooding-limit-to-halt-traffic-movement-around-underpasses-101625855130962.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 8,992 new Covid-19 cases; no improvement in daily count||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 8,992 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,140,968. The tally of active cases further dipped to 112,231 as 10,458 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. The state saw 200 casualties, taking the toll up to 125,034, which also includes 538 fatalities added as part of the reconciliation process of Covid deaths. Aurangabad reported the highest toll with 46 deaths, followed by Kolhapur with 39 fatalities. The Kolhapur district recorded 29 deaths, while the city reported 10 fatalities.For the past one month, Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is not improving. The state has been reporting between 8,000 to 10,000 cases since the first week of June. In the last nine days, it has reported 79,595 cases which on average comes to 8,843 cases a day. Last month, the average daily cases of the state were recorded at 10,542.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 214,862 samples and had a positivity rate of 4.18%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 14.01%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Friday.On Friday, Mumbai clocked 596 cases, taking the tally to 726,633 cases to date. It also recorded 13 fatalities taking the toll to 15,599.After cases of Delta-plus variants were found, the state government has imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels having maximum relaxations were removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on June 25. However, its effect is yet to be seen.“With doing away with the five-level relaxation plan, we were expecting that the daily cases will go further down, and the situation will be improved, however, that is not happening. It indicates that the existing restrictions are not being implemented strictly and this leniency needs to be dealt with,” said a senior official from the state health department.Meanwhile, Vaccination drive in the state suffered a setback on Friday as it could not be continued at many places including Mumbai and Aurangabad owing to a shortage of vaccine doses. On Friday, the state vaccinated 195,396 doses which are half of what it has been covering for the last four days, according to the data available on the Co-WIN portal.It has vaccinated 328,375 doses, 395,070 doses, 637,826 doses and 323,189 doses on July 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively, states the data available on the portal.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state is not getting enough stock of vaccine doses to speed up the drive. “The country is producing only two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) at present and two other vaccines — Sputnik and Moderna have been allowed for vaccination. We are not getting adequate numbers of vaccine doses and hence facing difficulty in speeding up the drive as per our plans,” Pawar said in Pune on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-8-992-new-covid-19-cases-no-improvement-in-daily-count-101625855073635.html
09-07-2021||Other||AAP accuses Delhi’s civic bodies of corruption, BJP calls claims ‘misleading’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) of corruption, alleging that the civic agencies did not clean the drains in the city despite allotting contracts for the same ahead of monsoon. The BJP dismissed the allegations and called them “misleading”. While the AAP is in charge of the city government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.Addressing a press conference at the party’s head office in central Delhi, AAP’s spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “ The BJP-ruled MCDs have committed corruption in the name of desilting internal drains, not even 5% of the drains in colonies have been cleaned. The north corporation claims to have extracted 9,800 MT of silt and the south MCD 35,000 MT of silt. The fact is no silt has been removed.” “Water will fill all colonies in monsoon as the drains are full of silt, the rainwater will overflow and flood the main roads as soon as monsoon starts in Delhi. Crores of rupees have been looted in the name of removing silt from drains for which contracts have been awarded,” said Bhardwaj. Officials from the north corporation were not available for comment.BJP spokesperson for Delhi Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The allegations are misleading. Mr Saurabh Bhardwaj has a habit of accusing MCDs to politically malign them. Today, he has raised the drain desilting issue to cover up the failure of the Delhi Jal Board, PWD and the flood department in cleaning major drains. These departments come under the Delhi government.” “The MCDs have done their task of desilting small drains inside colonies within the deadline of June 30. However, the small drains cannot empty out into the major drains as they have not been cleaned. An inquiry into Delhi Government departments failure to clean the major drains need to be probed,” said Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-accuses-delhi-s-civic-bodies-of-corruption-bjp-calls-claims-misleading-101625855073076.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Embezzlement: Punjabi University suspends two officials, sacks peon||Punjabi University vice-chancellor Prof Arvind on Friday suspended two administrative employees and terminated the services of a contractual peon after a fact-finding committee indicting them in an embezzlement case.Those suspended are senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary and superintendent Raminder Kaur. The two are regular employees and have been transferred from the university as well. The peon has been identified as Jatinder Singh. All were posted in the varsity’s department of planning and monitoring. This is the first time in the past five years that the varsity, which has been hit by a number of cases of corruption and bungling of funds, has taken a strict action against the erring officials.“The stringent action is required as the matter is serious. Moreover, a strong message needs to be sent in such cases of financial irregularities,” said the V-C, adding that a departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the suspended employees. It will be carried out by the three-member fact-finding committee, comprising registrar Varinder Kaushik, dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khurana. In its initial report submitted last month, the panel claimed to have gathered “substantial evidence” to proceed against the erring employees. The matter came to light after the internal audit department and the varsity’s finance wing flagged issues in five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh purportedly submitted by a department in May.The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and even the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised turned out to be bogus. The committee probed bank accounts of the senior assistant and others involved in the matter. The assistance of the varsity’s forensic department was also taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps.According to the initial probe, the senior assistant — who handled funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade — used to create and submit fake bills in the name of “ghost” research scholars and assistants to siphon off the money. The funds mainly included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchhchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. It is believed the embezzlement went unchecked for at least six years and could run into crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/embezzlement-punjabi-university-suspends-two-officials-sacks-peon-101625855072538.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP notice: Ex-minister Joshi defends stand on farm stir||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Anil Joshi on Friday defended his statements on the farm protests while replying to the disciplinary notice issued by the party’s Punjab unit over his outbursts against the state leadership and high command for alleged mishandling of the issue. In the two-page reply to Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, the former local bodies minister said he had only talked in favour of farmers and party workers who are being harassed by farm unions. “In my media interviews as well, I talked in favour of arhtiyas and other industries allied with the farm sector. I also gave you certain suggestions on why party workers are leaving the Punjab unit. Is it indiscipline?” said Joshi in his reply. The two-time MLA was issued disciplinary notice earlier this week, after he, in a series of interviews, slammed the party’s state leadership, especially Ashwani Sharma, for the style of functioning and handling of the farm protests. “Had the state unit made sincere efforts to handle the situation when the farmers were protesting in Punjab, it would not have become a nationwide protest,” Joshi reiterated in his reply, while denying any indiscipline on his part. ‘I have been a loyal soldier of party’Joshi said he has been a “loyal soldier” of the party and the BJP has also given him back immensely in the form of ministership. “And whatever I am saying today is just an effort to provide more strength to the party in Punjab. I again repeat that I have not said anything against the central and state leadership. I have always tried to rake up these issues at party platforms, but these suggestions were ignored,” he said. Sharing an example, Joshi said in his reply that he had suggested to call a meeting of leaders who contest the assembly elections to get their ground-level feedback, but the party didn’t listen. “I again request you to stand by the farmers and businessmen of Punjab to involve the Centre in resolving their issues,” said Joshi. Even as Joshi remained aggressive in his interviews, the language used in the reply was “very soft”, observed a senior party leader. Any further decision on his reply is likely to come up for discussion in a couple of days, said the leader. Joshi’s issue was also discussed on Friday with party’s national organisation secretary BL Santosh during a meeting of the core committee on preparations for the upcoming assembly elections, said a member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-notice-ex-minister-joshi-defends-stand-on-farm-stir-101625855071404.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power crisis worsens as Talwandi Sabo plant shuts down||The power crisis in Punjab worsened after the closure of the 1,980 MW Talwandi Sabo thermal plant on Friday. After running at half load for two days, the plant’s only operational unit — out of the three — also tripped around 4pm. One of the units had broken down on March 8, and another went out of operation on July 4. Already under pressure to meet the rising power demand for paddy sowing, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is imposing up to eight-hour power cuts across the state. Even the industrial sector is under a forced shutdown till July 11.Even as one 210 MW unit of the Ropar thermal plant is expected to become operational on Saturday, after remaining closed for three days due to boiler leakage, the Talwandi Sabo plant shutdown is expected to lead to imposition of more power cuts on domestic consumers.The power demand in the state — with restrictions on various consumers — is around 14,000 MW. On Thursday evening, there was a shortage of at least 1,550 MW during evening peak hours. The total gross generation in Punjab on Friday afternoon stands reduced to 4,400 MW. The state thermal units are supplying 1,440 MW and total hydropower is 775 MW. The three private generators supply stands reduced to 1,850 MW, which is almost half of the installed capacity of 3,940 MW.Assures to restart two units in three days“Talwandi Sabo thermal plant has proved to be a major setback for PSPCL in this paddy season. Its only running unit (No. 2), which was running at half load of 315 MW, tripped on Friday. The plant has informed us that the unit will be restarted after three days. It has also given an assurance to restart Unit No. 1, which broke down on July 4, the same day,” said a PSPCL official, who did not wish to be named.The officials said the plant’s Unit No. 3 has been non-operational since March 8, and it is the shortage of generation caused by it that is forcing PSPCL to impose power cuts.Meanwhile, in a press release, PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad said that instructions have been issued for maintaining effective power supply amid a rising demand in the state.The CMD said field officers have been told to visit villages daily till July 19 to meet sarpanches and farmer unions to listen to their grievances and take note of major works required. He said the power situation will improve with the onset of monsoon, as even production by Bhakra Beas Management Board is down by 600 MW.Power expert VK Gupta said PSPCL’s over dependence on the private sector has proven dear to it. “Power purchase agreements are so flawed that they have no provision for penalty on plants for failing to provide power during peak season,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-crisis-worsens-as-talwandi-sabo-plant-shuts-down-101625855013172.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Shortage of doses in Mumbai: Vax drive to remain suspended at 300 centres over weekend||For the second day in a row, on Saturday, vaccination drive at over 300 centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state government will remain suspended due to lack of vaccine doses. The vaccination drive remains shut every Sunday. However, the drive will continue as per schedule at private hospitals.On Friday, the vaccination drive was suspended owing to lack of doses.In a statement on Friday, the BMC said, “Vaccination will remain suspended on Saturday, July 10, 2021, at government and municipal vaccination centres in the city due to insufficient vaccine stock available under the Covid-19 prevention vaccination campaign. The vaccination drive will resume once vaccine stocks become available to the corporation.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We are expecting to get around 85,000 doses on Saturday, and then, we will resume the drive on Monday. Further, in the coming days, we are expecting maximum doses for Mumbai, to undertake the drive aggressively.”The BMC had expected fresh stock of vaccines on Friday, but it did not receive any, due to which the decision was taken to call off the drive. According to BMC officials, the central storage facility of vaccines has been out of stock since Wednesday, and there is a minuscule amount of Covaxin available with few centres.In total, there are 401 vaccination centres in the city, of which, 283 are civic-run, 20 are of state government and the rest are private vaccination centres. Previously, the vaccination drive was similarly suspended at 300 vaccination centres on July 1 and 9, owing to vaccine shortage. Before that, Mumbai had suspended vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group between the second week of May to June, owing to the same reason.Meanwhile, as of Thursday, 5,929,190 citizens have been vaccinated in the city so far, of which 2,462,079 in private hospitals and the rest in public centres. Of the total, 1,247,410 are fully vaccinated with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shortage-of-doses-in-mumbai-vax-drive-to-remain-suspended-at-300-centres-over-weekend-101625855011709.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai conducts 530,249 Covid tests per million of population, less than Delhi, Bengaluru’s average||With a total of 7,423,483 Covid-19 tests conducted so far, Mumbai has, on average, done 530,249 tests per million of the population, less than Delhi, which has conducted 1,153,482 (cumulative) tests per million of the population, and Bengaluru which has conducted 904,168 tests per million of the population, according to data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC). The civic body conducts between 30,000 and 40,000 tests per day, with an average positivity rate of below 2%.However, despite the positivity rate, experts believe the city needs to conduct more tests per day, especially when unlock plans start for the city, and during the festival season from September.Dr Rahul Pandit said, “Despite the lower number of cases now, and the low positivity rate, I have always maintained we ought to be conducting more tests. We should be conducting as many tests as Delhi and Bengaluru. Unlike earlier, almost 60-70% of the total tests per day in these two cities are RT-PCR. So they are effectively testing more numbers in their population.”According to Dr Pandit, if BMC traces and tests up to 25 high-risk contacts per positive case, it will prove more effective in curbing the spread of the virus. Presently, BMC traces up to 15 contacts per positive case.However, Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also a member of the state government’s Covid-19 task force, testing numbers differ based on the period and number of cases in the city. He said, “At its peak of the Covid-19 infection, when our per day caseload was high [over 5,000-6,000 cases per day, Mumbai was conducting up to 50,000 tests per day.”With the reduced number of cases, and considerable restrictions still in place, the testing figures in the city have reduced, Dr Shrivastav said.On Thursday, Mumbai conducted 39,075 Covid-19 tests, with its daily positivity rate at 1.5%.On Friday, Mumbai reported 596 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-conducts-530-249-covid-tests-per-million-of-population-less-than-delhi-bengaluru-s-average-101625855010943.html
09-07-2021||Other||Multiplexes, cinema theatres to remain shut for a few more days||LUCKNOW: Movie buffs will have to wait for a few more days to watch flicks on big screen, as multiplexes and single screen cinema theatre owners across the state have decided to not open the halls till the weekend lockdown and late evening curfew continues. They have also cited non-availability of films and high running costs behind the indefinite closure.“We had a meeting with the owners of multiplexes and single screen halls. It was decided that the cinema halls would remain closed for a few days more till the weekend lockdown and evening curfew continues,” said Ashish Agarwal, president of UP Cinema Exhibitors’ Federation.Agarwal explained that Saturday and Sundays were business days for multiplexes and single screen theatres. “However, following the weekend lockdown, there won’t be any business,”” he said.He also said that owing to late evening curfew, which starts from 9pm onwards, the cinema halls could run only three shows a day. “Screening of the fourth show that starts during late evening hours, would not be possible, hence this is another reason why we are not willing to open,” he said.He also said that the government had imposed Section 144 in some cities, including Lucknow, restricting the strength of the audience at cinema halls to 50 per cent.“Amid such restrictions, the multiplex and single screen theatre owners will not be able to meet the high running cost. Hence they have decided to shut the halls,” he said. He also cited non-availability of movies as another major reason but said that the cinema halls may open by July 15.Lucknow has around 9 multiplexes and 10 single screen halls. The closure of cinema halls and multiplexes started on May 1 in wake of the second Covid- 19 wave. The UP government gave orders for opening of single screen theatres and multiplexes on July 5, after the Covid situation eased. However, despite the government’s order, they remained closed. The members of UP cinema exhibitors’ federation had also met chief minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding waiver of house tax, water tax and fixed electricity charges during lockdown. “We have also approached the CM, who has assured us complete support and promised a waiver in the fixed electricity charges, house tax and water tax,” said Agarwal. However, this is not for the first time when multiplexes saw such a long closure. In 2020, such a closure was initiated on March 15, in wake of the first Covid-19 wave and was lifted on October 15, allowing them to open, but with 50 per cent gathering. The government eventually allowed the multiplexes and single screens to operate with full capacity on December 16, 2020.Lucknow has around 9 multiplexes and 10 single screen halls. The closure of cinema halls and multiplexes started on May 1 in wake of the second Covid- 19 wave. The UP government gave orders for opening of single screen theatres and multiplexes on July 5, after the Covid situation eased. However, despite the government’s order, they remained closed. The members of UP cinema exhibitors’ federation had also met chief minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding waiver of house tax, water tax and fixed electricity charges during lockdown. “We have also approached the CM, who has assured us complete support and promised a waiver in the fixed electricity charges, house tax and water tax,” said Agarwal. However, this is not for the first time when multiplexes saw such a long closure. In 2020, such a closure was initiated on March 15, in wake of the first Covid-19 wave and was lifted on October 15, allowing them to open, but with 50 per cent gathering. The government eventually allowed the multiplexes and single screens to operate with full capacity on December 16, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/multiplexes-cinema-theatres-to-remain-shut-for-a-few-more-days-101625854952826.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||MBBS grads must complete internship in same institute where they studied: NMC guidelines||Medical graduates will have to complete their 12-month compulsory internship in the same institute where they pursued their MBBS degree, states the new draft internship guidelines recently released by the National Medical Commission (NMC). MBBS graduates will also have to pursue a part of their internship in Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM), states the Draft Regulations for Compulsory Rotating Internship 2021, which was released by the NMC this week.“Indian medical graduates will complete the entire duration of their compulsory internship in the institute where they pursued and completed their MBBS. Foreign medical graduates who require to complete a period of internship shall do so only in medical colleges approved for providing Compulsory Rotating Internship to Indian medical graduates,” states the draft regulations released on the NMC website on July 7.While the medical internship until now covered mandatory time in different branches of medicine including community and general medicine, psychiatry, paediatrics, general surgery, etc, the new guidelines also include ISM branches which include Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha, Homeopathy and Sowa Rigpa. “Student may choose any elective, provided the discipline is available in the same college/institution where the internship is being pursued,” states the draft regulations.The new guidelines outline the various aspects of the MBBS internship ranging from the goals, objectives and duration to eligibility and all the different branches of medicine that should be included in the 12 months. “The goal of the internship programme is to train medical graduates to fulfil their roles as doctors of the first contact in the community,” states the document.While the intention behind stating medical graduates to the same institute where they pursued their degree was to avoid students being fleeced by medical institutes, under the pretext of a no-objection certificate to pursue internship elsewhere, parents feel this will be restricting students from joining an internship programme at an institute of their preference. “The rule about pursuing an internship in the same college needs to be amended as students may prefer doing an internship at a government college where they may get exposure to better learning. It is, however, good to get clarity on the internship rules for students since many colleges take this crucial year lightly, especially private colleges,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mbbs-grads-must-complete-internship-in-same-institute-where-they-studied-nmc-guidelines-101625854952228.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Fewer than 100 cases in Delhi for 10 days in a row||After recording 81 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, Delhi has added less than 100 daily infections for the past 10 days, showed state government data. The test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive — has also been lower than 1% in the city for 40 days now, with a recording of 0.11% on Friday. The city added 81 cases of the infection on average over the past seven days, the lowest this statistic has been since the early days of the pandemic in April last year. The positivity rate stayed below 1% for 82 days between end-December last year and mid-March, before it began to increase, as the Capital saw its worst surge of cases in April and May, when this statistic crossed 36%.“We have seen that the virus has a 12-week cycle, so there is a strong possibility of another surge in the city in August or September. We have to be prepared. People should not stop wearing masks or maintaining social distance, even if they are vaccinated,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). He headed Delhi government’s first committee on Covid-19 control and management. The city reported three deaths of the viral infection on Friday, lower than the average four deaths reported over the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewer-than-100-cases-in-delhi-for-10-days-in-a-row-101625854951577.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||74% police personnel in Maharashtra fully vaccinated||Around 74% of police personnel in Maharashtra are fully vaccinated as of Friday, while 93% are part inoculated with their first doses of vaccines for Covid-19.As per the data maintained by the state police headquarters, till July 9, Maharashtra Police, which has a total strength of 195,415 police personnel, had part vaccinated 182,551 (93.417%) personnel with the first dose, while 144,952 (74.176%) cops were fully vaccinated.Senior police officers said the second Covid wave was less lethal for the department as it claimed the lives of 115 personnel during the peak of infection in April-May 2021, as compared to 185 casualties during the peak of the first wave between July and September 2020. During the peak period of the second wave, a total of 10,034 policemen got infected by the virus, while 18,135 cops were infected during the peak of the first wave. Senior police officers attribute the lesser impact of the second wave on police force to the aggressive vaccination programme.“Adopting aggressive persuasion vaccination is one of the key reasons that are responsible for comparatively lesser casualties among police peronnel due to the deadly infection during the second wave. Emphasising on Covid-appropriate behaviour and conveying the importance of maintaining hand hygiene are also some of the factors that helped keep the number under control,” said Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general (administration), Maharashtra Police.Besides this, it has also been observed that at least 54 policemen from the state police force have died of Covid-19 despite receiving the vaccine. It also included 25 police personnel who were fully vaccinated. Surprisingly, of the total 54 deaths, 26 deceased police personnel had no comorbidities or past medical history. Senior officers believe that various factors could be responsible for this, including not adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour, ignoring symptoms and delay in treatment. A total of 135 policemen have died due to the virus between March 1 to June 30. Of these, 64 were suffering from comorbidities or had a past medical history. Diabetes, blood pressure, sugar were the most common among those cops who died of Covid-19. “There are cases of policemen having died of Covid-19 despite receiving the vaccines and also did not have any co-morbidities. But, that number is very less and the exact reason behind their deaths are yet to be established and analysed. But, this should not be seen in the context of the efficacy of the vaccines. The proportion of such cases should be looked at with the overall strength of the force or those who are vaccinated,” said Singhal.So far in Maharashtra, a total of 44,921 police personnel have been infected with the virus across the state while 485 cops have died of the infection. Currently, there are 442 active cases. Around 43,993 police personnel have recovered from the infection. Vinoy K Choubey, senior IPS officer who extensively worked in handling the first wave of the pandemic as joint commissioner of police in Mumbai, said, “There is no doubt that despite the increase in the prevalence of variants of concern, vaccination remains our most potent weapon to combat this scourge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/74-police-personnel-in-maharashtra-fully-vaccinated-101625854892867.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Senior IIT-B faculty involved in Covid-19 projects succumbs to post-virus complications||A senior faculty member of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), who was involved in multiple Covid-19-related research and innovation, passed away on Thursday.Rinti Banerjee, 50, professor in the biosciences and bioengineering department of the institute, succumbed to post-Covid-19 complications. She is survived by her husband and a son.Banerjee was spearheading three research projects on Covid-19 and had filed for multiple patents for the solutions designed.Last year, her team of one PhD and three post-doctoral research fellows developed a wash-resistant biodegradable coating for textiles for environment-friendly masks and PPEs. This coating, known as the Duraprot technology, crosslinks antibacterial and antiviral components onto the textile’s fibres through a simple dipping process.Duraprot is awaiting two patents. The technology was mounted on masks, which have now been commercialised. “Rinti Banerjee has undoubtedly been the brightest star among the Indian researchers in the area of biosciences. During this pandemic, she came up with several Covid-related inventions that have been commercialised also. She was quite young and held a lot of promise. It is not only a loss to her family and IIT-B, it is a great loss to the nation. The pandemic has snatched her from us too early,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B.Apart from her research, Banerjee also taught ‘Introduction to Bionanotechnology, Biomaterials, Advanced Biomaterials, Physiology for Engineers’ at IIT-Bombay. She joined the institute as an assistant professor in 2001.Banerjee’s colleagues and students, from various institutes, were shocked to hear of her passing. Kapil Punjabi, a post-doctoral research scientist, who worked with Banerjee said: “‘Certain things are not in our control Kapil,’ I remember these words from (Banerjee) madam while discussing one of my problems last year. I never knew she was giving a life lesson and preparing me for the worst expected. She plays an instrumental role in shaping my career, instilling in me the sense of pertinent research, genuine persona and dignified human being. The traits I shall forever be debt-ridden to her. Touching upon lives of hundreds of students I am sure each one is now bearing in them a part of your knowledge and continues the legacy of nanomedicine lab IIT-B.”Abhijit Majumder, an associate professor from the Chemical Engineering department, said, “We shared many committees and she always gave me very useful suggestions whenever needed. She was very approachable. I also invited her to our Navratri women in stem celebration in 2018.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senior-iit-b-faculty-involved-in-covid-19-projects-succumbs-to-post-virus-complications-101625854892192.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||200-kg marijuana seizure case: NCB files 1,100-page charge sheet||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has filed a 1,100-page charge sheet in connection with the case where 200 kgs of curated marijuana was seized from British national Karan Sejnani’s residence in Khar in January this year.The agency has named four other accused in the charge sheet including Sameer Khan, son in-law of cabinet minister Nawab Malik; Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the owners of Muchhad Paanwala; Rahila Furniturewala and Shaista Furniturewala. The charge sheet contains statements of more than 20 witnesses in the case.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “The charge sheet has been filed naming accused Sameer Khan, Ramkumar Tiwari, Rahila Furniturewala and her sister Shaista. 86 kgs of around 200 kg marijuana seized from Sejnani’s residence in Khar tested positive for narcotic drugs and psychedelic substance from a forensic laboratory in Gujarat.”In the first week of January, NCB got specific information and seized 340 grams of marijuana in three parcels from Universal Courier and Cargo at Bandra (West). In the follow up operation, officers got a lead about Sejnani and a raid was conducted at his residence in Jaswant Heights in Khar (West) on January 9. During the raid, the agency seized approximately 200 kilograms of imported strains of marijuana like OG Kush and curated marijuana. The agency then learnt about the Furniturewala sisters, following which officers raided their residence in Bandra and recovered contraband from there.The agency said the some of the contraband was sourced from the USA and some from local sources. The contraband was packed in the form of pre-rolled joints by Sejnani and was marketed to high-class clients in Mumbai and other states as well. Rahila Furniturewala provided financial and other aids to the smuggling activity, said an NCB officer.Sejnani, in his statement to the agency, alleged that he had supplied 500 grams of marijuana to city’s famous paan vendor Muchhad Paanwala. The agency then conducted searches at Tiwari’s shop and warehouse in Kemps Corner in south Mumbai and recovered curated marijuana. Tiwari was subsequently arrested in the case.During further probe, the agency found Sejnani’s connection with Khan and he was summoned for inquiry on January 13. After questioning for almost 10 hours, NCB arrested Khan in the case for allegedly purchasing the contraband from Sejnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/200kg-marijuana-seizure-case-ncb-files-1-100-page-charge-sheet-101625854770919.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||No aid to Bhojpuri movies promoting vulgarity, violence: Yogi||Expressing his concern over the increasing vulgarity in Bhojpuri movies, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Uttar Pradesh Film Development Council to stop grants to any such movies which promote obscenity and violence.“During my meeting with the chief minister (on Thursday), he (the CM) expressed his concern over the rising vulgar content in Bhojpuri films, especially songs. This is having an adverse effect on the society by promoting obscenity and violence among the youngsters . So, he has directed to stop aid to all those Bhojpuri films which promote vulgarity through dialogues or songs,” said Uttar Pradesh Film Development Council (UPFDC) chairman Raju Srivastava.“Currently, the state government gives 50% aid to Bhojpuri film-makers who shoot 75% of their films in Uttar Pradesh. But now getting this grant would not be that easy. Now, the state government has constituted a committee which will examine the content (script) and songs of films before deciding about giving grant to them,” Srivastava added.“Some directors may object to this by saying that they got their picture and content passed from the Censor Board but the UP government has the right to reject a proposal if there is some vulgar content in the film. This is hard earned money of people which is given for the making of a film. So, it cannot be given for the promotion of vulgarity or violence in the society,” he said.“Some Bhojpuri films and songs are so vulgar that they cannot be seen or heard while sitting with family and children. It is a matter of concern for anyone who loves this language. This kind of decadence in content putting a blot on Bhojpuri language and culture cannot be allowed,” he added.Earlier, actor-turned-politician and BJP MP Ravi Kishan had also expressed his concern over the growing vulgarity in Bhojpuri movies. He had also written a letter to the then Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking a strict law to curb vulgar content in Bhojpuri cinema. He had said Bhojpuri movies had become “synonyms with vulgarity” which was a blot on the language and culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-aid-to-bhojpuri-movies-promoting-vulgarity-violence-yogi-101625854712350.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arrested accused flees from police station||A Satara resident, arrested for eloping with a minor girl, fled from Saki Naka police station late on Thursday by jumping over the compound wall. The accused, Navnath Patole, 22, was arrested after the grandmother of a 17-year-old girl from Saki Naka had filed a missing complaint. “We had started searching for the girl and the unidentified man. We traced them and arrested Patole for fleeing with the minor girl. He was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and for kidnapping,” said an officer from Saki Naka police station.The police said the minor and Patole had met on social media.On Thursday around midnight, Patole told the on-duty constable that he wanted to go to the toilet. “On the way back from the toilet, he pushed the constable, jumped over the compound wall and fled,” said another officer.“We searched for Patole in the nearby area but could not find him,” said senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-arrested-accused-flees-from-police-station-101625854711585.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Finalise draft policy for naming airports after cities: Bombay HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the civil aviation ministry to finalise the draft policy which proposes to name and rename airports after the cities they are located in, after it was informed that the policy had been pending for a long time. Referring to the recent protests held at Navi Mumbai by various groups demanding that the upcoming international airport be named after the personality of their choice, the petitioner filed a public interest litigation (PIL) saying it was against national interest and created unnecessary law and order situations, hence the system of naming and renaming airports after persons belonging to political or ideological groups should be discontinued. After hearing the petitioner, the bench observed that as the issue was pending since many years, the new aviation minister should take up the issue on an urgent basis and expedite the finalisation of the policy.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Filji Frederick, was informed that news reports had indicated that a large number of airports in the country were going to be renamed after historical and political personalities. This, he said, would create a lot of confusion especially among foreign tourists and hence the court should direct the Union civil aviation ministry to frame a policy for naming and renaming of airports and not to act on the proposals of various states for naming and renaming airports in their respective states. The PIL also sought restraining directions to the state from taking steps towards finalising the name of the upcoming international airport at Navi Mumbai till the ministry framed a policy. While making submissions, Frederick drew the attention of the court to the recent protests over naming of Navi Mumbai airport. He submitted that while one group had organised a human chain of 40,000 persons demanding naming of the airport after a local leader, another group had gathered nearly 25,000 persons demanding naming the airport after the personality they wanted. Frederick submitted that the second gathering had flouted Covid-19 norms and refusal of permission to conduct the protest. The HC pulled up the state for permitting such a congregation during the pandemic and also directed the newly-appointed panel of the aviation ministry to treat this issue on an urgent basis and expedite the finalisation of the policy. The PIL also refers to the March 13, 2018 announcement by the aviation minister about the draft policy guidelines for naming of airports had been formulated. Frederick’s PIL states that on June 10, he sought information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from the ministry, seeking information about the outcome of a 2016 decision wherein naming airports as per city names rather than names of personalities was considered. The petitioner also sought information on the status of the draft policy for naming and renaming of airports.“It was widely decided that airports will be named after the city as then there is always this issue of people fighting over deciding on a name. It was considered that existing names will not be changed but new airports will be named as per their cities. It is not a written policy. It is only a procedure that is followed and there is a draft policy but nothing is finalised as yet, which needs to happen on urgent basis,” states the PIL.Thereafter, the court asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh to respond to the plea and said, “We would like to know the present position of the draft policy. We took the state government to task over the issue of naming the airport as there was a gathering violating Covid-19 protocols with nearly 25,000 people, who were protesting over naming of Navi Mumbai airport.”The bench referred to the newly appointed panel of ministers and said, “You have a new set of ministers now. Let the new aviation ministry take up the finalisation of the draft policy as the first thing to do.” Seeking a response from the civil aviation ministry, the HC posted further hearing to next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/finalise-draft-policy-for-naming-airports-after-cities-bombay-hc-to-centre-101625854710947.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||2 passersby killed amid firing near Bara Hindu Rao||: Two passersby were killed amid a firing after at least four unidentified assailants opened fire at a local builder and his nephew at a market in Filmistan near Bara Hindu Rao on Thursday night, said police. Though the builder and his nephew survived the alleged attack, tension gripped residents living in the crowded locality of north Delhi. The builder, Haji Naeem Ahmad Peer, and other locals said they heard at least half a dozen gunshots. The police said not more than three bullets were fired. One empty bullet shell and a cartridge were recovered from the incident spot, said police. One of the passersby, identified as Sanjay Rajput who was in his mid-twenties, was returning after visiting his extended family members in Shyam Gali, Azad Market. His family members said he used to visit the Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib almost daily and was presumably going there at the time of the incident. “When I met Sanjay in the evening, he told me he was going out. Around 11pm, we got a call from Sanjay’s friend who informed us about the incident. The police called us to the station and told Sanjay was dead,” said Jaipali Rajput, the victim’s aunt.The identity of the second dead man could not be ascertained till Friday evening. A case of murder and firing was registered at the Bara Hindu Rao police station. Four teams have been formed to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the firing, the motive behind it and to find the attackers, said police. Senior police officers associated with the case said preliminary investigation suggests the assailants had come to settle some scores with Peer and his nephew, identified by his first name Muneef.“We have got certain leads and our teams are working on it. As of now, we can say that there was an altercation between the assailants and the builder before the firing. We are exploring all possibilities to ascertain the exact motive behind the attack. The CCTV cameras in the vicinity of the crime scene are being scanned for clues,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.Recalling Thursday night’s horror, Peer said he was standing outside a nursing home owned by him, that is currently undergoing renovation, when a man wearing a black t-shirt stopped by and asked if the nursing home was administering Covid-19 vaccines. Peer said that he asked the man to visit Bara Hindu Rao hospital or a nearby dispensary, after which he left. Peer then sat in his Swift Dzire car and left with his nephew and his office staff Prakash.“Just a few metres ahead, the same man suddenly came in front of our car and signalled us to stop. We came out and asked him to move aside. When he refused, we pushed him aside. Suddenly, three more men joined him and got into an argument with us,” said Peer.According to Peer, some locals came to their rescue and overpowered the unidentified men. Peer and his nephew pacified the men and asked them to leave. The assailants opened fire at the uncle-nephew duo just when they were about to leave in their car. Peer said he rushed inside a local shop to save his life and saw the assailants chasing his nephew and firing at him. “My nephew somehow survived the attack. I heard five to six gunshots. After the firing stopped, I came out of the shop and found two men bleeding on the footpath,” said Peer.Police, however, could not ascertain where Prakash was at the time of the firing. Police said they received a call at 9.21pm and rushed the passersby, each of whom sustained one bullet injury, to a nearby hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Their bodies were preserved in the mortuary at the Bara Hindu Rao Hospital.The incident sparked fears among local residents who were in a state of panic even on Friday. “We are not aware of the motive, neither the circumstances in which the firing took place. However, this is certainly a matter of concern and shows that the area is not safe,” said a worker at a local garage shop without sharing his name. Police said they have learnt that Peer and Muneef were having a dispute over a 2,800 square yard property in Shahdara as they had allegedly sold half of it some years ago. There is a possibility that the attack on them was orchestrated by Peer’s rivals, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-passersby-killed-amid-firing-near-bara-hindu-rao-101625854232108.html
09-07-2021||Bangalore||IMD issues orange, red alert for Karnataka, predicts heavy rainfall in Bengaluru||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued red and orange alerts for Karnataka on Friday following widespread rainfall in Karnataka’s coastal regions. It said that a low-pressure area will be formed over the west and central regions in the coming days following which the IMD issued a red alert for July 11 and 12 and an orange alert for July 10 and 13.Capital Bengaluru will experience rain and thunderstorms in the next two days, IMD Bengaluru director CS Patil was quoted as saying by Livemint. An orange alert means heavy rainfall and a red alert means exceptionally heavy rainfall, according to the parameters set by the IMD.Patil said Shivamogga, Chikkmagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts received less rainfall between June 1-July 7, as a result of which popular tourist spot Jog Falls is drying up. Environmentalist Shankar Sharma has blamed the recent deficit in rainfall on the drastic reduction of forest cover. “One of the most important reasons behind this is drastically reducing forest cover. The problem is that none of the political leaders and the so-called intellectuals is bothered about that. We have to massively increase the forest cover in these areas,” Shankar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to the IMD, Shimoga, Udipi, Dakshin Kannada, Kodagu, Mysore, Hassan, and Chikmagalur have remained rain deficient regions this year based on data collected from June 1 to July 9. On the contrary, Bidar, Gulbarga, Belgaum, Bagalkot, Dharwad, Raichur, Koppal, Gadag, Bellary, Devangere, Chitradurga, Tumkur, Mandhya, Chamarajanagar, and Bangalore rural are among districts that experienced ‘excess’ to ‘very excess’ rainfall during the same time period.The IMD predicted that rain activity over both east and west coasts might increase due to the strengthening of the southwest monsoon over the Arabian Sea and a low-pressure area which is expected to form over the west-central and adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal around July 11. The increase in rainfall is likely to continue over the next 5 days. Maharashtra, Goa, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall between July 9 and July 12.However, the intensity and distribution of rainfall may decrease over the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/imd-issues-orange-red-alert-for-karnataka-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-bengaluru-101625851904991.html
09-07-2021||Other||Delayed monsoon creates problem for Haryana farmers||With delay in the onset of monsoon, farmers in many parts of Haryana affected by water scarcity are worried about timely sowing of Kharif crops.While the paddy growers are waiting for the rainfall as prices of diesel , being used to run the generators to irrigate fields, are constantly increasing.Moreover, farmers have been complaining of paddy crop turning dry in many parts of Rohtak and Jhajjar due to rainfall scarcity. Over 25,000 acre land area has been covered under paddy in Rohtak and Jhajjar.Anup Kumar, of Mokhra village in Rohtak, said his paddy crop on four acre has been drying for the last one week and will be damaged within a week if there’s no rain.“The constant rise of diesel prices is causing misery for farmers. At such high prices of diesel, it is not possible to irrigate the fields. Only rainfall can save farmers,” he added.Surender Ahlawat, a farmer from Jhajjar’s Gochi village, said apart from delayed monsoon, power cuts, rising diesel prices have increased their problem.“Our paddy crop is drying due to water scarcity. Due to delayed monsoon, we have been running generators for 2-4 hours to irrigate our paddy fields but the diesel is getting out of our reach due to hike in prices. If there’s no rain in the region, our paddy crop will get ruined,” he added.Farmers in Bhiwani, Mahendergarh, Hisar and Charkhi Dadri are waiting for monsoon to sow bajra, moong and other crops.Satyawan Kumar, a farmer from Surpura Khurd village in Bhiwani, said they are eagerly waiting for rainfall to sow Kharif crops and are delaying it day-by-day.Jhajjar deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh, who has additional charge of Rohtak, said the paddy crop will be damaged in many parts of Rohtak and Jhajjar by next week, if rain does not lash.“Paddy is a water-guzzling crop and is getting damaged due to hot summer and water scarcity. Delayed monsoon has brought misery to farmers and agricultural officials. Once paddy crop is damaged, it won’t survive even after rainfall,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delayed-monsoon-creates-problem-for-haryana-farmers-101625850693022.html
09-07-2021||Other||Pundri MLA, family booked for demanding dowry||Independent MLA from Kaithal’s Pundri seat, Randhir Golan, his wife Anita and sons Aman and Amit have been booked at the Karnal women police station for allegedly demanding dowry and harassment.As per the FIR lodged by Golan’s daughter-in-law Shailja on July 5, she got married to Aman in January 2019 and her family spent ₹45 lakh on the occasion.“Later, they started demanding more dowry but we refused. The family didn’t bother to support me during my pregnancy as they were expecting a boy while I gave birth to a girl child in Karnal, where I was living with my parents,” she said.The victim also alleged that Golan used his powers to transfer her father from PWD Karnal to Rewari to “harass them” but they got relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court.The accused were booked under Sections 323, 406, 498A and 506 of the IPC. Police refused to speak to the media on the issue.Golan said he has no information of such an FIR and got to know about it from the media.“We have already filed a case in family court, Kaithal against Sheilja’s parents to send her back to us along with our granddaughter, but they are trying to blackmail us,” he said.Golan is currently the chairman of the Haryana tourism corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pundri-mla-family-booked-for-demanding-dowry-101625850211537.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Uddar Gagan land release: SC order exposed BJP-Hooda relationship, says Abhay Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Friday said the Supreme Court’s decision to order a CBI probe into the Uddar Gagan land release has exposed the relationship between the ruling BJP and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.Referring to a news report in HT on Friday, the former leader of Opposition said it is now clear that the BJP-led government did not want a CBI probe in Uddar Gagan land release case and wanted to save Hooda.“That’s why the state government gave an affidavit in the Supreme Court expressing its unwillingness to have a CBI investigation into the matter,” Chautala said.The INLD leader said the news report in HT – BJP-JJP did not want a CBI probe in the Uddar Gagan land release case – has clearly brought out the “relationship between the BJP and Hooda”.Chautala said despite announcing on the floor of the state assembly that the land release matter will be probed by the CBI, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar did a volte face.“Instead, the CM handed over the investigation to a retired judge,” he said. The INLD leader said being the leader of Opposition at that time, he had asked the CM during an assembly sitting as to why did he betray the people of the state by changing his decision.“It simply means that the CM did this to save Hooda. And the collusion between Hooda and the BJP came to fore when the government filed an affidavit saying there was no need for a CBI probe,” Chautala said.The INLD leader said SC appointed amicus curiae had also questioned the seriousness of the inquiry by a retired judge and even cited the Manesar land scam to say that the probe was conducted by the CBI under the same circumstances as the Uddar Gagan land release.On the other hand, the BJP-led state government gave an affidavit in the court that no comparison can be drawn between the Manesar land release and the Uddar Gagan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uddar-gagan-land-release-sc-order-exposed-bjp-hooda-relationship-says-abhay-chautala-101625850091250.html
09-07-2021||Other||SKM will not enter politics: Ugrahan||Two days after Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni called upon farmers agitating against the Centre’s three farm laws to launch ‘Mission Punjab’, for the state’s assembly polls, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Friday clarified that the morcha had no plan to enter politics. Punjab farm leader Ugrahan, who was in Hisar, said some people might have political interests, but the SKM will continue its fight against the three laws. “If anyone wants to polls, they may join any political party after the revocation of these laws. On the behalf of the SKM, I clarify that we will not get involved in politics. Our aim is revocation of these three laws,” he added.A delegation of farmers, including Ugrahan and Yudhvir Singh, met Hisar deputy commissioner for cancellation of FIRs registered against 350 farmers for staging a protest during Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit in May. The district administration had agreed to drop charges against farmers, after talking to farm leaders in May, and asked for a month to do so. .Yudhvir added that the local administration seems to be withdrawing from its promise. “Officials have now told us that they have initiated the process to cancel the FIRs, but the final decision will be taken by senior officials in Chandigarh. If the administration tries to betray us, we will launch a strong protest,” he added.Hitting out at Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and his grand-father OP Chautala, who got released from Tihar jail after completing his jail term in JBT teachers’ recruitment scam, Ugrahan said they will not allow OP Chautala to address farmers from their stage.“ One Chautala is sitting in the BJP’s lap and another one came out of jail. We will not allow him (OP Chautala) to address farmers and share our stage,” he added,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skm-will-not-enter-politics-ugrahan-101625849911152.html
09-07-2021||Other||Fadnavis backs Shah’s appointment to Ministry of Cooperation||PUNE Former chief minister of Maharashtra and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, in Pune on Friday, told the media present that Amit Shah’s appointment as minister in charge of the newly created Ministry of Cooperation, was in line with his track record.Fadnavis said, “Amit bhai has vast experience in the co-operative sector. Before joining politics, he worked in the co-operative sector. This ministry will help strengthen the co-operative sector in Maharashtra. The Modi government did a lot in the co-operative sector and gave packages to the sugar industry, also promoting ethanol.” The under-current behind that statement is that with the coop sector dominant in in Maharashtra and Gujarat, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress party will need to use it as a stepping stone for any political machinations. Now with Shah in charge at the centre, he is likely to open the door for the BJP in the cooperative sector in Maharashtra to enhance the party base there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fadnavis-backs-shah-s-appointment-to-ministry-of-cooperation-101625849130663.html
09-07-2021||Other||Monsoon begins revival in Pune and state: heavy rainfall forecast||PUNE After a break of three weeks, the Southwest Monsoon began to revive over Maharashtra and Pune city on Friday, as various weather systems became active, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Friday, Shivajinagar reported a maximum temperature of 30.1 degrees Celsius. Lohegaon reported a maximum temperature of 34.1 degrees Celsius, 5.1 degrees warmer than normal.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that Central India, which includes Maharashtra, will witness the monsoon revival from July 10.“Due to strengthening of westerly winds from Arabian Sea to west coast and likely formation of an off-shore trough fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely along the west coast and remaining parts of south Peninsular India during most days of this week. During this time, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Maharashtra and Goa, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe till July 12. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also expected over Konkan and Goa on July 13 and July 14,” said Kashyapi.On Friday Konkan, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra reported rainfall. Only a few cities in Marathwada and Vidarbha reported rainfall.As per IMD, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at Malegaon, 34.8 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature reported was 17.4 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.“The Northern Limit of the Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. Conditions are favourable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan till July 10. Conditions are also becoming favourable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon over remaining parts of the country till July 12,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-begins-revival-in-pune-and-state-heavy-rainfall-forecast-101625849070632.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Smart market projects move at snail’s pace, residents anxious||A majority of the ‘Smart Market’ projects announced by the Pune Smart city Development Corporation limited (PSCDCL) are still with the procurement and processing committee, according to Sanjay Kolte, chief executive officer of PSCDCL. Despite the mega announcement of ‘all under one roof’ concept of market place in 2018, residents living in the smart city area are disappointed. Kolte said, “We have five market places in the planning. One of them on survey no 85, which is behind Balewadi High street is ready to be handed over to PMC. The rest of them will soon be looked at by the procurement and processing committee.” In fact, one of the plots reserved for Market place under Smart city in Balewadi survey number 24, (work budget estimate ₹9,992,400) has turned into a garbage dumping area. According to residents in the area, the increasing garbage has become an eyesore and they have been hearing of a vegetable market coming up for many years. “I am not hopeful that anything will come out of smart city. They have been doing work without planning. There is nothing properly done, nor the roads or the footpaths, it is just adding to the expenses and it is wastage of money. Besides Aundh and Baner, Balewadi was supposed to be done together and they were to involve local communities, it was a good plan but not executed properly. If they had developed a market place, it would have removed the vegetable vendors on the foothpath, which is a problem for us as there is no space for to walk on. Now plot is used only as a garbage dump,” said Sarang Wable, Balewadi resident. The state of the other four projects is in a state of limbo. According to Arun Godbole, chief engineer, PSCDCL, “We have four more smart markets planned in 2018, even the tenders were accepted but due to non-availability of vacant sites, local issues and litigations, these projects are still on paper.” The smart market projects that are stuck are survey number 253 (estimated cost ₹9,225,503 subject to change) which is on Aundh DP road and partly in Baner needs special permission from PMC for the width of the road is less to make this market place. On survey number 89 in Baner ( ₹8,898,283), in Veer Bhadra nagar was stuck to due to local issues but it has been resolved and work will begin in August. On survey number 240 ( ₹1, 00, 921, 71) which is behind the Sai Heritage society on the new Aundh-Balewadi link road, the land is under litigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/smart-market-projects-move-at-snail-s-pace-residents-anxious-101625847750574.html
09-07-2021||Pune||MPSC aspirants protest for allocation of postings||Aspirants selected for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) on May 5, 2020 are now agitating for allocation of postings for selected aspirants. MPSC aspirants staged a protest on Friday to put forth their demands as delay in posting is putting aspirants and their families under tremendous financial burden. Mahesh Pandhare, an MPSC aspirant said that around 413 aspirants were selected in May 2020. “Of 413, around 13 per cent, that is 48 aspirants are under the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC). If the list is revised as per the order by the Apex court, even then there are 40 aspirants who will be a part of the list. So no one will be at loss. There are around 72 SEBC candidates who have applied from the open category. There are 365 students from other categories,” said Pandhare. These students from the last one year are forced to do odd jobs to meet both ends. “These aspirants have put in five to six years of their lives in studying and trying to crack MPSC. They have student loans on their heads and many are facing financial challenges due to the ongoing pandemic. Many have lost parents and are financially crippled due to medical expenses for treating Covid. In this situation, these students who have been selected should be given the post as soon as possible to solve their issues. They have worked really hard for this,” said Pandhare. After the protest on Friday, a letter with the demands was submitted to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “The decision should be taken by July 31. Otherwise, we will be forced to take harsh steps. These students who are selected will be officials of the state machinery. As of now they are working in odd jobs just to make ends meet. A firm and decisive decision should be taken soon,” said Pandhare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-aspirants-protest-for-allocation-of-postings-101625847690574.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Committee to regulate fees charged by private schools||The state government has issued a Government Resolution (GR) on Thursday stating that there will be a Divisional Fee Regulation Committee (DFRC) to regulate fees charged by private schools and parents with complaints of fee hike can seek redressal here. The GR states that since July 6, all committees are directed to start work immediately. “The DFRC will be functional at five out of eight divisions that include Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad. And a state level Review committee will also be located at Mumbai,” stated the GR. For Pune, the DFRC will be located at the office of the Deputy Director of Education in Camp. Parents and schools can reach at dydepune@gmail.com as well. It further states that all schools and offices of the education department should highlight the address and contact details of the DFRC so that parents with grievances can easily reach the committee. As per an earlier GR issued by the state government, parents and schools with any issues related to fees can seek redressals from the DFRC located in the division. In case they are unhappy with the decision made by the DFRC, they can appeal to the state level review committee. Parents association of Pune have time and again protested against non-formation of DFRC. The committee has been formed now after a delay of almost two years giving hope to parents who are fighting against fee hikes in private schools. The DFRC committee will include a retired judge and a Chartered Accountant (CA) to address the legal as well as the financial nature of the complaints that are brought forth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/committee-to-regulate-fees-charged-by-private-schools-101625847630549.html
09-07-2021||Pune||57.3% SPPU students appear for mock test||Around 57.3 per cent students from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) appeared on Friday for the first day of mock test for the second semester examination. Around six lakh students have registered for this mock test which will be conducted in two parts starting from Friday. As per SPPU officials, 3,00,532 lakh students were registered to appear today, out of this, 1,72,133 appeared for the test.“The remaining three lakh students will be appearing for the test on Saturday (July 10). All pharmacy mock tests saw the largest number of students appearing. Out of 21,904 students registered, 16,595 students appeared, taking the students participation to 75.8 percent on Friday,” said SPPU officials. Out of 1, 04,233 students from science team, only 60,181 students appeared. “In Engineering, only 547 percent of students appeared for the mock test. For all management mock tests, only 53.7 percent students were present,” said SPPU officials.SPPU will take the second semester final examination for the year 2020-2021 from July 12. “This two day mock test is to help students get accustomed to the online examination. No technical error was reported during this mock test. Around 2500 calls and more than 500 chat requests were sent to the technical team for queries related to username, password and camera details while attempting the mock test. Many students faced the issue of how to position the camera while attempting the test. However, these were resolved over chat and helpline calls,” said SPPU officials. A team of over 70 officials and technicians from the SPPU Exam department and SPPU Edutech Foundation were involved in smoothly conducting the mock test on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/573-sppu-students-appear-for-mock-test-101625847510556.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Bhima Koregaon commission gets extension until December 31st||The Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission has been given an extension from August 2nd until December 31st by the state home department. It is for the eighth time that the commission had been granted extension by the state government to complete the inquiry work in the case. A meeting on the topic of extension issue was held in Mumbai on Thursday wherein senior officials from the home department, retired high court justice J N Patel, former chief secretary Sumit Malik, who is the second member of the commission, VV Palnitkar, secretary of the commission, advocate Ashish Satpute, the commission’s lawyer, and advocate Shishir Hiray, the lawyer representing the state before the commission, participated in the deliberations. VV Palnitkar, secretary of the commission said, “The commission has been informed by the joint secretary of the home department that the extension has been granted until December 31st. It will be a virtual hearing awaiting for notification and setting up the necessary facilities. If needed, lawyers will be permitted to carry out physical examinations. Media persons will be provided the link for live hearing.” A demonstration of how to proceed with the hearing was also conducted in Mumbai on Thursday in the presence of top home ministry officials from the government and also members of the commission. The two-member commission, headed by retired high court justice JN Patel, was constituted by the then state government under CM Devendra Fadnavis on February 9, 2018, to probe into the sequence of events that led to violence on the 200th anniversary of Battle of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The commission has six terms of reference including identifying causes of the January 1, 2018 riots that took place in Pune, identify responsible groups, determine whether police and administration were prepared enough, and recommend short- and long-term measures. The commission which was formed in February 2018 works out of the public information office at Madam Cama road, Mumbai and the Zilla Parishad building in Bundgarden, Pune.After the onset of COVID 19, the commission had written to the government that its staff was likely to face some problems especially about conducting hearings. It had become difficult for advocates and witnesses to attend the hearing due to the fear of infection. The staff was also concerned about the high risk of the virus and have expressed their fears to conduct hearings, it was pointed out. Hearings of senior government officials and also Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar were scheduled before the commission between March 30 and April 4, 2020 but were postponed till further notice due to Covid-19. Two FIRs one by the Pune police and other by Pune rural police have been lodged in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case wherein 16 persons comprising intellectuals, academicians, lawyers and activists have been arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) so far. The NIA later took over the case from Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-commission-gets-extension-until-december-31st-101625847451918.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Man defrauds girl by claiming to be an Indian intelligence agent||The cyber police have arrested a person who claimed himself to be an Indian intelligence agent and cheated a fashion designer to the tune of ₹10 lakh by telling her that she was under radar of Indian intelligence agencies The young woman was defrauded of ₹10 lakh by fearing being under surveillance by an intelligence agency, cyber police said. Deputy commissioner of police (EOW and Cybercrime) Bhagyashree Navtake said, “The accused told her that he is an Indian intelligence officer and she was under the radar and surveillance by another Indian intelligence agency. He has been arrested and taken into custody. Further details are awaited as investigation is on.” According to the police, the young woman feared of being watched by the intelligence agency and was cheated for ₹10 lakh including a laptop. In this case, Amit Chavan (30) has been arrested. The complaint was lodged by Dhanashree Hase (28) at Chaturshringi police station. The incident has taken place between April and July 7 in Aundh area. Dhanashree is a fashion designer and accused Amit had approached the victim a few days back through the online dating app named “Better Half.” He introduced himself as Rahul Patil and told Dhanashree that he was an intelligence officer who went to United States and that Dubai and India were under his watch duty. “We have come to India for investigation; he told Dhanashree that the Intelligence agency is watching you. Amit then asked her to destroy the information in Dhanashree’s mobile and laptop and took money from her from time to time which includes a laptop worth ₹1.28 lakh and 8.37 lakh in cash. Prem Waghmore, sub-inspector of police, Chaturshringi police station said. “The accused has been taken into custody and further investigation is underway to find out more in the case. He took the fake name of Rahul Patil to dupe the girl and told her format her laptop saying that the intelligence agency was monitoring her,” he said. The police have also seized a Brezza car from his possession. The cyber cell has appealed to the youth both young boys and girls to be wary of whom they get connected with on social media and directed them to remain alert while they are asked to share their private information and personal details with strangers on the social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-defrauds-girl-by-claiming-to-be-an-indian-intelligence-agent-101625847330544.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||1845 booked, 25 arrested for violence on block pramukh polls nomination day in UP||As many as 1,845 people were booked in 16 First Information Reports (FIR) in connection with violence related to nomination filing for 825 block pramukh posts held on Thursday, said UP police Additional Director General (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar here on Friday.He said as many as 25 accused had been arrested in connection with these incidents while efforts are on to arrest the remaining accused. He said a total of 24 incidents of violence, firing, clashes, manhandling and verbal duels were reported from 22 districts.The ADG said around 115 people were made named accused in the FIR while remaining 1,730 are unidentified accused. He said the FIR had been registered in the incident after receiving complaint from the victims and further action was being taken. In nine incidents, no complaint was received so far, he added.The ADG said the polling at 476 out of 825 blocks will be held on Saturday as in remaining blocks the block pramukh had been elected unopposed. He said the directives had been issued to district police authorities to ensure stern action against troublemakers during polling process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/1845-booked-25-arrested-for-violence-on-block-pramukh-polls-nomination-day-in-up-101625846672567.html
09-07-2021||Ranchi||Vaccination drive slows down in Jharkhand as supply falls||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state has almost come to a standstill with the number of daily inoculation ebbing sharply from Thursday as compared to previous days when over one lakh persons were being vaccinated daily across the state, according to Jharkhand’s daily health bulletin. The daily vaccination number is set to go down further for atleast a week, as the state is left with only 1.2 lakh doses, officials said on Friday, adding that the next consignment containing 2.5 lakh doses is expected to arrive on July 15.The state inoculated only around 27,000 persons on Thursday, when only one centre was functional in state capital Ranchi due to paucity of vaccines. “We received one lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday. We have a capacity of administering around 1.5 lakh does everyday, but the numbers have gone down due to unavailability of vaccine doses,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination. The state, till now, has inoculated 7,551,681 persons against the target of 2.49 crore persons in the 18-plus group. Out of those who have received the jab, only 1,248,747 persons have received both doses, according to the Covid-19 bulletin . Sources said around 20 lakh persons are due to get their second dose, but the state is struggling to inoculate them due to paucity of vaccines. Several centres in the state have been shut in the state due to non-availability of vaccine.As per the schedule shared by the Centre, Jharkhand will receive 33.5 lakh doses in July, including 8.5 lakh reserved for private hospitals. Out of these, the state will get 9.5 lakh doses till July 15. Last month, the state paced up vaccination, changing its strategy to “vaccination as per availability’ from “vaccination as per capacity”. However, the health department is now reportedly forced to ration vaccines across the 24 districts in the state. “We have the capacity to vaccinate around 1.5 lakh persons every day. We are ensuing all districts have vaccines available as per the supply. We have also re-directed vaccines to districts where stock was low. We can scale up only when we have enough vaccines,” said Lakra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/vaccination-drive-slows-down-in-jharkhand-as-supply-falls-101625846670560.html
09-07-2021||Patna||Open shops five-day a week: Traders’ body seeks support from Guv||Deputy chief minister Renu Devi on Friday said the disaster management committee will hold a meeting on Monday to look into traders’ repeated requests of allowing shops and business establishments to open for five days a week instead of the current odd-even system.“Chief minister Nitish Kumar will review the situation during the meeting and decide on further course of action,” Devi, who also holds the portfolio of disaster management, said.This came after she received a request letter earlier submitted by traders and businessmen of the state under banner of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Bihar in this connection. The Bihar CAIT on Thursday also wrote to Governor Fagu Chauhan too seek support for their aforementioned demand. In the letter submitted to Raj Bhawan, CAIT members mentioned the need to open shops for five days a week owing to “severe financial crisis” being faced by traders.“We have been requesting government for last two weeks to end the odd-even system. We only want five working days in a week and expected the relaxation under Unlock-4, but it disappointed us. Now, we have requested the Governor to make recommendations in support of our demands,” Ashok Verma, state CAIT president, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/open-shops-five-day-a-week-traders-body-seeks-support-from-guv-101625846611868.html
09-07-2021||Other||Purnia labour superintendent arrested for taking bribe||Vigilance sleuths on Friday caught a Purnia labour superintendent and one other person while allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹55,000 for disposal of a file.The arrest came after a manager of a private furniture company wrote to the vigilance department against labour superintendent Kumar Alok Ranjan in this regard. The complainant also said he had requested the labour superintendent to pay the money in two instalments, which the latter refused.On verification, the vigilance department found the allegation to be true and laid a trap to arrest the official and his peon while accepting the bribe in their office.Deputy superintendent of police, vigilance, Arun Paswan, while confirming the arrest, said “We are taking both of the accused to Patna for further legal action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnia-labour-superintendent-arrested-for-taking-bribe-101625846610574.html
09-07-2021||Other||Pillar of newly built bridge damaged in Narkatiaganj subdivision||Pillar of a newly constructed bridge over Balor river was damaged due to rise in water level at Bakhari Ghat in West Champaran’s Narkatiaganj subdivision, officials said on Friday.Following this, vehicular movement has been suspended on the bridge.A team has been sent for damage assessment and restoration work will start soon, Narkatiaganj subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Sahila Heer said.According to officials, the third pillar of the 136.9m-long bridge, built under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) by Rural Works Department, was damaged and sank few inches deep in the river, which originates from Nepal. Built at a cost of about ₹5.41 crore, the construction of the bridge was necessitated to reduce the distance between over a dozen villages and subdivisional headquarters, besides boosting rural economy. The bridge was completed on June 26, 2020 after its construction started in June, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pillar-of-newly-built-bridge-damaged-in-narkatiaganj-subdivision-101625846611100.html
09-07-2021||Other||5 touts held for cheating patients at IGIMS||PATNAFive people were arrested Thursday for allegedly deceiving and weaning away poor patients from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to private clinics, druggists, pathological and radiological laboratories. An FIR was lodged against them on Friday, Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Kumar Sharma said. This was the first time in which the hospital administration involved the local police to curb the menace of touts on the hospital campus, said IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal. “Of late, we received several complaints of touts being active on our hospital campus and misleading poor and gullible patients to private shops and health centres. This was also defeating the PM’s initiative to provide quality drugs at affordable prices through the Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadi Kendra (PMBJAK) on our hospital campus,” he said. “The touts would generally mislead the poor patients about the efficacy of the generic medicines available at the drug store or the investigations done at the IGIMS, and wean them away to private drug stores, pathological laboratories and radiological centres, where the charges were high. In return, the middlemen would pocket commission from private vendors,” said Dr Mandal. “We took help of the city superintendent of police and gave the police access to our CCTV control room to curb the tout menace, which was leading to anti-social activities and creating law and order problem on the hospital campus. The suspects were identified on the basis of the CCTV footage and the police in plain clothes caught the culprits red-handed on Thursday,” Dr Mandal said. The five arrested were identified as Sanjay Yadav of Jehanabad district, Sonu Choubey, Ravi Bhushan, Lala Prasad and Lallan Prasad from Patna. Some others managed to give the police the slip. The IGIMS has of late taken a few initiatives to curb the menace of touts on the hospital campus. Providing medicines to in-patients as part of a package system for any procedure requiring hospitalisation, online registration for outdoor patient department (OPD) consultation, opening of Amrit and Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi stores on the hospital campus are among some such initiatives. The Jan Aushadhi Kendra was opened on the IGIMS campus on September 24 last year. Quality generic drugs are available at this store at 75% less than the branded medicines sold in open market. The institute has already instructed its doctors to prescribe generic drugs to patients. The tout menace is prevalent in other state-run medical college hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-touts-held-for-cheating-patients-at-igims-101625846555581.html
09-07-2021||Other||CPI zonal commander held in Aurangabad||The Kaimur police along with a team of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) arrested zonal commander of banned extremist faction of Communist Party of India (Maoist) (CPI) and explosives’ expert in Aurangabad on Friday, officials said.Wanted in over 10 cases of Maoist attack in southern hilly districts of Kaimur, Rohtas and Aurangabad, the Maoist was arrested from Semrahua village under Bandeya police station, superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said.“The CPI commander was also in charge of levy collection and recruitment for the outfit. He has important information about command structure and economic resources of the banned organization,” Kumar said.Police is in contact with counterparts in neighbouring districts and in bordering districts of Uttar Pradesh to know complete antecedent of the arrested Maoist, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpi-zonal-commander-held-in-aurangabad-101625846554849.html
09-07-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap sets up shop for pooja items under ‘LR’ brand||PATNA: Tej Pratap Yadav, the elder son of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, has set up a shop selling items used in pooja (worshipping) rituals like incense sticks, sandal wood, perfume and Radhe-Krishna idols, which he has named as LR Radhe Krishna.“The initials LR stand for Largest Reach, but it is commonly associated with Lalu-Rabri,” said Abhishek Chowbey, manager of the LR Radhe Krishna office-cum-shop spread, around 400 square feet in area, adjacent to the famous cowshed owned by Lalu Prasad in Danapur. Tej Pratap could not be reached for his comment.While Lalu Prasad’s younger son and leader of opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav, is RJD’s heir apparent, Tej Pratap is known to be a staunch follower of Lord Krishna and prefers to spend time at Mathura. “Although he rarely visits the shop, he keep a tab on the business,” said Chowbey, who has been associated with the Hasanpur MLA for the last three years. “The business started in March, but had to be shuttered due to lockdown,” he said.Asked if the product launch was kept in abeyance for the release of Lalu Prasad, Chowbey said, “Sir (Lalu) is a big name,” he said, adding that there has been good response for the products. “There have been trade queries from Mumbai and Indore and it is being supplied to all parts of Bihar. At present, we are producing 19 flavours of incense sticks in the price range of ₹320 to ₹1020 for 200 gm pack and ₹170 to ₹530 for 100 gm pack. There is alsio a combo gift pack costing ₹2,000,” he said.“The incense sticks are made from flowers collected from temples and extracts from coconut leaves instead of bamboo. Maybe that’s why its price is high,” he says.In 2018, Tej Pratap, a former health minister of Bihar, was in news when he made a second attempt at launching his acting career with a Bollywood movie Rudra: The Avatar. The film is yet to be completed. He had earlier played the role of Bihar chief minister in a 2016 Bhojpuri film, Apaharan Udyog. This is not the first time products have been branded in Lalu’s name.In 2007, a diehard Lalu fan, Satish Singh, proprietor of Prakash Agro Industries, started manufacturing cattle feed called Lalu Pashu Aahar to be sold in international market. Singh’s industry was producing somewhere between 5300-5400 tonnes of cattle feed every month under the brand names Lalu Super, Lalu Bypass and Lalu Super Bypass.Singh later also applied for the sale of detergent powder in the name of Lalu Prasad the product lost way as the RJD chief lost power.In the past, saloons offering “Lalu-style” haircut, cosmetic boxes under the brand name of “Lalu Chale Sasural”, Lalu doll and Lalu chocolates have been common. “Lalu’s name still sells in rural Bihar. So what Tej Pratap is doing is not surprising. You cannot deny the acceptability of his name among the rural folks,” says Sambhu Singh, a retired government official. The BJP, meanwhile, was quick to take a dig. “Best wishes to Tej Pratap for his new business venture. The way he has been sidelined in the party, it’s good that he is looking for an alternative. Tejashwi can feel relieved because he is the worst victim of his brother’s tantrums,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Ananad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-sets-up-shop-for-pooja-items-under-lr-brand-101625846553440.html
09-07-2021||Other||Darbhanga blast: Court extends NIA remand for arrested accused||PATNAA special court in Patna on Friday remanded two accused arrested earlier in connection with the June 17 parcel blast at Darbhanga railway station to the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till July 16, public prosecutor (PP) in the case said.According to PP Manoj Kumar Singh, NIA sought 10-day custody of Imran Malik and Nasir Khan for interrogation, but the court granted eight days. Imran and Nasir were produced before the court on Friday amid heavy security.A third arrested accused, Haji Salim, could not be produced before the court because of his illness. He was produced via video conferencing and the court sent him to the judicial custody for July 23, Singh said.On July 3, the special court had sent Imran and Nasir into NIA remand for seven days while another accused, Mohammad Kafeel, was remanded to NIA custody for six days.All three were taken to New Delhi for interrogation by the NIA. Salim was remanded into judicial custody and sent to Beur jail. He was earlier admitted to a Patna hospital after he was complained of prostate problems for which he is now being treated at Beur jail hospital. Imran and Nasir were arrested from Hyderabad on June 30 while Kafeel and Salim were taken into custody from Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Praesh on July 2.On June 17, a low-intensity blast had taken place inside a bundle of clothes that had arrived at Darbhanga railway station from Secunderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-blast-court-extends-nia-remand-for-arrested-accused-101625846554151.html
09-07-2021||Other||Cannabis worth ₹50 lakh seized, 1 held||The Rohtas police on Friday arrested a man and seized nearly 400 kgs of cannabis worth ₹50 lakh from him, officials said.Superintendent of police Ashish Bharti said the arrested man has been booked and was being questioned.On a tip-off about smugglers bringing a huge consignment of cannabis from Chhattisgarh through hilly roads via Kaimur and Rohtas districts, a police team intercepted a truck on Parsathuan canal road in the district and seized the contraband concealed in paddy-husk bags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cannabis-worth-50-lakh-seized-1-held-101625846552150.html
09-07-2021||Other||Delhi HC junks Chirag’s plea against uncle Paras||New DelhiThe Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan challenging Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House.Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the petition as the Speaker has the right to regulate the internal disputes of the House. The judge said the court cannot be asked to solve the internal party disputes.“Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call..But the court cannot get into this dispute,” the judge said.“It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker,” the high court said. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” the court said.The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request was made by his counsel.Chirag’s petition, filed on July 7, had sought setting aside speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as LJP leader in the Lok Sabha. Paras was inducted into union cabinet on July 7.During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard.Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and also approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, he said. However, the speaker has not corrected the alleged mistake of recognizing Paras as the leader of the party in the House, he contended.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao for the speaker’s office vehemently opposed the petition saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court.They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with.The court, while agreeing to the submissions of the counsels, said that it was not inclined to grant any relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-junks-chirag-s-plea-against-uncle-paras-101625846550497.html
09-07-2021||Other||New Patna-Bettiah NH gets nod, to cut travel time to 2.5 hours||PATNAThe National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has notified Patna-Bettiah road as National Highway 139W, setting the state for construction of a high-quality four-lane road between the two towns that would reduce the distance between them to 167 kilometres from the current 200-odd km and travel time to around 2.5 hours from the current five hours, officials familiar with the matter said.The NHAI is also likely to build a four-lane bridge over the river Ganga, parallel to JP Setu, which would also ease traffic load on the proposed outer ring road in the state capital. The road construction department (RCD) has already submitted the detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed bridge, estimated to cost ₹1,900 crore.Additional chief secretary (RCD) Amrit Lal Meena said the distance between the state capital and the historic and ecologically rich town of Bettiah would be reduced to just two-and-a-half hours. “The proposed road would boost tourists’ inflow to the West Champaran, where Valmikinagar Tiger Reserve is being developed as a hub of ecotourism,” said Meena.RCD minister Nitin Nabin, while lauding the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highway (MoRTH) for strengthening the road network in the state, said the district magistrates (DMs) concerned had been asked to expedite the land acquisition process so that the NHAI could launch the ground work at the earliest. “More than 60% of land required for strengthening the road has already been acquired,” the minister said.A senior RCD official said the project, which envisages building road on 167 km, apart from nearly five-km-long bridge on Ganga, is expected to cost around ₹5,000 crore. “The best part of it is that entire expenditure would be borne by the NHAI, including that of the bridge. The state government was earlier scheduled to construction the bridge,” he said.The road, once completed, would benefit the people of Patna, Saran, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, East and West Champaran districts. Moreover, traffic load on JP setu, which is currently two-lane structure, would come down drastically once the four-lane bridge along the alignment of the existing bridge is built. The main bridge would be nearly 4.83 km long while its approach would be around five km. Officials said they would not require acquiring additional land for bridge as the RCD had already got the possession of it.Classification of Road: NH-139WLength of project: 167kmLength of bridge on Ganga: 4.83km (main structure)Length of approach road to bridge: 5kmProject cost: ₹5,000 croreDistricts to benefit: Patna, Saran, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran and West Champaran||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-patna-bettiah-nh-gets-nod-to-cut-travel-time-to-2-5-hours-101625846551255.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Six pilgrims to Ayodhya drown in Saryu; three more feared dead||Six people were killed while three persons are feared to be drowned in heavy water current of river Saryu in Ayodhya on Friday.The tragedy took place when three women of the 15-member group from Agra, who had come to Ayodhya for ‘Ram Lala’ darshan at Ram Janmbhoomi, went near the river and slipped into the water accidentally.Nine other people jumped into the water to save them but also got swept in the high-water current, said senior police officials.The divers could manage to rescue three persons, said public relation officer of SSP Ayodhya Shailesh Pandey. “Six others were pulled out later by the police divers during the rescue operation, but they succumbed during treatment at the hospital. Three people are still missing, and police divers are carrying out operation to search them,” he said.Taking cognizance of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the local district administration to immediately reach the spot and provide all possible to help to the affected families.Ayodhya district magistrate Anup Kumar Jha, who visited the spot, said all necessary arrangements had been done for the survivors.Jha said total 15 people of four families from Agra had come to Ayodhya for ‘Ram Lala’ darshan at Ram Janmbhoomi. He said the incident took place around noon when the family visited the Gupta ghat and three women members of the group went near the river and slipped into the water.He said the incident apparently took place as visitors could not assess the river depth at the bank and heavy water current. He said the extra police force had been deployed at the riverbanks to avert any further such incident. He said visitors are being asked to stay away from the river due to high water current at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/six-pilgrims-to-ayodhya-drowns-in-saryu-three-more-feared-dead-101625846191369.html
09-07-2021||Other||Five held for June assault on Moga RTI activist||Moga Two weeks after Right to Information (RTI) activist SN Sood, 70, a retired teacher, was assaulted by unidentified miscreants on June 25, police have registered a case against six persons, and arrested five of them. Sood has claimed that the attack is linked to his application under the RTI which seeks information on the Outdoor Advertisement Policy of the Moga municipal corporation. “I have been trying to get information on the rates of outdoor advertisement and proceedings of its tender allotment from the Moga MC for 18 months. The officials have nor provided any relevant information. On July 5, I was given a reply which had irrelevant information. Now, the state information commission has ordered MC to provide me that information. Since then, I have been under pressure not to pursue my RTI application.” “After the June 25 attack, I had told the police that who is behind the act,” he claimed. According to the police, the accused are Suraj Singh; Shiva; Charanjeet Singh; Harmandeep Singh; Avtar Singh and Bawa of Moga. Barjinder Singh, DSP city, said, “We have registered a case and arrested five accused. Only Bawa is absconding. Further action will be taken as per investigation.”A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt); 325 (grievous hurt); 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC has been registered against them at City South police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-held-for-june-assault-on-moga-rti-activist-101625845950540.html
09-07-2021||Other||Undue sympathy for offender harmful to justice system: HC||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court rejected the bail plea of an accused in a case of recovery of 157kg illegal ‘Ganja’ (Marijuana), stating that undue sympathy for an offender would be more harmful to the justice system and undermine public confidence in the efficacy of law.Justice Sanjay Kumar Singh passed the order while rejecting the bail application of one Dheeraj Kumar Shukla. The court said the devastating effects of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances on any person who consumes them are well known.“Normally, such person ceases to be a normal human being,” added the bench showing its concern over the effects of Marijuana consumption.The court, while refusing to release the applicant/accused on bail, observed: “It is also well settled that a proper administration of the criminal justice delivery system requires balancing the rights of the accused and the prosecution. Undoubtedly, rights of the accused are important, but equally important is the societal interest for bringing the offender to book and for the system to send the right message to all in the society.”As per the prosecution, on June 23, 2020, four accused, namely, Dheeraj Kumar Shukla (applicant), Praveen Maurya alias Punit Maurya,Dhiraj Maurya and Rishabh Kumar, who were travelling in two cars, were possessing narcotics substance.On the indication of an informer, the vehicles were stopped by the police team near Trivenipuram gate, Jhusi, in Prayagraj. On questioning, they disclosed about transportation of illegal Marijuana in the two vehicles. Out of 157 kg marijuana, 92 kg was recovered from one car and 65 kg from another. The accused were arrested from the spot and an FIR was registered at Jhusi police station of Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/undue-sympathy-for-offender-harmful-to-justice-system-hc-101625845770550.html
09-07-2021||Other||Pro-Khalistani message circulated in Lucknow through recorded calls||LUCKNOW Security agencies in UP were put on alert after a Pro-Khalistani message was circulated through voice messages sent to cell phones of several journalists and other people in Lucknow on Friday, said police. UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) sleuths were probing the matter and trying to trace the people behind it.Police officials said it seemed to be an attempt to disturb the law and order situation in UP and the country before Independence Day. They said similar voice messages from numbers of other countries were circulated in the run-up to Independence Day last year.ATS inspector general (IG) of police GK Goswami said multiple people had complained about receiving such recorded voice messages from different overseas numbers. Cyber experts had been put on the job to trace the people behind it, he added.A senior police official said at least 30 journalists reported receiving similar calls from different numbers. He asked the journalists and other people who received such messages to share the details with the police so that all information could be accumulated for investigation.In 2020, a recorded voice message with an objectionable comment on flag hoisting by the prime minister on August 15 as well as about the country’s unity and integrity was circulated in Lucknow on August 8 and 9. The Lucknow police had registered an FIR against unidentified people under IPC Sections 505(1)(b), 153-A, 153-B, 124-A, 295-A and 298.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prokhalistani-message-circulated-in-lucknow-through-recorded-calls-101625845410437.html
09-07-2021||Other||'Resume peace talks without pre-conditions': Naga panel to Centre, armed groups||The recently notified parliamentary core committee on Naga political issue, which includes all-party elected representatives from Nagaland, held its maiden meeting on Friday in Dimapur and made an appeal to the negotiating parties of the Indo-Naga Political dialogue to resume the peace talks with a positive approach of mutual respect by setting aside pre-conditions in the greater interest of the people, HT has learnt.The committee appealed to all Naga political groups to make serious efforts for reconciliation.“The constant antagonism against each other, especially in public space and the media is sending out a wrong message to the masses considering the fact that we are all pursuing the same aspiration of peace and political solution,” stated committee’s member secretary Neiba Kronu.The committee was of the view that the Naga armed groups should take a positive cue from the elected members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly, who have risen above party affiliations to unite for the vexed Naga political issue, and listen to the voice of the people for unity and oneness.The core committee further agreed to approach the Naga negotiating groups to come together in order to hammer out their differences and create a common approach for “One Solution and One Agreement”.“All Members of the Core Committee and the Parliamentary Committee on Naga Political Issue, including the two Members of Parliament, have come together under the same banner in line with the election manifestos of all political parties and commit to the people that the elected members are prepared to pave the way as and when an inclusive, honourable and acceptable solution is arrived at,” stated a note of the meeting resolution signed by Kronu.Meanwhile, the committee, while appreciating the constant role and contributions of the churches, civil society and NGOs towards facilitating peace and strengthening the peace process, appealed to the mass-based organizations and tribal bodies to make renewed efforts towards creating a conducive atmosphere for early realisation of a political solution by pursuing unity, reconciliation and oneness.The parliamentary committee comprises of all the 60 members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly and the two Members of Parliament from Nagaland to act as a facilitator in the ongoing peace talks between the Centre and Naga armed groups, while the parliamentary core committee is led bychief minister Neiphiu Rio and deputy chief minister Y Patton and opposition leader TR Zeliang are co-conveners.The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) entered into a ceasefire agreement with the government of India in 1997 and the two have been holding political dialogues since then, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) also got into separate talks with the centre since 2017.The Centre had signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017. However, the NSCN (IM)’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution has been a delaying factor in signing a final deal on the protracted Naga political issue. The peace talks were suspended in April due to the prevailing Covid-19 related situation and are yet to be resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-lawmakers-panel-asks-centre-armed-groups-to-resume-peace-talks-without-preconditions-101625844091121.html
09-07-2021||Dehradun||After HC rap, Dehradun administration puts cap on tourist influx to Mussoorie||Following Uttarakhand high court’s rap, Dehradun district police have decided to limit the number of tourists allowed in the hill town’s popular tourist spots to just 50% of the total capacity, HT has learnt.The decision was taken in a meeting held by senior superintendent of police, Dehradun, Yogendra Singh Rawat with other police officers of the district on Friday under which he gave many directions including the above mentioned one to ensure the strict implementation of Covid-19 precautions during weekends. Nanital district administration has banned the entry of the two-wheelers on weekends to reduce traffic congestion and limit the number of people coming to the hill station. On Wednesday, while expressing serious concern over thousands of tourists inundating hill stations of the state without following Covid-19 norms, the HC directed the state government to review its decision to relax the lockdown during the weekends, saying “the tourists may bring in and introduce the dreaded Delta plus variant in the state”. The HC also directed the state government to take concrete steps to control the inflow of tourists in the state. “The steps, so taken by the state, should be informed to the public at large so that the potential tourists are informed about the steps being taken by the state,” it said. Informing about the measures to be taken in Mussoorie and other tourists places near Dehradun including Sahastradhara on weekends, Rawat said, “During weekends the tourists coming from outside the state to Mussoorie would have to produce negative RT-PCR report with mandatory registration on government portal and documents of their hotel booking at Kuthal Gate check post. Only those having these documents would be allowed.” “Also, only 50% of the tourists of the total capacity in the popular tourist spots of Mussoorie including Company Garden, Mall Road and others would be allowed on weekends,” said Rawat. He also said that the police would also stress awareness programmes in the hill town to make the people aware of following the Covid-19 precautions. “Under this, we would hold a meeting with the office-bearers of Mussoorie Hotel Association and ask them to make the tourists aware of the precautions at the time of booking. We would also run Covid-19 awareness messages on the public address system in Mussoorie to ensure that tourists follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” said Rawat. The senior police officer also said that the local police would also put a barrier near another popular tourist spot of Sahastradhara near Dehradun on weekends to control the crowd. Meanwhile, the Nanital district administration had banned the entry of the two-wheelers on weekends to reduce the traffic congestion. “Nainital is witnessing a heavy footfall of tourists after relaxation in Covid curfew. Tourists, as well locals, struggle the whole weekend with traffic congestion and face road jams. Two-wheelers entry has been banned only on Saturday and Sunday to reduce the congestion of the traffic in the hill station,” said Dheeraj Singh Garbyal, district magistrate, Nainital on Tuesday. As per the decision taken by the district administration, two-wheelers of the tourists will be parked at Rusi and Narayan Nagar bypass parking spots on Haldwani road while two-wheelers coming from Bhowali will be stopped near cantonment area. Only two-wheelers of the locals will be allowed to enter Nainital but they will have to show an Aadhaar card or other documents. Tourists coming by two-wheelers will be provided shuttle service from the parking spot to Nainital the whole day. Four-wheelers will get entry and be parked on identified parking points as fixed by the administration, earlier. Nainital, like other hill stations, has been witnessing tourists travelling by two-wheelers in recent days. Locals of US Nagar, Rampur, Moradabad and Bareilly prefer to travel by the two-wheelers since they are considered cheap and can pass through the traffic congestion. Two-wheelers cause traffic congestion and problems to the police in maintaining the traffic system. On Sunday, it took four hours to cover half a kilometre on Haldwani road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-hc-rap-dehradun-administration-puts-cap-on-tourist-influx-to-mussoorie-101625842591256.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi LG Anil Baijal leads DDMA meeting to resolve the Covid-19 situation||New Delhi [India], July 9 (ANI): Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal on Friday chaired the 22nd meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and preparedness in the coming months."To effectively mitigate and manage any future surge in Covid-19 cases,as advised by the Experts the Health Department was advised to take requisite measures to ensure the availability of adequate ICU and oxygenated beds, medical oxygen infrastructure, human resources , drugs etc while making all out efforts to increase vaccination coverage of the city population," said Baijal in a series of tweets.In the virtual meeting, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Cabinet Minister Kailash Gahlot, Chief Secretary, Dr VK Paul-NITI Aayog, Commissioner of Delhi Police Balaji Srivastava, All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) Director Dr Randeep Guleria, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava Dr SK Singh-NCDC and other senior officials participated.As the metropolis witnesses a decline in Covid-19 cases, he said that Graded Response Action Plan was presented during the meeting to make the pandemic "institutionalised" and "predictable.""In order to make the process of imposition of lockdown and opening up of activities during the pandemic institutionalised and predictable a Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) prepared by the State level Expert Committee was presented. It was suggested that the GRAP should be widely disseminated amongst the citizens for information," Baijal said.In light of curbing the disease, it was advised to set up Micro Containment zones while continuing the test, treat and track strategy."To contain any resurgence of Covid-19, it was advised that the strategy of Test, Treat and Track should continue with special emphasis on setting up of Micro Containment zones. Constant vigil should be maintained including adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour by all through community engagement and strict enforcement measures," said the Lieutenant Governor.As per the state health bulletin issued on Friday, Delhi reported 81 new cases, 3 deaths and 127 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate stands at 0.11 per cent and there are 798 active cases in the metropolitan city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lg-anil-baijal-leads-ddma-meeting-to-resolve-the-covid-19-situation-101625839974051.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing: Umranangal gives written consent for lie-detector test||Suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal on Friday appeared before a Faridkot court and gave a written consent to undergo the lie-detector test in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the case had filed an application in court last month, seeking permission to conduct narco-analysis, polygraph test and brain electrical activation profile of Umranangal besides former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma. However, Saini and Sharma refused to give consent, after which the SIT’s applications concerning the two were dismissed. Umranangal confirmed that he has given a written consent to the court, while requesting that his lie-detector test be conducted in line with the Supreme Court guidelines, which include medical check-up before the test. ‘Do Kunwar Vijay Pratap’s narco test too’Claiming that he has fully cooperated with investigation teams so far, Umranangal maintained that he was falsely implicated by the former SIT.“I am ready to undergo lie-detector test even five times if it brings out the truth. But (former IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh (who headed the former SIT) should also undergo narco test so that his true intentions could be revealed,” he said. Stating that he was sent to Kotkapura for mediation on the directions of the DGP, “because I served in the area on various posts and maintained good contact with the public”, the suspended IG said police had opened fire after protesters turned violent. “The firing and use of water cannons were done on the orders of the magistrate present on the spot. I will be responsible only if they can show any order issued by me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-police-firing-umranangal-gives-written-consent-for-lie-detector-test-101625841090837.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP chief threatens DJB chairman over severe water crisis||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Friday said that if the "severe water crisis" in the national capital was not resolved in the next 48 hours, the state party unit would cut off water supply to Delhi Jal Board Chairman Satyendar Jain's house.Speaking during a press conference here, Gupta alleged that tanker mafia was "ruling the roost" under the Arvind Kejriwal government.He alleged that the AAP came to power in Delhi promising to eliminate tanker mafia active under the then Congress government but now the same mafia is ruling the roost under the Kejriwal government.He added that the Kejriwal government and his ministers will only realise how it feels to be without water when a minister's water supply is cut off.Gupta also claimed that the Jal Board, which was running at a profit of ₹800 crore, is now "in the red and in fact, on the verge of bankruptcy"."Lakhs of people in over 100 localities are not getting water and many of them are forced to buy it. In such a situation the BJP cannot remain a silent spectator and its workers will agitate in every nook and corner of the city to protest against the city government," the BJP leader said.On Thursday, Delhi BJP leaders and workers staged protests against the AAP government at different places across the city over the alleged water crisis.At the main protest venue near the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) headquarters at Jhandewalan, partymen led by Gupta staged a sit-in alleging lack of water supply in some areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-chief-threatens-djb-chairman-over-severe-water-crisis-101625835928453.html
09-07-2021||Patna||HC junks Chirag Paswan’s plea against Pashupati Paras’ appointment as LJP leader||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan’s plea challenging Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the Lower House, according to news agency PTI.Stating that there was no merit in the petition, Justice Rekha Palli said the court was inclined to impose a cost on Chirag Paswan but refrained from doing so after a counsel made a request to the bench. Paswan’s petition sought setting aside the speaker’s June 14 circular which displayed Paras’ names as the leader of LJP in the Lok Sabha.Paras was sworn-in as Union minister for food processing on July 7. Weeks ago, he had ousted Paswan as the party’s national president with the help of Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser.Chirag, son of late Union minister and founder of the LJP Ram Vilas Paswan, on several occasions, has expressed his disappointment over the event, accusing his uncle Paras of betrayal. During an episode of The Interview with HT last month, Paswan said that the five ‘rebel leaders’ betrayed what his father stood for.He also said that he had expected the Bharatiya Janata Party to be more vocal about the split in the LJP but Paras’ induction to the Union cabinet suggested otherwise. “The silence definitely hurts. I expected them to be a little more vocal. There are rumours that the local or state unit of the BJP may be involved in this,” Paswan said earlier in June. Paswan also blames Bihar chief minister and JDU supremo Nitish Kumar for engineering the split within the party.“It seems obvious but he may not be directly involved in this, but if his party workers were involved in this, and he remained silent that clearly shows he was supportive of them. It is Nitish Kumar and his partymen who have targeted not only my party but also my family members this time,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hc-junks-chirag-paswan-s-plea-against-pashupati-paras-appointment-as-ljp-leader-101625837143358.html
09-07-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy made chairman of PAC in Bengal assembly; BJP walks out||Mukul Roy, who has joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) but is still officially a legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was made chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly on Friday afternoon as the budget session came to an end. BJP lawmakers staged a walkout in protest, saying convention was violated because an opposition MLA is always made head of the PAC. The party had nominated Ashok Lahiri, former chief economic adviser to the Centre and lawmaker from Balurghat, for the post. “We did not nominate Roy for inclusion in the PAC. The ruling party wants to spend government funds and keep the accounts as well. This is autocracy. The speaker violated convention,” said Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the assembly. Defending the decision of speaker Biman Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “There is no rule which says an opposition leader has to be made the PAC chairman. It is only a convention. The speaker is the sole authority to select the chairman. He has done the right thing.”The speaker told the House that Roy was selected because of his experience.That Roy could be made the PAC chairman became somehow apparent on June 24 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee stoked speculations. “Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee told the media during a press conference. On Friday, no election was however held since the BJP had nominated six MLAs for inclusion in the PAC which has 20 members. The TMC had named 14 MLAs, said Adhikari. The BJP and the TMC got into a tussle on June 25 when Roy, who left the saffron camp and returned to the ruling party on June 11, filed his nomination for induction in the PAC. On June 18, the BJP submitted a petition before assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees of which the PAC is considered the most important one. On June 26, the BJP submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the party did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter said Roy should be disqualified under the anti-defection law. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls. He filed the application for Roy’s disqualification. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu but did not officially resign from the BJP, said opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-made-chairman-of-pac-in-bengal-assembly-bjp-walks-out-101625837612066.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Rest in peace Yusuf Uncle; Farewell Dilip Sahab||The dialogue whispered in sotto voce and controlled anguish; the eloquent heartbeat of a pause between sentences; the slight quiver of the Adam’s apple and flicker of a single eyelid; the trembling lower lip; that spoke of untold, inner torment; the robust, rustic body language and dialect of a rural lad… Modern India has grown up watching Dilip Kumar’s masterful performances in films like Devdas, Mughal-E-Azam, Sagina Mahato and Ganga Jumna in awe. “The history of Indian cinema would be written as before and after Dilip Kumar,” said Amitabh Bachchan, about the passing of thespian and Padma Vibhushan this week, adding that an “epic era has drawn a curtain”. *********************The patriarch of a large, vivacious clan, Kumar and his siblings, including sisters Akhtar, Farida, Fauzia, Saeeda and brothers Nasir, Ehsan and Aslam, the children of a fruit merchant family from Peshawar, were an uncommonly refined, affectionate and well-read clan. Kumar, a linguist, preternaturally erudite in Hindi and English, was deeply interested in politics, philosophy and the current affairs of his time, and like many of the brightest of his generation, was drawn to the Left. Above all, he was a man with a soft heart, someone who never forgot his old friends or his roots. “He was called Laaley by his close friends and, in turn, he addressed those he loved as Laaley di Jaan,” says Pinky Bhalla, daughter of iconic late actor Pran, who was among Kumar’s closest friends and his neighbour at Pali Hill. “Both dad and he hailed from the same north-western region and shared a love for Urdu, music and poetry,” she says. For Bhalla and her siblings, Kumar had been the consummate story-telling uncle who’d drop by often, sometimes accompanied by his sisters, and play rounds of dumb charades with them. She had been nicknamed ‘Princess Margaret’ by him and on her eighteenth birthday, he had presented her with a banjo and would encourage her to learn to play it. A great lover of languages — fluent in Urdu, Hindi, Punjabi, Marathi, English, Bengali, Gujarati, Pashto, Persian and his first love Peshawari, actress Anju Mahendru, whose late mother Shanti hailed from the same region and had been a dear friend of Kumar’s, remembers how he insisted on only addressing her in Punjabi each time they met. Towards the end, when it appeared that he was having difficulty remembering people, Mahendru recalls how he would whisper in mock irritation to her “Thappad lagavan ga, Shanti di kudi hai”, when she would remind him who she was. Bakul Patel, wife of the late Congress majordomo and barrister Rajni Patel — one of Kumar’s closest friends ever since they struck up a friendship as dashing young campaign officers in Krishna Menon’s crucial Mumbai northwest elections in the Sixties, says what had drawn the two together had been a shared set of values. “They shared a common ideology and commitment to democratic, secular values and for equality for the socially disadvantaged,” she says, adding that her thoughts are flooded with memories of the charismatic Kumar. “He’d be the first to take part in our truck yatras across Mumbai, to collect clothes, blankets, medicines etc, for cyclone and other natural disaster relief. And I can never forget his childlike exuberance and whoops and whistles of joy at Rajni and my impromptu wedding, when he was asked to give me away as the bride.” *********************For my family, he’d always been Yusuf bhai, a dear friend of our parents, a frequent visitor to our home, someone who commanded our affection and regard, much the same way that PM Nehru had. Here too, there had been a shared worldview and ideology. In the early Sixties, Kumar, along with my father, award winning documentary filmmaker Rajbans Khanna and Raj Kapoor, Bimal Roy and BR Chopra, were signatories to a letter addressed to the Union government on the need for films that would promote communal harmony and national integration. “We have been discussing amongst ourselves, the possibility of using the medium of films to arouse and spread (the) feeling of national integration,” the letter had begun, going on to suggest a series of films on themes such as the Muslim weaver Sant Kabir, who became one of the leading lights of the Bhakti movement; prince Dara Shikoh, who translated 52 Upanishads; and the close bond of friendship forged between Muslims and Hindus during the Indian mutiny. When my father had passed away, Kumar had been among the first condolers to rush over that very evening, recounting stories of their shared regard for each other, even though they had not been in touch much, towards the end. Once, in the mid-Eighties, when he and Sairaji had chanced upon my mum and me, sunning ourselves on a pair of hammocks at the Taj Village in Goa, promptly an invitation had come to dine with the couple at their suite at The Aguada that evening, where, late into the night, he had regaled us with riveting stories from his childhood spent in his beloved Peshawar. And in the Nineties, when I had been commissioned by a network to anchor a talk show, he had swept us all off our feet when he’d arrived on the dot, to the modest studio where we were shooting, to record his interview. *********************There is something deeply gratifying about the poetic justice that despite facing much undeserved state harassment on numerous occasions on account of being a Muslim in the past, such as when in 1964 he was accused of being a Pakistani spy and later when he was awarded Pakistan’s highest civilian honour, Kumar was buried with full state honours, his body draped in his beloved Indian flag. Credit for this must also go to his wife Saira Banu, who cared for and protected him in equal measure, as a fiercely devoted wife and as the keeper of a national treasure, ensuring he received his dignity and due till the last. To witness such loyalty and love is in itself as rare, as it is edifying. In the end, people like Dilip Kumar with their all-expansive spirit, vibrant mind and peerless talent are those remarkable savants who invoke love and respect, in every heart they come by. So, rest in peace dear Yusuf uncle; farewell Dilip sahab; salute Dilip Kumar; it’s light’s out, cameras off and curtains down; but you will live on in our thoughts and hearts forever…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-rest-in-peace-yusuf-uncle-farewell-dilip-sahab-101625837371256.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, two sons killed in Sangrur road accident||A woman and her two sons, in their 20s, were killed after their car rammed into a truck at Mastuana Sahib, around 10 kilometers from Sangrur, in the wee hours of Friday. They have been identified as Jaswinder Kaur, Lovedeep Singh and Mandeep Singh of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.The woman’s husband, Narmohan Singh, also got injured in the accident and is admitted to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.Police said the family was travelling towards Bathinda in a Hyundai i20 car when the accident took place. The person behind the wheel apparently tried to overtake a truck but ended up crashing into the rear of another truck. The mishap was recorded by a CCTV camera installed on the roadside.“Before proceeding with any action, we are waiting for their relatives, who are on their way to Sangrur,” said Gurjit Singh, investigating officer, Badrukhan police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-two-sons-killed-in-sangrur-road-accident-101625837310727.html
09-07-2021||Bhopal||3 held for smuggling Indian-made foreign liquor smuggled into MP from Delhi||Three men have been arrested for allegedly smuggling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in large quantity from Delhi to Bhopal by booking a parcel bogie in a superfast train after showing it as a consignment of medicine, police said on Friday. The accused were arrested on Wednesday after they were found illegally bringing 350 litres of IMFL, worth ₹5.50 lakh, by booking the parcel bogie of Shaan-e-Bhopal Express after paying ₹90,000 fees, Bhopal crime branch's Additional Superintendent of Police Gopal Dhakad told PTI.They secretly brought this stock of IMFL to Bhopal two days ago, he said, adding that since June 25, it was their sixth consignment that they brought to the Madhya Pradesh capital. The accused, Gajendra Rathore (36), Mukesh Mehra (32) and Subhash Soni (32), who were arrested following a tip-off, used to get these consignments from some persons in Delhi. The stock would be brought to MP in four- layered packing with ‘medicines’ written on the boxes, he said. Mehra used to sell the smuggled IMFL at his liquor shop at Panchavati area of Bhopal. Besides that, the three accused would also sell this alcohol to their customers individually, Dhakad said. The accused were produced in a local court on Thursday, which remanded them in judicial custody, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-held-for-smuggling-indian-made-foreign-liquor-smuggled-into-mp-from-delhi-101625836955070.html
09-07-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: July 9 to 15, 2021||The podcasting workshopA podcasting workshop for beginners. Learn how to master the skill of podcasting and share your voice through this “live’ session Vishal Modi, podcast host (Modivation) and YouTuber content creator will teach the basics. To register email - vilp504@gmail.comWhen: July 9-July 11; 4:00 pm to 5:30 pmWhere: OnlineRam Bapat memorial lectureTitle: From the Scenes of a Plague to Prescriptions for a Pandemic: Glimpses from the Chronicles of Theatre and Immunity.Speaker is Prof Soumyabrata Choudhury.When: July 10; 6pmWhere: Online; lecture shall be live-streamed on youtube: https://youtu.be/dXvh4UGyxCI and Facebook: https://fb.me/RamBapatMemorialLectureResin artIn this workshop, participants will learn to mix resin and play with other mixed media to create resin wall decor. You will learn about mixing resin, adding pigments, making ocean waves, and pouring. You will learn what resin is and what you should pay attention to when working with epoxy resin. Open to all above age of 13 years.Cost: Rs1,700/ per person (includes art material and delivery charges)To register contact: 8097020702When: July 10; 2:30pm Where: OnlineCooking workshopMillets are popular because of high fibre content and with rotis and parathas, it is easy to include millets in our daily diet. Learn how to make dough from wholegrains, millet aloo paratha, carrot and methi roti – stuffed millet roti, Sattu paratha, Marwari Bajra Tikadiya, and Millet tandoori roti. Presenter: Shraddha Saraogi.Registrations for the event will close at 4 pm on July 9 To register contact office@sharan-india.org or +91 9769117747/+91 7499417038Charges: Rs. 550 per person + 18% GSTWhen: July 9; 5 pm – 6:15 pm Where: Online Organic gardeningLearn how to grow your own fresh organic produce in containers at home. This online workshop is ideal for beginners wanting to learn how to grow their own fresh vegetables in their windows, balconies or terraces, organically. Ideal for homes receiving three to four hors of sunlight.Fees: Rs.550 per person To register call +91 9833251324 or mail queries@earthoholics.orgWhen: July 11; 3 pm to 4.30 pmWhere: OnlineAadrai jungle trekThe Aadrai Jungle Trek is the best way to explore one of Sahyadri’s most beautiful and untouched jungles. This tour will take you deep into the heart of this lush, green forest, where you can see waterfalls, caves, valleys, shepherd trails, famous peaks, and more.Trek cost: ₹999 per personTo- register call Tirth Sangoi: 7710963353 / 9403681336 orAryan Shirwalkar : 9821565866When: July 10Where: Trek begins on night of July 9. Starting point revealed upon registrationGet writingAuthor Sudha Menon is back with her popular creative writing workshop for aspiring writers. The beginner level course will take participants through the ABCs of creative writing and will feature plenty of guided writing exercises, interactive discussions on honing your craft and insider tips that will help your writing stand out . Menon, a seasoned journalist and motivational speaker, is the author of five non-fiction books. She is the founder of the Get Writing and Writing With Women workshop series. To register call 9823035869. When: July 17; 3pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-july-9-to-15-2021-101625834489960.html
09-07-2021||Bhopal||Man arrested for ‘forcing’ former live-in partner to change religion in MP||A 40-year-old man was on Friday arrested in Satna under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversation law after his former live-in partner of 15 years and the mother of their 13-year-old daughter accused him of raping her and forcing her to convert. Police superintendent Dharamveer Yadav said Rafi Khan has been booked under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act and Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape) and 419 (cheating).“The 35-year-old woman filed a complaint that Khan met her 15 years ago and introduced himself as Rakesh Kushwaha. He was a friend of the woman’s husband, whom she married 16 years ago. They got into a relationship. Khan promised to marry the woman. The woman’s husband left her. ...Khan (later)...refused (to marry her) and convinced her to live with her without getting married.” Yadav said the woman has claimed she got to know about Khan’s real name and religion after their daughter was born. He added Khan allegedly sold the woman’s house and ended the relationship. Yadav said Khan would come to visit the daughter and the woman and wanted her to convert. “The woman ended the relationship with Khan, and he raped her many times,” Yadav said.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh board to hold special exams from September 1Yadav said Khan insisted the woman changed her religion long back, but he does not have any paper to prove this. “We are investigating whether the woman changed her religion or not.”Over 30 cases have been registered under the anti-conversation law that came into force on January 9. The law prohibits conversion by “misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat or force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or any fraudulent means”. Four petitions are pending against the law in the high court.Activists have questioned the law and alleged it has been enacted in Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh to harass minorities. “In this case, how it possible that the accused has started harassing the woman to change the religion now. In many cases, women are using the law to end inter-religious relationships,” said LS Hardenia, who has filed a petition against the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-arrested-for-forcing-former-live-in-partner-to-change-religion-in-mp-101625834311106.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Trust purchases 3 Ayodhya temples for expansion of Ram Janmabhoomi campus||Among the oldest temples in Ayodhya, Kaushalya Bhavan, Fikerah Ram Mandir and Deen Kuti Mandir in the Ramkot area of the temple town have been purchased by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra for expansion of the Ram Janmabhoomi (RJB) campus, HT has learnt. Around 250 to 300 years old, these temples share their boundaries with the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. Out of the three, the Fikerah Ram Mandir is the biggest and falls inside the periphery of the Ram Janmabhoomi campus while Deen Kuti Mandir is the smallest. Mahant Kaushal Kishore Tripathi and Mahant Yashoda Nandan Tripathi aka Mahant Lalluji, the two brothers who own the Kaushalya Bhavan spread over 15 biswa or 1881 square metre land (1 biswa = 125.419104 sq metre), are preparing to leave the place and hand it over to the Trust. The Tripathi brothers live there, along with their family members, including grandchildren. The Trust has given ₹4 crore to owners of the Kaushalya Bhavan along with alternative land and ₹3.70 crore to Mahant Raghuvar Saran of Fikerah Ram Mandir along with alternative land. The Trust has given nine biswa land in the Ramkot area and 5.5 biswa land at Bag Bijaisi to the Tripathi brothers and nine biswa land in the Ramkot area to Raghuvar Saran of Fikerah Ram Mandir. “(Trust general secretary) Champat Rai, Ayodhya mayor and (Trust member) Anil Mishra came to meet us to request for the handover of the Kaushalya Bhavan for expansion of the Ram Janmabhoomi campus,” said Mahant Yashoda Nandan Tripathi. “For ages, people were waiting for the Ram Mandir to come up in Ayodhya. Now, when the temple is being constructed, the Trust wants our land for expansion of the Ram Janmabhoomi. We have handed over (sold) the property to the Trust,” added Tripathi. “The Trust had requested to hand over these temples for expansion of Ram Mandir as they are in close proximity to the Ram Janmabhoomi complex. Their owners have agreed, and the Trust has also compensated them,” said Mahant Dhinendra Das, member of the Trust. Animesh Tripathi, grandson of Mahant Kaushal Kishore Tripathi, who is an engineer by profession, said, “Change is the only constant in life. As the Ram temple is coming up, it was necessary to vacate the place.” Animesh, who worked in Mumbai, lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After the lockdown in Mumbai, he returned to Ayodhya and will remain here till he gets another job. Mahant Raghuvar Saran of Fikerah Ram Mandir, which is spread over 21 biswa or 2,633 sq mt land, is nowadays busy with the construction work at the new place allotted by the Ram Mandir Trust in the Ramkot area where he will shift in order to relocate the temple. “My temple is inside the Ram Janmabhoomi. I had no option but to accept the Trust’s offer to sell the land for expansion of Ram Mandir,” said Mahant Raghuvar Saran. “But I had demanded an alternative land in the Ramkot area only for my new temple. I did not want to move out of this locality. As I have to vacate the place at the earliest, I am busy with construction work at this new place,” said Raghuvar Saran while giving instructions to labourers at the site. The Trust has purchased Deen Kuti Mandir for ₹30 lakh from Mahant Sant Das. However, around 10 days ago, Das passed away. Before his death, Sant Das handed over the amount to his followers. The Trust is in the process of purchasing around four-five houses in the Ramkot area that are close to the Ram Janmabhoomi campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/trust-purchases-3-ayodhya-temples-for-expansion-of-ram-janmabhoomi-campus-101625833232020.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt merges public transit systems with Google to reduce bus waiting time||The Delhi government is integrating all public transit systems with Google to create a multi-modal transit planner so that people won't have to wait for long for public buses, said the city's Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday.Responding to a tweet by Gahlot in the matter, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government is working hard to make the national capital's transport system user-friendly."Delhites can very soon plan their bus journeys to the minute. We're at the final lap of integrating all our public transit systems into @GoogleIndia platform, which will utilise Open Transit Data of Delhi Govt and live data of buses to create a reliable Multi-Modal Transit planner," Gahlot said in a tweet.In response, to Kejriwal wrote on the micro-blogging site, "The Delhi government is working hard to make Delhi's transport system user friendly using technology."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-merges-public-transit-systems-with-google-to-reduce-bus-waiting-time-101625829137288.html
09-07-2021||Other||Odisha couple arrested on charges of torturing man’s minor daughter||Police in Bhubaneswar have arrested a couple on charges of torturing and starving the man’s 7-year-old daughter from his earlier marriage.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Commissioner of Police Saumendra Priyadarshi said the man from Barahal village under Balipatna police station and his third wife were charged with attempt to murder the girl born from the man’s second marriage.The seven-year-old child weighs barely 5 kilograms. “The malnourished child has been admitted in Capital Hospital with several burn marks on her body. The child was beaten everyday, and kept chained in the veranda of their house for days together,” said the police commissioner.Police said the man had married for a second time in 2013 after divorcing his first wife. In 2014, a girl was born to the couple. However, the second wife left for her parents’ along with the child in 2014 after the man allegedly started torturing her. The man got married for a third time. In March 2020, he got the girl’s custody after an official separation from his second wife. That was when the alleged torture began.His ex-wife said that social activist Md Jamil Akhtar, with the help of NGO Childline, rescued the girl.“My daughter told me that she was beaten with broom and kicked often. Why did he (ex-husband) take her custody if he had to torture my daughter? They must be punished for subjecting the child to such torture,” she said.Childline director Benudhar Senapati said, “Her father and stepmother took out their frustration on her. They used to beat her every day,” he said.The man, however, dismissed the allegations of torture and attributed his daughter’s poor health to psychological stress. “She inflicted the injuries on herself by putting her fingers into boiling milk when I was away,” he said.Police said apart from attempt to murder charges, the couple has been charged under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-couple-arrested-on-charges-of-torturing-man-s-minor-daughter-101625830050474.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP’s power abuse rekindles memories of SP rule: Mayawati says no to local polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Friday said her party would take part in the upcoming elections to block panchayat heads as misuse of official machinery, graft and the current wave of violence unleashed by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rekindled memories the erstwhile Samajwadi Party (SP) rule. “Gross misuse of official machinery, money power and violence by the BJP during the election of district panchayat chairpersons and now the block heads have brought back many such memories of SP rule. That is why the BSP has decided to not contest both these indirect elections,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister wrote on Twitter.Hitting out at the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP over its “verbal opposition” to the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, Mayawati said the former was known for similar abuses of power to win elections. “The SP's attack on the BJP government is very deceiving and unbelievable because the SP regime was known for similar abuses of power deployed to win elections at all costs. People have not forgotten anything," she added.Also Read: Violence mars filing of papers for block panchayat chief in UPUP reported incidents of firing, clashes and stone pelting from 17 blocks on July 8 as the process of filing of nominations for the election of block panchayat heads were underway at 825 blocks across 75 districts. A fight broke out between the BJP and SP in Unnao’s Purwa block with the son of the BJP candidate accusing the SP nominee and her supporters of robbing him.The BJP won the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls on July 3 after 67 of the 75 seats went to candidates backed by the party. The SP had boycotted the polls citing misuse of power. “The BJP demolished all democratic norms to manufacture a win. Such muzzling of democracy and such brute use of official machinery was never seen before,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-power-abuse-rekindles-memories-of-sp-rule-mayawati-says-no-to-local-polls-101625827312037.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Farewell to the accessible humane prince, and long live the emperor’s work||Honest, earnest, hard-working and loyal. That’s the kind of people I grew up with. That’s also the kind of people I watched in movies. Real, down-to-earth people with lives I could relate to, with struggles I knew were plausible, and with little joys and triumphs that weren’t exaggerated or far-fetched. Like Shankar and Krishna’s story in Naya Daur.In Bombay of the 1970s, movies were something we watched on a cloth “screen” stretched across the road between two buildings near our society’s community hall. Everybody sat on the road and watched whatever was up. Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor movies were a big draw, movies from the 1950s and 1960s. Occasionally, we got an Amitabh Bachchan movie that was relatively recent. Sometimes of a Sunday, we went to a neighbour’s house to watch the black and white movies broadcast by Doordarshan - very few had a television back then. Prithviraj Kapoor, Sohrab Modi and Dilip Kumar movies were frequent Sunday treats.In 1978 we got our own Dynora black and white television and from then on we would not just watch, but also invite neighbours and friends over (which was the whole point at that time, what one had, one shared); equally important, we could discuss the movies at home. The significance was that we got first-hand insight into characters and circumstances, since my father and my uncles and aunts grew up in Banaras (Varanasi) and Delhi in the same time period, and in similar economic strata as portrayed by many of the movies. Our family circle in Bombay comprised getting-to-middle class families from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Assam, among other states and thus, the movies meant something to me, as if the stories were related to the struggles and aspirations of my family’s previous generations and of the people around me. Most importantly, the values reflected by the characters Dilip Kumar played, resonated with us. Naya Daur was an extraordinary movie in many ways and of course, the writer and director were instrumental in crafting that. And I remember the movie as much for the stories of Krishna and Shankar, as for Rajni and Manju. The impact of the movie was that I used to watch it every time it came on TV and since YouTube came into the scene, I watch specific clips on demand - I watched the final race scene earlier this week.Earlier this week, I originally searched for two bhajans penned by Rajinder Krishan and sung by Mahendra Kapoor (Ramchandra kaha gaye Siya se) and Mohammad Rafi (Sukh ke sab saathi, dukh mein na koi). Both were part of the movie Gopi, portrayed on screen by Dilip Kumar (who played Gopi). Again, it is the values and relationships that were the hook, but also an underlying method of education about family and social interaction. This was a masterclass performance in the middle years of his career and all this happened before I was even born, but relevant enough to have an influence on me and my siblings and friends, as I discovered later in life. Dilip Kumar was of course the screen name of actor Muhammed Yusuf Khan. My father greatly admired the craft of Yusuf Khan and one day in the mid-1980s, when we were in Delhi and had relatives over (many of them his colleagues from theatre), there was a debate on actors and their techniques, and he said in exasperation: “To understand how great an actor he is, you must watch Sagina Mahato. Then you’ll understand that the others you watch are actors, because you can’t look beyond them; but Sagina is Sagina, not Dilip Kumar. That’s an honest performance.” He was referring to the 1970 Bengali film by Tapan Sinha about the labour movement wherein, Dilip Kumar played the central protagonist. As an earnest listener to a similar debate in our house, I discovered Yehudi (starring Dilip Kumar and Sohrab Modi), which was a Bimal Roy remake of a Premankur Atorthy movie, which in turn was a screen adaptation of an Urdu/Hindi play about persecution of Jews in the Roman Empire.Dilip Kumar served as a more pragmatic reference in my life in the late teens, since my parents used to frequently remind me, “Of course you have a crush, but don’t become Devdas and waste your life!” This was because Dilip Kumar’s Devdas was frequently watched and discussed in our house, especially every time a young family member found themselves down romance lane.I saw him once, fleetingly, at an award function in the 1990s, as I was picking up empty glasses discreetly in my black and white uniform. He had looked into my eyes for a brief second and smiled to acknowledge the existence of a waiter. I never forget that moment, because it taught me that he was an earnest and accomplished artiste because he was an earnest and considerate human being first. Yusuf (Dilip Kumar) Khan’s career spanned six decades; he acted in more than 60 films, won numerous industry awards and several civilian honours, including the Padma Bhushan, Dadasaheb Phalke Award and Padma Vibhushan. But, his legacy lies far beyond the accolades and numbers. If there was ever an actor whose work was art and not entertainment, I would aver it was Dilip Kumar. His singular purpose as an actor seemed to have been to help others experience what the world may be like for different people, in different circumstances, and to achieve a sense of oneness through a universal experience. He portrayed the life of human beings in their many facets, efficiently underlining the palpable struggle between an individual’s personal emotions, moral callings and social responsibility. Farewell to the accessible humane prince then, and long live the emperor’s work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-farewell-to-the-accessible-humane-prince-and-long-live-the-emperor-s-work-101625827590780.html
09-07-2021||Kolkata||Cops begin fresh probe into alleged suicide of Suvendu Adhikari’s guard in 2018||Police in West Bengal have started a fresh probe into the alleged death by suicide in 2018 of a security guard of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari. “We have received a complaint from the victim’s wife on Wednesday. On the basis of that complaint, we have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of IPC (Indian Penal Code) against unknown persons,” said Amarnath K, police superintendent, Purba Medinipur district. Police said the guard allegedly shot himself with his service revolver in October 2018 when Adhikari was a minister in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s previous government. The guard succumbed two days later.Adhikari, who defected to the BJP ahead of this year’s state assembly elections, defeated Banerjee from Nandigram even as her Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept back to power. A protégé-turned-adversary of Banerjee, Adhikari is now the leader of the opposition in the state assembly.Also Read | NHRC member says Bengal police ‘threatening’ victims of post-poll violencePolice said the guard’s widow, in her three-page complaint letter, demanded a fresh probe into her husband’s death. She could not be contacted for comments. In her complaint letter, she wrote: “From the beginning, I had doubts about my husband’s death. As Adhikari was a powerful man both at the state and district level, and I used to stay with my two daughters, I could not gather the courage to say anything. But now the situation has changed, and I thought I may get justice.”The complainant wrote when her brother-in-law raised doubts over the “suicide theory”, a close aide to Adhikari told them that the latter was unhappy. The aide, Rakhal Bera, was arrested in June in connection with a job racket.TMC leader Kunal Ghosh said the guard died under mysterious conditions. “His wife does not believe in the theory that was put forward to explain the death. She thinks that the probe was influenced and hence has demanded a fresh probe. She has also named Rakhal Bera.”Adhikari could not be contacted for comments. The BJP questioned whether the probe was influenced by Banerjee. “They are referring to a case which is three-year-old. At that time too TMC was in power. Mamata Banerjee was the chief minister, and the state home department was under her. If the investigation was influenced at that time, then the allegation is directly against Banerjee,” said BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cops-begin-fresh-probe-into-alleged-suicide-of-suvendu-adhikari-s-guard-in-2018-101625827292349.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi passes ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ to deal with another Covid wave: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government on Friday passed a ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ that has been prepared to deal with the upcoming third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that may hit sooner or later. The plan was passed during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. Talks were also held regarding the more lethal Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 and ways to contain its spread.“The Graded Response Action Plan was passed during the DDMA meeting today. There will be no doubts regarding when the lockdown will be imposed or opened. During the meeting, there was also a discussion about the Delta plus variant. We have to stop this variant from spreading in Delhi and the government is taking all necessary steps,” Kejriwal’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi read.Also Read| Kejriwal inaugurates Delhi’s second genome sequencing lab at ILBS, Vasant KunjAccording to news agency PTI, a Delhi government panel on managing the third wave of the pandemic has come up with a colour-coded mechanism which prescribes a graded response, including the shutting down of most of the economic activities at the highest ‘red’ level alert.The colour codes, also known as alerts -- yellow, amber, orange and red -- will be based on the Covid-19 positivity rate on two consecutive days, cumulative figures of fresh infections over a week and the average oxygen requirement for a week.आज DDMA बैठक में 'Graded Response Action Plan' पास किया गया। कब लॉकडाउन लगेगा और कब क्या खुलेगा, इसे लेकर अब संशय की स्थिति नहीं रहेगी।बैठक में कोरोना के Delta+ वेरिएंट को लेकर भी बात हुई, इस वेरिएंट को हमें दिल्ली में फैलने से रोकना है जिसके लिए सरकार हर ज़रूरी कदम उठा रही है।The response will include restricting economic activities as per the level of the alert. Shops and establishments are allowed to open during all four levels of alert.Hindustan Times reported on Friday that under the ‘yellow alert’, construction and manufacturing activities are allowed. Shops, apart from the essential ones, can open on an odd-even basis from 10am to 8pm. Same rules are applicable for shops in malls. The alert also allows one weekly market per zone, with 50 per cent vendors.Under the ‘amber alert’, construction and manufacturing activities will be allowed. Shops apart from the essential ones will remain open on an odd-even basis, but the timings will be 10am to 6pm. Same rules are applicable for shops in malls. Here too, one weekly market per zone is allowed with 50 per cent vendors.Also Read| Delhi govt to bring in colour-coded graded plan to fight Covid-19However, under the ‘orange alert’, construction activities can continue only if labourers are accommodated on site. Only manufacturing of essential and defence goods will be permitted. Non-essential shops can open from 10am to 6pm. But malls and weekly markets will be shut.The red alert, which will be in place when the crisis is at its worst, shall see the imposition of all restrictions on economic activities under the ‘orange alert’ along with more strict curbs if the situation worsens.Delhi has recorded 1,434,780 cases and 25,005 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease till now. On Thursday, 93 cases were reported while four more persons succumbed to the viral disease. Recoveries have climbed to 1,408,917, while active cases stand at 858.For the past one week, government authorities have ordered temporary suspension of prominent market areas in Delhi due to gross violation of Covid-19 related protocols which led to overcrowding. On July 6, market associations in the city pushed for the setting up of joint action committees to manage gatherings and also ensure all protocols are strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-passes-graded-response-action-plan-to-deal-with-another-covid-wave-cm-101625825754411.html
09-07-2021||Kolkata||To avoid crowds amid Covid, no raths for dieties in yatra this year in Kolkata||For the first time in 50 years, Lord Jagannath, Balram and Goddess Subhadra would be travelling in a convoy of 15 vehicles, comprising trailer-trucks, instead of chariots, coming Monday as a part of the annual rath yatra organised by the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) in Kolkata.The yatra will also be taking an undisclosed route to avoid large public gathering amid the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee would not be attending the ceremony but would be sending bhog and her offerings on Monday. “This is for the first time that Lord Jagannath, Balram and Goddess Subhadra would be travelling in a convoy. Pilot cars of the city police would move in front. Usually, they travel in three chariots which are pulled by devotees and thousands of citizens. We are not even disclosing the route that the convoy would take to avoid any gatherings of devotees on both sides of the road,” said Radharaman Das, vice president of ISKCON, Kolkata. While the idols would be travelling in one trailer-truck with a small temple-like structure set up, the other vehicles would be carrying their outfits, puja paraphernalia for nine days, servants and pujaris. “The last time we held a rath yatra was in 2019. In 2020, we had to cancel it because of Covid-19. The deities were taken from one room to another inside the ISKCON premises in Kolkata as a symbolic rath yatra,” he said. On Monday, the convoy would start from the ISKCON temple and reach ISKCON house which is the ‘Gundica Mandir’ around three kilometres away. “On July 20, on the day of ulta rath yatra, the convoy would return to the temple again, guided by the police pilot cars. During their stay at ISKCON house for nine days, only a limited number of devotees will be allowed darshan,” said Das. ISKCON authorities had planned a mega celebration this year which coincides with the 50th year of the rath yatra in Kolkata, but those had to cancelled because of Covid second wave. While West Bengal is reporting a little less than 1,000 new cases every day, Kolkata is logging 80- 90 new cases daily. In Odisha, the state government had announced that the annual rath yatra in Puri would begin on July 12 and will take place without devotees. The Supreme Court this week refused to allow rath yatras in cities other than Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/to-avoid-crowds-amid-covid-no-raths-for-dieties-in-yatra-this-year-in-kolkata-101625826150660.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest against Haryana minister in Kurukshetra||Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Gurnam Charuni faction protested against the Haryana women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhandha in Kurukshetra on Friday.The minister was to chair a meeting of the public grievances committee at Kurukshetra University.Also read: Haryana mulls reopening of educational institutions as Covid cases declineThe protesters tried to enter the university from gate number 2 that led to a face-off with the police. Later, the farmers sat outside the gate blocking the Kaithal-Kurukshetra road.The farmers said that they had already called to agitate against her presence as part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)’s call to protest against the BJP-JJP leaders in their area.A protester said, “The meeting was to be held at Panchayat Bhawan, but the administration shifted the venue to the university. This is shameful that a place of education has been turned into the political ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-against-haryana-minister-in-kurukshetra-101625823030269.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul, Nadda pay tributes to Virbhadra in Shimla||Political leaders cutting across party lines and people from all walks of life paid their last respects to Congress stalwart and six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh as his body was kept at the Ridge before it was taken in a procession to Rajiv Bhawan, the Congress headquarters in Shimla, in a procession on Friday afternoon. The cremation will be held at Virbhadra’s native place, Rampur Bushahr, at 3pm on Saturday. Also read: Himachal declares three-day mourning after Virbhadra’s deathThe nine-time MLA and five-time member of Parliament passed away due to cardiac arrest after a prolonged illness at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla early on Thursday. The mortal remains were brought to the Ridge from his residence, Holly Lodge, on Friday morning to enable people to pay their respects. Rahul pays tributes at Congress office Congress leader Rahul Gandhi made a brief visit to pay tributes to Virbhadra Singh at Rajiv Bhawan. He interacted with Pratibha Singh, the wife of Virbhadra Singh, after paying tributes to the former chief minister. He had flown from Delhi to Chandigarh from where he undertook a road journey to Shimla. Lost a good friend: Nadda BJP president JP Nadda also flew from Delhi to pay his last respects. “Virbhadra Singh was such a charismatic and visionary leader. We may have had political differences but I learnt a lot from him. The state has lost a great leader and I a good friend,” he said. “I laid a wreath on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too. Five days ago, I met him at the hospital. He was recovering. But destiny had other plans,” Nadda said. He said he had the opportunity to serve as leader of the opposition when Virbhadra Singh was the chief minister. “We had mutual respect for each other,” he said. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his cabinet colleagues accompanied Nadda to pay tributes at the Ridge. State police chief Sanjay Kundu said tight security was in place in view of the VIP visits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahul-nadda-pay-tributes-to-virbhadra-in-shimla-101625822010838.html
09-07-2021||Jaipur||Ajay Maken visits Rajasthan; Cabinet reshuffle on the cards||After two rounds of talks between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken, the countdown for Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle has begun. There are 21 ministers, including the chief minister, in the Cabinet which can accommodate up to 30 ministers. People familiar with the development said Maken met AICC president Sonia Gandhi before coming to Jaipur on Tuesday. He will meet the party high command with the chief minister’s suggestions and return to the state next week. The demands for political appointment and Cabinet reshuffle gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs rebelled against the leadership of Ashok Gehlot last year.Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments in Rajasthan is work in progress: Ajay Maken“The reshuffle is possible this month as the assembly session would begin next month. Earlier, the session was to be called this month but was postponed, possibly because of the reshuffle,” said a senior party leader. On Tuesday, Maken made it clear that the meeting with the CM would focus on Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments. “The exercise on Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments in Rajasthan is a work in progress. It means that discussions with all are being held,” he said. When former deputy CM Sachin Pilot was asked about the reshuffle on Wednesday, he said that Maken’s word should be taken seriously as he is the representative of Sonia Gandhi and general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan. Sources claimed that Pilot and his supporters have conveyed that there would be no negotiations over what was promised to them. Last year’s patch-up between Gehlot and Pilot factions happened after assurances from the Congress’s central leadership that the latter’s supporters will be suitably accommodated. A leader from the Pilot faction said this time it’s not about numbers in the Cabinet but power-sharing. “Eyeing assembly elections next year, the party want to douse all the small fires, be it in Punjab, Haryana or Rajasthan,”he said. People close to Gehlot said their leader wants no faction in the party and the selection for the Cabinet should be on the basis of merit, social engineering, and regional representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ajay-maken-visits-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-on-the-cards-101625817510000.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||PWD asks Delhi Police to halt traffic near flooded underpasses, low-lying areas||The Public Works Department (PWD) has written to the Delhi Police to temporarily halt traffic movement around “underpasses and low-lying areas” in case the area is flooded and the depth of the rainwater crosses 20cm. PWD, which comes under the Delhi government, manages all roads wider than 60 feet while the civic bodies maintain narrower roads.This is in preparation for the arrival of monsoon in the national Capital, which the India Meteorological Department has predicted to be tomorrow, July 10. PWD officials said this is being done in order to avert accidents due to waterlogging during the monsoon. In July last year, a man died of drowning at the Minto Road underpass which has been a perennial waterlogging point in the national Capital for decades. Also Read | Delhi HC backs Uniform Civil Code, asks Centre to take necessary steps“We will keep updating the traffic police about the water levels following which, they can barricade the areas,” said a senior PWD official. While last year the agency had decided to stop traffic at Minto Bridge if water level reached near 45cm, this is the first time it will be implemented across Delhi’s underpasses (vulnerable points) if the depth of the water reaches 20cm. The underpasses that often get submerged in water even with the slightest of rainfall include Minto Bridge, Munirka, Prahladpur, Zakhira, Kashmere Gate, Dwarka and Peeragarhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pwdasks-delhi-police-to-halt-traffic-near-flooded-underpasses-low-lying-areas-101625816549978.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid in Mumbai: BMC suspends vaccination for second time in July over shortage||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has suspended its vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for Friday at all civic and government-operated centres in Mumbai due to a shortage of doses.Taking to Twitter, the BMC wrote on Thursday, “Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that all BMC and Government vaccination centers will remain closed tomorrow (July 9, 2021). We apologize for the inconvenience. Please watch this space for updates regarding vaccination centres and schedules.”This is the second time in July that the vaccination drive in Mumbai has been suspended for lack of doses. Speaking to Hindustan Times, BMC officials said on Thursday they need a higher number of vaccines this month. An official said the BMC has a capacity to administer more than 1,00,000 doses daily, but the civic body is unable to administer even 50 per cent of it due to shortage.Meanwhile, Dr Rajesh Dere, the dean of Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid Centre, told ANI on Thursday that vaccination sessions in Mumbai are being allocated on the basis of daily supply of doses.Dr Dere also said 47 per cent of the city’s population has been administered with the first vaccine dose. “Preparations are being made for a possible third wave. If we manage to administer the second dose to 30-40 per cent of the population, the Covid threat can be reduced.”Nearly 60 la residents of Mumbai have been inoculated so far of whom 45,171 received their doses on Thursday. At present, there are 401 operational Covid-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai of which 283 are operated by the BMC, 20 are government-operated and the remaining 98 are private centres, according to PTI.Mumbai has so far recorded 7,26,824 cases and 15,586 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Thursday, the country’s financial capital saw 540 new cases and 13 more deaths. Thursday’s case count is 124 less than that of Wednesday when 664 people tested positive for the viral disease. On Wednesday, the city had recorded nine deaths, the lowest single-day rise since June 21.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-in-mumbai-bmc-suspends-vaccination-for-second-time-in-july-over-shortage-101625814229296.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Black flags mistakenly shown to Haryana MLAs at Naraingarh||It was a case of mistaken identity but it led to the disruption of an inspection tour of five Haryana MLAs at Naraingarh in Ambala on Thursday. A delegation of five MLAs, led by Aseem Goel (Ambala), was shown black flags by members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Gurnam Singh Charuni faction) protesting the fuel price hike. Also read: Tikait vs Tomar again as Centre reiterates no repeal of farm laws conditionUnion spokesman Rajeev Sharma said, “We were protesting against the rising fuel prices and inflation. When we heard that Kurukshetra BJP MP Naib Singh Saini is visiting, we decided to show him black flags. Later, we realised that it was not Saini but Goel leading committee members.” Besides Goel, MLAs Sita Ram Yadav (Ateli), Mohan Lal (Rai) and Congress legislators Neeraj Sharma (NIT-Faridabad) and Bharat Bhushan Batra (Rohtak), all members of the assembly committee on public undertakings, were inspecting the tree plantation drive at Kodwa Khurd village along with forest and tourism officials. After their meeting at Kingfisher Resorts on national highway-44, protesters blocked the exit and the police had a tough time making way for the vehicles of principal secretary, forests, G Anupma, principal secretary, tourism, MD Sinha, committee joint secretary Naren Dutt and other officials. The committee members returned without conducting the inspection. “The protesters mistook my vehicle for that of Saini’s. We called off the visit after the protest against the officials,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-flags-mistakenly-shown-to-haryana-mlas-at-naraingarh-101625813369823.html
09-07-2021||Patna||Roads blocked in flood-hit Bihar||An approach road to a bridge over the Kataha river collapsed at Marjadi in Bihar’s West Champaran on Thursday and blocked access to Marjadi and Marjadpur villages.Ajay Prakash Rai, block development officer (Gaunaha), said the road collapsed due to erosion. Around 600 households in the area are surrounded by the Ganguli, Kataha, and Harbora rivers.Satynarayan Paswan, a resident of Marjadi, has been unable to return home for three days because of the collapse. “I will be putting up in my dhaba till water level recedes,” said Paswan.Also Read | Both EVMs and ballot papers in Bihar panchayat pollsIn the neighbouring Sikta, Lauriya, and Maintand blocks of West Champaran, floodwaters have inundated 14 rural roads as the Sikarahana and other rivers in the area are in full spate, said Manish Kumar, circle officer, Sikta. The Gopalganj district administration has alerted the villagers in the low-lying area along the Gandak river following the release of water from the Valmikinagar barrage on Thursday amid heavy rain. “Around 1,000 people have been shifted to safer locations. Things are under control. The embankment is being patrolled routinely. The need for the fortification of embankment...has been necessitated,” said Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate, Gopalganj.In the East Champaran district, tens of thousands of people in seven blocks have been hit by floods. The district administration has been running community kitchens for them at 29 locations in the district.In Muzaffarpur, the Budhi Gandak and Bagmati rivers continued to flow above danger marks at Shikandarpur and Kataujha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/roads-blocked-in-flood-hit-bihar-101625807610040.html
09-07-2021||Patna||79 villages affected by floods in Bihar’s Darbhanga||The Bagmati, Gehumi, and Kamla rivers have been in full spate for nearly a fortnight in Bihar’s Darbhanga and flooded across several blocks in the district.Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagarajan SM on Thursday convened a meeting of executive engineers to discuss preparedness in this regard. He sought suggestions and directed officials to prepare the list of flood-hit populations to provide them relief.Officials said 79 villages across six blocks have been affected by floods in the district and a population of 58,000 has been impacted. The district magistrate said that community kitchens were being run at 14 places in the flood-affected areas, where 3,418 people were being served food twice daily.“As of now, 145 boats are being operated, including 35 private and 110 government boats, for the movement of the people in the flood-hit areas. So far 900 people have been shifted to the safer places,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/79-villages-affected-by-floods-in-bihar-s-darbhanga-101625806649353.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Sewage treatment plant near Powai Lake to be operational by December||The construction of a sewage treatment plant near Powai Lake is almost complete and is expected to be commissioned in December, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) has told the Supreme Court. The submission was made in connection with MCGM’s appeal against a National Green Tribunal order penalising the corporation for pollution in water bodies.The corporation said 90% of the work on the plant is complete and that it will have a capacity of about eight megalitres per day. The plant will be fitted with the requisite sequencing batch bioreactor technology to divert the flow of untreated sewage away from the lake.The lake, which has a large population of fish and crocodiles, is the only major notified wetland in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, as per the amended wetland rules 2017. A Maharashtra State Angling Association study in March found dead fish floating in the lake. The fish died due to fluctuating dissolved oxygen levels that lead to a proliferation of blue-green algae, which can be harmful to the fauna. Pollution levels in the lake are believed to be eight times above the permissible standards. Satellite images have also shown a significant reduction in the water surface over the last three years apparently due to the growth of water hyacinths, which are known to have adverse effects on overall biodiversity in aquatic ecosystems.Officials declined to comment saying the matter is sub-judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sewage-treatment-plant-near-powai-lake-to-be-operational-by-december-101625806169348.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Soon, child-friendly furniture in over 26,000 govt schools in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has cleared procurement of child-friendly furniture for 26,599 of its upper primary schools spread across 70 districts of the state. This covers 58% of such schools -- the state has 45,625 government-run upper primary schools, which are for Class 6-8 students, in 75 districts. The government has also sanctioned ₹488 crore for the same, of which ₹327 crore has been released, said state education department officials. The procurement has been duly approved by the project approval board of the Union education ministry too, they said. “The government believes that the furniture would help improve classroom pedagogical practices, instil self-confidence among students and also generate pride in them for their institution. The government also hopes that the move would spur admissions in government schools,” said a senior official of the basic education department.Also Read | Uttarakhand to review decision to stop Kanwar Yatra amid Covid-19Divisional assistant director (basic education), Prayagraj, Ramesh Kumar Tiwari said the furniture would be procured from the government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal overseen by a committee headed by respective district magistrates. “The furniture would be child-friendly and provide adequate space between the desk and the chair, keeping in mind the different age groups of the students,” he explained. They said the stress is on safe, comfortable and quality furniture made with hollow circular pipes instead of the old-style angle iron frames that could cause injury to students. The furniture would also have adequate space for students to keep their school bags, books and notebooks besides water bottles, said a government directive. As many as 687,036 pieces of furniture are being procured for 26,599 upper primary schools as part of this exercise. “In Prayagraj, 16,791 pieces of furniture for 599 upper primary schools would be procured. Earlier in 2017-18 also, furniture was procured for 175 of these schools,” said Prayagraj basic shiksha adhikari Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/soon-child-friendly-furniture-in-over-26-000-govt-schools-in-up-101625805389890.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Thunderstorm, patchy rain likely today||Delhi is likely to witness thunderstorm accompanied by patchy rain on Friday with showers expected to intensify from July 10— when monsoon is likely to arrive in Delhi and the remaining parts of northwest India. A cloudy sky with moderate rain has been predicted for Saturday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.“The moist easterly winds in the lower level from the Bay of Bengal have started to establish over eastern India. It is likely to spread over northwest India, covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. The southwest monsoon is likely to advance over the remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” IMD said.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 29 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 40°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 30.6°C and the maximum temperature was 41.8°C, five degrees above normal, marking it a heatwave day.Also Read | Give plan to comply on oath: Delhi high court to TwitterDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 166. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 164 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and west south-westerly. Moderate AQI is forecasted for tomorrow (Saturday). A change in wind direction is likely by July 9, this is likely to bring more moisture for the Bay of Bengal, increased rainfall activity along with low dust intrusion is likely to improve AQI by July 10 to the satisfactory category. As part of the advancing monsoon over the region, cleaner air is likely in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-thunderstorm-patchy-rain-likely-today-101625799629051.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Kitty Kumaramangalam’s murder: Laundryman got ‘tempted’ by locker in almirah||The one mistake that cost south Delhi resident Kitty Kumarmangalam (70) her life was to trust her laundryman enough to allow him inside the house whenever he returned with the elderly woman’s clothes, investigators said on Thursday.Laundryman Raju Lakhan Kanojia, arrested for the murder of Kitty Kumarmangalam, wife of former Union minister P Rangarajan Mangalalam, told police that he often went inside her house and kept the clothes in her almirah. What he saw inside became a source of envy that ultimately triggered him to become a murderer, a police officer, who questioned Kanojia (24), said on Thursday.Kitty’s husband was the Union minister of power between 1998 and 2000 during the first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.Raju told police he knew the woman was a minister’s wife and thought she had money stored in a small detachable locker inside the almirah. On Tuesday night, Raju and his two accomplices, Rakesh Raj and another person Suraj (identified by his single name in police records), murdered Kitty, assaulted her domestic help, and fled with cash, jewellery and the small locker.Police arrested Raju and Rakesh Raj,34, while Suraj is on the run. Rakesh and Suraj work as drivers. Till late Thursday night, police were conducting raids in different places across the city to arrest Suraj.“He said he was always curious about the small detachable locker in the almirah. He stole that too on Tuesday. The elderly lady (Kitty) did not believe that Raju, who she had seen for so many years, could rob her. Maybe this is why, the kind lady trusted him and allowed him inside. Usually, people don’t. Raju said that he had seen cash and the locker, whenever he put the cleaned clothes back in the almirah. Greed had struck him in the past. This greed, coupled with intoxication from drinking with his friends at the PVR Priya market, emboldened him to murder and rob her,” the investigating officer cited above said on condition of anonymity.The questioning of the two arrested men revealed that after the murder, the three rode to a wooded area on Nelson Mandel Marg and shared the stolen cash and jewellery. They shared around ₹80,000 each. While hiding in the bushes, the three also used a stone to break open the small locker but found only papers inside.“We have recovered the stolen locker along with the papers. It is a part of case property and is strong evidence that we have gathered against them,” the officer added.The murder came to light around 10.10pm on Tuesday when Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila,33, whom the three men had strangled with a belt and left for dead, woke up and called her husband. Her husband alerted the neighbours, who then informed the police. Mithila told police that at 8.10pm the three men entered Kitty’s second floor house in A block, overpowered the two women, strangled her with a belt in one room, and smothered Kitty to death with a pillow in another. Kitty died on the spot.While prime accused Raju is in police custody, his family members who live in the nearby Bhagwan Singh camp -- a slum cluster next the posh Vasant Vihar area -- refuse to believe that the 24-year-old could be a murderer. Police said Raju confessed he and his friends Rakesh and Suraj needed money, so they readily agreed to assist him. Raju’s mother, Geeta Kanojia, said, “We earn about ₹20,000-25,000 from washing and ironing clothes. We are told that he stole about ₹2 lakh. My son could not have done this. We refuse to believe he is a murderer.”But police believe they have all the evidence to pin the murder on the three men. Police will file a charge sheet against the three men in the next 60 days. Laundryman Raju and his accomplice Rakesh are currently at the Vasant Vihar police station. A city court on Thursday sent them to three days’ police custody.Other laundrymen who live and work in the bylanes of A block in Vasant Vihar are in fear. They believe they will forever be seen with suspicion. Geeta Ram,74, who runs a small ironing shop in the bylane next to Kitty’s house, said, “I have lived here for more than 50 years. All my life, my wife and I have climbed the stairs in these buildings and taken clothes for laundry. This is the first time that a laundryman murdered his own employer. Because of this one case, we will be viewed with suspicion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kitty-kumaramangalam-s-murder-laundryman-got-tempted-by-locker-in-almirah-101625782559751.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||DU yet to verify caste certificates submitted by aspirants in 2020||Delhi University (DU) is yet to verify caste certificates submitted by students last year even as it was set to begin the admission process for the current session, officials privy to the matter said.After the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year, DU shifted to online admissions. Students who sought admission under the SC/ST and OBC quota submitted an online copy of their reservation certificate on DU’s admission portal. The university announced that it will perform a “forensic verification” of documents once students join the campus and submit the original copies with their respective colleges. However, due to the pandemic, in-person classes are yet to begin.Last year, around 70,000 students applied for seats under the OBC quota, 42,000 in SC quota, 8,600 in the ST category, and 10,173 sought admission under the EWS category.According to the reservation policy of India, 50% of the total seats are reserved for OBCs (27%), SCs (15%), and STs (7.5%) in government educational institutions and government jobs. Besides, the Centre has introduced a quota for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) this year as well.DU colleges forensically check certificates submitted by students at the time of admission, and any forgery leads to cancellation of admission.Hansraj Suman, the chairperson of the forum of academics for social justice and a former academic council member, said, “We have raised the demand of verification of reservation certificates with the university vice-chancellor and Dean of Colleges because in the past we have seen admissions based on fake caste certificates. In the last several years, fake caste certificates of SC, ST, and OBC quotas were found in colleges. What if the same has happened this year as well?”Explaining the process in the previous years, Suman said, “At the time of admission college first verifies the certificates on its own with the help of experts. It then sends the certificates to the authorities who had issued the certificates to verify them. After that, they confirm the admission of students. Nothing like that happened last year due to the pandemic. This can lead to chaos later.”DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani confirmed that the verification has not been done so far. “Even the government offices that could have verified the certificates remained closed for a long time due to Covid-19,” he said.Principals of several colleges said that they will have to cancel the admission of students, if their documents are found to be fake at any point in time. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “We have accepted the self-attested copies of documents of students. In case, they are found to be fake at any point of time, we will have no option but to cancel the admission of such students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-yet-to-verify-caste-certificates-submitted-by-aspirants-in-2020-101625781814596.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||‘Tweaking Class 10 marking plan will hurt our image’: CBSE tells high court||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday told the Delhi high court that any direction to the board for tweaking its policy of evaluation or publication of results will hamper its credibility, besides being disadvantageous to the students as well.In an affidavit filed before the court, the central board defended its assessment scheme devised for Class 10 students against a petition by an NGO which alleged that aspects of the evaluation plan were unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students.The Class 10 board exams were cancelled on April 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board announced an assessment scheme for the students on May 1. However, several teachers and students called the policies flawed, saying that they were unfair to meritorious high scorers whose marks will likely be standardised downwards based on the average performance of their school.An NGO, Justice For All, challenged the assessment in the high court. According to its petition, the moderation policy will be “an injustice to the students as the performance of school [is] not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student”.In its affidavit, the board said that in no manner any school will be able to take undue benefit from the policy. It said that if schools ignore the need to ensure that the average marks in each subject are within 2 marks of the subject-wise average reference year marks, according to the petitioner, it will damage the credibility and image of the CBSE across the globe resulting in disadvantage to the students in future.On May 1, the CBSE released a special marking scheme for Class 10 students stating that their results will be tabulated based on their performance in unit tests, half-yearly examination, and pre-board examination conducted by schools.The board, however, said each school should keep a check on inflation of marks and award marks in consonance with its best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years--2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20.The selected year will be the reference year for the schools, and subject-wise marks allotted by the schools for 2021 will be within a range of + or - 2 marks obtained by the school in the subject in the reference year. The board has also said that the overall average marks of the schools for 2021 should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by it in the reference year.However, a plea by an NGO Justice for All through advocates Khagesh Jha and Shikha Sharma Bagga challenged the policy saying that the moderating of the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student.”It has also said that moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average “was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time”, with no previous data of performance. The NGO has alleged that it can also lead to the manipulation of marks and exploitation, extortion of the students and parents.Defending its scheme through an affidavit, CBSE has said that the policy has been prepared by a team of experts from the schools, CBSE and it has been kept in mind that no school should be able to do injustice with the students and marks be awarded based on the learning of the student.“Also, the result should not be more than the best result of the past three results. Accordingly, while allowing moderation to the result committee, limits have been fixed. Responsibility has been given to the Result Committee for ensure just, fair and reliable result. Similar policy with extended liberty has been extended in Class-XII policy which has already been approved by the Supreme Court,” the CBSE said.It said that the petitioner had failed to show “any ex-facie perversity or illegality in the process adopted in the evaluation policy”.“…there is neither any illegality in the Evaluation Policy for Class X nor there is any arbitrariness in the Wednesbury sense or unreasonableness or illegality,” the board said.It also said that school management has no role to play in evaluation of students which has to be done by the Result Committee having external members as well adding that there are various checks in the Evaluation Policy for Class X in the form of verification of records by CBSE.It contended that the record would be sealed under the signature o f all members of the Result Committee, kept in the safe custody of the principal.“Further, the said Evaluation Policy provides that in cases where the school deliberately indulges in practices that are not consistent with fair, unbiased and objective practices of assessment, the answering respondent will take serious actions against such schools including action of disaffiliating the said school and/or imposing penalty against the school,” the reply read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tweaking-class-10-marking-plan-will-hurt-our-image-cbse-tells-high-court-101625781602593.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s driving test tracks set for slew of reforms||The Delhi state transport department is rolling out a plan aimed at improving services at its automated driving test tracks by introducing an electronic queue management system, increasing operation timings, allowing people to take driving tests on all days of the week, and reducing human intervention in the testing process.The department floated a tender on Thursday to outsource the operation and maintenance of all ADTTs in the city, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.“The idea is to offer a comfortable experience to applicants who visit our regional transport offices (RTOs) to give driving tests for a permanent driving licence (DL),” said Gahlot.“To give an example, the experience will be similar to what one witnesses during visa application for countries like the UK or Japan. Currently, the entire driving test system is manned by our own government officials, which leads to a lag in service delivery as the demand is high and the manpower scarce. So, outsourcing the job will help address all these issues, while simultaneously ensuring that the quality of the service offered to customers is premium,” said the state transport minister.Three years after the Delhi government introduced the city’s first ADTT in 2018, such tracks are operational in 10 locations.The tender document, a copy of which was seen by HT, states that the operation hours during which driving tests will have to be conducted will be from 8am to 8pm -- a 12-hour window against the seven-hour window, from 9am-4pm, currently in place for an applicant to take the driving test. It also says that driving tests will be conducted on all days of the week, instead of six days.The system is likely to be put in place in three months, once the tender process is complete, officials said.Ashish Kundra, Delhi’s transport commissioner, said that some of the operational tracks conduct tests for two-wheelers and four-wheelers sequentially. He said that, under the new system, the number of tests conducted in a single day will also increase as multiple applicants will be assessed parallelly on different tracks in a single centre.“Our automated test tracks have already reduced human intervention and the subsequent requirement of manpower. The test results are now given immediately without any scope of manipulation. But the existing operational hours and days limit the number of people who can take the test in a day. The idea is to further remove manual intervention and create a system where the transport department only has to play a supervisory role. Once appointed, the company will have to supply trained manpower for managing the driving licence test services and maintenance of hardware and equipment at the sites,” said Kundra.He said special focus will also be given to ensure people do not have to wait long at the centre for the test.“The applicants of DL skill tests will file online applications. The facilitation/DL test executives (two at each centre), will receive the applicants and will verify the documents as per the Department’s instructions; The applicants... will be taken to the test site in batches on their turn. They will be escorted to the test site by the site manager. The applicants will be entertained using the EQMS system and no candidate will need to stand in a queue. The DL test engineer (one at each site) will ensure that the tests are taken by automated software and he will be responsible to hand over the computerised results to the MLO/MVI. He will also ensure the compliance of other provisions of CMVR i.e. seat belt, rear view mirror etc,” said the tender document.The project will first be rolled out from ADTTs at Loni road, Rohini, Shakur Basti, Janakpuri, Sarai Kale Khan and Raja Garden. For other sites, the 12-hour shift will be decided by the transport department based on the volume of applications.Reshma Juneja (24), a consultant, said her recent experience of giving the driving test at the automated track in Mayur Vihar Phase 1 was good. “But I failed the test. I think practice is important because now in Delhi driving test is not like old times when the government official would pass your test even if you’ve performed miserably. It’s all sensor based now. I had to wait quite a bit for my turn to come, I hope with the new system that you’re taking about, this improves,” she said.Ravindra Kumar, senior principal scientist, transportation planning and environment division, CRRI said the government should also bring in other driver’s learning infrastructure to become holistic in its approach. “Simulators are important. The government should also bring in simulators in some of its centres to prep the applicants. It should also empanel a set of authorised driving schools and create a set of guidelines which need to be followed by such institutions as then it will help ensure all driving and traffic rules are imparted correctly and inculcated in all the learner’s,” he said.Delhi currently has 11 ADTTs, and another track being constructed in Hari Nagar will be ready by next January. The transport department is in talks with Maruti, which owns two automated tracks, and Ashok Leyland, which owns one, to use their centres for driving licence tests.The first automated driving test track was built at Sarai Kale Khan in February 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-driving-test-tracks-set-for-slew-of-reforms-101625781297675.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal inaugurates Delhi’s second genome sequencing lab at ILBS, Vasant Kunj||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated the Delhi government’s second laboratory to sequence genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, a day after he flagged off the first such facility at the Lok Nayak hospital.The laboratory at ILBS will be able to sequence over 300 samples a week and provide results in five to seven days, the government said in a press statement.“Yesterday [Wednesday], we launched a similar laboratory in Lok Nayak hospital, but this is going to be even more advanced,” Kejriwal said at the inauguration event.He further said, “Till now, we were dependent on NCDC [National Centre for Disease Control] and other central government facilities to sequence genomes. But now, we are independent and will be able to identify variants on time, take the right actions and strategise for any of the next waves (of Covid-19), if they break out.”“The facility will help sequence data of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to identify and screen new strains and variants with clinical significance, circulating in and around Delhi NCR [National Capital Region]. This facility can sequence nearly all 30,000 molecules of the coronavirus, in fact, the whole length of the virus. By doing this we can find out any mutations in any part of the virus, not merely the spike protein area.”Dr SK Sarin, ILBS director, said, “After the sequencing, we will be able to identify through the results whether the variant is new or an existing one. It’s not that every variant is extremely dangerous, but we need to be well informed about the new cases logged in Delhi and their variants.”“We already have more than 100,000 samples from previous months and upon the requests of the health minister or the chief minister, we can sequence a portion of them as well. We can sequence more than 300 samples in a week and their results can be made available within five to seven days,” said Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-inaugurates-delhi-s-second-genome-sequencing-lab-at-ilbs-vasant-kunj-101625781158029.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Pained to see MCD staffers seeking court’s help to get salaries, says high court||The Delhi high court on Thursday slammed both the Delhi government and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) for their failure to pay salaries and pensions to employees/pensioners and said it was “pained” to see employees approaching courts to get their salaries. The high court also directed the Delhi government to pay ₹293 crore that is due to the NrDMC within 10 days.“We are pained to see such people (employees and pensioners) coming to courts. They need to have a lawyer just to tell us that they are not being paid. You are doing your job but we are pained by the callousness. It’s shocking,” the court told the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.The court was hearing a clutch of petitions relating to non-payment of salaries and pensions to teachers, hospital staff, sanitation workers and engineers.It observed that corporations are meant to not only pay employee salaries but also make the city “world class” as well as manage health issues such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also ordered the Delhi government to disburse ₹293 crore to the NrDMC within 10 days, for the payment of salaries and pensions, which is due to the civic body towards the second and third quarter of GIA and basic tax assignment (BTA).The court remarked that there is “corruption everywhere”, both in the corporation as well as the Delhi government.“Let’s agree that people are sitting in a cosy environment. Your government is no better. Not just the corporate, there is corruption everywhere. We would want officers to act with responsibility. Tell us the money that you are incurring on advertisements,” the court told the Delhi government.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said it was not the responsibility of the government to ensure that civic body employees are paid salaries. He said advertisements given in newspapers are for dissemination of important and meaningful information.To this, the court said, “Advertisements with a political push do not indicate meaningful advertisement. When you say that you are short of funds to give to the corporation, you are also not behaving in a prudent or responsible manner.”The bench also came down heavily on the NrDMC for its insistence to run its six hospitals, despite not having the resources to do so.“You are very possessive about running your hospitals…but we can’t have a situation where on one hand, NrDMC is not able to meet its primary obligation of paying salaries and pensions, and on the other hand, it is insisting on retaining and running hospitals, which could not generate any revenue and are source of expenditure.”It said a decision has to be taken by the corporation as to whether the hospitals could be taken over by the Centre or the Delhi government.“If NrDMC continues to enjoy the luxury of running and maintaining municipal hospitals causing strain on its resources, it cannot be at the expense of salaries and pensions of employees and it may be necessary that the financial burden on account of lack of resources is borne by the elected representatives of the corporation,” the bench said, directing the NrDMC commissioner to file an affidavit within two weeks with all disclosures.The bench also asked the SDMC and EDMC, represented through advocate Manu Chaturvedi, to take similar steps to augment their resources, as being done by NrDMC, and file their respective affidavits detailing the steps taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pained-to-see-mcd-staffers-seeking-court-s-help-to-get-salaries-says-high-court-101625780990663.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||DDA finalising tenders for in-situ houses for 10,000 families living in slums||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is finalising the bids for six in-situ slum redevelopment housing projects for 10,000 families who live in these clusters.The in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters is part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), a flagship mission of the Union government implemented by the ministry of housing and urban affairs that ensures a pucca house to all eligible urban households by 2022.A senior DDA official said, “We have received the bids for five projects so far. We might have to re-tender for one of the projects. A decision will be taken in this regard soon. We are technicallly evaluating these bids, after which work will be awarded to the contractors.”The six projects have been planned in Rohini, Pitampura, Shalimar Bagh, Dilshad Garden, Pooth Kalan and Haiderpur, where 10 JJ clusters will be redeveloped. There are four clusters with over 4,000 households in Rohini’s Sectors 18,19 and 20. Similarly, flats will be constructed for 1,991 households in Haiderpur and 2,645 families in Dishad Garden respectively.Of the 675 slum clusters in Delhi, 499 are on central government land. Under the PMAY, DDA has to carry out in-situ redevelopment of 376 clusters which have come up on its land.The housing agency has completed surveying households, which started in 2019, in 23 slum clusters.Currently, the DDA has three in-situ redevelopment projects in west Delhi’s Katputhli Colony, Jailorwala Bagh in north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar and Kalkaji extension where a total of 5,990 flats are under construction.The official quoted above said the land owning agency plans to take up redevelopment of 16 slum clusters on a public private partnership (PPP) basis by the end of this year, just like the Katputhli Colony project---the first in-situ redevelopment project to be implemented on PPP mode.“Close to 30,000 flats will be constructed as part of these in-situ redevelopment projects. For the first time, DDA has taken up slum rehabilitation projects on such a large scale,” said the official.He added the Katputhli Colony redevelopment work, which was conceived in 2009 but the work started in March 2018, is likely to be completed by early next year. “The work got delayed due to the lockdown that was imposed following the outbreak of Covid-19,” said the official.DDA plans to hire private developers for the in-situ slum development projects, who will construct a multi-storey housing facility for slum dwellers (or beneficiaries identified through the survey), along with commercial spaces on the land where the slum exists. The commercial component will be used by the developer to recover the total cost of the project. The land will be leased to the developer, the period of which will be decided by the DDA.Earlier this year, the DDA had eased the redevelopment norms to allow developers to recover the cost of the project. “The in-situ projects have to be financially viable. For this, some norms were changed. The detailed project report of 10 projects is being finalised and we plan to float tenders for these projects as well,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-finalising-tenders-for-in-situ-houses-for-10-000-families-living-in-slums-101625780463561.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Taxi runs into vegetable vendors at Daryaganj, one dead||A 55-year-old man was killed, and another person seriously injured after a taxi, which was reportedly speeding, hit and dragged them along the road for nearly 30 metres in central Delhi’s Daryaganj in the early hours of Thursday. Residents of the area caught the taxi driver at the spot and handed him to the police, who arrested and booked him for rash and negligent driving causing death and injuries.A medical examination confirmed that the driver was not drunk when the incident took place, the officer added.The dead man was identified as Kallu, a resident of Seemapuri in northeast Delhi, and the injured man as 68-year-old Kanta Bhai, who lives with his family in Jahangirpuri. Both sold vegetables on the pavement outside the Daryaganj vegetable market for several years, a police officer aware of the matter said.The two men were arranging vegetables along the footpath around 3.45am on Thursday when the vehicle, which came from the Delhi Gate side, hit them.“The driver, Sachin, (25) told us that he was looking at the map on his mobile phone which was on his lap while he drove. He said that because he was distracted, he did not see the men and hit them with his vehicle. Three passengers were seated in the cab when the incident took place,” said the police officer, who asked not to be named.Kallu was taken to the nearby Lok Nayak hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Kanta Bhai was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/taxi-runs-into-vegetable-vendors-at-daryaganj-one-dead-101625780448468.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police file FIR, send notice to GitHub after Muslim women ‘put up for sale’ on app||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it has registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified persons, four days after pictures of several Muslim women were uploaded without their consent on an app called “Sulli Deals” to imply that these women were “up for sale”. ‘Sulli’ or ‘Sulla’ is a derogatory slang used to refer to Muslims.The police have also sent a notice to source code depository platform GitHub, using which these images were uploaded, asking it to share “relevant details”.Police are awaiting a reply from Github to ascertain the exact number of women who were subjected to the sexual harassment, which came to fore only after a few of the targeted women took to social media with screenshots to highlight the harassment.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said a case of sexual harassment under Indian Penal Code’s Section 354-A was registered on Wednesday following a complaint received on National Cybercrime Reporting Portal regarding “Sulli Deals Mobile Application”.“The case has been registered by the cyber crime unit (CyPAD) and investigation has been taken up. We have also sent notices to GitHub for sharing relevant details,” Biswal said.Police said the images were uploaded on the app on July 4 and included those of several known journalists and activists in India and abroad. The app was hosted by GitHub, a provider of Internet hosting. The app was taken down following widespread criticism on social media and after a few women, whose images were uploaded, sought police action. One of them used Twitter to update that she has filed a case in this regard in Noida.When contacted for a statement, a GitHub spokesperson said, “GitHub has longstanding policies against content and conduct involving harassment, discrimination, and inciting violence. We suspended user accounts following the investigation of reports of such activity, all of which violate our policies.”A senior CyPAD officer, who asked not to be named, said they have sought details from GitHub to know who created the mobile app and used the platform to upload the objectionable content.“We also want to know from where that app was developed and who all were involved in its creation.Our investigation will proceed further, once we get the details from GitHub,” the officer said.On Wednesday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the Delhi Police, seeking an action taken report in the matter by July 12. “Many women had to leave social media platforms after their images got circulated. This is a very serious matter constituting cyber crime. We have asked the cyber crime cell of the Delhi Police to provide us with relevant information about the same,” DCW chief Swati Maliwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-file-fir-send-notice-to-github-after-muslim-women-put-up-for-sale-on-app-101625779795677.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||BSES issues advisory ahead of monsoon onset||With monsoon likely to arrive in Delhi by July 10, the distribution companies (discoms) under BSES on Thursday issued an advisory urging people to follow simple safety guidelines and maintain distance from electricity infrastructure.Explaining its monsoon plan, a spokesperson of Reliance Infrastructure led-BSES discoms said, “We have geared up to ensure reliable power supply to our 4.5 million consumers while taking all safety measures required during the rainy season. Consumers can play a very important role in ensuring an incident-free monsoon by following simple safety guidelines.”To ensure that over 4.5 million consumers and 1.8 crore residents get uninterrupted power supply, Reliance Infrastructure led BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) are undertaking active measures to minimise moisture accumulation in the grids and panels.“The height of the foundation (base) of transformers in low-lying areas has been increased to safe levels. Proper fencing around all plinth and pole mounted transformers has been done. Due to water-logging, chances of electricity related mishaps are high during monsoon. Simple precautions will help the consumers stay safe. People, especially children, should stay away from electrical installations like electricity poles, sub-stations, transformers, streetlights etc,” said the spokesperson.He added the main switch should be turned off in case of water logging and earth leakage circuit breaker should be installed. Consumers should keep a ‘tester’ at their homes to check leakage in case of wet power switches, said the spokesperson adding people should also prune twigs and plants close to electricity lines.Helpline numbers 19123, 399 99 707 ( south & west Delhi) and 19122, 399 99 808 (east & central Delhi) areas have been set up for consumers to report broken cables, poles or exposed wiring, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bses-issues-advisory-ahead-of-monsoon-onset-101625779613131.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||Farmhouse owner, 2 others beat teen to death on suspicion of theft, arrested||Three men, including a father-son duo and the owner of a farmhouse, were arrested for allegedly assaulting and killing a 16-year-old boy in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera on Wednesday, on the suspicion that he and his two friends had entered the farmhouse with the intention of committing a theft, police said.The arrested men were identified as Prakrit Sandhu, 35-year-old owner of the farmhouse that is spread over four acres; Binod Thakur,62, and his son Rohit Thakur, 20. They were booked for murder after a case was registered at the Kapashera police station, deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said.DCP Singh said around 5pm on Wednesday, an e-rickshaw driver, Nawab Ansari, spotted a teenager’s body on a debris heap near the farmhouse in Samalkha near Kapashera and informed the police. A police team reached there and saw that there were laceration wounds on the teenager’s back and a cut mark on the lateral side of the hand. They were also dog bite marks on his body, the DCP said.“Through local inquiry, we identified the boy and met his family members who live in another farmhouse in Samalkha itself. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up,” he said.During the investigation, the police said it was learnt that around 11am on Wednesday, the teenager and his two others entered the farmhouse owned by Sandhu. The guard of the farmhouse thought that they had entered to commit a theft. He raised the alarm and caught the teenager, while his friends escaped. Sandhu was also present at the spot.“We learnt that Sandhu and the father-son duo assaulted the boy with sticks. The boy suffered injuries to his head as well. When he tried to flee, some dogs chased and bit him. He finally collapsed on the debris heap, around 60 metres from Sandhu’s farmhouse, and died,” said DCP Singh.Police said the alleged attackers fled the scene after the crime. The investigating team conducted searches and caught Sandhu and the other two attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmhouse-owner-2-others-beat-teen-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-arrested-101625779416527.html
09-07-2021||Delhi||DJB vice-chief Raghav Chadha inspects reservoirs amid water supply complaints||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha inspected reservoirs in central and west Delhi on Thursday and directed officials to ensure that the city receives uninterrupted water supply amid complaints of shortage from several parts of the city.“Inspected several water reservoirs of central and west Delhi with the Delhi Jal Board officials at 4am this morning to check water supply. Given strict instructions to officials to maintain pre-determined water levels at each such reservoir so that water supply is regular and uninterrupted,” tweeted Chadha.Over the last two weeks, several parts of the national capital have been facing acute water shortage with daytime temperatures remaining above the 40 degrees mark, and monsoon being delayed inordinately. Since June 20, parts of Rohini, Dwarka, Mayur Vihar phase-one and two, Patel Nagar, Prem Nagar, Baljit Nagar, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, South Extension and Greater Kailash, have either faced irregular water supply or received less than the prescribed amount because of high pollution in the raw water, and low water levels at the water treatment plants.The Delhi Jal Board supplies 935 MGD (million gallons per day) water to the city as against a total demand of around 1,200 MGD during summer.Last week too, Chadha chaired a high-level meeting with senior DJB officials to chalk out a plan for the equitable distribution of water, tackle issues of supply shortage and water contamination and set up an emergency response team to minimise water-related complaints.The senior Aam Aadmi Party leader also instructed officials to do a constituency-wise analysis of the amount of water received by DJB installations, at regular intervals to ascertain the gap between demand and supply.Many residents and resident welfare associations (RWA) complained about irregular and contaminated water supply being supplied by the DJB.Manoj Singh, a resident of Aya Nagar, said his locality has been receiving water supply only once a day--that too for 30 minutes for the last 15 days.“We used to get water supply from the DJB in the morning and in the evening. These days, they have reduced it to only once a day and that too for only half-an-hour, compared to the one-hour supply earlier. We are a family of six, how do they expect us to make do with limited quantity of water and that too in this weather?,” asked Singh.Arun Kumar, a resident of Badarpur, said despite repeated complaints to local DJB officials, the water supply in his street has not been regularised. “We have not got water for the last one week, and now we are surviving on drinking water cans. The local DJB staff has also stopped answering our calls,” Kumar alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/djb-vice-chief-raghav-chadha-inspects-reservoirs-amid-water-supply-complaints-101625779174666.html
09-07-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar admin gives in, allows some tourists after questions raised on CM visit||Haridwar: The Haridwar administration on Thursday rolled back its decision to barricade entry points of Har-ki-Pauri to allow a limited number of tourists during Ganga aarti after mounting pressure from Ganga Sabha office bearers, local priests and traders. The district officials have clarified that barricading will not be done although it will be ensured that Covid guidelines and social distancing are not violated. The decision comes in the wake of Ganga Sabha president, general secretary and priests staging a sit-in protest opposing the administration move on Wednesday evening. Trader representatives, hotel associations, Dharamshala-ashram committees have also been demanding that pilgrims and tourists be allowed during Ganga aarti. Notably, since lifting of Covid curbs a fortnight back, a sudden rush is being witnessed at Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent Ganga ghats.Keeping this in mind, the administration had been sealing the entry towards sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-ki-Pauri for the past few days. Ganga Sabha office-bearers had asked why the police didn’t seize or resrict the gathering of BJP workers during the visit of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami for Ganga worship at Brahamkund on Wednesday.“We oppose the move of containing, blocking, sealing and prohibitive entry rules at Har-Ki-Pauri, during the evening Ganga aarti. Why is it that strict rules are implemented only on pilgrims and political gatherings are allowed? Lifting of covid curfew is being done phase-wise, shopping malls are also now open. So why keep restrictions on pilgrims during Ganga aarti,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha. Assuring the administration that Ganga Sabha will continue to ensure their office bearers and personnel adhere to Covid-19 guidelines, its general secretary Tanmay Vashisth said that through public announcement system, pilgrims, tourists and local people will be sensitized about Covid safety measures. Superintendent of police Kamlesh Upadhyay said everyone should cooperate and understand that social distancing norms and wearing face masks needs to be adhered to in public places. A meeting was also held by Ganga Sabha and Bhimgoda-Khadkhadi Trader Division expressing displeasure over the recent immoral act of partying, hookah smoking, and dance party by some people at Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent Ganga ghats.Local priests and traders demanded police action against such conduct.“On the one hand, they are stopping pilgrims at Ganga ghats, while on the other, such anti-social elements are hurting the religious atmosphere here, said Prantiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal secretary Sanjay Triwal. Meanwhile, police on Thursday arrested six tourists hailing from Haryana, UP and Delhi from Malviya Ganga ghat and three from Risshikul Ganga ghat for causing nuisance. As part of the drive at Ganga ghats against such elements, police patrolling has been stepped up and offenders are being booked to ensure sanctity at Ganga ghats, city circle officer Abhay Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-admin-gives-in-allows-some-tourists-after-questions-raised-on-cm-visit-101625775206982.html
09-07-2021||Other||Now, Kerala logs 13 cases of Zika virus||Thiruvananthapuram: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Kerala on Thursday reported 13 Zika virus cases in Thiruvananthapuram district, said the state health department. Among 13 infected, six are health workers, it said. This is the first time Zika virus has been detected in the state.The health ministry said there is no need to panic and massive vector control measures are being launched to check the new virus. Doctors said those afflicted experience mild fever, vomiting, headache and rashes in the body. The virus is transmitted through the Aedes mosquitoes that also spread dengue. Experts said there is no specific vaccine or treatment to the disease but it can be treated with some of the anti-vitriolic drugs. According to the World Health Organisation, the first case of Zika virus was reported in Gujarat in 2017 and in 2018 over 100 cases were reported in Rajasthan. Experts said during pregnancy, the virus can trigger birth defects in the newborn and it can also lead to Gullain Barre Syndrome in adults, a form of temporary paralysis, especially on limbs. The virus was first noticed in Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-kerala-logs-13-cases-of-zika-virus-101625774666141.html
09-07-2021||Other||As Rajinikanth abandons political quest, fans pick up pieces||Chennai: While superstar Rajinikanth is set to return to Chennai on Friday from the US where he underwent a health check-up and is readying for his new Tamil release in November, some of his fans are still picking up the pieces from his abandoned political quest. A dejected SM Rabik has left Rajinikanth’s fan club in Madurai, of which he was one of the founding members since 1977. He was also working as part of the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), a conglomeration of all his fans clubs launched when the superstar announced his entry into politics in December 2017. “I’ve relieved myself from everything since he has decided not to pursue it,” says Rabik. “I was never interested in any other political party. But I was waiting for decades for him to enter politics,” he said.RMM was packed with Rajinikanth’s cult following, with no background in politics. But they turned into his foot soldiers as he began from scratch. Another fan and RMM functionary, who wanted his identity protected, resigned from a private software company in Chennai, three days after Rajinikanth announced his exit due to excessive trolling he faced in his office and online. The actor returned from his shooting from the sets of Annathe and on December 29, 2020, he announced that he would not pursue politics due to his health condition. “I had canvassed for votes for him everywhere, including my office and everyone kept telling me he will back out,” he says. “So when he did back out, my colleagues humiliated me for wasting my time. One friend even got me a t-shirt with the slogan ‘Idhuvum Kadandhu Pogum (this too shall pass)’.” He shifted jobs and his new company isn’t aware of his association with Rajinikanth’s brief stint in politics.For some Rajinikanth fans, the questions remain if he was forced into politics for multiple reasons. “If he did it for commerce,” says a fan who wrote a book which has ‘Rajini’ in the title and he didn’t want to be identified. “Rajini was this duck who laid a golden egg with a film every two years and fans would crave for it. Ever since he announced his political entry he has been making back-to-back films and none of them had any hint of his politics.” Tamil Nadu is after all a pioneer in fusing silver screen and politics. “But with Rajinikanth several things were off the mark so disappointment with him is something that happened slowly,” the writer says. He adds that he was wondering how Rajinikanth would plan an exit strategy after his press conference in March 2020 where he announced he would lead the party but someone else would be chief minister. “The hardcore fans told me I should be thinking loyally not logically. For them Rajinikanth is God and God will never do anything wrong to us. While some still hold on to that belief, this shattered a few others.” Several others, including those who held key positions in RMM have joined other parties such as the DMK and BJP with Rajinikanth’s blessing. Political greenhorns like Gayathri Srinivas believe that RMM gave them a political launchpad. She was the RMM’s district secretary of the women’s wing in south Chennai who joined the BJP earlier this year. “Along with family and friends, I joined RMM to work towards social causes and bring about an alternative politically,” says Srinivas. Despite the disappointment, sections of his fan base remain intact such as 27-year-old Nagaraj Jayakumar who was RMM youth wing head of Chennai’s Alandur. “We wouldn’t have learnt the basics in politics in established parties but here we completed work in 70% of the booths,” says Jayakumar. He had started a YouTube channel, Samaniyar exclusive for Rajinikanth to bust fake news about him. But he says it’s been hard to move on. “I worked for the party during weekends. We have spent a lot of time on party work, so it’s frustrating and several people are still stuck not knowing what to do next. I’ve continued with my day job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-rajinikanth-abandons-political-quest-fans-pick-up-pieces-101625774606118.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers stage protests against high fuel, cooking gas prices||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Thursday held protests at several places against the repeated hikes in fuel and cooking gas prices. The call for the protest from 10am till 12noon was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading an agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, currently on hold. Protesters parked their tractors and other vehicles on the roadside and raised slogans against the Union government over the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Some of them also brought empty LPG cylinders to the protesting sites as a mark of protest. Agitating farmers also honked their vehicles for a few minutes, saying it was done to “wake up” the government from “slumber”. The farmers slammed the government for not being able to control the prices of essential commodities. Police personnel were deployed in strength near the protest sites to maintain law and order, officials said. Protests were held at many places in Mohali, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar in Punjab and Sonipat, Sirsa and Gohana in Haryana. In Moga, a protester said rising prices of diesel would increase the farmers’ input cost. In Haryana’s Sirsa, a protesting farmer brought a camel to pull a four-wheeler as a mark of protest against the rising fuel prices. Agitating farmers said their demonstrations were peaceful. In Patiala, farmer unions, along with students associations, staged protests on state and national highways. Manjit Singh, a farmer leader, said the NDA government has completely failed to control inflation at a time when people are facing acute financial crisis due to Covid-19. “The Union government should immediately reduce fuel prices to give some respite to the common man. The government should lower taxes to control fuel prices,” he said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stage-protests-against-high-fuel-cooking-gas-prices-101625774552047.html
09-07-2021||Other||Ensure kin of Covid-19 deceased get documents to avail relief: HC to TN govt||Chennai: The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that family members and legal heirs of the deceased are issued either a death certificate or an additional document indicating that the cause of death is Covid-19. This would help the families to avail Covid-19 death related compensations provided by the state for their kin, the court observed. The first bench comprising the Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy was hearing a plea moved by HA Shrirajalakshmi. The petitioner sought for the court to direct the authorities concerned to provide the reason of death as Covid-19 in the certificates issued by the state to claim compensation.During the hearing on Thursday, the counsel for the central government informed the bench that the state government has been informed on the recent judgement of the Supreme Court that insisted for Covid-19 death to be noted specifically in the death certificates of the people who died due to the viral infection.During a previous hearing, the bench had stated that across the country, there are grievances that all the deaths that have been caused by the pandemic may not have been appropriately recorded and sought responses from the Tamil Nadu and Union governments on the matter.The court adjourned the plea by another 10 weeks for the state government to file a detailed report on the issues raised by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-kin-of-covid-19-deceased-get-documents-to-avail-relief-hc-to-tn-govt-101625774548478.html
09-07-2021||Other||Police vehicle runs over toddler in Ludhiana||A four-year-old girl was mowed down by a police vehicle while she was crossing the road near Gopal Nagar Chowk on Thursday evening. The car was being driven by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deputed at Tibba police station. He was identified as ASI Jaspal Singh.As per eyewitness accounts, the toddler was crossing the road with her mother. While the woman reached the other side of the road, the toddler remained stuck in the middle of the road and was run over by the police vehicle coming from Tibba road side. Following the mishap, the ASI rushed the girl to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where doctors declared her dead.After the incident, the girl’s kin and some other residents staged a protest at Gopal Nagar Chowk for over two hours, demanding an FIR against the ASI. Senior police officials had to rush in to pacify the protesters and assure them of timely action.The father of the toddler, identified as Devika, alleged that cops had taken her body to the civil hospital for post-mortem but were refusing to hand it over to the family.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said police have asked the parents of the victim to record their statement and lodge an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-vehicle-runs-over-toddler-in-ludhiana-101625774547959.html
09-07-2021||Other||Former IPS officer Annamalai named TN’s BJP chief||Chennai: Former IPS officer K Annamalai has been appointed as the new BJP chief of Tamil Nadu. He succeeds L Murugan a day after the latter was inducted into the reshuffled union cabinet. Murugan has been appointed as union minister of state for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, and information and broadcasting. His elevation is seen as a reward for his work as the party chief of the southern state where the BJP won four seats, after a gap of 15 years, in the recently held assembly elections.Both Murugan and Annamalai lost in the recently held assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in the constituencies of Dharmapuram and Aravakurichi respectively. Annamalai, a Karnataka cadre, resigned from his post in 2019 and joined the BJP last year. “He will be a youth icon,” said BJP vice-president KS Narendran. “He has shown that he is a strict and good administrator as an IPS officer. He left the services at a young age and joined us because of his nationalistic ideals.”The party hopes that 37-year-old Annamalai will draw in more youngsters ahead of the local body elections slated later for the year and with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Since 2019, he is the third leader to take charge of the BJP’s top post in Tamil Nadu. Murugan took over as BJP chief six months after his predecessor Tamilisai Soundararajan was made Governor of Telangana. Since earlier this year she is also holding additional charge as Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry. Before his appointment as BJP state president in March 2020, Murugan was the national SC/ST commission vice-president and he practised law in the Madras high court for 15 years. The Dalit leader hasn’t had much success electorally having made his debut in the 2006 assembly elections in Sankari constituency. This year he lost from Dharapuram, a seat reserved for Scheduled Castes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi campaigned for him. Murugan joined the ABVP during his college days. As state coordinator for the BJP’s SC Morcha wing, he was associated with President Ramnath Kovind who was then the national coordinator. Speaking to reporters in Delhi, Murugan on Thursday said he will work towards the development of Tamil Nadu’s education and culture. “I will work towards making Tamil Nadu the foremost state,” he said.Tamil Nadu has always been a tough state for the BJP to appease and in his short time, Murugan brought in several known faces to the party such as Ananmalai, DMK’s deputy general secretary V P Duraisamy, Ku Ka Selvam, actor turned politician Khushboo Sundar and several Tamil film personalities. Although there was criticism from the old guard over actors and other party members jumping ship as not being true to Hindutva, there was no denial that the BJP was in the limelight in Tamil Nadu which was relegated to a fringe, hitherto.Murugan strayed away from the Ayodhya issue in the state, where it didn’t have much traction and pressed on localised worship of his namesake deity Lord Murugan to consolidate the Hindu votes. Experts see these appointments from the OBC community as the BJP’s way of representation and caste consolidation. The party is in agreement. Duraisamy who shifted from the DMK to BJP last year says that Murugan’s elevation makes the cadre and community happy. “He is the first Arunthathiyar from Tamil Nadu to be a union minister. People will show their gratitude for this towards the BJP in the future,” says Duraisamy. “It can also be viewed as a safe and honourable exit for Murugan to pave the way for Mr Annamalai. Tamizhisai was similarly given such an honourable exit,” said political commentator Sriram Seshadri. “It’s been a probable plan for the last one year by the RSS and the Central BJP leadership. While Tamil Nadu needed to be represented, instead of accommodating the AIADMK in the Council of Ministers, BJP has taken the berth through the Rajya Sabha route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-ips-officer-annamalai-named-tn-s-bjp-chief-101625774486124.html
09-07-2021||Other||Out of TN’s jurisdiction to form NEET panel: Centre||Chennai: In a preliminary affidavit filed with the Madras high court, the union government said that it is out of the jurisdiction of Tamil Nadu to constitute Justice AK Rajan committee to study the impact of NEET on socially backward students. The court had asked the union government to indicate its stand on the issue after a PIL was filed against the committee by Tamil Nadu BJP’s state secretary Karu Nagarajan seeking to quash the same as unconstitutional, illegal, unfair and without legal justification. The reply affidavit was filed by Chandal Kumar, under secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which was circulated on late Wednesday. The case is being heard by the bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. The next hearing will be on July 13 where the DMK-led government is a respondent and several parties who have requested to be impleaded as party to the case will be heard.The Union government has cited a Supreme Court judgement, several legislative provisions under National Medical Commission Act, 2019 and the constitutional lists to make its case that the committee is neither requisite nor valid.The affidavit submitted that the field ‘medical education is regulated statutorily under a Central legislation i.e. the NMC Act. “Accordingly, nothing inconsistent or contrary can stand legally,” the Indian government’s affidavit read. “Therefore, the State cannot constitute a high level committee to study the impact of NEET on Medical admissions.”The Centre stated that the committee was going into an issue that is already settled. “The Supreme Court has already upheld the validity of NEET against the anvil of the Equality Code contained in the Constitution,” the affidavit read. “It was held without a pale of doubt that the conduct of NEET examinations is not in contravention to Article 14 nor is it against the socio-economic polity of the Country. In spite of the same, the Term of Reference of the Committee seeks to question whether NEET is an equitable method of selection. This reference is not only a slight against the status and privilege of the Supreme Court but is also an exercise in futility as the law declared by the Supreme Court is binding on all functionaries by virtue of Article 141 of the Constitution of India.”A judgement by the Supreme Court on April 2020, in the matter of Christian Medical College Vellore Association Vs Union of India and others held that the provisions of uniform examination of NEET in the Act and Regulation is not opposed to social principles prescribed in the Constitution and India’s social fabric.The judgment said, “The NEET has been prescribed by the legislature in the larger public interest that has to prevail. We find the provisions to be reasonable conditions of recognition/ affiliation that are binding for the very existence of all such institutions whether they are run by majority or minority failing which they cannot exist and impart education.”The Centre further added that entry 65 of the Union list provides coordination and determination of minimum standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions. “The subject ‘medical education’ is under the Concurrent List (Entry 25) of the Constitution of India,” the affidavit read. “The Legislation framed by the State under Entry 25 is subject to the Entry 65 of the Union List. Therefore, Article 162 makes it clear that the Executive power of the State government is coterminous with the legislative power of the state.”NEET is an emotional issue in Tamil Nadu since several medical aspirants have died by suicide. It has gone through several legal wrangles before it entered the state in 2017. Until then Tamil Nadu considered class 12 board exam marks for admissions into medical colleges. Abolishing NEET is an election promise of the two-month old DMK-led government and this issue is supported by opposition parties, including the AIADMK as they are of the view that NEET puts rural and poor students at a disadvantage. In the previous AIADMK regime, a horizontal reservation of 7.5% in medical colleges was made for government school students who clear NEET. After elections, Tamil Nadu government on June 10, constituted the Justice A K Rajan committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/out-of-tn-s-jurisdiction-to-form-neet-panel-centre-101625774426693.html
09-07-2021||Other||Declared unsafe, Ludhiana MC hasn’t been able to get these buildings vacated||The municipal corporation (MC) had identified at least 113 unsafe buildings in the city during a survey conducted in 2019 but most of these continue to be occupied, posing a grave danger to the lives of its inhabitants and others in the area, especially during monsoon.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had even issued a public notice last year, asking the owners to vacate or demolish the buildings on their own but to no avail. The public notice stated that the building owner will be held responsible for any mishap that occurs. The civic body, however, did not take any steps ensure the directions are followed. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said in many of these buildings, the owners and tenants are caught in a legal tussle, making it impossible for the MC to intervene in a matter that is sub-judice. Residents, however, slammed the civic body for inaction. Tribhuvan Thapar, secretary of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust, said two such buildings are in Naughara Mohalla, where the house of martyr Sukhdev Thapar is situated. “These buildings can collapse anytime. It is so risky that people have to avoid passing by the area during thunderstorms. If the MC cannot demolish these buildings, at least they should get these vacated.” Sunil, a resident of Nali Mohalla, said a few buildings are located on Deepak Cinema road and adjoining areas. “The MC must at least repair these buildings to avoid any untoward incident,” he said.Municipal town planner (MTP) SS Bindra said, “MC issues notices to building owners but it cannot get the buildings vacated. The police department has to carry out this task. We have written to them. The bridges and roads (B and R) department of MC had also checked the strength of a number of buildings and it was found that many of these can be repaired. Action against the buildings has to be taken as per the reports of the B and R department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/declared-unsafe-ludhiana-mc-hasn-t-been-able-to-get-these-buildings-vacated-101625774367277.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||MP Manish Tewari slams Navjot Sidhu||Former Union minister and Congress MP Manish Tewari took on party’s Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu over his repeated barbs against the state government. Speaking to ANI, Tewari said, “There is no problem in the state, there are some issues due to the step-motherly treatment of the Central government. However, if someone wants to take on his personal agenda through Twitter or any other medium then the leaders at the AICC should take it seriously.” Sidhu has been continuously taking on Captain Amarinder Singh’s government in Punjab on the power shortage issue in the state, but Tewari has backed Captain. “The Congress has secured victory in more than 90 per cent of the local bodies. Punjab government is doing well; but a few people have their own agenda,” Tewari said. Capt Amarinder had met Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday and had assured that he will follow the decision that she would take. The state is due for assembly polls early next year. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mp-manish-tewari-slams-navjot-sidhu-101625774308432.html
09-07-2021||Bangalore||K’taka BJP MLAs to meet high command seeking removal of Yediyurappa dissenters||A section of BJP MLAs from Karnataka on Thursday said that they will approach national leaders and seek the removal of their colleagues who continue to make statements against chief minister BS Yediyurappa and the state government.MP Renukacharya, the BJP legislator from Honnali and the political secretary to the chief minister, said that criticizing Yediyurappa is same as criticizing the BJP.“Is Yediyurappa a ready-made food? He built and nurtured this party and criticising Yediyurappa is the same as criticising the BJP,” Renukacharya said on Thursday.The statements comes at a time when a section of legislators from the BJP have continued to attack the chief minister and his family over allegations of corruption and misuse of powers for personal gain.They have also openly asked for the chief minister to be replaced.The statements from dissidents comes despite warnings from the BJP national leadership of stern action if they continue to air their concerns publicly.A section of legislators, who are considered close to Yediyurappa, had initiated a signature campaign to rally behind the 78-year-old as a sign of the latter’s hold over the party and his resilience to ward off any attempt to unseat him.Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), AH Vishwanath, CP Yogeshwara among others continue to call for the chief minister’s removal and have changed that Yediyurappa’s son, BY Vijayendra, runs a parallel administration under the aegis of his father.Renukacharya said the monsoon session of the Lok Sabha starts from July 19 and they will meet the national leaders before it and demand that the dissenters be removed.Renukacharya also threatened to release corruption details of the dissenters.“Those who are making statements against him (Yediyurappa) daily, we will release documents of corruption and scams against them,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-bjp-mlasto-meet-high-command-seeking-removal-of-bsy-dissenters-101625774307181.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid under control, India should reopen Kartarpur corridor: PSGPC||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (PSGPC) on Thursday said since the Covid-19 situation is under control, the Indian government should reopen the Kartarpur corridor which is closed from their (Indian) side for more than a year. The corridor, which opened in November 2019 in the wake of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, gives Indian pilgrims a visa-free access to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, the last resting place of the Sikhism founder.Also, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur on Wednesday had reiterated the demand for reopening of the corridor. PSGPC president Satwant Singh in a communiqué to the SGPC said, “We fully support the SGPC’s demand and will reassure that all the arrangements will be made for Indian Sikh pilgrims in a befitting manner to facilitate them during their yatra to the Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur. The pandemic situation is totally under control in Pakistan and we are looking forward for an early decision from the Indian government on the corridor.” “On this historic moment of reopening of the corridor, we would also like to extend an invitation to the SGPC president, her team and the Akal Takht jathedar to visit the Kartarpur gurdwara through the corridor,” he added. In a press statement, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said, “As most of the religious shrines and public places have been opened now, there should be no excuse to keep the corridor shut. We have already written several letters to the Indian government in this regard, but to no avail.”The corridor was closed by both the countries in March 2020 nearly four months after its inauguration. Pakistan, however, decided to reopen it last year after the pandemic situation improved but closed it in the wake of the second infection wave. Now again, the Pakistan government has announced to reopen the corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-under-control-india-should-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-psgpc-101625774249350.html
09-07-2021||Bangalore||K’taka govt school to become 1st in country to develop a satellite||Bengaluru: The government boys high school located in Stone Building College in Malleshwaram, will become the first government high school in the country to develop a satellite, said Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Thursday.The students of the school will be involved in a programme of developing 75 satellites as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations which will be held next year, Narayana said in a statement.“Usually, engineering college students are involved in such projects. Now, this is going to be achieved in a government high school by taking the help of the Indian Technological Congress Association and ISRO,” read a statement from Narayana’s office.Designing and making of the satellite will be done at the school by involving students of a few other government schools, he added.“In recent days there is an increase in enrolment in some government schools. But, more than the numbers, the quality of teaching-learning is more important. Government educational institutions should compete with private institutions in terms of providing quality education,” Narayana said in his statement.The enrolments to the government schools in the Malleshwaram constituency have increased from 2,221 to 2,743. But this increase in enrolment should be matched by achieving standards in quality teaching-learning, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-govt-school-to-become-1st-in-country-to-develop-a-satellite-101625774248353.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ineligible beneficiaries claiming Shagun scheme aid as amount hiked from July 1||Ineligible beneficiaries are furnishing fake marriage cards, affidavits and forged marriage certificates with the help of sarpanches and area councillors since financial assistance under the Punjab government’s Shagun (also Ashirwad) scheme was increased from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000 from July 1. It has been just a week since the revised scheme came into effect, but the district administration in Moga has already received at least 15 such claims. The number could be even more as they are in the process of verify other claims as well, officials said. The scheme offers monetary help for the marriage of girls belonging to the scheduled castes, backward classes and those from the BPL (below poverty line) category besides daughters of widows. The amount was ₹21,000 before July 1. To avail of the scheme, a beneficiary needs to apply before getting married or 30 days after marriage. But the district administration is receiving claims of marriages that took place even a year ago. Moga district welfare officer Harpal Singh Gill said, “The beneficiaries are required to furnish documents such as marriage cards and certificates attested by local sarpanches and councillors. But the elected representatives are attesting forged and counterfeit documents.”“During the verification of claims, we found that ineligible beneficiaries had printed fake marriage cards and submitted these. In most cases, the marriages of women took place six months or a year back, but they have printed marriage cards with recent dates. Besides, they have also changed dates on marriage certificates,” said Gill.Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The officials concerned brought to my notice that some of the documents attested by the sarpanchs and councillors were forged during the verification. This is an apparent move to get benefit of the scheme by manipulating the facts.”“We have directed all the sarpanches and councillors to attest documents only after verifying the facts. If more such cases come to the fore in future, a strict action will be taken against them,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ineligible-beneficiaries-claiming-shagun-scheme-aid-as-amount-hiked-from-july-1-101625774247852.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bulletproof car had helped gangster Naruana survive June 21 attack||It was a bulletproof vehicle that actually helped now slain gangster Kulveer Naruana survive an attempt on his life by another criminal Sandeep Bhalla, alias Bhalla Sekhu in Bathinda city on June 21. At least 10 rounds were fired at Naruana’s vehicle, a Mahindra Bolero, on Ring Road in Bathinda that day. Out on bail, he was shot dead on Wednesday along with his accomplice by his close aide Mandeep Singh Manna at a Bathinda village. Police officials said it is probably for the first time in recent years that a gangster was found using a fully bulletproof vehicle that may withstand bullets fired from an AK-47 rifle. Police are struggling to ascertain where did the gangster got the bulletproofing of the vehicle done. The police said prima facie, Naruana’s murder was not an outcome of a gang war. They say Manna is likely to have killed Naruana in a fit of rage as their relations had soured. Officials said while several automobile manufacturers have bulletproof vehicle variants, vendors in Jalandhar and some other places upgrade any private vehicle into a bulletproof one. There is no check on fabricating vehicles, they said. “It may pose a serious challenge to the police while handling criminals. There should be a strict protocol for those dealing, buying or fabricating bulletproof cars. Bulletproofing is not an accessory and not everyone needs such level of protection,” said an official. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said they are trying to trace the vendor that bulletproofed the gangster’s car. “Naruana had a serious criminal past and his activities were under surveillance. Though he was facing several criminal cases in courts, his direct involvement in any organised crime surfaced in the last 2-3 years,” said the SSP. Another police official said in the absence of adequate rules and regulations on the sale and purchase of bulletproof vehicles, even criminals have a free access to them. “When political dignitaries from different countries visit India, bulletproof cars are prepared for their protection. After the use, these cars are put on auction and it makes it easy for gangsters to have access to such vehicles,” he said. Inter-gang attack claim under watch A Facebook user on Thursday claimed that notorious Lawrence Bishnoi gang was behind Naruana’s murder. The FB page was created on the name of Mandeep Singh Manna, arrested for Naurana’s murder. The timeline suggests that the page was created on Wednesday night and it had only one textual post and three photos. SSP Virk said Manna is in custody amid tight security in hospital. “He will undergo surgery as he suffered a bullet injury in the thigh. We are verifying as who created the FB page and claims made on the platform,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bulletproof-car-had-helped-gangster-naruana-survive-june-21-attack-101625774246704.html
09-07-2021||Bangalore||Police arrests 12 for gang rape, torture of Bangladeshi national||Bengaluru: Twelve people have been arrested in connection with the gangrape and torture of a Bangladeshi woman in May, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Thursday. Out of the 12 accused, 11 are Bangladeshi nationals and two are women. “Twelve accused are arrested, out of which 11 accused persons and the victim are Bangladeshi nationals. The investigation is complete, and a detailed and systemic 1019-page charge sheet has been submitted to the Hon’ble Court within a short span of 5 weeks,” Pant tweeted. Shobuj Sheik and Rafiq alias Rafsan are the main accused. Their associates Ridoy Babu, Rakibul Islam Sagar, Mohammed Babu Shaik, Hakil, Ajim, Jamal, Dalim, Nasrath, Kajal and Tanya are the other suspects named in the chargesheet submitted before the 1st Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) court on Wednesday. Pant praised the investigating team for the work and added that a reward of ₹1 lakh has been sanctioned to the team. A disturbing video of the woman’s assault was circulated on social media in which the accused even inserted a bottle in her private parts. The incident was flagged by Assam Police first in May 2020., and later redirected to the Bengaluru police after they received information about a possible suspect in the city. “We formed our teams to follow these leads and were able to detain one of them and based on the information provided we arrested the rest of the accused,” Pant said. Another police officer said on the condition of anonymity that the Bangladesh Police helped identify one of the suspects -- Ridoy Babu, of Tejgaon in Dhaka -- based on his TikTok account and the video circulating online. “The cops tracked down his (Babu’s) family and made his uncle call him on WhatsApp. On the call, Ridoy admitted that he was one of those seen in the video. He (Babu) also identified the victim. This was what we have been told (by Bangladesh police),” the officer said. The rape survivor was allegedly trafficked from Bangladesh by a network of human traffickers active in her country, Assam, West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka, three years ago, police said. She was then forced into prostitution by the gang, they added. The accused allegedly tortured and gang-raped her following a financial dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-arrests-12-for-gang-rape-torture-of-bangladeshi-national-101625774126044.html
09-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana U-19 team barred from c’ship for playing with overaged member||Caught playing with an overaged player during the ongoing inter-district championship, the under-19 team of Ludhiana district cricket association (LDCA) has been barred from the tournament and the LDCA has been told to pay a fine of ₹20,000.The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) has also banned the overaged player, Viraj Singh alias Gurpreet Singh, 20, for two years. The Ludhiana team had reached the knockout (semi-final) stage of the tournament before getting debarred. As per information, the PCA had conducted an inquiry into a complaint submitted by the Moga team regarding the overaged player, following which action was taken against the Ludhiana team. The Moga team had lost to Ludhiana during the tournament. An office-bearer of the association, requesting anonymity, said senior officials of the associations were aware that Viraj was overaged but still allowed him to play in the team. Now, parents of other players are objecting to the ban on the entire team, stating that they are bearing the brunt of the actions of one player and a few members of the association. Missing this tournament will have an impact on the careers of other aspiring players. Meanwhile, LDCA officials that the trickery has been committed by the player by submitting the forged documents, along with a notary attested affidavit, and the association is not at fault. LDCA president Satish Mangal and honorary secretary Gagandeep Bhalla said all players were asked to submit the documents prescribed by the PCA, including Aadhar card, certificates etc, and the player Viraj also submitted the same documents. Bhalla said, “The player even submitted a notary attested affidavit and the LDCA allowed the player on that basis only. It is possible to check the age of players till 16 through medical check-up but in case of the U-19 team, we have to depend on documents only. The documents were also checked by four PCA referees during the tournament but no anomalies were found at that time too. The association is not at fault and no trickery was done intentionally by the officials.”Mangal said, “The player forged the documents and we will file a plea with the PCA that the rest of the team should not be barred from the tournament.”PCA chief executive officer (CEO) Deepak Sharma said, “Action has been taken against the LDCA, the overaged player and U-19 team as per the norms of the PCA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-u-19-team-barred-from-c-ship-for-playing-with-overaged-member-101625773766646.html
09-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC done much more than Left Front, says BJP’s Ashok Lahiri after Bengal budget||Kolkata: Former chief economic adviser and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Ashok Lahiri on Thursday told the Bengal assembly that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) should audit the accounts of the state government. After taking part in a discussion on the state budget submitted by the government on Wednesday, Ashok Lahiri, who won the Balurghat seat in north Bengal, told reporters that no CAG audit report has been submitted in the House since 2016-17.“All companies audit their accounts every year. Similarly, the accounts of the central and state governments are audited by the CAG. An audit of the 2020-21 accounts is not possible now because of lack of time. An audit of the older accounts is possible but no CAG report is available since 2017-18. Hence, the figures mentioned as ‘actuals’ in the budget papers are actuals for the government, not according to audited accounts. I told the assembly that CAG reports for 2019-20 should be placed before the House,” said Ashok Lahiri.Welfare schemes, special rebate on stamp duty and amendments in road tax were the highlights of the ₹3,08,727 crore budget for 2021-22 that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government placed at the assembly on Wednesday. “The government has placed its budget. The actual expenses and revenue receipts may vary and the government will submit a revised report around November-December. Only an audit can find out the actual figures. I am not saying this government only announces schemes and does not spend the amount it announces in its budget,” said Lahiri. Asked to compare the performance of Asim Dasgupta, the last finance minister of the Left Front government and finance minister Amit Mitra, Ashok Lahiri said, “I know both of them. I will not compare but I must say the TMC government has done much more than the Left Front. The TMC has improved Bengal’s condition. I must admit that.”During discussion on the budget, Lahiri told the assembly that Bengal needs a deep sea port. He also said the state government should come up with separate reports on the state’s economic condition, the plight of migrant workers and long-term plans for development.Ashok Lahiri later said it was a very significant day for me.“I never thought I would be into politics, never thought that in the assembly I would be sitting anywhere outside the visitor’s gallery. Today I had the opportunity to address the highest forum of democracy in the state. The first thing I said was that as a member of the opposition, I will take part in constructive discussion and speak with logic on the basis of documents. They are welcome to counter me with logic. Nobody tried to stop me while I spoke,” said Lahiri.During the day, the BJP wanted to move an adjournment motion and demanded a statement from the government on the recent fake vaccination scam. Assembly speaker, Biman Banerjee, did not allow the motion. In protest, BJP legislators did not attend the meeting of the assembly’s business accounts committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-done-much-more-than-left-front-says-bjp-s-ashok-lahiri-after-bengal-budget-101625773646504.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Burhan Wani’s death anniversary: Spontaneous strike in parts of Valley||A spontaneous shutdown was observed in parts of Kashmir on the fifth death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani on Thursday. Since 2017, authorities have been suspending internet services in the region. However, this time no curbs were imposed except in Wani’s home district in south Kashmir’s Pulwama where an encounter was also raging between militants and security forces.Shops and businesses were partially closed and traffic movement was also affected in parts of summer capital Srinagar, particularly in the old city and in the city centre Lal Chowk. Shutdown was also observed in parts of south Kashmir districts.“The people here are observing a strike to remember Burhan Wani. Most of the shops are closed while traffic was thin in the morning but the movement improved by the afternoon,” said Mohammad Akbar, a street vendor in Old City Srinagar. In the city centre’s business hub of Lal Chowk, businesses were mostly closed while public transport was not much affected. “Nobody had given the call for the hartal but this is a spontaneous response on his death anniversary every year,” said a shop keeper not wishing to be named. Burhan Wani, a Hizbul Mujahideen commander, was killed along with two other associates in an encounter with security forces on July 8, 2016 in south Kashmir’s Kokernag in Anantnag district. His death had plunged the whole valley into crisis for months together and led to the death of around 100 persons.While separatists would call a strike on Wani’s anniversary but after the crackdown on them and revocation of J&K special status on August 5,2019, there have been no calls from them for strike. Authorities would earlier impose restrictions in parts of the Valley but not this time, except for an increased presence of security forces. A police official of Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, where Wani lived, said that no restrictions were imposed. “There was a partial strike in Wani’s home town of Tral but no restrictions were imposed in the district,” he said. A local of Pulwama said that the situation was normal. “There is an increased presence of security forces. Many checkpoints have also been established and mobile internet has been suspended from midnight,” said Bilal Ahmad, a resident.Police have vigorously rejected a press release under the name of hard-line Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Geelani calling for strike on July 8 and 13 as fake and issued by someone from Pakistan. Police said that Geelani’s family confirmed that he did not issue any such statement.Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar on Wednesday said internet services will not be snapped on July 8 and July 13 but police will increase its surveillance to ensure peace. July 13 is observed as Martyr’s Day in memory of 21 Kashmiris who were killed by the army of autocratic ruler Maharaja Hari Singh during an uprising in 1931 when the region was a princely state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burhan-wani-s-death-anniversary-spontaneous-strike-in-parts-of-valley-101625773406626.html
09-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Posing as passengers, miscreants rob taxi driver of vehicle||Posing as passengers, three miscreants robbed a taxi driver of his Toyota Innova car and ₹3,000 cash near Zone-D office of the municipal corporation in Sarabha Nagar. Division Number 5 police have registered a case against unidentified persons. Complainant Gurdeep Singh, 46, of Patti Sekhwa village of Barnala, said that on Wednesday, three men contacted him for hiring his taxi to Jalandhar. When he refused, the men asked him to drop them off at Ludhiana to which he agreed and settled the deal at ₹1,900. Gurdeep said that on the way, they stopped at a filling station near Jalaldiwal where one of the accused paid for the fuel with a debit card. The men had initially asked Gurdeep to drop them near Bharat Nagar Chowk but when they reached there, the trio asked him to take them to Sarabha Nagar. When they reached near the Zone-D office in Sarabha Nagara, the accused tried to strangulate Gurdeep with a piece of cloth but he managed to free himself and jumped out of the car.The accused then drove off his car. The complainant also lost his wallet containing ₹3,000 cash and other important documents which were kept in the car.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardev Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-posing-as-passengers-miscreants-rob-taxi-driver-of-vehicle-101625773347183.html
09-07-2021||Other||15 new Covid-19 cases detected in Ludhiana||Fifteen new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday while there was no new death for the third consecutive day. No mucormycosis (black fungus) cases have been detected either.The fresh cases include five patients with influenza-like symptoms and three patients from outpatient departments. At 177, the number of active cases continued to remain below 200 for the second consecutive day. Presently two patients are on a ventilator. Since the outbreak last March, Ludhiana has logged a total of 87,100 cases to its tally, of which 2,087 have succumbed and 84,836 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-ludhiana-101625773107747.html
09-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan phone tapping case: Court okays Shekhawat’s voice sample collection||A Jaipur court has issued directions for collecting voice samples of Union water minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and an alleged middleman, Sanjay Jain, in connection with an investigation into last year’s leaked audio clips of conversations about toppling the Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government, an official of the state’s anti-corruption bureau said.Jaipur’s chief metropolitan magistrate Dharmaraj Meena’s order on Wednesday came in response to a June 30 request by Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) which is investigating the case, a senior ACB official said on Thursday.The audio tapes surfaced in July last year, around the same time Gehlot faced a rebellion by 18 Congress legislators led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.A First Information Report (FIR) was registered on complaints by Congress chief whip in the Rajasthan assembly Mahesh Joshi for the audio clips in which some people were heard discussing steps to bring down the Rajasthan government by luring away its lawmakers.Congress leaders alleged the tapes pertain to an elaborate attempt by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party to topple the Gehlot government.Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had promptly rejected allegations that he was on one of the audio clips, insisted the audiotapes were “fake” and mounted a counter-attack on the Gehlot government. “The voice on the audiotapes is not mine. I am ready to face any investigation,” Shekhawat had then said.The senior ACB official cited above said the magistrate concerned will issue a notice to Shekhawat and Sanjay Jain to appear before the court and provide samples. The notices will be executed by the ACB.The ACB request for the voice samples came a fortnight after the Congress’ chief whip Mahesh Joshi was summoned by Delhi Police on June 15 in connection with the FIR lodged by Shekhawat on phone-tapping on March 25 this year against the chief minister’s officer on special duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma.The OSD has approached the Delhi high court to seek quashing of the FIR against him. Earlier this month, the court asked the Delhi Police not to take any coercive action against Sharma till the next date of hearing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-phone-tapping-case-court-okays-shekhawat-s-voice-sample-collection-101625772661576.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two terrorist associates arrested in Kashmir||Two terrorist associates were arrested in separate operations in Baramulla and Budgam districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Thursday.In Budgam, a terrorist associate linked with proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was arrested with 1.2kg of explosives. The militant, Danish Ahmed Dar, a resident of Check-Sari Singhpora, Pattan, was arrested when he attempted to flee from a checkpoint at Archandarhama Magam near railway crossing. Explosive material and two electronic detonators were recovered from him.A police spokesperson said apart from providing logistical support Dar was also in touch with Pakistan-based terror commanders and LeT terrorists operating in the Valley. In a different operation, a guide was arrested in Baramulla for helping three youngsters cross the Line of Control at Uri. The arrested guide, Mohammad Majloon Sheikh, was arrested on the basis of information provided by one Parvaiz Ahmad Hajam, who was arrested four days ago when he was guiding three youth to cross the Line of Control into Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-terrorist-associates-arrested-in-kashmir-101625772687968.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Charging Panchkula man ₹4.50 GST on soft drink costs Swiggy ₹20,000||Addition of ₹4.50 as GST against a soft drink ordered as part of a meal has cost Swiggy ₹20,000. ₹10,000 of the penalty, awarded by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Panchkula, will go to the complainant, Abhishek Garg, a resident of Sector 2.Garg had submitted that in August 2018, he had ordered food a cheesy garlic stick worth ₹144 and three soft drinks costing ₹90 through Swiggy, a food delivery mobile app.He realised that he was charged ₹4.50 as GST for the soft drinks though he was already paying the MRP, which he contended was illegal under the Consumer Goods (Mandatory Printing of Cost of Production and Maximum Retail Price) Act, 2006.In its response, Swiggy claimed that it was only an intermediary and collecting the payment on behalf of the merchant, who charged all applicable taxes on the bill. So, there was no deficiency in service on its part.However, the commission stated, “It is not...that Swiggy is providing purely gratuitous service to its customers, without any consideration.”“Swiggy is an online shopping portal and works as a link between the buyer and seller to collect orders from consumers and forward those to the seller/vendor concerned for the purpose of delivery...It is certainly not a charitable organisation,” it held.Terming Swiggy guilty of unfair and deficient services, the commission directed it to refund ₹4.50 along with interest @9% per annum with effect from the date of filing of the complaint till its realisation. Apart from paying ₹10,000 to Garg for mental agony, harassment and litigation charges, the company has also been ordered to deposit ₹10,000 in the account of Haryana State Council for Child Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charging-panchkula-man-4-50-gst-on-soft-drink-costs-swiggy-20000-101625772686705.html
09-07-2021||Other||Additional chief secy Tewari takes charge as PAU V-C||Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development) took formal charge as the vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Thursday.Addressing media, he said the focus of the government is to develop Punjab as the seed capital of the nation.He added that his appointment as vice-chancellor was a stopgap arrangement, and a search committee has been constituted to appoint a suitable candidate for the post.Tewari, who is also the financial commissioner development (FCD), said the university could play the role of the bridge between farmers and industry, “We will endeavour to strengthen the extension service network of the agricultural university. I see that a strong linkage needs to be there between academia, industry, and extension department so that research of PAU could reach the farmers at the earliest.”He lauded the Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) technique recommended by PAU and said it has been a successful model. “Not only has the technique saved 20 to 50% groundwater, it has also saved the input cost of farmers by ₹3,000 per acre. Last year, paddy was sown under five hectares of land through the DSR technique. We are yet to receive the report on the area covered under DSR this year,” said Tewari.Tewari called upon the agri-experts to come up with a course for progressive farmers in the field of horticulture.He further stated, “We need to take the farmers out of this monoculture of wheat-paddy and give new options to them for diversification.” “The entire focus of the research has been on productivity. But despite high productivity, we are unable to meet the returns, which farmers expect,” he observed.Tewari said,“Punjab is the most prosperous state and is dependent on the farming community. If we have a prosperous farming community, it will help generate employment in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/additional-chief-secy-tewari-takes-charge-as-pau-vc-101625772568022.html
09-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Shaheedi Park gets swings for differently abled kids, a first in state||The district administration has got first of its kind swings for children with special needs installed at Shaheedi Park in Kidwai Nagar.Dedicating the swings to the special children on Thursday, MLA Surinder Dawar and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the district had become the first in the state to have specially designed swings. They said the swings would bring cheer to the kids. They added that most of these children miss the opportunity to enjoy such things but, now they can. They further said that persons with special needs are an integral part of our society, and the administration is committed to serving them as they have the same rights as others do.They interacted with the children and said that soon such swings will be installed in other parks as well. They lauded the efforts of advocate Deepti Saluja, who is also president of Samarth NGO, for voicing the concerns of kids with special needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shaheedi-park-gets-swings-for-children-with-special-needs-101625772566767.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Suspended Panchkula civil surgeon seeks reinstatement||Two days after Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur was placed under suspension on the directions of Haryana health minister Anil Vij, the officer has written a letter to the additional chief secretary, health, requesting reinstatement.Dr Kaur’s suspension order, signed by the superintendent health-1, additional chief secretary, health department, Haryana, was issued on the evening of July 6. “During suspension period, her headquarters is fixed in the office of Director General Health Services, Sector6, Panchkula,” it states.But the order was not in conformity with the Rules of Business of the state government, wherein the power and authority to decide the proposal of suspension of a Class-1 officer, such as the civil surgeon, lies with the chief minister.Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had confirmed the suspension was a fallout of personal reasons: “It seems Anil Vij had given some direction, which was not followed by her.”According to people aware of the matter, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at peak, a person had approached the office of civil surgeon for admission with reference of the health minister.“Before admitting him, Dr Kaur advised him to get tested from the molecular lab and also contacted the lab’s head to help the person. She returned to work and got busy for an hour in a video conference. Meanwhile the person didn’t leave for the test and continued to wait outside her office,” said an official, not wishing to be named.When she got free, after confirming whether she received a call, he put the health minister on call with her, the official added.After an inquiry was marked, Dr Kaur submitted the text messages exchanged with the person, indicating that he was immediately attended to and was asked to get the test done. But a suspension order followed, evoking criticism from various resident associations and the Indian Medical Association. When contacted, Dr Kaur refused to talk. Vij and Rajeev Arora, Haryana’s additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, did not revert to HT’s attempts to contact them.Decision has demoralised doctors: HCMS bodyThe Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association, a body which represents over 3,000 government doctors of Haryana, has come forward in support of Dr Kaur.Body’s president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said the decision was unacceptable and had demoralised doctors, who had been working hard during the pandemic. “Everyone is preparing for the third wave and here a doctor has been suspended after dealing with the first two waves from the front,” he said, adding that they will be writing to the health minister to reinstate the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspended-panchkula-civil-surgeon-seeks-reinstatement-101625772386845.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||NP Sharma is new chief engineer of Chandigarh MC||Narinder Pal Sharma has been made the new chief engineer of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC). He also holds the charge of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) chief general manager.The UT administration on Thursday issued the appointment order. Sharma is a superintending engineer, PWD (B&R), of Punjab cadre, who is on deputation in Chandigarh.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, local government, stated in the order that Sharma has been appointed as chief engineer, initially for a period of one year or till such time his services are required by the MC, on the standard terms and conditions of deputation with board or corporation of the UT administration.He will continue to hold the charge of CSCL chief general manager in addition to his newly assigned duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/np-sharma-is-new-chief-engineer-of-chandigarh-mc-101625771846552.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police issue notices to Salman Khan, 8 others for defrauding trader||Police have issued notices to actor Salman Khan, his sister Alvira Khan and seven other people on the complaint of a Manimajra-based businessman, who has accused them of ₹2-crore fraud. The complainant, Arun Gupta, told the police that he had opened a showroom of “Being Human Jewellery” in Manimajra NAC.As per the agreement with Style Quotient Private Limited, Mumbai, that had partnered with Being Human, he was to display the company’s jewellery at his showroom with their assistance.Gupta claimed that he was told that Salman will be promoting the showroom on the reality show Big Boss and was assured that the actor will inaugurate the premises. He spent ₹1 crore on renovation of the showroom and another ₹1 crore on buying the stock. But instead of Salman, his brother-in-law, Ayush Sharma, came for the inauguration in November 2018, and the showroom from where he was asked to collect the stock has been lying locked since February 2020. Therefore, he alleged, that the actor and Style Quotient Private Limited CEO Prasad Kapre, along with other officials, including Santosh Shrivastav, Sandhya, Hanuj, Sanjay Ranga and Manav Alok, defrauded him, and demanded an FIR for cheating and impersonation. “We have received a complaint and for verification of the allegations, notices have been issued. They have been given time till July 13 to reply. If anything criminal is found, action will be taken,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-issue-notices-to-salman-khan-8-others-for-defrauding-trader-101625771789041.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic violator drags Chandigarh cop on car bonnet for 500 metres||Signalled to stop for traffic violations, a car driver dragged a traffic cop on his vehicle’s bonnet for 500 metres near the Sector 46-47/48-49 traffic light on Wednesday. Constable Pradeep complained to the police that while he was on duty at the traffic lights, he spotted the driver of a Maruti Swift car (PB-13BK-7087) talking on the phone while coming from Colony Number 5 side. As the vehicle stopped at the traffic lights, he also saw that both the driver and the person sitting next to him were not wearing seat belts. He approached the car and asked the driver to park the vehicle on the road side, but he tried to escape the spot. In the attempt, the car hit Pradeep who landed on the bonnet of the vehicle. But the driver continued to drive and suddenly applied brakes after 500 metres, causing Pradeep to fall on the road, the police said. The driver sped away, following which Pradeep alerted the traffic helpline 1073. On his complaint, police have registered a case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified driver at the Sector-49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-violator-drags-chandigarh-cop-on-car-bonnet-for-500-metres-101625771786539.html
09-07-2021||Other||2-hr work boycott may hit services at govt hosps in Lucknow today||LUCKNOW Patients visiting government hospitals on Friday may find it tough to avail facilities as different organisations of doctors and paramedical staff have called for a two-hour work boycott from 8am to 10am, demanding that their transfers be put on hold for the current year. OPD, sampling at pathology and X-ray services are likely to be affected. “The third wave of Covid is likely to come and all the medical staff are busy preparing infrastructure/facilities, including paediatric ICUs. In such a situation, transfers will not be justified,” said Dr Amit Singh, general secretary, Provincial Medical Services Association, a body of about 14,000 government doctors. The call for the work boycott has been given by the Chikitsa Mahasangh, Uttar Pradesh. Roughly, 50,000 members of the Mahasangh, including 7,000 pharmacists, 4,500 staff nurses, 2,000 lab technicians and government doctors have supported the call. “Transfers at this time are like punishment. Many health workers are ill and many have their family members suffering from post-Covid problems,” said Sunil Yadav, president of UP branch of pharmacists’ federation. “We won’t force anyone to join the work boycott. If anyone wants to work, they can,” said Singh. 18,915 people inoculatedLUCKNOW A total of 18,915 people, including 8,202 female beneficiaries, took the Covid vaccine jabs in Lucknow on Thursday. There were 92 vaccination sites, including 84 at government hospitals. The Sputnik Covid vaccine will now be available at another private hospital in Lucknow. Aastha Geriatric Centre has got Sputnik and the vaccine will be administered after slot booking. This vaccine is also available at Apollomedics hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2hr-work-boycott-may-hit-services-at-govt-hosps-in-lucknow-today-101625771734412.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University yet to decide on UG entrance test schedule||With the board exam results for Class-12 students still pending, Panjab University (PU) is yet to decide when the common entrance test for undergraduate courses will be conducted.The varsity has revised the schedule for other entrance exams, however, no announcement was made regarding PU-CET (UG).The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has said that it will announce the results by the end of July. Various other state boards are also yet to announce the results.PU-CET (UG) was earlier scheduled to be held in June but was delayed and there is no clarity on when the final call will be taken.However, PU’s controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said, “The matter is under consideration, and we will take a decision as soon as possible.”Last year, PU had suspended its undergraduate and postgraduate entrance tests due to pandemic, and students were admitted on merit basis. However, entrance exams will be held physically this year.PU has already scheduled some entrance tests, including PU-CET (PG) on August 3 and 4, the tourism and hospitality aptitude test (PUTHAT 2021) on July 30 and lateral engineering entrance test (PULEET 2021) on August 1. For the LLB (three-year) course, the entrance exam will be held on August 8.Conduct exam soon, say teachersMany teachers are of the opinion that the varsity should the date of entrance test immediately and start the admission process so that students are enroled timely. They said the entrance test centres should be set up in major cities where affiliated colleges are located like Ludhiana etc.“The university should start the admission process for UG courses now because other universities have already begun the same. Even private colleges in the peripheral areas of Chandigarh have started enroling students. In the previous years, the UG entrance exam was conducted before the announcement of Class 12 results,” said a PU professor on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-yet-to-decide-on-ug-entrance-test-schedule-101625771733912.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||High court seeks senate polls schedule from Panjab University||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Thursday sought the schedule of senate elections from Panjab University (PU) by July 16.The bench of justice AG Masih and justice AK Verma observed that in view of the present situation, this court is of the firm view that the direction issued by the single-judge bench with regard to holding of the election needs to be complied with.The court was hearing a plea from PU challenging the judgment which asked the varsity to hold polls within two months, in March. The HC in March had criticised the role of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and directed PU to conduct senate polls within two months. Its order came on the plea of seven former senators, who had moved the court on December 22 seeking directions to hold governing body polls.The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31, 2020. Elections were to take place in August 2020, but varsity deferred the same citing Covid-19 as the reason. The single-judge bench had criticised the V-C’s role and observed that provisions on governance had been thrown “off to the winds” and the university was being run as a “one-man show”.PU in the appeal filed on May 13 had argued that March 23 judgment was not only contrary to facts but also to three division bench judgments in which decision on various steps taken in view of pandemic were upheld by the HC in the matters of admissions etc. The directions are untenable because the varsity is bound to follow restrictions/prohibitions imposed by the respective states during the pandemic period, PU had stated. On May 13, the HC had deferred the hearing in view of the raging pandemic. The matter will now be taken up on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-seeks-senate-polls-schedule-from-panjab-university-101625771674823.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: RPF cop held guilty in 2016 graft case||A special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found then sub-inspector (SI) of Railway Protection Force (RPF) guilty in a 2016 graft case.The court of CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg convicted Devinder Singh under sections 7 and 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The accused cop has been taken into custody and the quantum of sentence will be pronounced on Friday.The complainant, Mandeep Singh, a labour with BSNL at Jakhal, Haryana, had alleged that when he was on the job, the optical fibre cable of Jakhal railway station got damaged and the accused dragged him and his co-workers to the police station. Threatening to lodge a case against the labourers, the SI demanded ₹30,000 from them. After negotiations, the bribe amount was reduced.However, before handing over the money, Mandeep informed the CBI, which laid a trap and caught the SI red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹15,000 from the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-rpf-cop-held-guilty-in-2016-graft-case-101625771607207.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser demands roadmap to wrap up projects swiftly||Taking note of the slow pace of development works, Chandigarh adviser Dharam Pal on Thursday directed various departments of the administration to prepare a list of projects which can be completed within 100 days.“At present, we need a time-bound programme for implementation of projects. I have given all departments till the end of this week to prepare a list all projects which can be completed within 100 days,” said Pal. The adviser has also directed them to prioritise their work and stick to deadlines.After the list is compiled, he will monitor and examine their implementation and emphasis will be on sticking to deadlines. The accountability of the departments will be fixed in case they don’t stick to the schedule.The adviser’s directions came after he reviewed the working of different UT departments and the municipal corporation. Over a week, the departments had made detailed presentations before him, detailing the status of ongoing and proposed projects.Pal, a 1988-batch Indian Administrative Services officer belonging to the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, was appointed UT adviser on June 21 and joined the administration on June 23.In addition to Covid management with emphasis on vaccination, Pal had stressed on major improvements in the road network within the city. In directions issued to the MC and the UT engineering department, he had asked the work to be prioritised as soon as monsoon withdraws from the city.Earlier, he had directed the departments to complete cleaning of road gullies and seasonal rivulets to avert flooding and waterlogging during monsoons.Projects marred by delaysOver the last few years, the administration’s working has come under criticism for its poor track record of implementing projects within stipulated deadlines. Some of these are: Health infrastructure: A sports injury centre, a new emergency-trauma centre and a mother-child care centre—all planned to come up at GMCH-32, have been marred with long delays. Even with funds allocated and plans in place, these projects are nowhere near completionSector-17 rejuvenation: Engraving of the city’s map at the Sector 17 plaza was to be completed within six months, with a deadline of August 15, 2020, but is yet to be doneGarbage legacy mining in Dadumajra: It was scheduled to be completed within 18 months, but has missed several revised deadlinesImplementation of policies: The administration has failed to formulate key policies like start-up policy, EV policy and policy for contractual employees. In cases where it is in place, like the parking policy, departments have failed to initiate the implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-demands-roadmap-to-wrap-up-projects-swiftly-101625771546743.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s positivity rate jumped to 2% on Wednesday||For the first time in 10 days, the city’s test positivity rate – the percentage of tests that come positive – jumped to 2% on Wednesday. While the positivity rate has been oscillating between 1.4% and 1.7% since June 28, civic officials attributed Wednesday’s marginal rise to focussed testing. The positivity rate, however, dropped down to 1.4% on Thursday. “A positivity rate of 2% means the situation is still under control,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “The marginal increase only suggests that our strategy of targetted and focussed testing is working. We are also gradually opening the city and there is plenty of movement of people, which could also be contributing to positive cases,” he said. According to Kakani, the civic body has rolled out focussed testing for close contacts of positive patients, people living in containment areas, and in wards that are recording higher cases. The positivity rate has to be correlated with the number of tests carried out in the city. Typically, when the number of tests goes down, the positivity rate shows a rise. Mumbai’s daily testing numbers have been fluctuating between 30,000 and 35,000. On Wednesday, when Mumbai carried out 31,944 tests, the city’s positivity rate jumped to 2% with 664 positive cases. On Thursday, the city carried out 37,802 tests and its positivity rate dropped to 1.4% with 540 cases. Experts say the number of daily positive cases in Mumbai which run into hundreds suggest that there is a continuous circulation of the virus. This trend should push the civic body to increase the number of tests as the current tests are inadequate. For instance, according to BMC’s dashboard. Delhi is carrying out 11.53 lakh cumulative tests per million population and Bengaluru is carrying out 9.94 lakh tests per million. In comparison, Mumbai’s cumulative tests per million are at the lower end at 5.3 lakh, according to BMC’s dashboard. Dr Ajit Pampatwar, a medical officer in K-West ward, said they are reaching out to residents in sealed buildings for testing. “We are also testing people in hotels, at construction sites, and other crowded areas like malls and grocery stores, etc. Overall, the positivity seems to be very low and a majority of those who are testing positive have a mild infection,” he said, adding the ward, which covers Andheri west, Vile Parle and Juhu, is now recording anywhere between 40 and 60 positive cases daily. During the peak in April and May, the daily positive cases ranged between 900 and 1,100 in the ward. According to Kakani, the civic body is set to roll out the fifth serological survey to better understand the exposure of the population to the virus. “This upcoming survey will have a sample size of around 4000 people randomly selected from all wards. It will help us gauge the situation before the third wave.” The fourth serological survey had covered only the paediatric population and revealed that nearly 50% of children had antibodies against the virus. The third survey, conducted with a sample size of 10,197, had revealed that nearly 36% of people had developed antibodies. The previous serosurveys showed more population living in slums was exposed to the virus as compared to the non-slum population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-positivity-rate-jumped-to-2-on-wednesday-101625771306045.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s vax drive at over 300 centres put on hold again||For a second time this month, the Covid-19 vaccination drive at more than 300 centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state government will remain suspended on Friday, owing to a shortage of doses. However, vaccination will continue as per schedule at private hospitals. In a statement on Thursday, the BMC said, “Vaccination will remain suspended on Friday, July 9, 2021, at government and municipal vaccination centres in the city due to insufficient vaccine stock available under the Covid-19 prevention vaccination campaign.”The BMC had expected replenishment of vaccine doses on Wednesday, but it did not receive any stock due to which the decision was taken. According to BMC officials, the civic body’s central vaccine storage facility was out of stock on Wednesday, but the drive continued in nearly half of the centres on Thursday with the help of leftover stock at the respective vaccination centres.There are 401 vaccination centres in the city, of which 283 are civic run, 20 are of state government and rest are private vaccination centres.Previously, the Covid-19 vaccination drive was similarly suspended in 300 vaccination centres on July 1, owing to vaccine shortage.Before that, due to the vaccine shortage, Mumbai had suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group between the second weeks of May and June.According to BMC officials, they require even more vaccine doses in July considering the highest number of first doses, around 550,000, was administered in April 2021, and assuming these are now coming to civic run centres, the BMC needs even more vaccine doses. A BMC official said, “We have the capacity to vaccinate over 100,000 vaccine doses on a daily basis, but we are not able to administer even half of it due to vaccine shortage.”Meanwhile, 45,171 citizens were vaccinated on Thursday. Of these, 16,112 were vaccinated at civic, state centres and 29,059 at private hospitals. Overall, 5,929,190 citizens have been vaccinated in the city till now, of which 2,462,079 in private hospitals and the rest in public centres. Of the total, 1,247,410 are fully vaccinated with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-vax-drive-at-over-300-centres-put-on-hold-again-101625770945907.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Arrest of Lucknow pharma firm owner unearths racket supplying fake medicines||The arrest of a Lucknow pharmaceuticals firm owner on Wednesday unearthed the racket involved in supply of duplicate quality of Antacid syrup for acidity related issues, said senior police officials here on Thursday.The UP Special Task Force in a joint operation with Foods Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) recovered a stock of 1,838 bottles of fake syrup weighing 450 ml each from a godown of another pharma firm based in Roorkee, Uttarakhand.The STF officials said the arrested accused was identified as a Lucknow resident Kushal Agarwal, the owner of Krishna Pharma. They said Agarwal got manufactured this fake syrup of brand name ‘Dr Gas’ through Apple Formulation Pvt Ltd firm of Roorkee and supplied it to different medical agencies in Lucknow and its adjoining districts such as Gonda, Barabanki and Ayodhya..Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) STF Deepak Kumar Singh said the STF initiated investigation on the complaint of Harendra Singh of Credit Life Sciences Pvt Ltd of Basti, who are the original manufactures and suppliers of Dr Gas syrup.The DSP said Agarwal with help of Roorkee firm owned by two brothers Naveen and Rahul Khetan through his aide Himanshu Soni got manufactured this duplicate quality of syrup.He said the duplicate quality of syrup was manufactured at very cheap rates and supplied in the market on original rates.He said the STF are carrying out further raids to arrest the remaining people whose names have surfaced in the investigation.It is the second time when Roorkee has been linked to fake medicine racket. In another case related to Roorkee, fake medicines worth ₹ 3 crore were seized from Amroha in 2018 when FSDA officials got information about certain medicines being sold at ‘surprisingly low’ rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/arrest-of-lucknow-pharma-firm-owner-unearths-racket-supplying-fake-medicines-101625770465976.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP candidates set to win unopposed on 292 out of 825 block pramukh seats||The BJP candidates looked set to win unopposed at nearly 292 of the 825 seats where nominations for block pramukh (or kshetra panchayat chairpersons’ polls) were held on Thursday, amid reports of violence at a few places.The Samajwadi Party looked set to retain its stronghold in Saifai.Officials said the block pramukh scene would be little clearer on Friday after close of withdrawal time on Friday. Political observers feel that there would be several ‘withdrawals’ on Friday.“Elections for the remaining posts at the rural level would be held on Saturday and results known the same day,” state election commission officials said.Like in recent held zila panchayat chairpersons’ poll where zila panchayat ward members voted, in these block pramukh polls, the block development committee members will vote to elect their chiefs.Both are indirect polls. There are 826 block pramukh posts in UP.Many senior politicians, including former UP assembly speaker Mata Prasad Pandey whose wife is a contestant for the block pramukh polls in Itwa block of Siddharthnagar and former UP minister Lalji Verma who had gone to support a candidate in Tanda block of Ambedkarnagar, alleged harassment during the nomination process.“My vehicle was smashed, we were targeted, and a set of nomination papers were snatched,” said Pandey.Verma also alleged ill treatment at the hands of the ruling BJP members. At several places, BJP was up against rebels, as many party members fielded candidates against the party’s official pick. At few others, the BJP was up against independents. “The BJP goons are openly threatening to murder democracy and the police is looking the other way,” SP MLC Sunil Singh Sajan said in Unnao.“They have forgotten their past. The opposition claims are bogus,” said UP BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava.“The opposition allegations of misuse of power are a bunch of lies. In fact, a viral audio of one of Samajwadi Party MLCs, in which he is obliquely claiming ownership of the fact that only he and his party have the copyright to hooliganism is self-explanatory,” said UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev.In January 2020, the then additional state election commissioner Ved Prakash Verma had written to the state government to consider the proposal of amending the clause in the 73rd constitutional amendment that provides for indirect elections to these zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukh posts.HT is in possession of the letter written by Verma to principal secretary, Panchayati Raj favouring a proposal for direct elections to zila panchayat chairpersons and block pramukh polls.“That missive was sent in response to a centre’s query of December 30, 2019, to the state on the subject. The point is that only the parliament can carry out an amendment if direct elections are to be held for zila panchayat and block level chief’s posts. And that means it would have to be considered at the appropriate level,” an official said. The BJP that had lost to the Samajwadi Party in the elections to the 3050 zila panchayat ward members, made up by winning 67 (including a solitary win of its ally Apna Dal) of the 75 zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls held last week.Fearing resentment in its ranks, the BJP had relaxed norms for these polls, allowing family members of ministers and lawmakers to contest these polls.In zila panchayat ward members polls it had barred family members of party leaders from contesting and also said those leaders wanting to contest themselves would have to quit party posts.UP labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya’s daughter-in-law is contesting these polls from Unchachar, in Rae Bareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-candidates-set-to-win-unopposed-on-292-out-of-825-block-pramukh-seats-101625770225887.html
09-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai door-to-door vax: BMC collects ward-wise data of bedridden patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started collecting ward-wise data of bedridden patients who want to get inoculated with Covid-19 vaccines. BMC has issued a form for bedridden patients at each ward asking them to submit details of such patients. The form includes the name of the patient, age, sex, the reason for being bedridden, duration and willingness for the Covid-19 vaccine.Hundreds of bedridden patients in the city aren’t able to get vaccinated as they can’t travel to vaccination centres. Many of these families who belong to poor economic backgrounds cannot afford ambulances to ferry them to vaccination centres for inoculation. But considering these patients have underlying health issues, they become most susceptible to Covid-19.“We haven’t got the final green signal from the Central government to start the door-to-door vaccination but, we want to keep the data prepared. So, we have asked all the ward offices to compile the data and submit it to the BMC for further references,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.As per the BMC rules, any patient with health issues who is completely bedridden and can’t travel to vaccination centres will be included in the list. But, all the medical documents would be checked to confirm the health status of the patient. “Also, physically challenged people who have been bedridden for more than six months will also be added. But we would also require a doctor certificate with the declaration that the person is physically unfit to travel,” Kakani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-door-to-door-vax-bmc-collects-ward-wise-data-of-bedridden-patients-101625769625852.html
09-07-2021||Other||NHAI re-installs barricades removed by farmers in Haryana’s Kurukshetra||Hours after farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) removed barricades outside a roadside dhaba in Kurukshetra, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) re-installed them on Thursday.In the morning, farmers had used tractors to tie the barricades with chains and remove them. Later, police reached the spot and the highway officials re-installed them.NHAI section engineer Bhanu Pratap said they were put back to close the illegal entry and exit points on the highway.The barricades were put along the highway from Panipat to Jalandhar by the NHAI to curb accidents, Pratap said.Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg said, “Police teams were sent to the spot on call of the highway authorities. We’ll take action if a complaint is filed.”Union spokesperson Rakesh Bains said, “There is no plan for any protest against the move yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nhai-re-installs-barricades-removed-by-farmers-in-haryana-s-kurukshetra-101625769568901.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Owaisi’s visit to dargah in Bahraich triggers war of words between BJP, Bhagidari Morcha in U.P.||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s visit to dargah sharif at Bahraich to pay obeisance to medieval Ghaznavid general Ghazi Salar Masud alias Ghazi Miyan on Thursday sparked a war of words between the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha constituents — AIMIM and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP).Terming the visit of Owaisi to the dargah as an insult to Maharaja Suheldev, an 11th century ruler, who is said to have defeated and killed Masud in a battle at Bahraich in 1034 AD, Uttar Pradesh’s backward class welfare minister Anil Rajbhar said the alliance between AIMIM and SBSP was an insult to the backward Rajbhar community.The BJP government in U.P. was working to restore the pride of Suheldev by constructing a memorial and installation of a statue at Chittaura in Bahraich, he said.Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Sardhana assembly seat in Meerut district Sangeet Som, too, lashed out at Owaisi and Om Prakash Rajbhar.“The leaders of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha have hurt the sentiments of the Hindu community who revered Maharaja Suhdeldev,” he said.Announcing the launch of the campaign for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, Owaisi hit back at the BJP leaders, “We are not jokers of the circus but ring masters, all will dance to our tunes.” He alleged that BJP was trying to divert the attention from the mismanagement by the state government during the Covid pandemic.He further alleged that a large number of deaths were reported in U.P. due to the failure of the state government when the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state. Hundreds of bodies were dumped in rivers and patients admitted in hospitals across the state did not get oxygen, he claimed.The Covid vaccination in UP was also slow and merely 3% people had received the vaccine doses, he alleged. [According to official figures, 3.52 crore or 35.2 million doses have been administered in U.P. since January 16].Inaugurating the office of the party’s district unit in Bahraich, Owaisi said AIMIM will contest the 2022 assembly election in alliance with SBSP-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha which would highlight the failure of the BJP government to keep the promises made during the 2017 assembly election.SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar said BJP leaders were trying to drive a wedge between the AIMIM and the SBSP over the issue of Maharaja Suheldev and Salar Masud as they feared that OBC (Other Backward Class) voters will not support the BJP in the assembly election.The Mehbooba Mufti-led People Democratic Party formed a government in Jammu and Kashmir with the support of BJP in 2016 and it was an unholy alliance, he said. The SBSP will contest the assembly election in alliance with the AIMIM, he asserted.“We will work on Backward-Muslim and Dalit unity to win the assembly election,” he said.Political observer SK Srivastava said the main political parties — the BJP, the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress — were working to consolidate the support of the backward and Scheduled Caste communities in the run-up to the 2022 assembly election but splinter groups like Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of various caste leaders, were looking to upset their applecart. The BJP and SP were trying to win the support of the small political parties that enjoyed some influence over various castes in the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/owaisis-visit-to-dargah-in-bahraich-triggers-war-of-words-between-bjp-bhagidari-morcha-in-up-101625769449331.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power to recall witness should be exercised with discretion: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court said the power of a court to recall witness for examination has to be exercised with discretion after the court is satisfied that the demand for the same is not a frivolous or a vexatious one to delay the trial.The HC bench of justice Jaishree Thakur observed that an onerous duty has been cast upon the courts to ensure fair trial and to arrive at the truth, for which a witness can be recalled to testify under Section 311 of the CrPC. But the power has to be exercised with discretion.The HC declined the request from two accused in an alleged case of gangrape reported in April 2017 in Tohana (Fatehabad) in Haryana. They had challenged the August 2019 order of the additional district and sessions judge, Fatehabad, whereby an application for recalling two witnesses was dismissed.As per the order, during the course of proceedings before the trial court, the matter was compromised on January 1, 2018 after it was agreed that one of the accused would solemnise a marriage with the girl.The complainant resiled from her statement to secure the accused persons’ release. The girl’s family made arrangements for the marriage, but the accused did not turn up. The complainant filed plea for re-examining herself, which was allowed.Subsequently, the accused too filed a plea for re-examination of two witnesses arguing that cross examination of two witnesses was not proper and accused be allowed to recall two witnesses.The HC observed that the argument that proper questions could not be put to the witnesses in view of the compromise being in effect is not sustainable, as the medical was on record and available for the counsel to cross-examine the witnesses.There is nothing on records to show that due opportunity was denied to the petitioners herein from cross-examining the witnesses, it said further adding that a perusal of the pleadings and dates as mentioned concludes that the petitioners had been diligently following their case and were afforded opportunity to cross examine two witnessed in question.Now, seeking to recall the witnesses already duly examined is nothing but an effort to delay the entire trial and to fill up the lacunas which cannot be permitted at any cost, the court added, dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-to-recall-witness-should-be-exercised-with-discretion-hc-101625769393863.html
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Uddar Gagan land release: BJP-JJP govt didn’t want CBI probe||The BJP-JJP government in Haryana was not keen on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the release of land in Rohtak to real estate developer Uddar Gagan Properties Limited, during the Congress rule.Brushing aside government’s contention, the Supreme Court on July 7 ordered a CBI probe into the matter.A perusal of the note filed by the amicus curiae, Jaideep Gupta in the apex court and the state government’s response to his note revealed that while amicus curiae said it was necessary to have a proper time-bound investigation keeping in mind the specific observations of the court, the state government countered him saying there was no justification for entrusting the investigation to the CBI since the matter has already undergone detailed technical and legal scrutiny.AMICUS CURIAE’S VIEWThe amicus curiae said clear findings were given by the high court that government officials acted fraudulently, indulged in suppression of relevant information and failed to assist the chief minister to arrive at a fair and just decision.“It was held that an unholy nexus to promote the interest of the private developer came into existence and derailed the public purpose and led to misuse of power... The apex court found no reason whatsoever to disagree with the findings recorded by the HC. It was categorically held that the state acted in violation of the public trust doctrine in a fraudulent and clandestine exercise of power,” the amicus told the court.Referring to the inquiry done by retired judge, the amicus curiae said it does not appear that the committee has seriously taken into consideration the HC’s findings as upheld by the SC. “In Manesar case, the investigation was entrusted to CBI under similar circumstances,” he said.The aspects pointed out by the HC and the SC in their judgements will not appear from a mere perusal of document files. It is clear that a proper investigation keeping in mind specific observations of the court is necessary. Such investigation may be entrusted to the CBI as was done in Manesar case, the amicus curiae said.HARYANA’S VIEWOpposing the contentions of the amicus, the government, in an affidavit, said justice (retd) RS Madan submitted a detailed report which made a detailed analysis of all technical and legal issues in the matter.“The matter was examined comprehensively to submit conclusive findings in the matter. The government has accepted this inquiry report after taking legal opinion from advocate general. Role of certain officials was also inquired into by IAS officer Anurag Rastogi, who also submitted his report. The report is being examined by the state government for a final decision,” government said.The government said since the matter has already undergone detailed technical and legal scrutiny, there is no justification for entrusting the investigation to the CBI.‘MANESAR, UDDAR GAGAN DIFFERENT CASES’The government said no parity can be drawn in the Uddar Gagan case with the Manesar land release case.Manesar and Uddar Gagan cases are different. In Manesar case, the land owners executed sale deeds and the land was released during acquisition proceedings and before the award.In Uddar Gagan case, there was no sale or purchase of land during acquisition proceedings. The land owners entered into collaboration agreements with Uddar Gagan before the award and filed an application for grant of license before the award.In Manesar case, the settlement money at ₹3.5 crore per acre was made over to entities who neither procured the land from the original land holder nor were they wanted to develop the property.“Such entities were termed ‘middle men’ who walked away with tremendous amount of money or benefit at ₹3.5 crore per acre. It was found to be a deal denoting quid pro quo whereas it was not so in the Uddar Gagan case,” the government said.“In Uddar Gagan case, licenses stood rejected by the department for approximately 140.975 acre on file after deliberation on merits and were pending for concurrence of the state government when the civil writ petitions challenging the non-grant of licenses were filed before the HC and accordingly the licenses were granted only upon the HC orders to do so within a prescribed time frame. No such situation existed in the Manesar case,” the government added.The affidavit said the HC ordered release of land and grant of license in Uddar Gagan case for balance areas for which license applications were not yet granted. No such release of land or grant of license was ordered by the HC in Manesar case.Thus, licenses for 15.80 acre, 32.45 acre and 92.725 acre were granted as per the HC orders whereas in Manesar case, licenses were granted after lapse of award.There is no allegation regarding title transfer or registration of land for license before award in the present case whereas the main ground for orders in Manesar case was title transfer or registration between Section 4 and award before grant of license.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uddar-gagan-land-release-bjp-jjp-govt-didn-t-want-cbi-probe-101625769326976.html
09-07-2021||Other||Fashion designer attacked with knife, robbed of valuables on Mumbai’s EEH||A 22-year-old fashion designer was robbed of her valuables at knife point near Mulund (East) on the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) on Wednesday afternoon. When the woman resisted, the accused attacked her, and she suffered serious injuries on her fingers. Navghar police have registered a case in the matter against the unidentified man. Sion resident Sejal Thakur was waiting for a friend in the car on a service road in Navghar area. The doors of the car were not locked. A man came from the bushes, opened a door of her car and got inside. “The man opened the door of the car and pointing a knife on her neck asked her to handover all the valuables. The woman resisted when he tried to pull her gold chain and in the scuffle, he injured her on her fingers,” said a police officer. The unknown accused then fled from the spot with the valuables. The woman later visited Navghar police station with her friend to lodge a complaint. “We have registered a case against the unidentified man under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are checking the CCTV footages and details of record criminals to trace the accused,” said the officer. Last week, two incidents of chain snatchings had taken place in the same area on EEH, wherein the accused managed to flee after robbing people. “We are checking the CCTV footages of Navghar area as well as the toll naka to identify the accused,” said another police officer. Crime branch officers said they suspect a criminal with past record in such crimes to be behind the robberies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fashion-designer-attacked-with-knife-robbed-of-valuables-on-mumbai-s-eeh-101625769266434.html
09-07-2021||Other||German envoy visits elephant care centre in Mathura||Agra German ambassador to India Walter J Lindner visited the Wildlife SOS Elephant Conservation & Care Centre in Mathura on Wednesday for a conservation education tour and met the rescued elephants under lifetime care and treatment. He also extended his support to the NGO’s ‘Refuse to Ride’campaign which draws attention to the plight of Asian elephants in India. The German diplomat is also a professional musician who has over five records to his credit and has previously served as ambassador in Kenya, Seychelles, Venezuela and South Africa. Being an avid animal lover, Walter spent time observing the resident pachyderms, all of whom have been given a second chance at a life free of abuse and cruelty. He was impressed by the scientific and humane elephant management techniques adopted by Wildlife SOS such as positive conditioning and target training. This was followed by an interactive session with the Wildlife SOS team of elephant care staff and veterinarians to learn about their efforts to help these animals have a better, healthier future at the centre and understand the threats that Asian elephants face in India. He was deeply moved upon hearing the heart-breaking stories of the elephants and the trauma that they endured in the past. Lindner also visited the elephant hospital which was established by Wildlife SOS and the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department in 2018. At the hospital, he learnt about the serious health issues of captive elephants and the efforts taken by the expert veterinary team to treat injured, sick and geriatric elephants. He concluded his visit with an observational walk with elephants, Maya and Phoolkali at the Yamuna riverbanks. The envoy said, “It was really heartwarming to see these elephants being cared for and loved by the Wildlife SOS staff. I would recommend everyone to come here and see these majestic animals. You can see what cruelty had been inflicted upon them in the past so let’s strive to prevent it from happening in India and anywhere around the world. I am happy to extend my support to Wildlife SOS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/german-envoy-visits-elephant-care-centre-in-mathura-101625769265909.html
09-07-2021||Other||UP turns rain deficient as monsoon takes a halt||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh has become rain deficient with more than half of its districts recording less than normal rainfall, due to pause in the south-west monsoon that has resulted in negligible rain across the state in the past 20 days. Till Thursday, the state recorded 162 mm rainfall, slightly more than normal. Thirty-eight of the 75 districts in the state reported an average of 28% less rainfall in the monsoon season, while only 18 districts recorded rainfall normal rainfall. As per the Indian Metrological Department (IMD) data,, the western UP districts received less rainfall as compared to eastern UP districts. The average rainfall recorded in western UP between June 1 to July 8 was 80 mm, 35% less than the normal rainfall of 123.7 mm. The districts which recorded the least rainfall as per the data are Gautam Buddha Nagar (-79%), Ghaziabad (-84%), Etawah (-72%), Lalitpur(-82%), Aligarh (-52%), Auraiya (-49 %), Baghpat (-64%), Bulandshahr (-62%), Mathura (-61%), Mahoba (-61%), Saharanpur (-69%), Shamli (-61%) and Farrukhabad (-74%). Many of these districts are leading growers of paddy and sugarcane, two major kharif crops of the state. Experts believe that the lack of rain will affect the production of kharif crops in the state. “The lack of rain will affect paddy farmers more than those who have grown sugarcane in their farms. Paddy farms require excess water in the first 50 days after cultivation. The monsoon ensured the availability of this water. But this year, paddy farmers are forced to depend on tube -wells for water because of pause in monsoon. This will reduce the earning of farmers and will also cause rise in price of paddy,” explained farm economist Hitesh Chandra. However, the monsoon is likely to revive over the state,, bringing some respite to the farmers. According to the Indian Meteorology Department (IMD), the monsoon will cover the entire state by the end of this week. “The monsoon rain resumed in some eastern UP districts on Thursday. It is expected to cover the remaining parts of the state by Saturday,” said state MeT director JP Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-turns-rain-deficient-as-monsoon-takes-a-halt-101625769145997.html
09-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar: BKU members protest against fuel, LPG cylinder price hike||Different factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday protested the rising fuel and cooking gas prices, at several places in Gautam Budh Nagar.Many carried empty LPG cylinders, arrived in tractors and shouted slogans against the Union government.Parvinder Yadav, president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the BKU-Kranti, said, “The rising prices have affected farmers. We are unable to drive tractors as diesel is costly. The farming cost has increased, and the outcome also is not satisfactory... Earlier, BJP leaders used to protest against price rises. However, now that they are in the government, the inflation is not in check.”Sunil Pradhan, spokesperson of BKU-Tikait, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “A lot of people have lost jobs in the Covid-induced lockdown. This has put their household budget in a state of disarray... The state government must take measures to create employment rather than increasing the commodity prices so frequently.”BKU-Tikait workers protested at Noida’s Mahamaya flyover, Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk, and the sub-registrar’s office in Jewar, from 10am to 12:15pm. Meanwhile, BKU-Kranti members protested at Noida Sector 19, and later submitted a memorandum to the Noida city magistrate, Uma Shankar Singh, demanding that the Uttar Pradesh government address the issue at the earliest.Uma Shankar Singh said, “We have received the memorandum and will forward it to the Uttar Pradesh government. Only the government can address these issues/demands.”The traffic was not affected in the Mahamaya flyover area during the protest, said Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar. “We had deployed a traffic police team there. The traffic movement was not affected as the protesters were on the roadside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-bku-members-protest-against-fuel-lpg-cylinder-price-hike-101625769087106.html
09-07-2021||Other||Settle fee hike issue amicably: HC to Maharashtra govt, parents and schools||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Maharashtra government, parents and schools to resolve the fee hike issue amicably. HC directed the Maharashtra government, through the education department, to publish the details of the divisional fee regulation committees (DFRC) in all the divisions of SSC board via media after it was informed that many private unaided schools had acted “high-handedly” by increasing the fees for the academic year 2020-21 and had refused to allow students to attend virtual classes whose parents who were unable to pay them. However, the unaided schools’ forum sought to oppose the public interest litigation (PIL) stating that the allegations were not valid as there was no specific case mentioned in the plea and hence, sought time to file a reply. HC, however, said that due to the pandemic, schools should approach the issue differently to avoid forcing parents approaching the court. The intervenors were asked to file their reply by July 12. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, was hearing the PIL filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar and some parents. The bench was informed that though schools had been functioning virtually during the entire pandemic period and would continue to do so till the lockdown restrictions are lifted by the government, the court should direct authorities to get the institutes to provide various reliefs to parents and not act high-handedly by increasing fees for the new academic year. The PIL had sought directions to allow parents to pay fees in instalments and not debar students from attending classes. Senior counsel Birendra Saraf for Bhatkhalkar submitted that several parents in the western suburbs had complained about aided and unaided schools debarring their children from attending online classes due to non-payment of fees and hence, they had approached HC as similar problems were being faced by parents not only in Mumbai but other parts of the state as well. He added that the state had failed to constitute DFRCs. On Thursday, additional government pleader (AGP) for the state in response to the query of the bench on Wednesday submitted the government notification of June 7, which constituted DFRCs for Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad that were headed by a retired judge and said that process for appointing DFRCs in Kolhapur, Latur and Nashik divisions were underway. The AGP submitted that information of these DFRCs would be put up on the government website as soon as they were constituted. However, senior advocate JP Sen for unaided schools’ forum objected to the issues raised by the petitioners and said that the claims were vague and were not substantiated with any instances wherein parents were forced to pay fees or students were not allowed to attend classes. Sen requested the court to allow the forum to intervene and file its reply to the PIL, which the court allowed. The court then said that as the apprehension of the petitioners about DFRCs not being constituted were addressed, it would consider the other grievance of fee hike and said, “We allow intervenors to file reply so that the issue can be resolved amicably in the current circumstances arising out of pandemic. Let reply affidavits be placed on record by July 14.” The PIL has been posted for hearing to July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/settle-fee-hike-issue-amicably-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-parents-and-schools-101625769086498.html
09-07-2021||Other||Greater Noida: 10 skill centres to become functional from August 10||The Greater Noida authority has decided to set up 10 skill development centres across the city for local youths. The authority has invited applications for the same, to be submitted in the last week of July, for which an online link will be provided, officials said Thursday. The training centres, where about 1,200 people will be trained in electronics, automotive and gadget repairing, among others, will become operational on August 10.For the initiative, the authority has roped in the National Skill Development Corporation. According to officials, the children of farmers, who have given their land for the development of the city, will be given preference in the initiative. “Initially, 1,170 students can enrol in courses of their choice and their training will begin from August 10. The duration of a course will be from three to six months,” said Deep Chand, the additional chief executive officer of the authority.The centres will be located in different areas including Knowledge Park 2, Sector Ecotech 3, Chipyana, Mubarakpur village, Knowledge Park 3 and Sector Alpha 1.Meanwhile, the authority said it will acquire around 600 hectares of agricultural land for development which will later be allotted to industrial units and other businesses.“When land is acquired for development, farmers lose their livelihood in the process. Besides, farmers’ children who are educated but fail to get jobs as they are not skilled in other jobs, which is why have decided to skill them and employ them in firms working here,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-10-skill-centres-to-become-functional-from-august-10-101625769085895.html
09-07-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh: BKU to launch protests against farm laws from August 1||With Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled for next year, the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction (BKU) on Thursday said that they would raise local issues while at the same time intensifying their stir against the three central farm laws from August 1 in the state.Yudhvir Singh, the general secretary of the BKU, announced at UP Gate on Thursday that they will launch it in the 18 divisions of Uttar Pradesh.“From July 11, we will be holding meetings of our divisional and district committees and from August 1, we will start with our agitation in UP to press for our demands,” Singh said.Rakesh Tikait, BKU’s national spokesperson, said that the divisional and district committees will spread awareness in districts about the three farm laws and also issues prevalent in state of UP and Uttarakhand.“We will also raise the issue of hike in price of electricity besides our pending sugarcane payments. Our farmers will come to UP-Gate and also go at division and district level for the agitation. We will also raise the issue of education and health besides other local issues. While participating in agitation in UP, the farmers will also attend to the calls given by the ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha’ from time to time,” Tikait said.They also added their demand for compensation for farmers who died during the pandemic period.“We demand compensation for farmers who died during the Covid period. Since their tests were not conducted, they should be treated as death due to Covid and compensated under the ‘Krishi Durghatna Yojna.’ If compensation is not given, we will continue with our agitation. The agitation will also go on at the borders of Delhi and our farmers will also raise local issues in the state of UP,” said Dharmendra Malik, national media coordinator of the BKU.Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers on Thursday also protested the cooking gas and fuel price rise, near the Delhi Meerut Expressway.“We protested for two hours on Thursday to create awareness among people about the fuel prices. This directly affects households and more so during the time of the pandemic,’ said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP-Gate site spokesperson for the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of several farmer organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bku-to-launch-agitation-in-up-from-august-1-101625768966657.html
09-07-2021||Other||Pune land scam: ED grills NCP leader Eknath Khadse for nine hours||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers on Thursday questioned Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse for around nine hours at the agency’s Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai in an alleged money laundering case pertaining to a land in Bhosari, Pune. The politician and his family are accused of defrauding the government exchequer of ₹61.25 crore.The case pertains to the purchase of a plot at Bhosari village in Haveli taluka on April 28, 2016, by Khadse’s kin for ₹3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of ₹31 crore.Previously, Khadse had been questioned by ED in January. However, as new facts have emerged in the investigation, the central agency quizzed him for the second time. Khadse had joined NCP last year after exiting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).His son-in-law, Girish Chaudhari, was arrested by ED on Wednesday in the same case. A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday sent Chaudhari in ED’s custody till July 12. The agency on Thursday questioned Khadse with Chaudhari together, ED sources said.The senior NCP leader left ED office around 8pm and did not interact with mediapersons. His statement was also recorded by ED, his lawyer said.ED sources said that Khadse was quizzed regarding his role in the alleged illegal purchase of the Bhosari land as well as the fudging of records at the registration office. ED officers also questioned him regarding the alleged abuse of power and misuse of his official position as then revenue minister and forcing the registration officials concerned to reflect the market value of the said as 3.75 crore.He was also questioned about his role in allegedly suppressing the true market value of the land in the public and illegal changes/alterations in the government records, agency sources said.Khadse was also quizzed regarding some meetings that took place in 2016 between the accused in the case, including Chaudhari. ED officers also tried to find out if the former minister has any knowledge about the five shell companies which were used in layering of funds to purchase the said land.Khadse’s lawyer Mohan Tekavade, while speaking to mediapersons outside ED office, said, “We have been asked to submit certain documents, which we’ll provide within 10 days. No other summons has been issued. We will co-operate with the investigation and attend when required by ED.” Before entering ED office in the morning, Khadse had told journalists: “It’s a politically-motivated case. Earlier, five agencies had probed the same case and found nothing against me. [But] I will co-operate with ED.He had earlier also claimed that the investigations in the case, including those carried out by state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and Income Tax department, had found no irregularities in the transaction. He had also claimed that the central agency was put after him because he left BJP to join NCP.Khadse’s wife Mandakani and the Bhosari land’s owner Abbas Rasalbhai Ukani Bhosari were also booked in the case by ED on August 28, 2019. ED’s case is based on the complaint filed by Maharashtra ACB against the Khadse’s in 2017. ACB had later closed the case, but ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal.The plot’s ownership was contentious as the industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the land was not made, and the owner had not been compensated for it.According to ED’s case Khadse and his family, despite having knowledge that the said plot is reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), fraudulently purchased it so that when MIDC would acquire it, they can claim compensation of the said property from the revenue authorities and receive compensation of more than double the market rate.ED said that Khadse, as the then revenue minister, mobilised the revenue officer for MIDC to acquire the land so that his family could file for compensation of the plot.“As per the valuation of the land provided by the sub-registrar, it [price of land] comes to ₹31.01 crore. However, it appears that Khadse, by abusing and misusing his official position, coerced and forced the registration officials concerned to reflect the market value of the said land as ₹3.75 crore,” ED stated in their remand application on Wednesday.Khadse, his wife and his son-in-law have suppressed the true market value of the said land from the public, ED added.The act of deleting and omitting the true market value of the said property in the records by sub-registrar and reflecting the compromised market value prima facie reflects a criminal act of tampering and forging a valuable security by sub-registrar on the instruction of the revenue minister, the central agency stated.While establishing the money trail, when ED officials asked Chaudhari about the source of funds for the land purchase, he said that he had availed a loan of ₹2 crore from Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited as he knew the firm’s chief director since 2003-04.However, when ED scrutinised the balance sheet of Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited, it was revealed that the company did not have any operating income in 2014-15 and 2015-16, and only ₹1.5-lakh income was generated in 2016-17 from the revenue.The probe further revealed that the company received funds from five other firms companies (Proficient Merchandise Ltd, Abjayoni Trading Pvt Ltd, Adamina Traders, Chemexgoods Pvt Ltd and Pearl Dealers Pvt Ltd) and transferred the amount to Chaudhari. These five companies exist only on paper and are shell companies used for layering of funds, ED said. This clearly shows that the source of the funds for the purchase of the said land is not genuine and has been routed through various companies by Chaudhari, the central agency said.ED has claimed that at the time of land deal, Chaudhari was aware that the land is reserved for MIDC. But he claimed before ED officers that his lawyer had informed him that a no objection certificate (NOC) from MIDC was not required as the 7/12 of the land was in Ukani’s name.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, who was in Nashik, said, “ED has begun a probe against Khadse. The agency will say whatever it wants to say about the probe. I am not a spokesperson for ED. The law is taking its course.” While reacting to Khadse’s allegations that BJP is taking action against him for joining NCP, Fadnavis said that there is no culture of indulging in vendetta politics in BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-land-scam-ed-grills-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-for-nine-hours-101625768785895.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Monsoon break has dams supplying water to Pune filled to 30% of capacity||PUNE As July began with the monsoon on a break, the four dams supplying water to Pune are currently at 30 per cent of capacity. As the weather department has forecast that the monsoon revival is likely from July 9 onwards, the water storage is likely to improve soon. So far, total water in all four dams is 8.68 TMC, or 29.78 per cent of joint capacity. On July 7, 2020, all four dams – Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Panshet and Temghar had 6.75 TMC of water, 23.15 per cent of capacity, as per the water resources department.HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division, said, “As the monsoon has taken a break, water has been used for drinking purposes by the corporation. As the rains revive, water storage will also improve.”As of Thursday, Khadakwasla had 0.65 TMC, Panshet had 4.26 TMC, Warasgaon had 3.16 TMC and Temghar had 0.61 TMC of water stored, as per the water resources department.On Thursday, Shivajinagar reported rainfall of 3 mm and Lohegaon reported rainfall of one mm. So far, Pune city has reported rainfall of 163 mm between June 1 and July 8. This is 23.9 mm of rainfall less than normal.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said that from July 9 onwards, the monsoon will again become active over Pune and Maharashtra.“We have forecast light to moderate rainfall in Pune city and the surrounding areas. And ghat areas may receive isolated heavy rainfall from July 9 onwards till July 14,” said Kashyapi.On Thursday, Pune reported a maximum temperature of 31.2 degrees Celsius, which was 2.2 degrees warmer than normal. And the minimum temperature was at 23.2 degrees Celsius, which was 0.7 degrees warmer than normal.As per IMD officials, the northern limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dams-supplying-water-to-pune-filled-to-30-of-capacity-101625768185892.html
09-07-2021||Pune||5 million vaccinated in Pune district so far||Pune district, as of Thursday, touched the 5 million mark for vaccination with at least one dose, across the district. Of the coverage, 91.86 per cent is by Covishield, whereas Covaxin makes up for 8.09 per cent in the district. Sputnik V has 0.05 per cent usage in the district.In the age group of 18 to 44 years, 95.74 per cent usage for the first dose has been that of Covishield, with 1 million beneficiaries receiving at least the first dose. For the second dose, Covaxin coverage in this age group is as high as 82.09 per cent. The second dose of Covaxin is to be taken in 28 days after the first, whereas the second dose for Covishied is due 84 days after the first.Speaking about dose availability, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said, “The supply of vaccines has been good in June and July. Hence, we are able to reach the targets. As we are getting more vaccines we are able to inoculate more beneficiaries. The last stock of Covishield and Covaxin came on July 5.” He added that as of Thursday evening, there are a total of 40,000 vaccines available in the city.“There are a total of 40,000 doses. Of this, 34,000 doses are that of Covaxin and 6,000 doses are Covishield. The next supply is expected to arrive by July 9,” said Dr Deshmukh.He also added that supply of Sputnik V goes directly to private hospitals.On Thursday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had six centres offering Covaxin across the city. Every centre administered either the first or second dose to at least 200 beneficiaries each, said PMC officials.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) at the Zilla Parishad said that on Thursday, Pune district vaccinated 50,000 beneficiaries.“Pune district on Thursday vaccinated around 50,000 beneficiaries. On Thursday, 230 centres administered the vaccine. Of these, 110 were government and 129 were private centres. So far, more than 3.9 million beneficiaries have received first dose and more than one million beneficiaries have received the second dose in the district,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5-million-vaccinated-in-pune-district-so-far-101625768066548.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Experts advise against further relaxations in Pune; say, infection not yet under control||Though the demand for further relaxations of Covid norms has been made by traders and hoteliers, experts have warned that such a decision could worsen the situation. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said that a marginal increase in the positivity rate after the unlock should not be taken lightly. He suggested that the administration hold the thought of further easing Covid curbs for a few more weeks. District and civic officials are expected to discuss the Covid situation at the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday. “In the current set of relaxations, Covid cases have not dropped, on the contrary, they have increased. We will be heading for trouble if caution is not observed while making these decisions. The viral activity has not reduced. It means that the spread of the virus is still not in our control. People are not following the rules. At the Covid review meeting, I would suggest waiting for a week or two and then considering further relaxations. More curbs need not be added, but further relaxations should not be made,” said Dr Salunkhe. For the week of July 2-July 8 the positivity rate in the limits of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was recorded at 5.07%. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded a positivity rate at 5.13% and the rural parts recorded it at 7.46%. Last week, Pune’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar had also expressed concern over the slight increase in the positivity rate. After the state government’s orders, level 3 restrictions have been imposed in the limits of PMC and PCMC. There has been a growing demand from the traders and hoteliers to increase the hours of operations for business establishments. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that any decision regarding the relaxation would be taken after the detailed discussion at the Covid review meeting. He also asserted the high testing numbers in Pune district. “Pune district has a high number of testing rates. We are doing more than 20,000 thousand tests per day and more than 60% of them are RT-PCR tests. All the measures advised by the task force are being followed,” said Deshmukh. Dr Salunkhe also highlighted the worrying Covid situation in Kolhapur and Sangli. He also added that the increase in the occupancy of ICU beds is being observed in Mumbai. “The Covid situation in Kolhapur and Satara can go out of control if more restrictions are not imposed there. Testing, institutional isolation should be the focus. These simple steps have to be implemented properly,” said Dr Salunkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-advise-against-further-relaxations-say-infection-not-yet-under-our-control-101625768006504.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||After Modi ministry expansion, focus shifts to possibility of Yogi cabinet reshuffle in Uttar Pradesh||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out a major expansion of his council of ministers, the focus is shifting to chief minister Yogi Adityanath in connection with the long- pending cabinet reshuffle that he may carry out ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.As barely six to seven months will be left for the new ministers to show their performance following the possible reshuffle, Yogi Adityanath would have to weigh his options before he decides to undertake the exercise.There are already seven vacancies in the council of ministers in Uttar Pradesh. The previous cabinet reshuffle in the state was on August 21, 2019.The chief minister may use the opportunity to reward good work, act against non-performers and strike a caste and regional balance. Although PM Modi’s move of inducting seven ministers from UP has helped in giving representation to various castes and regions, a rejig in the UP ministry will make a fresh impact.“Yes, there is the likelihood of a cabinet reshuffle in UP, too, in the coming days. Prime Minister Narendra Modi kept the performance of the ministers in focus as he carried out the reshuffle, giving representation to various caste and regions. Any reshuffle in UP is bound to have performance in focus as this will create an impact among the voters too,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science at Lucknow University. Senior BJP leaders were not available for comment on the matter.Yogi’s challenges will be greater if he decides to make performance the criteria for the possible reshuffle. Prime Minister dropped Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and shifted his minister of state Ashwini Kumar Choubey apparently over mismanagement during the second wave of Covid-19. The Opposition has targeted the Yogi government too for mismanagement of Covid-19 in the state.Three ministers, Kamla Rani Varun, Chetan Chauhan and Vijay Kashyap, died while fighting Covid-19.Veteran Bareilly MP Santosh Gangwar, who was then a Union minister, and UP minister for law Brijesh Pathak had raised the issue of Covid-19 management as did some other BJP leaders.PM Modi’s moves are generally followed by the BJP-ruled states. As Yogi too has been following the PM’s moves on important issues, it remains to be seen whether Yogi will carry out changes in the health department team in the state.The chief minister will also face the challenge of balancing caste and regional equations. Apna Dal (Sone Lal) MP Anupriya Patel’s induction in the union ministry is being viewed as the BJP’s attempt to keep its close ally and the Kurmi community in good humour. The Nishad Party has been one of the BJP’s allies and is now feeling left out for not getting any place in the Union ministry. Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad’s meetings with Union home minister Amit Shah and the chief minister had led to speculation about likely representation for the party in the ministry at the Centre or in the state. Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), one of the BJP’s allies in past, has parted ways with it. SBSP chief and former minister Om Prakash Rajbhar has been targeting the BJP. The BJP may have to rework its plans to counter the SBSP’s attempts to wean the Rajbhar community away from the party.The BJP had given indications about its renewed focus on Brahmins when former Union minister Jitin Prasada joined the party from the Congress. Prasada has met the chief minister more than once after joining his new party. It also remains to be seen whether the BJP will accommodate Prasada in state ministry or make use of him in the party organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-modi-ministry-expansion-focus-shifts-to-possibility-of-yogi-cabinet-reshuffle-101625762186113.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||This bahu of Mulayam Singh Yadav’s family all set to be re-elected as Saifai block pramukh||Samajwadi Party (SP) founder and chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s niece-in-law Mridula Yadav is all set to be re-elected the Saifai block pramukh. Saifai is the Yadav family’s ancestral village in Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh.Mridula, the mother of SP’s former Mainpuri MP Tej Pratap Yadav, is the sitting block pramukh of Saifai. She filed her nomination papers (in two sets) before election officers Ashok Gupta and Prabhat Rai in the presence of her daughter-in-law Raj Laxmi Yadav (former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav’s daughter) and former SP MP from Badaun Dharmendra Yadav on Thursday.She was the only candidate who filed the nomination papers on the last day, said a district officer.“Tomorrow (Friday) is the date for the withdrawal of nominations. She is likely to be declared (elected) unopposed after that,” said the officer.Mridula was elected Saifai block pramukh for the first time in 2015. For nearly two-and-a-half decades, only members from Mulayam’s family have held the post.Saifai got the status of a development block in 1995. Mulayam’s nephew and Mridula’s late husband Ranvir Singh was the Saifai block pramukh from 1995 till his death in 2002. The late Ranvir Singh was the son of Mulayam’s elder brother Ratan Singh. Thereafter, Dharmendra Yadav became the block pramukh before he was elected MP in 2004. After Dharmendra, Tej Pratap Yadav began his political career as the Saifai block pramukh before he was elected the Mainpuri MP in 2014. When Tej Pratap quit the seat, Mridula became Saifai block pramukh, the first woman to hold the post in Saifai.The block pramukh polls in UP are scheduled on July 10. It’s an indirect election in which the BDC (block development council) members, who were elected in the direct panchayat polls held in April, vote to choose the respective block pramukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/this-bahu-of-mulayam-singh-yadav-s-family-set-to-be-re-elected-saifai-block-pramukh-101625762125991.html
09-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh first state to reach milestone of 60 million Covid tests, says Yogi Adityanath govt||The state government on Thursday evening announced that Uttar Pradesh had crossed the six crore (60 million) Covid test mark. It was the first state in the country to reach the milestone, the state government said. The announcement came hours after chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state was poised to reach this milestone. Adityanath also said the state now had three districts — Kasganj, Shravasti and Aligarh — that were without any active Covid-19 cases as of Thursday. The state government would reward them if they did not report any fresh cases in the next week, he said at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting here. He had first made the announcement about Shravasti on Wednesday.He also said, “Yesterday, 33 districts in the state did not report any fresh Covid cases and the active cases there are in single digits.”“With concerted efforts, the second wave of the pandemic is well under control in the state. All the patients of Covid-19 in Kasganj, Shravasti and Aligarh have recovered, and this happened because of teamwork. The public representatives, health workers, frontline workers, monitoring committees, local administration, and people played an important role in this. The efforts and awareness should continue. At the same time, the three districts should continue with aggressive testing,” he said.He said Uttar Pradesh had an aggressive “trace, test, treat and vaccinate” policy.In the past 24 hours, a total of 2.59 lakh (259,000) samples were tested and 112 new cases were detected while 258 patients recovered, the chief minister said.“The positivity rate is a mere 0.04% and the recovery rate is 98.6%. Since April 30, there has been a steady fall in the number of active cases in the state. At present there are only 1,789 active cases in the state of which 1,334 are in home isolation,” he said.He said that in the past 24 hours a total of 7.1 lakh (710,000) Covid-19 vaccines doses were administered in the state, taking the total number of jabs to 3.52 crore (35.2 million) in Uttar Pradesh since January 16.CM for proper upkeep of statues, memorialsThe chief minister asked the officials concerned to ensure proper maintenance of statues of great personalities, their memorials and various other memorial spots.“Run a statewide campaign for cleaning and maintenance of these inspiring spots,” he said.PM to inaugurate nine new medical colleges in UP, reiterates Yogi Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday reiterated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will soon inaugurate nine medical colleges in the state —one each in Mirzapur, Ghazipur, Deoria, Etah, Fatehpur, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Siddharthnagar and Jaunpur.“With this, 59 of the 75 districts of the state will have medical colleges. The state government will establish medical colleges in the remaining 16 districts on the PPP (public-private partnership) model,” he said.He asked the officials concerned to begin preparation of the government policy for making PPP medical colleges in these 16 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-kasganj-aligarh-join-shravasti-on-list-of-districts-with-no-active-covid-case-101625760086904.html
09-07-2021||Pune||Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Pune Metro corridor: More than 1,400 trees to be uprooted||As many as 1,445 trees are likely to be uprooted during the construction of Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro rail line being developed by Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA). Of these, around 1,000 trees will be replanted, said PMRDA officials. In 2018, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) signed a contract with Tata and Siemens for the project to be developed on a public- private partnership model to decongest traffic in the city by improving connectivity within the metropolitan region. According to PMRDA Metro officials, they have identified a total 1,445 trees in the 23 kilometre metro route between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. The metro route is passing through PMC, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), PMRDA and Hinjewadi industrial zone. The maximum numbers of trees (841) are located in the PMC limits as compared to the PMRDA and PCMC region. There are only 58 trees to be removed in the PCMC area. Banudas Mane, PMRDA Metro official said, “We have tabled proposals to respective authorities to give us permission to cut these trees. Recently, we have asked the PMRDA to give permission to 176 trees in which 89 will be replanted and remaining 87 will be uprooted.” He further said, “We have decided to plant a total of 5,836 trees in different parts of the PMC, PCMC, PMRDA and MIDC region. Due to the demolition of Pune University flyovers, there are chances to save trees. We will also try to save around 20 per cent of trees in this route. We will replant more than that.” Ashok Ghorpade, chief garden superintendent of PMC said, “We have already given permission to PMRDA Metro to remove trees. We have also instructed Metro to replant trees and plant new trees in the ratio of 1:3 against chopped trees.” The proposed PMRDA Metro route is a 23.3 kilometre elevated track between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. It will take less than 40 minutes to cover the distance from the civil court in Shivajinagar to the Hinjewadi IT Park. The route will have 23 elevated stations. The project is estimated at ₹8,100 crore. PMRDA Metro route Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Trees to be uprooted PMC 841 PCMC 58 MIDC- 370 PMRDA 176||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hinjewadishivajinagar-metro-corridor-more-than-1-400-trees-to-be-uprooted-101625758405223.html
09-07-2021||Ranchi||Activists, politicians gather at Bagaicha, vow to take Stan’s ‘fight’ forward||During a memorial service organised at Bagaicha on Thursday, Father Stan Swamy’s family, friends and members of civil societies pitched for withdrawal of the Unlawful Activities (Protection) Act, saying that the central government has been “using it to silence the voice of dissent.” Bagaicha is a social action centre set up by Swamy, who died while undergoing treatment at Mumbai Hospital on July 5. The memorial service was also attended by political leaders from the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress and the Left parties. Participants pledged to take the work done by Father Stan Swamy for the rights of tribals forward.“The UAPA is an old law, but it was never unleashed on the citizens this way since the Modi government came to power. They are using it to silence citizens, especially against those who raise the voice of dissent. The temperament of this government is the same as those of the British. They killed Birsa (Munda) in jail, now Swamy has been killed similarly,” said Dayamani Barla, noted tribal rights activist. Booked under sections of UAPA, Swamy was sent to jail in October 2020 over terror charges by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Underlining how Swamy was a voice for the marginalised, Barla recalled how he played a crucial role in movements against the amendment of the CNT/SPT Act, anti-conversion bill, land acquisition amendment Act and mob lynching incidents in the state. While speaking at the event, senior JMM leader and legislator Stephen Marandi described Swamy’s death as “murder” and called for a continuous fight to give the right tribute to Swamy. “It was a conspiracy. This has now become an international issue. We need to take lessons from this incident as it will continue to happen and we need to expose this conspiracy using all possible means. As a political party, we will continue to expose the government,” added Marandi. Congress legislator Rajesh Kachhap, under whose constituency Bagaicha is located, shared similar views. “Our real tribute would be if we continued his fight for the cause of tribals, dalits, minorities and the poor,” he added. However, activist Gladston Kandulna blamed the parties like Congress and the JMM for the prevailing scenario. “We should not forget it was the Congres that brought the UAPA in 1967. If they are true to this fight, the JMM government should immediately withdraw the industrial policy it approved two days back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/activists-politicians-gather-at-bagaicha-vow-to-take-stan-s-fight-forward-101625757805162.html
