11-07-2021||Mumbai||Rain spell to intensify, Mumbai placed under orange alert||Despite predictions of heavy rains starting Saturday, the city received just 45.6mm of rain in the 48 hours ending 8.30am Sunday, followed by 2.4mm rain in the next eight hours. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials confirmed that there has been a delay in the onset of showers, which are now expected to arrive sometime on Monday. Heavy rains will continue intermittently for the rest of week, meteorologists said. IMD has placed the city under an orange category warning system, indicating heavy to very heavy showers are “very likely”.The delay in the onset of predicted showers has been attributed to the formation of an east-west shear zone, an area filled by opposing winds, over north Konkan coast. According to at least two independent meteorologists, this has inhibited rain bands lying off Mumbai coast from penetrating inland, leading to lesser-than-anticipated rainfall over the city. However, such a phenomenon typically strengthens monsoon conditions.Officials and experts clarified that rains have not skipped the city and are likely to arrive very soon under the influence of a low-pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal and an upper air cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea. Over the next four to five days, Mumbai may receive as much as 400mm of rain. “Mumbai will start getting showers soon. It is going to be the wettest week of the season so far. From Today till Wednesday/Thursday, total rainfall is likely to exceed 400mm. We will have a 12-hour period with 200mm rainfall which will lead to waterlogging,” said an independent meteorologist on Sunday morning. “Mumbai-MMR [Mumbai Metropolitan Region] can expect moderate showers on July 11. Current forecast suggests moderate to heavy rain in the region on July 12, which can cause waterlogging and usual disruptions. Overall active next week for the monsoon,” tweeted Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist affiliated with the University of Reading, England.The city has so far seen 1,109mm rain since June 1, which is around 37% in excess of the seasonal normal of 801mm. However, since July 1, the city has recorded largely deficient rains at a departure of more than -80% of the normal rainfall for the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-spell-to-intensify-mumbai-placed-under-orange-alert-101626028178763.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Water supply in western suburbs to be hit on Tuesday||There will be no water supply or reduced water supply in parts of Juhu, Khar, Santacruz and Andheri on Tuesday as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will be undertaking repair work on pipelines distributing water to these areas.In a statement released on Saturday, BMC said, “Technical difficulties had arisen in some areas of H-West, K-East and K-West in the western suburbs. In this connection, necessary technical measures are being taken to ensure smooth water supply. Under this, the water supply valve (butterfly valve) will be replaced on July 13, 2021. Due to this, water supply in Juhu, Vile Parle, Santacruz and Khar (West), Andheri (East and West) areas of H-West, K-East and K-West will be cut off or at low pressure on July 13, 2021.”The task of replacing the 1,200-mm-diameter valve at Bandra outlet of part 2 of Veravalli Reservoir 3 will be undertaken by BMC on Tuesday between 10am and 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-water-supply-in-western-suburbs-to-be-hit-on-tuesday-101626028118136.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra authorities focus on eight districts of concern||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 8,535 Covid-19 cases and 156 deaths due to the infection. While most parts of the state have reported a decline in the number of cases, eight districts — Kolhapur, Satara, Palghar, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Pune (rural) and Sangli — continued to record high number of cases and have also reported a high testing positivity rate. The district administrations have been directed to go for aggressive testing and screening to contain the infection and the test positivity rate. The large number of cases in eight districts has kept the daily caseload in the state hovering at 8,000-9,000 for the past month. On Sunday, Kolhapur recorded 1,468 new cases, while Sangli saw the addition of 1,097 new Covid-19 patients. Satara and Ratnagiri recorded 755 and 455 new cases, respectively. Pune with its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad saw 1,072 new cases on Sunday.The eight most affected districts have the highest number of active cases. Kolhapur has 19,034 active cases, Sangli has 11,717, Satara 8,505, Kolhapur 13,157, while Ratnagiri has 3,569 active infections.All these districts have a high case fatality rate (CFR), above the state rate of 2.04% .Kolhapur is at top with 2.9%. Sangli (2.7%), Solapur (2.6%), Satara (2.4%), Sindhudurg (2.4%). According to state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, the administration has taken a twin approach. “We are identifying the hotspots in these districts, say some particular area and mass testing the population there. We are isolating the positive patients from the rest of the population to stop the transmission,” said Dr Awate.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed task force, said that local administrations in these districts have been directed to go for micro-containment, besides aggressive screening and testing. Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blames the Covid-19 inappropriate behaviour of locals for the rise in cases. “The people in these areas have thrown caution to the wind and are not using masks, neither are they observing social distancing. There should be strict enforcement of rules,” said Shaikh.On Sunday, Mumbai saw 558 new cases and 15 deaths, as its toll reached 15,627. The total deaths in Maharashtra since the outbreak last year has reached 125,878. State’s case tally touched 6,157,799. There were 210,411 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 6,013.The number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 116,165. Pune tops in active cases with 19,034 patients, followed by Thane with 16,626 active patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-authorities-focus-on-eight-districts-of-concern-101626028058799.html
11-07-2021||Noida||2 of a family killed in Noida e-way accident||Noida Two persons were killed, and one was injured in a road accident on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway around 7am on Sunday, police said. The deceased, 24-year-old Puja and her two-year-old Ritesh, were residents of Rabupura in Gautam Budh Nagar.According to the police, Puja was travelling from Rabupura to Delhi with her son and 30-year-old husband, Bhagat Singh, who works as a BSF constable in Delhi, on a motorcycle on Sunday, when an over-speeding vehicle, still unidentified, hit their bike from behind near the Chhapraula cut on the expressway. A patrolling team reached the spot immediately after passersby called the police helpline number and informed them about the accident.“Due to excessive bleeding, the woman died on the spot. Her child and husband were taken to a nearby private hospital. The two-year-old boy died during treatment, but Bhagat, who was wearing a helmet, suffered a wrist fracture and was later discharged... The bodies of the woman and the child were handed over to the family members following autopsy,” said Yatendra Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Expressway police station.“We are scanning CCTV footage of the expressway to identify the vehicle that had hit the bike. We have launched a probe to nab the suspect,” SHO Singh added.A case has been registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) at the Expressway police station on Sunday.Woman dies in accident near Mahamaya flyoverIn a separate accident that happened in an area under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction on Saturday night, an unidentified woman, (48), died after her daughter, (age not available), lost control of her scooter and collided with a road divider near the Mahamaya flyover.“The woman and her daughter were travelling from Bulandshahr to Noida, when the daughter lost control of her scooter and hit the road divider near the flyover on Saturday night. A police team took them to a nearby hospital, but the woman had died on the spot. Her body was later sent for an autopsy... The daughter suffered minor injuries and was discharged from hospital after treatment,” said a police spokesperson on Sunday, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-of-a-family-killed-in-noida-e-way-accident-101626027758749.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Noida authority upgrades master sewer line in Sector 43 to address choking issues||NOIDA: The Noida authority has started upgrading the 31-year-old master sewer line in Sector 43. The move will benefit the residents of sectors 43 and 44, and Chhalera village, officials said on Sunday.The residents have been complaining about the frequent choking of sewer line in the area.The authority officials said that the plot where the old sewer line was laid in 1990 will now house a residential project. “Now, we are laying a new pipeline so that residents do not face any issues. The project cost has been estimated at ₹2.10 crore,” said AK Varun, project engineer of the Noida authority.The authority started work on this project in the last week of June with a deadline of March, 2022. “But we will try to finish the work before the deadline,” said Varun.Meanwhile, the residents of Chhalera have demanded that the authority should also replace the village’s internal sewer without further delay.“Choking of sewer is a regular feature in our village because the population has increased manifold since 1990. We have complained to the authority several times. Now, we hope that our area’s internal sewer line will also be replaced,” said Ishwar Singh, former village head of Chhalera.The authority is diverting the 1-km sewer line from Sector 43 land to the roadside. “Now, we are laying the sewer line along the road that will make the cleaning work easier,” said Varun.The residents of sectors 43 and 44 also hope that the project will benefit them. “We hope that the frequent choking of sewer will be a thing of past once the new sewer line is laid,” said Deepak Mittal, a resident of Sector 43.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-upgrades-master-sewer-line-in-sector-43-to-address-choking-issues-101626027758068.html
11-07-2021||Other||Martin Bell, relic of a bygone era at La Martiniere College, to undergo restoration||Lucknow After more than 100 years of silence, the great bell known as the Martin Bell at the La Martiniere College, was raised from its pedestal for examination on Sunday, according to a post by principal Carlyle McFarland on Facebook. He also shared video clips to give everyone a glimpse of how it was raised. “There was no gong attached to the bell. Despite a giant crack, a handheld hammer produced a clear peal. Now to get the gong replaced and a system of elevation installed for the bell to ring on special occasions,” McFarland’s post said. “The bell is known to have been installed in the North Tower of the Constantia palace in which La Martiniere College is now run. This was known as bell tower and could only be accessed from within the building,” the principal said. The bell was rung in an emergency. It is recorded that instructions were given for the bell to be rung in case of any attack during the turbulent times of 1857, when Constantia palace was roughly fortified, he said. Principal McFarland said the bell was cast in the arsenal of the Nawab of Oudh in 1796 under the erstwhile Lt Col Claude Martin (later Maj Gen) when he was appointed by the East India Company as its superintendent. For political reasons, he supervised the production of weapons for both the Nawab’s army and the forces of the East India Company. The arsenal was situated at Kothi Hayat Baksh, the current Raj Bhawan. The basement of this structure still exhibits signs of its original use. Carlyle McFarland said, “For decades the bell was placed on a wooden stand in the crypt of Constantia. The gong was removed at some time. At the turn of the 20th century, it was relocated as a garden embellishment on the East Terrace. This coincided with the positioning of the cannons on the East Terrace, the central canon also being cast under Maj Gen Claude Martin and used in the Third Mysore War.” “The bell is being examined and its specifications noted. A large crack indicates damage over the centuries, yet when rung by a makeshift hand held hammer, the sound produced was true,” he said. The principal has assured that the position of the bell would not be changed. A chain pulley mechanism would be used on special solemn occasions when the bell would be formally used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/martin-bell-relic-of-a-bygone-era-at-la-martiniere-college-to-undergo-restoration-101626027698757.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Activists oppose plan for underground multi-level parking at Ambedkar Park||Ghaziabad: The activists have opposed the move for development of a multi-level parking at city’s Ambedkar Park which is located in the heart of major commercial centre of Navyug Market. The officials of the Ghaziabad municipal-corporation said that the parking is proposed at a cost of ₹44 crore and meant for providing parking facility for about 235 cars. The Ambedkar Park is one of the biggest parks in the old Ghaziabad city and developed in times when the erstwhile Ghaziabad Improvement Trust (now Ghaziabad development authority (GDA)) developed the Navyug Market scheme and later handed it over to the corporation for maintenance. The park is located close to the headquarters of the GDA and also of the municipal corporation. The activists said that the proposed parking will mean change in nature of the park, and they will oppose the move and resort to legal recourse if the project goes through. Councilor Rajendra Tyagi from ward 84 has also submitted a representation to the GDA while opposing the move and demanded that the facility should be developed elsewhere and not at the park. “The construction on an area reserved for park alters and destroys the very character of the plan of the scheme. Parking will be a commercial activity at a green area. The municipal corporation is only a maintenance agency and is tasked under law to only maintain an area handed over to it by the authority. It cannot tamper with the plan or the character of the plan,” Tyagi, said. “The power of amendment of a plan vests with the development authority and not with the municipal-corporation. So, it is demanded that the parking project should be shifted elsewhere, otherwise we will move court,” he added further. Municipal-commissioner MS Tanwar said that they have sent a detailed project report of the project under the state smart city scheme to the state administration. “We searched for many places and could not find desired land for the multi-level parking. Finally, we came across the big Ambedkar Park and proposed that part of its area will be used for our underground multi-level parking for about 235 cars. The project is pegged at ₹44 crore, and the surface area of the park will be restored in original form. We also plan to develop facilities like cafe etc,” Tanwar said. “The DPR has been sent and we are waiting for its approval. The construction is proposed to be taken up by C&DS (construction and design services, a unit of UP Jal Nigam),” he added. He added that keeping the sentiments of people in mind, the parking will be named as ‘Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Multilevel Parking.’ Environmentalists said that even if the corporation has proposed underground parking, it will affect the very purpose of the park. “A park helps recharge of vast quantities of groundwater and change in its nature will affect the recharge system and also the ecology. Further, the nature of parking will be commercial which will require change in the land use of the park. There is also an order of the UP government (in 2018) which says that construction of only 5% of the area of the park shall be allowed but only for purposes like public convenience, footpath etc,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. The officials of the GDA said that they received representation from councillor Tyagi and waiting for a proposal for the parking from the corporation. “If they are developing a basement parking, it does not alter land use and does not amount to change in land use. Further, the surface park should be maintained, and the map approval is also required to be cleared from the GDA. The ownership of the park is with GDA, and it handed it over to the corporation only for maintenance purpose. So, all modalities will be checked up once we receive a proposal for the parking at Ambedkar Park,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner of the Ghaziabad development authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-activists-oppose-plan-for-underground-multi-level-parking-at-ambedkar-park-101626027698122.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Yamuna water quality worsening, shows UPPCB data||Noida: The condition of the Yamuna has worsened this year as the river enters Noida with no dissolved oxygen in it and exits the city even more polluted, shows data from the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). As per the latest UPPCB report, Noida is the only city in Uttar Pradesh where the Yamuna falls under “E” category, that makes the river unfit for drinking even after conventional treatment and disinfection, bathing or survival of fish and other aquatic organisms.While the UPPCB report does not mention the data for industrial effluents like amount of hard metals -- mercury, arsenic, lead, etc. -- the state pollution body has tested water on basic parameters -- dissolved oxygen (DO) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) -- and found the pollution levels very high.According to the data, in May 2021, the dissolved oxygen (DO) level of Yamuna was nil at Okhla barrage (from where the river enters Noida) and at Tilwada village (where it leaves the city), while the same in May 2020 was 7.4 milligrams per litre (mg/l) at the entry point and 2.8 mg/l at the exit. The minimum requirement of DO is 4 mg/l for category D (propagation of aquatic life) water and 6 mg/l for category A (drinking). Similarly, the UPPCB report found the BOD levels for May 2021 to be 24 mg/l (entry) and 31.5 mg/l (exit), while the corresponding figures in May 2020 were 12 mg/l and 27mg/l. At the exit point, the BOD levels are over 10 times the permissible limits of up to 3 mg/l.According to official figures, the length of the Yamuna in Delhi is 22 km while it is about 10 km in Noida.Till May this year, January has been the only month when the river entered the city at Okhla barrage with some life in it with the DO value of 1.4 mg/l, which died at Tilwada where it meets even the more polluted Hindon. The two rivers support no aquatic life. The officials blame “untapped sewage” from Shahdara drain that enters from Delhi for the poor condition of Yamuna, besides additional pollutants from Kondli drain and Hindon river. “Shahdara drain from Delhi meets the Yamuna after Okhla barrage near Sector 15A. The drain is untapped and brings effluents that fall directly into the river. It is the major source of pollution. Besides, there is Kondli drain that also originates in Delhi, but work on its remediation is under process in Noida through engineered wetlands. Then Hindon water that is very polluted falls in the Yamuna. The pollutants in the source drains vary from time to time,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. According to environmentalists, honest efforts are missing to revive the Yamuna in the NCR. “Shahdara drain is one of the major sources of pollution. There are no honest efforts to clean the Yamuna in Delhi where a number of untapped sewage is being discharged into it. At the same time, there are sources of pollution in Noida also. Hindon river is one of the major sources and nothing is being done by the authorities,” said Vikrant Tongad, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-water-quality-worsening-shows-uppcb-data-101626027638742.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Man shot dead over property dispute in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 26-year-old man was shot dead over a property dispute in Dankaur on Sunday morning, the police said. He had recently bought a 200 square metre plot at Kherli Haizpur village in Dankaur, they said. The victim was identified as Sandeep Nagar, a resident of Chachora village in Dankaur.“Nagar was getting the plot fenced around 10 am when three armed men – two in a car and one on a motorcycle – reached the spot. One of the criminals opened fire and injured Nagar in his neck. He collapsed on the spot,” said Arvind Pathak, SHO, Dankaur police station.Nagar was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, the police said, adding that the victim’s father Uday Veer Singh filed a complaint at Dankaur police station.According to police, Singh has named three local persons in connection with the murder. Police said that primary investigation shows Nagar’s Kherli Hafizpur plot was disputed. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the victim had some disputes over the piece of the plot. “We have registered a case of murder against the three persons under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. We are scanning the CCTV footage from the nearby areas to arrest the suspects,” he said.Nagar, who had married two months ago, is survived by his wife, parents, and a younger brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-shot-dead-over-property-dispute-in-greater-noida-101626027458581.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Three arrested for running prostitution racket from Greater Noida guest house||Greater Noida: Three persons were arrested on Saturday night during a police raid on a guest house located in Sector Beta 2 in Greater Noida for allegedly being involved in a prostitution racket. The police said they recovered a diary and some contraband items from their possession. The guest house manager is also under scanner, said police.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the police received information about a prostitution racket allegedly being operated from the guest house. “Two men and one woman were arrested from the spot,” he said.The suspects were identified as Deepanshu, 28, who is the alleged mastermind and a resident of Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr; and a client Ankit, 30, a resident of Dadha village in Kasna. The identity of the woman who was arrested has been withheld.Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Beta 2 police station, said four mobile phones, two DVRs, and ₹6,900 were recovered. “Deepanshu had contacted the guesthouse manager and they operated the prostitution racket in connivance with each other. On Saturday, they had called a woman, and the client, Ankit, at the guest house when the police team raided the spot,” he said.The suspects had allegedly been operating from the guesthouse for the last three months. A case was registered against them under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 7 of The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956.Police said the guest house manager is absconding. “The arrested suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search for the manager,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-running-prostitution-racket-from-greater-noida-guest-house-101626027458068.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Frequent power cuts add to summer woes in Noida||Noida Frequent unscheduled power outages have added to the woes of Noida residents already suffering due to high temperatures. Children, too, have been facing a lot of problems while attending online classes during the daytime, parents complain.Suresh Chauhan, a resident of Sector 49, says there have been frequent power cuts in the area for the past three months. “Just like old times, when the Uttar Pradesh electricity board (UPSEB) was in charge, we are not keeping anything inside our refrigerators as it is of no use. We don’t have electricity for hours every day. There are no power backups at the builders’ flats in our residential complex, so we go through a lot of trouble... We also suffer from skin diseases due to heavy sweating.”According to Santosh Kumar, a resident of Sector 77, he had to install an inverter at his flat as his son’s online classes got interrupted several times due to power outages. “We are planning to move to some other area, with better electricity connection,” says Kumar.The Apartment Owners’ Association (AOA), too, has raised a complaint. Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA) — an association of 71 high-rises in Noida — has sent a letter to the state minister of energy, Srikant Sharma, saying, “Despite tall claims made by the electricity distribution company, Discom, over Noida being a ‘no power cut zone’, the residential complexes have been suffering from unstable electricity supplies regularly. There are frequent power cuts and voltage fluctuation in Gautam Budh Nagar during the daytime, and sometimes, even at night... Such power failures are extremely worrisome, especially when many children attend online classes or appear for online examinations. People working from home also suffer a lot. Due to this poor situation, diesel generators are being used more, which adds up to the existing pollution.”When contacted, Virendra Nath Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said that “this has been happening due to faulty overhead supply lines”. “We have started replacing faulty lines, poles and transformers in Noida. We hope there won’t be power cuts after a day or two, besides the power failures during scheduled maintenance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/frequent-power-cuts-add-to-summer-woes-in-noida-101626027398153.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||4 held after shooting two passersby dead in North Delhi||Three days after two passersby were killed during an armed attack by at least four unidentified assailants on a local builder and his nephew at Filmistan near Bara Hindu Rao in north Delhi, police said they arrested four men from Delhi and Chandigarh between Saturday and Sunday and said that the attack was a contract killing gone wrong.Police said the attack on local builder Haji Naeem and his nephew Muneeb was planned by Feroz, a rival builder and his partner Danish, over a disputed property. Among the four who were arrested are Feroz, Rahul alias Charlie (23) and Himanshu (21), and Mehtab, who is Danish’s relative.“We are now looking for another key conspirator, and one more man who was also involved in the attack,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.Joint commissioner of police (central range) N S Bundela said during investigation, it was learnt that Naeem and Muneeb were rivals of other builders in Sadar Bazar and Bara Hindu Rao areas. The teams also learnt that Muneeb had managed to get a stay on the construction of a building at Ahata Kidara and was responsible for the demolition of the property. “Inputs collected from locals revealed that Feroz and Danish conspired with Mehtab to settle scores with Muneeb and his uncle. They hired contract killers to kill them,” said a senior investigator.“Interrogation of Rahul and Himanshu revealed that they were roped in for the contract killing by their friend, who is also absconding. On Thursday evening, the three of them reached near Kishanganj railway station and met the key conspirators. The deal was finalised there itself. The attackers left and reached Filmistan to execute the plan,” added the officer.On being asked if the attackers were promised any amount for the contract killing, DCP Alphonse said, “We are looking for Feroz’s business partner, who managed everything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-held-for-shooting-dead-two-passerby-near-bara-hindu-rao-101626027338572.html
11-07-2021||Noida||Paucity of vaccines puts a brake on inoculation drive in GB Nagar||NOIDA: The near-to-home mega vaccination drive, which was supposed to kick off from July 1, is yet to be started in Gautam Budh Nagar, thanks to the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine in the district. Health officials on Sunday said that the situation is unlikely to improve in the next 10 days.The GB Nagar health department had claimed to vaccinate at least 30,000 persons every day in July. But, the limited supply of vaccines has kept the daily vaccination figures to less than 10,000 in the district this month, the officials said. The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, admitted that the near-to-home vaccination has been affected by the vaccine scarcity. “The district is not getting enough doses of vaccine. As a result, we are unable to kick off the near-to-home vaccination. The state headquarters have been informed about the vaccine shortage and we hope to get adequate vials very soon,” he said. Senior health officials said that several vaccination centres in the district have been closed for the past few days due to inadequate supply of vaccines. “We had to shut down several vaccination session sites on Saturday. We had fixed a target to inoculate at least 30,000 people in a day in July. But due to paucity of vaccines, we are not setting any daily target now. As per our information, the similar situation will continue at least for another 10 days,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, district chief medical officer. District immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that the district has nearly 10,000 doses of vaccine in the inventory at present to continue the vaccination on Monday. “We have administered 80,449 doses at different government health centres in the first 11 days of July, which includes two Sundays, when no vaccination takes place. It indicates that we’ve administered, on average, less than 10,000 vaccine daily,” he said. It may be noted that in the last two consecutive days of June, the Covid-19 vaccination drive remained suspended at the government health centres due to a shortage of vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/paucity-of-vaccines-puts-a-brake-on-inoculation-drive-in-gb-nagar-101626027337982.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three held for extortion||Three people were arrested for running an extortion racket, the Delhi Police said on Sunday.The suspects were arrested following the complaint of a 65-year-old man, who owns a garment factory in Okhla, from whom they were demanding ₹1 crore, said police.Apart from the elderly businessman, at least four other people from Delhi-NCR were being blackmailed by the suspects, who have been running the racket for many months. One laptop, a pen drive and a micro SD card — all containing objectionable videos and pictures of the arrested woman and her many victims, some of whom are yet to be identified, were seized, said police.“Two women’s handbags fitted with spy cameras, a car and six cellphones that were being used in the crimes were also recovered,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Manoj C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-in-delhi-held-for-extortion-101626027279098.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Woman kills her infant son after tiff with husband||A 26-year-old woman allegedly strangled her infant son to death after a tiff with her husband over taking the 11-month-old baby to a hospital since he had fever, police said on Sunday, adding that the woman has been arrested and booked for the murder of the child.The police said the incident took place in south Delhi’s Dera village near Fatehpur Beri on Friday and the matter was reported to the police by the woman’s relatives.Harsha Vardhan Mandava, additional deputy commissioner of police (south), said the woman, identified as Jyoti, was married to Satveer Tanwar in 2011. Jyoti’s relative, who called the police, tried to mislead the cops by telling them that Satveer killed his son. A police team reached a private hospital where the child was taken by his father and other relatives.Police said both Jyoti and Satveer were interrogated, and Jyoti later confessed to have strangled the infant with her dupatta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-strangles-infant-son-in-south-delhi-village-101626027218012.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Master Plan 2041: Window for suggestions too short, say citizen groups||Resident groups, traders and civil society members in the city said they want the Capital’s land-owning agency to extend the July 23 deadline to submit their comments on the draft Master Plan of Delhi — 2041, which was put up for public scrutiny last month. The Delhi Development Authority on July 1 started a series of public discussions on provisions of the MPD-2041. The last of these will be held on July 20.Vishal Ohri, general secretary of the Local Shopping Complex Federation of Delhi, said, “The development control norms, especially with respect to local shopping complexes, in the draft are not clear. They have made the matter more complex. This requires detailed deliberations. How do you expect people to file comments within three days?”Members of the Main Bhi Dilli campaign, a collective that aims to make planning in Delhi ‘more representative and inclusive’, have also said the 45-day discussion window is too short, especially due to limitations as a result of the pandemic.A senior DDA official, “No decision has been taken on extending the deadline so far. The current process is as per the Delhi Development Act, 1957, and we have to complete it according to the protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civil-society-members-want-deadline-for-public-scrutiny-of-mpd-2041-to-be-extended-101626025959101.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow doctor flown to Hyderabad for lung transplant||A resident doctor at the gynaecology department of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) in Lucknow, who has been battling for her life since Covid-19 caused irreparable damage to both of her lungs in April, was on Sunday airlifted to Hyderabad for a lung transplant.An ambulance left the RMLIMS campus at around 10.40am with Dr Sharda Suman, 30.Escorted by the police, the 22-kilometre distance between airport and the institute was covered in about half-an-hour. As soon as ambulance reached the airport, an air ambulance took the doctor to Hyderabad.“She will undergo lung transplant surgery at the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) hospital,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for RMLIMS.Dr Sharda reached KIMS hospital and was admitted to Medical ICU4 (MICU4) on bed number 5 by evening. The entire journey was smooth, said the RMLIMS administration in a press statement in the evening. “Her condition is stable as per medical details received,” said the statement issued at 6.30pm.The state government had sanctioned ₹1.50 crore for her lung transplant, Dr Srikesh Singh reiterated.Earlier in the day, while the KIMS team shifted Dr Sharda to ambulance, a group of Lohia Institute resident doctors who worked with her came to support her.Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences director Prof Sonia Nityanand was also present and helping the team to move Dr Sharda into the ambulance.Dr Sharda Suman had been on duty in the Covid ward despite being pregnant and had tested positive for Covid in April. Later, her condition worsened. She had to be put on ECMO (extra corporeal membrane oxygenation) support for the past 47 days. ECMO works as artificial lungs for a patient when the lungs stop working. An expert panel had recommended a lung transplant for her.Dr Sharda Suman later tested negative for Covid and related documents were sent to KIMS. A team from KIMS reached RMLIMS a day before (July 10) and prepared for her shifting, said Dr Srikesh.Asked about the process for lung transplant and the time taken for complete recovery, Dr Srikesh Singh said, “It is a long and complicated process. The doctors are doing their best and we hope she recovers soon.”The woman doctor first fell ill on April 12 as she got fever. She tested positive after Covid duty. After remaining in home isolation for a couple of days, she had to be admitted to the Lohia institute, where she is doing postgraduate studies in gynaecology. While she was admitted at Lohia Institute, the doctors performed a caesarean operation, and she delivered a girl child on May 6. The newborn girl is Covid negative and fine, according to the doctors of the institute.This is first such case in Uttar Pradesh where a doctor who developed severe complications after Covid duty has been supported by the state government for lung transplant. She joined Lohia institute in 2018 and got married on May 29, 2019.Husband hopes things will go wellEven as Dr Sharda Suman was airlifted to Hyderabad for a lung transplant, her husband Dr Ajay said, “It’s a tough time and we hope things go well.” The husband, who works in Bihar, also said, “People have extended support to us, and we are happy about it. Also, the state government and the institute supported us.” He added that he was hopeful of his wife returning with a successful lung transplant. TimelineAdmitted to Covid hospital RMLIMS on April 19.Caesarean delivery on May 6 and tests negative for Covid.Institute’s committee recommends lung transplant on June 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-doctor-flown-to-hyderabad-for-lung-transplant-101626025958638.html
11-07-2021||Other||Parents’ Association of Pune to press ahead with protest against school fee hikes||PUNE The Parents’ Association of Pune has said that they will continue their fight against fee hikes by private schools. Jayshree Deshpande, president of the Parents Association of Pune, said that the question of fee hikes should be resolved as early as possible.“Parents are financially struggling over the last one year due to the pandemic. However, schools are hiking fees even during the pandemic when offline classes are not going on,” said Deshpande.The Parents Association has been in talks with the education department. “We will be meeting education commissioner, Vishal Solanki to discuss various issues at hand,”Deshpande added.Amar Ekad, president of a student organisation, said that the basic demand of 50 per cent fee reduction should be implemented soon.“We have submitted our list of demands to the education department. And until the department gives us a written intimation regarding the same, we will not stop the protest,” said Ekad.He also added that one of their demands is to make the audit of each school mandatory.“There are 90 per cent schools in the state who have not submitted, or even carried out their audits. Such schools should be held accountable for doing the audit. Education department does not carry out any investigation on such schools. Schools and colleges must undergo an audit to understand how they are hiking fees each year,” said Ekad.He added that students now are at home and schools are online due to the pandemic.“In such a situation, there should be a separate school fee structure that the schools should charge for,” said Ekad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-association-of-pune-to-press-ahead-with-protest-against-school-fee-hikes-101626025718082.html
11-07-2021||Other||60 techies on call as SPPU semester 2 exams kick-off online on July 12||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will commence its second-semester online examinations in a proctored manner for graduate and postgraduate courses from July 12. In order to help students clarify doubts while attempting the paper, the SPPU examination department has a team of 60 technicians who will be on call.On the first day of the examination, a total of 74 subjects will be appeared for by a total of 76,804 students. The subjects will be Science, Engineering, Commerce, Architecture and Law.Mahesh Kakade, director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, said that of these 60 technicians, 40 will answer calls made to call centres.“We have seen that many students approach the department via chat box. So this time, we have increased the chat box technicians to 20 so that more students can approach the team for help. We are all set to start the exams,” said Kakade.In order to check unfair means used by students, Kakade added that the exam department has introduced voice recording for students.“Not just this, we have an inbuilt camera which takes around a photo of each student every six seconds. That is in one minute, around 10 photos are clicked of the students. These photos help us analyse if the student has been using any unfair means to appear for the paper,” said Kakade.In the Science stream, a total of 28,655 students will appear for 36 subjects. Whereas from Engineering, a total of 43,776 students will appear for 15 subjects. For law, a total of 2,133 students will appear for six subjects and for architecture a total of 1,278 students will appear for four subjects.The least number of students, is 962 for 13 subjects from the Commerce stream, as per SPPU officials.The examination for the second semester will be held in phases. A total of 605,000 students are going to appear for 4,200 different subjects for various courses under the SPPU. Officials from SPPU said that the results will be declared within 48 hours of a student appearing for the exam.The second-semester examination method will be the same as the first semester. The examinations are scheduled in two slots. “The first slot is from 9am to 11am and the second slot is from 3pm to 5 pm. The exam is of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in the online mode,” said Kakade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-techies-on-call-as-sppu-semester-2-exams-kick-off-online-on-july-12-101626025659500.html
11-07-2021||Other||‘Small person, won’t comment’, says Pawar reacting to Patole’s remarks||PUNE Days after the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief Nana Patole accused allies Shiv Sena and he Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) of back-stabbing and not fulfilling the promises, Sharad Pawar downplayed the remarks. Responding to a question on Patole’s allegations, the NCP chief said he need not react to comments by “small people”. “These are small people. Why should I react? If Sonia Gandhi says something, I will give my reaction,” said Pawar, during an interaction on Sunday in Baramati, his hometown. Patole, while accusing the allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, had asked Congress workers to transform hardships into strength while reiterating his stance of going solo in the upcoming elections Commenting on complaints from workers that Pune district guardian minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar was not helping them with their work, Patole during his interaction with party workers in Lonavla, had asked them to keep calm and instead convert the anger into strength. “The guardian minister is from Baramati. Whose work is he doing? Is he getting work done for our members? You need to convert this hardship into strength. Do not treat this hardship as mental weakness,” said Patole. The MPCC chief had also accused both the MVA allies of not fulfilling promises. “It’s fine that they are not giving us our share, it will come to us. But, you need to take a vow that one day, the guardian minister here will be from our party. If they do not want to compromise and backstab while being together, then we won’t say anything, but transform our hardships into strengths.” Reacting to the post of speaker being with the Congress as part of an arrangement among the MVA allies, Pawar said, “Our decision is clear and the post of speaker is with Congress. Whoever they will decide will be the speaker.” On going solo in the elections, Pawar said every party has a right to expand the party base and there’s nothing wrong. “There shouldn’t be misunderstanding, even leaders of all three parties say that their parties will fight polls alone. We are together in the government, but not running parties together.” His remarks came after Patole reiterated that the Congress would go alone in the polls. “I am not going to backtrack on what I said about fighting elections solo. The other day, the CM also appealed [to Shiv Sena workers] to start preparing for polls. If I say something, it becomes a problem, but now that he is saying it then it is okay,” Patole had said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/small-person-won-t-comment-says-pawar-reacting-to-patole-s-remarks-101626025658763.html
11-07-2021||Other||PCV vaccination for all under age of 1 to start from July 12||PUNE Starting from Monday, July 12, Maharashtra will begin the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) for children under the age of one year. PCV, which is part of the immunisation programmes in other states, had yet to start in Maharashtra. Pune will also begin vaccinating children in the district. PCV prevents pneumococcal disease, which is any type of illness caused by the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria. Such infections could lead to serious infections like pneumonia, blood infections, and bacterial meningitis.The PCV vaccine which is already part of various state routine immunisation programmes in Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, will now also be a part of Maharashtra’s. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “This is the first time Maharashtra will include PCV as part of its routine immunisation. Districts and corporations who have fully prepared for the same can start from Monday, but in their routine immunisation sessions.” Dr Archana Patil, director of Health Services in Pune, said, “As per discussion and instructions during a video conference with all districts, it was found that a majority of districts have completed all preparatory activities. So we have been instructed them to start from Monday.”Dr Sachin Edake, Pune district immunisation officer, said, “All children who are due for Penta one of age groups six weeks are eligible to get the first shot of PCV.” The vaccine will be provided free of cost at government centres. The vaccine will protect against lung infections like pneumonia and other pneumococcal diseases. Current routine immunisation by the state government includes BCG, polio, whooping cough, tetanus, hepatitis-B, rotavirus, measles and rubella.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcv-vaccination-for-all-under-age-of-1-to-start-from-july-12-101626025600644.html
11-07-2021||Other||Pvt hospital bills audited: ₹17.21 lakh over charged in seven days||PUNE Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has found that major hospitals in the city have been charging Covid-19 patients more than the capped prices set by the state government. Since May 2020, the state government has put in price cap for what Covid-19 patients can be charged at private hospitals. The government also ordered the local administration to audit the bills, in case of complaints, and to then ensure the excess amount charged above the limit is returned. In the past one week, as per the civic body’s health department, between July 1 and July 7, PMC has been able to audit bills and reduce amounts charged by a total of ₹17,21,042.Between March 1 and July 8, 2021, the civic body has been reduced a total of ₹5.20 crore from 1,724 bills. The PMC has also stated that following the audits, bills charged by Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan hospital, Jehangir hospital, Poona Hospital, Rao Nursing home and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, were reduced.Dr Sanjay Patil, Indian Medical Association (IMA),Hospital Board, Pune chapter chairperson said, “The government had capped prices back in May 2020, which are still relevant now. It did not consider the rise in oxygen prices and other inflation costs for hospitals. During the second wave, we only have patients with moderate and severe symptoms and almost all of them require oxygen. Each patient needs at oxygen worth ₹12,000 at least, every day. Also, while the government audits bills and reduces the bills that they think are being overcharged, they must also consider that sometimes, the hospitals are forced to give heavier discounts to patients or even in some cases, patients leave the hospital without paying a single rupee. Hospitals must be compensated for such situations as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-hospital-bills-audited-rs-17-21-lakh-over-charged-in-seven-days-101626025599169.html
11-07-2021||Other||₹58.84 crore traffic fines from 1.689 million violators in city pending||PUNE The traffic branch of the Pune Police has, as of June 31, ₹58.84 crore pending in dues from 1.689 million violators in the city, penalised for breaking various rules in 2021.Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the traffic department has been able to recover ₹8.59 crore so far. The total fine which has been calculated is to the tune of ₹67.43 crore.According to statistics available with the traffic police, in 2021, 0.305 million violators have paid a fine of ₹8.59 crore till date. Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions have affected fine recovery in the past few months, police stated. If an offender is fined on the road, recovery is done on the spot. If the fine is levied with the assistance of CCTV surveillance, then the fine is recovered by the traffic police during nakabandi operations, where vehicle owners are stopped and randomly checked for dues. In case of repeat and habitual offenders the police visit their homes and issue challans them for pending dues.DCP (Traffic) Rahul Shrirame said, “Paying dues against violations is mandatory and we are taking efforts for the recovery of fines. Advisories and notices have been sent to the violators asking them to pay their pending dues. Also, nakabandi operations are being done to recover the fines. Covid-19 had an impact on fine recovery as a majority of the fines have been levied through CCTV.” Maximum fines are levied on traffic violators is for not wearing helmets. According to the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, which is still to be implemented in Maharashtra, the fine for not wearing a helmet is ₹1,000. Between January and June, 2021, 0.7 million helmetless riders were caught by police. Police have appealed to citizens to pay fines online using any Unified Payment Interface (UPI) application on their mobiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-58-84-crore-traffic-fines-from-1-689-million-violators-in-city-pending-101626025598021.html
11-07-2021||Other||Pune district reported 1,072 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 1,072 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours on Sunday. This takes the progressive count to 1.068 million, of which 1.031 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 17,755. Currently, 19,034 are active cases in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 13,000 vaccinations on Sunday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 565 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 316,565. With seven more deaths, the toll stands at 5,979. Pune city reported 305 new Covid1-9 cases which takes the progressive count to 498,303. With one death reported on Sunday, the toll went up to 8,542. PCMC reported 202 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 253,521. With one death reported on Sunday, the toll stands at 2,988.Sunday saw fewer than 15,000 vaccinations, as only 13,171 people got the jab, which takes the total vaccinations in the district to 5,212,517, of which, 4,074,777 got their first dose and 1,137,740 got their second dose. Only 98 sites saw vaccinations, as PMC has shut down all its centres for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reported-1-072-new-covid-19-cases-and-nine-deaths-in-24-hours-on-sunday-101626025538012.html
11-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: First dose vaccinations on hold again||The district health department will not be holding first dose vaccination drives on Monday due to a shortage of vaccines, officials said on Sunday, while second dose inoculations will be administered at 24 government-run session sites. However, officials said that 50 doses of Sputnik V, inoculation of which started on July 10, will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic.Over the past week, the pace of inoculation in the district declined due to the short supply of vaccines by the state health department.“Due to shortage of vaccines, only the second dose will be administered on Monday. At least 200 doses of Covaxin will be administered at five vaccination centres, each. This includes Huda City Centre Metro station. At the 19 other centres, nearly 100 Covishield jabs, each, will be made available. Also, at least 50 slots will be available for Sputnik V vaccine at Sector 31 polyclinic,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram.According to the data available with the health department, between June 27 and July 3, over 61,559 doses were given as the first shot and 22, 334 as the second shot. This declined in the past week, as only 12,186 doses were administered as first shot and 14,995 as second shot between July 4 and July 10, with vaccinations not taking place on Sunday at the government health centres. About 3,940 vaccine doses were administered by private hospitals.Rajeev Arora, the additional chief secretary of the health department, who was in the city on Saturday said that the state is currently prioritising second dose inoculation of front-line and healthcare workers as well as the elderly population. Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, said that the department has around 5,000 doses of Covishield and almost 10,000 doses of Covaxin.So far, 1,557,966 vaccine shots have been administered in the district, according to the district health department data. As per the data available on the Co-WIN platform, 1,562, 971 doses have been given, of which 1,269, 545 were first doses and 293,426 were second doses.Covid-19 cases declineOn Sunday, seven cases of the coronavirus infection were confirmed, taking the count of active patients in the district to 90. So far, 180,758 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020.For the second consecutive day, zero Covid-19 deaths were reported. The death toll is currently at 919.As per the district health bulletin, three critically ill patients are currently undergoing treatment at hospitals, while 87 patients are in home isolation. In the past week (July 4-11), 53 new cases were reported, a decline from the 62 cases reported the week before (June 25 to July 3). The test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, is almost 0.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19first-dose-vaccinations-on-hold-again-101626023800032.html
11-07-2021||Gurugram||Cinema halls, spas allowed to open; lockdown extended till July 19||The Haryana government on Sunday allowed the reopening of cinema halls, spas and swimming pools, with riders, and extended the ongoing lockdown till July 19.As per the order issued on Sunday by Vijai Vardhan, the state chief secretary, cinema halls (in malls and stand-alone) have been allowed to open with 50% capacity, subject to strict adherence to Covid-19 safety guidelines. Likewise, spas have been allowed to open from 6am to 8pm with appropriate safeguards. Swimming pools have also been allowed to open, but only for athletes and sportsperson who are competing/practising for events and not the general public. The orders, concerning the Surakshit Haryana Mahamari alert, also increased the cap on the number of people allowed to gather for weddings, funerals and other social functions to 100. Weddings have also been allowed at locations other than residences and courts, the order stated. The lockdown was imposed on May 3 and it has been extended weekly with minor relaxations since then. Until Sunday, only 50 people were allowed to attend weddings and funerals. However, officials confirmed that the cap has been doubled now. Further, as per the order, the number of people allowed to gather in open spaces has been increased to 200 persons. Relaxations were also issued for educational institutions, with universities and colleges being allowed to open for doubt clearing classes, practical laboratory sessions and offline examinations. Hostels have also been allowed to reopen, but only for students taking examinations. The order stated that open training centres, opened under the aegis of Haryana Skill Development Mission, are also allowed to open but with the staggered presence of students. Coaching institutes, libraries and training institutes (both government and private) have also been allowed to open with appropriate Covid-19 safety protocols. Industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the state can also open for doubt classes and practical classes, the order stated. The order also allowed the vice-chancellor of the National Law University, Delhi, to hold a common entrance test on July 23 in the state. “All commercial and educational institutions, which have been allowed to open, will have to follow strict Covid-19 safeguards. Wearing of masks and maintaining social distance must be strictly observed,” said a spokesperson for the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cinema-halls-spas-allowed-to-open-lockdown-extended-till-july-19-101626023799044.html
11-07-2021||Gurugram||Minor fire at Bandhwari landfill, six shanties gutted in Sec 44||A fire was reported at the Bandhwari landfill on the Gurugram-Faridabad border around noon, following which a dozen fire tenders were sent to the spot from Faridabad, Ballabgarh and Gurugram. Officials said that it was a minor incident and there were no injuries.“Fire at the landfill is a common occurrence. Due to the build-up of toxic gases, the landfill always remains susceptible to fire and it is a frequent occurrence at the Bandhwari plant,” said Narender Yadav, fire safety officer.Yadav said that the intensity of the blaze was minor, but it led to heavy smoke in the area. “The problem with landfill fires is that the blaze is not limited to one area. Until the waste pile is cleared till the bottom, fire keeps breaking out sporadically,” said Yadav.Officials said that after the major dousing operation ended, a fire tender was left at the spot to control the situation.In another incident, a small cluster of shanties, located just off the Sector 44 main road, caught fire around 4.15pm. Officials said that six shanties were gutted, but there were no injuries.“The blaze occurred in an open area near Kanhai village. By the time we reached the spot, six shanties were gutted. We managed to save the last remaining shanty. The fire is suspected to have occurred due to a short circuit or cylinder blast,” said an official from the Sector 29 fire department.Officials said they were informed of the fire at 4.22pm and two fire tenders were sent to the spot, following which they doused the flames in 20 minutes.A video of the incident went viral on social media, as the occupants of the sole shanty that survived the blaze hurried to empty their belongings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/minor-fire-at-bandhwari-landfill-six-shanties-gutted-in-sec-44-101626023741334.html
11-07-2021||Gurugram||Lift-and-loot crimes on the rise, four robberies reported in first days of July||Incidents of lift-and-loot, wherein robbers posing as cab drivers offer lifts to commuters along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, have increased, the police said, with two incidents reported in the past four days, taking the count to four incidents so far this month.The police said that the gangs mainly target commuters between Shankar Chowk and Kherki Daula and that around 100 gangs from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and the neighbouring district of Nuh are operational at present. A total of 20 robberies by cab drivers have been reported this year. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “People fall prey to their tactics due to a lack of public transport. We have already busted eight gangs this year and arrested over 20 people. However, cases are still on the rise.” In the latest incident last Friday, a 35-year-old sales and marketing executive of a private company was assaulted and robbed of his belongings at gunpoint around 11.30am when he tried to hitchhike from Rajeev Chowk to Naraina in Delhi. The victim, identified as Shashank Pandey, of Deoria in Uttar Pradesh, who lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 47, was robbed of his belongings.Pandey flagged down a Brezza, which had a private registration number and four people in it, at Rajeev Chowk. “I told them that I was going to Naraina, following which they asked me to board the car. After five minutes, two of the commuters suddenly attacked me and asked me to hand over my belongings. They snatched my diamond ring and gold chain worth ₹2 lakh. It all happened within a few minutes and I could not even retaliate,” he said. They took the U-turn before Iffco Chowk and drove towards Hero Honda Chowk. They pushed him out of the moving car near the Sukhrali flyover and drove towards Delhi, the police said.A case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was filed at the Civil Lines police station. The police said they have recovered CCTV footage from three spots and two of the suspects have been identified. The police said that despite several crackdowns in February, March, May and June, the gangs continue to operate by changing their modus operandi. Also, the vehicles used in the crime are stolen or robbed, and the robbers change the registration number. They also change cars frequently, the police said. Sangwan said that officers in plainclothes are deployed at locations along the expressway to track such gangs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/liftandloot-crimes-on-the-rise-four-robberies-reported-in-first-days-of-july-101626023739788.html
11-07-2021||Gurugram||Waste processing: Awareness drive to promote dumping at recently opened hubs||Following a negligible response from residents to the recently opened waste recycling hubs in the city, the municipal corporation and a non-governmental organisation, which is handling daily operations, are planning to carry out awareness drives in condominiums near the facilities and rope in school students for the project, officials said on Sunday.“It has been less than two weeks since the two waste recycling hubs opened. We expected the response to be minuscule initially, as it had taken the Samadhaan Hub (opened in 2019) nearly a year of awareness campaigns to gain traction,” said Anjali Khatri, a member of iamgurgaon, the NGO which is operating these facilities.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and iamgurgaon NGO launched two waste recycling hubs near Tatvam Villas in Sector 69 and Khushboo Chowk in DLF Phase-1 on July 1. Dry waste, under categories of e-waste, paper, solid plastics, soft plastics, multilayered plastic (MLP), glass and metal, can be dumped at each of the two hubs, where separate bins are installed for each type of waste. Officials at the hubs register residents and direct them towards the appropriate bins.The two facilities were opened to reduce the amount of daily waste being ferried to the Bandhwari landfill and to provide residents with easier access to such facilities. Around 1800 tonnes of daily waste is dumped at the site from Gurugram and Faridabad. With the Bandhwari waste plant lying defunct since 2013, around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste has accumulated at the landfill over time.Until last month, there was only one recycling facility, at the Samadhaan Hub in Sector 43, which opened in February 2019.The NGO looks after the day-to-day operations of the three waste recycling hubs with the MCG’s support.“We have opened the two waste recycling hubs, with the hope of reducing the quantity of waste that is carried to the landfill and also for recycling it for multiple uses. Reduction of waste will also bring down our garbage transportation costs and the saved money can, instead, be allocated for increasing the processing at the landfill,” a senior MCG official privy to the matter said.Khatri said that the entire awareness process involves bringing about a behavioural change in people, a process that needs continuous effort.“We plan to visit nearby condominiums or ensure our messages are circulated in the society’s social media platforms so that residents firstly know that such a facility exists and that it can be availed of free of cost. The second part would be to explain to them about the different categories of waste that can be segregated and the advantages of it,” said Khatri.Khatri said that the NGO, along with the support of the MCG, is also planning to involve Gurugram schools in the project, so that school students can spread awareness locally and ensure dry waste is dumped at the three facilities, as part of their extracurricular activity.Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist, said, “While the recycling hubs are a move in the positive direction, it needs to be backed by stringent policies that make it mandatory for recycling of waste for various types of waste. Only then will there be a major impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/waste-processing-awareness-drive-to-promote-dumping-at-recently-opened-hubs-101626023738705.html
11-07-2021||Other||1 killed, two hurt in explosion at CNG station in Mansa||Bathinda An employee at a compressed natural gas (CNG) filling station in Mansa was killed and two others gravely injured in an explosion at the station on Sunday evening. The victim, Vikram Singh, was filling gas in an Alto car when the explosion took place at the facility named Jagdish Oil Company. The injured were rushed to the Mansa Civil Hospital.Sources said the victim, killed on the spot, was thrown up over 20-feet due to the high-pressure of the gas. The roof of one of the cars was also blown off, with another vehicle also damaged. Eyewitnesses said there was no fire at the filling station, located in a densely-populated area near the bus stand. After the blast, the police cordoned off the area.Mansa senior superintendent of police (SP) Narinder Bhargav said investigation was on to ascertain the cause of the blast. SP (detective) Digvijay Kapil told reporters that two Alto cars bearing Haryana registration numbers were in queue to get gas, when the explosion happened. Police sources said a CCTV recorder at the filling station had been taken into custody and footage from cameras in the vicinity are being scanned. Filling station owner Jagmohan Kumar said, “More lives would have been lost, if we had not followed the protocol related to the filling of gas, which mandates that no one must to be present inside the vehicle, when gas is being filled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-killed-two-hurt-in-explosion-at-cng-station-in-mansa-101626022058699.html
11-07-2021||Kolkata||Pangolin scales, claws seized; Hornbill rescued in Bengal in back-to-back raids||While carrying out raids on wildlife smugglers, the detective department of the Kolkata Police and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change on Sunday seized more than three kilograms of pangolin scales and 38 pangolin claws from central Kolkata, police said. Murli Dhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime), said officers of the joint team intercepted a bus on Bentinck Street and seized the pangolin parts from two men, Satish Kumar Chauhan, 37, a resident of West Burdwan district and Basant Kumar Sahoo, 35, a Kolkata resident. Both were arrested.A case under Sections 51, 57A, 9, 39, 44, 49B and 49C of Schedule 1 of the Wild Life Protection Act 1972, was registered against the accused. They were produced before a court in Kolkata. Agni Mitra, deputy director, WCCB (eastern region), said on July 6, the WCCB and the state forest department officers intercepted a motorcycle in the Haroa area of North 24 Parganas district. Two men were arrested and a live Hornbill was seized from their possession. The recent arrests indicate that wildlife smugglers have become active again after lying low during the Covid-19 pandemic, police officers said. In January 2019, more than 1,700 Indian flap-shelled turtles were seized in back-to-back raids in Bengal while these were being smuggled in from Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. The raids resulted in the fourth seizure of endangered freshwater turtles in Bengal since October 2018.There is a demand for turtle meat in parts of Bengal and also in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pangolin-scales-claws-seized-hornbill-rescued-in-bengal-in-back-to-back-raids-101626021038640.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Union minister Giriraj Singh bats for UP’s population policy in Bihar, other parties react||Union rural development minister Giriraj Singh backed the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government’s population control policy launched on Sunday and batted for a similar legislation for Bihar to check exponential growth of population.The new population policy aims to incentivise people to help in population control. It aims to reduce population growth rate to 2.1%, UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh said.The UP government’s law commission has also prepared a population control bill, which promises perks and incentives to government employees and general public who follow population control measures. People who choose to have more than two children in UP will be made ineligible for government jobs and promotions, and excluded from receiving benefits of various schemes among other measures, according to the draft bill.Leaders of Janata Dal (United), an ally of the BJP in Bihar, however, dismissed it as an electoral strategy to polarise votes in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the state polls and said it should be rejected. The JDU’s contention also drew the support of Congress, which said that a political consensus is required before enforcing any such policy.Singh, while talking to media persons on his arrival in Begusarai on Sunday, said overpopulation is a major obstacle in development and social harmony. “Every state shall attach the issue of population with elections like the one Uttar Pradesh is doing,” said the Union minister, who earlier in 2019 favoured disenfranchising those having more than two kids.BJP MLA from Bisfi Haribhushan Thakur also strongly demanded enactment of a strong population policy. He said, “A conspiracy is underway to turn India into an Islamic nation. The Bihar government needs to enact a stronger population policy to foil the design by certain elements.”On the other hand, senior JD(U) leaders, including Ghulam Gaus, said the BJP was resorting to “vote politics” to divide votes on communal lines. “They (BJP leaders) have done it to polarize votes,” said Gaus. Former minister Jai Kumar Singh said such a move had the potential to jeopardize social balance in the country. “Bihar government is trying to check population by educating the people,” said the JD(U) leader.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, while dismissing the population policy as an election ploy, said that an all-party meeting should be held to bring about consensus on the issue. “The Congress also tried to check population by resorting to “hum do, hamare do” policy, which backfired. Our party is also in favour of containing population growth, but not by force,” said Mishra.The RJD too reacted sharply to the BJP’s design to deprive benefits to those having more than two children. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “A particular religion was being targeted through the policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/union-minister-giriraj-singh-bats-for-up-s-population-policy-in-bihar-other-parties-react-101626018877866.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Rains, swollen rivers wreak havoc in north Bihar||Incessant rains in bordering areas and swollen rivers originating from Nepal have compounded miseries of those residing in far-off villages and outskirts of towns in north Bihar on Sunday.While all major rivers, including Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kosi, are in full spate and jumping danger levels (DL) by over one to three metres at different stretches, road connectivity to dozens of villages in West and East Champaran has been snapped following rising floodwater level.Floodwaters entered over a dozen villages of Narkatiaganj block of West Champaran after Sikharna river, a tributary of Burhi Gandak, breached a zamindari bund near Sikta. Flow of traffic on Narkatiaganj and Bettiah has been disrupted after floodwaters overtopped it near Chanpatia. Kartaha river is wreaking havoc in the same block, inundating standing crops on thousands of hectares of land. Dozens of villages in Mainatand block have been disconnected from Narkatiaganj subdivisional headquarter after a bridge on Kartaha river caved in due to gushing water in the river.Heavy rains coupled with floodwaters of other rivulets originating from Nepal have already left tens of thousands of villagers of Bettiah’s Sonbarsa block, forcing residents to relocated to safer places.Meanwhile, flood situation in Samastipur remained grim as Burhi Gandak was reportedly flowing nearly three metres above the DL at Rosera. Gandak, Bagmati and Kosi were flowing around one metre above the DL at Dumarighat in Gopalganj, Benibad in Muzaffarpur and Baltara in Khagaria, respectively. Adhwara and Burhi Gandak are also flowing over one metre above the DL at Ekmighat in Darbhanga and Sikandarpur in Muzaffarpur, respectively.Officials of water resources department (WRD) said all embankments were safe and flood protection drive was on at all vulnerable portions of the bund on all major rivers. They said a minor breach in a zamindari embankment on Bagmati near Kothia village of Kewati block of Darbhanga had been repaired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rains-swollen-rivers-wreak-havoc-in-north-bihar-101626018578843.html
11-07-2021||Other||1 held for Ara contractor’s murder||A notorious criminal wanted in murder of a young contractor was arrested from Kuberchak area under Koilwar police station in Ara district late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday.Police seized one country-made pistol, five cartridges and his mobile phone from his possession. Bhojpur SP Rakesh Kumar Dubey said the arrested accused, who hails from Rohtas district, confessed to his involvement in the contractor’s murder that took place on July 4 over an encroachment dispute.The arrested accused has a criminal antecedent and is facing about a dozen cases, including murder, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-held-for-ara-contractor-s-murder-101626018578286.html
11-07-2021||Patna||North Bihar likely to witness heavy rain for next 48 hours: MeT||Heavy rain occurred at few places over northeast parts of the state while light to moderate rain lashed remaining places during the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Sunday. MeT officials said the northern region would reel under heavy rain for the next 48 hours owing to favourable meteorological conditions.As per the daily bulletin issued, Forbesganj received 130mm rain, Birpur 40mm, Taibpur 30mm while Sikti, Gaunaha and Triveniganj 20mm each. The capital city Patna recorded 8mm rain between 8am to 5.30pm.As per the 5-day forecast, fairly widespread or scattered rain accompanied with thunderstorms and lightning is likely across the state till July 15.Explaining the meteorological mechanism, weatherman Amit Sinha said, “As per the current numerical model, a trough line is lying over west Rajasthan to northwest Bay of Bengal across Madhya Pradesh, south Chhattisgarh, Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh. Besides, easterly winds carrying moisture has entered the state. These mechanisms are likely to trigger rain activities in the state. West Champaran and East Champaran are expected to receive high-intensity rain for next 24 to 48 hours.” Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued a yellow-colour warning for the state till July 15.“Intensity of rain and thunderstorm is likely to be higher in north Bihar than southern parts of the state. The weather system is expected to weaken after July 13,” Sinha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/north-bihar-likely-to-witness-heavy-rain-for-next-48-hours-met-101626018577711.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga blast: NIA takes two accused to New Delhi for interrogation||National Investigation Agency (NIA) Sunday took two accused in the June 17 parcel blast at Darbhanga railway station, Imran Malik and Nasir Khan, to New Delhi for further interrogation for the second time after a special court in Patna on Friday granted the NIA custody till July 16.A source said that NIA sought 10-day custody of Imran Malik and Nasir Khan for interrogation, but the court granted eight days. A third arrested accused, Haji Salim, could not be produced before the court because of his illness. He was produced via video conferencing and the court sent him to the judicial custody for July 23, Singh said.On July 3, the special court had sent Imran and Nasir into NIA remand for seven days while another accused, Mohammad Kafeel, was remanded to NIA custody for six days.All three were taken to New Delhi for interrogation by the NIA.Salim was remanded into judicial custody and sent to Beur jail. He was earlier admitted to a Patna hospital after he complained of prostate problems for which he is now being treated at Beur jail hospital.Imran and Nasir were arrested from Hyderabad on June 30 while Kafeel and Salim were taken into custody from Kairana in the Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-blast-nia-takes-two-accused-to-new-delhi-for-interrogation-101626018517822.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur farmers leave for protest at Delhi border||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Sunday led a group of farmers from Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district to take part in the ongoing agitation against the contentious agricultural laws on Delhi borders.Accompanied by hundreds of farmers, Charuni paid obeisance at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Dera Baba Nanak before leaving for the national capital.“We are taking jathas from various parts of Punjab and Haryana to keep the farmers’ enthusiasm high in the fight against the three farm laws that were introduced by the Centre to hand over the agriculture sector to corporate houses,” said Charuni.He also stressed upon the need to reject traditional political parties and for the common people to contest the 2022 assembly elections, while ruling out any plan of floating a political party.Thousands of farmers from Gurdaspur district have left to take part in the agitation, said Randhir Singh Ghuman, general secretary of the Majha Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, adding that local farm unions had urged Charuni to lead the group that passed through Batala and Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdaspur-farmers-leave-for-protest-at-delhi-border-101626018459669.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Two bodies found in isolated cases of murder||Two bodies were found in Pune city on Sunday in two isolated spots and what are believed to be two isolated incidents. In the first instance, the body of a city bus driver Gautam Machindra Salunkhe was found along Katraj bypass. In the second instance, the body of an on-record criminal, Akshay Karve, was found in Dattawadi area. While Salunkhe worked as a driver at the Swargate depot of Pune Mahanagar PML, Karve had completed a stint of externment last year. Both their bodies were rushed to Sassoon General Hospital for post mortem. While Salunkhe’s case will be recorded at Lonikalbhor police station, Karve’s case will be registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-bodies-found-in-isolated-cases-of-murder-101626018458454.html
11-07-2021||Other||PMC agrees to pay ₹5 crore to ZP for pending tax arrears in 23 villages||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have to pay arrears of ₹5 crore to the Zilla Parishad, for pending arrears for water and electricity taxes from the 23 villages recently merged with the city’s municipal corporation. The ZP has issued a written communication to the PMC commissioner over the pending bills for services including, street lights, offices, schools and other amenities.PMC has agreed to pay pending bills.ZP CEO Ayush Prasad said, “The 23 villages merged with the PMC will provide their revenues to the PMC. The civic body will also get taxes from citizens of the newly merged areas. Pending arrears have to be paid by the PMC as it is the controlling government authority of the area.”Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Street lights and water supply are very important for villagers and we will pay for them as they are the basic needs . Earlier, they had not informed us about these dues, but we will pay them.” The 23 villages merged into PMC limits were part of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority and (PMRDA) development plan. The PMC administration has said that it will use the same development plan for these 23 villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-agrees-to-pay-rs-5-crore-to-zp-for-pending-tax-arrears-in-23-villages-101626018457796.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Patna: 139 constables suspended over clash with senior cops in 2018||A total of 139 constables were suspended on Sunday in connection with a clash with senior police officers on November 4, 2018, against the death of a woman trainee constable.IG (central zone) Sanjay Kumar Singh said, “The departmental proceedings have been initiated against the 139 suspended constables.”On November 4, 2018, more than 175 constables clashed with senior police officers after their colleague Savita Kumari died at a private hospital as she was allegedly denied leave for medical treatment. After the incident, 175 constables were dismissed from the service. They moved Patna high court, which ordered to reinstate the dismissed constables saying that the action was taken without proper proceedings. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had ordered a departmental probe into the incident. Then DSP Mohammad Maseluddin was also suspended after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-139-constables-suspended-over-clash-with-senior-cops-in-2018-101626018338414.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Man in custody for slitting wife’s throat||A 32-year-old man was arrested for killing his 22-year-old wife in Hadapsar area of Pune on Saturday afternoon. The deceased woman was identified as Anjali Nitin Nikam (22) a resident of Chakrapani vasahat of Bhosari where she lived with the assailant husband. The arrested man was identified as Nitin Bapu Nikam (32), according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased woman’s sister Vaishali Gaikwad (38), a resident of Gadital area of Hadapsar. The incident happened near a shed meant for yoga practice inside the compound of Mahatma Phule Vidyalay school in Gadital area of Hadapsar, according to the complainant. Around 3pm on Saturday, the man went to the school compound and slit her throat using a knife he was carrying, according to the police. The man had allegedly been suspecting the now-deceased woman to have been having an extra marital affair which had led to domestic violence. “She had kept their child with her mother in Vaiduwadi and for the past 2-3 days she had been living with her elder sister in Hadapsar. He came to her and said that he wanted her to only convince their child to go with him to his native place. He made her believe that he wanted to talk to her about their child and took her on her bike towards Vaiduwadi. However, on the way he stopped at the school, which is a secluded spot due to the lockdown, and slit her throat. He had already purchased a knife and brought it with him,” said PSI Patil. The man came to the police station afterwards and confessed to the crime, she added. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-custody-for-slitting-wife-s-throat-101626018337690.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Pune city’s 24*7 helpline launched||The Pune city police cybercrime cell has launched two 24-hour helpline numbers which will also be available on WhatsApp - 7058719371 and 7058719375. The number of cybercrime complaints have risen exponentially in the past five years. “Sharing cyber fraud screenshots on these new cyber helplines will highly increase chances of amount recovery,” tweeted commissioner Amitabh Gupta of Pune police. What is the definition of the “golden hour”, one might ask; it is the time after the crime is committed during which the money can be retrieved by freezing the transaction. Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime and Economic offence wing (EOW) said, “First few hours are the best time to report the crime. There is no set definition for the “golden hour” but the transaction needs to be reversed before the person on the receiving end is able to withdraw it. Just like in accidents where they say that the patient can survive if provided help in the golden hour; it will help us save people’s hard-earned money which we do on a regular basis. This process will only hasten the process.” The complaints will be sent to five separate units of cybercrime created by the Pune police: hacking/data theft, online business, cheating, social network, and ATM card related fraud. Here are the steps to follow: call the helpline to explain what has happened, then send required screenshots on the same number, then get an FIR registered. Once your FIR is registered, you will be provided with a QR code through a link which will help you keep a track of your case or you can call the landline number to check the status of your complaint. Senior police inspector Dagdu Hake, in-charge of the cyber police station of Pune city police said that the number of complaints is on a steady rise over the years. “This year the number of complaints is nearing 9,000 by now. Last year the total complaints were 14,900 and the year before that it was 7,800. Year-on-year, it is rising,” said PI Hake. Along with the number of complaints, the methods of fraud have also increased in number in the past few years. From hacking to data and identity theft, to UPI fraud, the number of methods have increased manifold in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-s-24-7-helpline-launched-101626018217866.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Educational institutions in Bihar gear up for partial reopening from Monday||Educational institutions, including universities, colleges and schools for Class 11 and 12, made necessary arrangements on Saturday for resuming offline classes from Monday.All prominent varsities, including Patna University (PU), Patliputra University (PPU), Magadh University, Aryabhata Knowledge University (AKU), are set to resume offline classes with 50% strength. Taking about necessary arrangements at PU, Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “A majority of constituent colleges have decided to resume physical classes with 50% strength. Following SOPs, premises have been completely sanitised. We have also requested the central dispensary for setting up a vaccination camp for inoculating students above 18 years. A majority of staff have already been vaccinated in the vaccination camp set up last month.”Similarly, the College of Commerce, Arts and Science has decided to call students on a roll number basis.“Students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will attend classes from Monday. We have divided students into two groups based on their roll numbers for calling them on alternate days. Entry will be given to only Covid-19 vaccinated visitors”, said a college official. Similarly, government and private senior secondary schools are also set to welcome students after a long gap.Bishop Scott Group of Schools held a mock drill on Saturday for reopening.“We have decided to call students of Class 11 and 12 on alternate days. Through sanitisation of classrooms, washrooms, common areas and buses was completed today. All our teaching and non-teaching staff have been vaccinated last month”, shared Ashfaque Iqbal, vice-principal of the boys’ branch.Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said, “Both online and offline classes will be held from Monday for Class 11 and Class 12 students.”On July 6, the state education department allowed the phase-wise reopening of educational institutions from July 12 following safety protocols. All educational institutions were facing closure since April 5 owing to Covid-19 induced lockdown in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/educational-institutions-in-bihar-gear-up-for-partial-reopening-from-monday-101626018037736.html
11-07-2021||Other||{Union cabinet reshuffle} Modi has not done full justice with Punjab, says ex-state minister||Pathankot Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Punjab transport minister Master Mohan Lal said on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not given enough representation to Punjab in the Union Cabinet, in the recent reshuffle. He added that this was not ‘full justice’ with Punjab.His statement assumes significance as its comes just a day after former Punjab minister and senior saffron party leader Anil Joshi was expelled from the party for six years for what the party claimed was dissent. Lal had backed Joshi. Interacting with the media, he said, “It is unfortunate that Punjab doesn’t have representation in the council of ministers, as it should have. Punjab has played the best role in boosting the economy of the country, yet it is not given even 1% preference. We make the largest contribution to the Central grain poll, and the state bore the brunt of the consequences of our wars with Pakistan.”“The 2022 assembly elections are approaching, but I have seen that the PM Narendra Modi has not done full justice to Punjab. Hardeep Singh Puri has got cabinet rank and Som Parkash is there as a minister of state, but Punjab should have been given more representation,” he said.He added, “I hope the PM will take care of Punjab and include more cabinet ministers from the state to give it full representation. These ministers will play a vital role in favour of the BJP in the assembly polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-cabinet-reshuffle-modi-has-not-done-full-justice-with-punjab-says-ex-state-minister-101626017378220.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police recruitment: Apply for sub-inspector posts by July 27||Online applications to directly recruit nearly 4,400 constables in district and armed cadres will go live within a week, Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said in a release on Sunday. Meanwhile, online applications to directly recruit 560 sub-inspectors in different cadres, including district police, armed police, investigation and intelligence officers, have already been invited and interested candidates can submit them by July 27, he said. Candidates getting free physical coachingThe DGP said over 20,000 candidates, a third of whom are women, have also started their physical training at the police lines grounds and other venues in all districts, as part of free coaching for physical trial events being provided by the department since June 27. He said apart from trained manpower, the candidates are also being provided with the required sports equipment. “Any candidate interested in joining the free coaching can contact the nodal officers designated for each district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-recruitment-apply-for-sub-inspector-posts-by-july-27-101626017138527.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran: Youth Akali leader’s father booked for minor’s rape||The father of Youth Akali Dal’s Tarn Taran city president Deepak Kairon has been booked for allegedly raping their household’s 12-year-old domestic help, police said on Sunday.Identified as Ashok Kumar, 67, the accused is a commission agent. The family also runs a hotel in the city. The victim’s father works as a rickshaw puller. The case was registered on the complaint of his wife. According to her, the girl had been working and staying at Ashok Kumar’s house for the past three months, but returned home a few days back. “When I asked her about the reason for not going to work, she told me that Ashok Kumar had raped her. She also complained of pain in her private parts,” the complainant told police. Deputy superintendent of police (city), Tarn Taran, Sucha Singh Ball said the girl’s medical examination was conducted at the civil hospital and the accused was booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. While Ashok Kumar is on the run, his son Deepak Kairon was not available for comment as his phone was switched off. Meanwhile, the victim’s family and some locals protested outside the police station on Sunday, alleging the accused was “allowed to flee”. However, the DSP denied the allegation and said that teams have been sent to trace him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-youth-akali-leader-s-father-booked-for-minor-s-rape-101626016478406.html
11-07-2021||Other||Explain your silence on Kejriwal’s SC plea: SAD to Punjab AAP||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday questioned the silence of the Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on its convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal filing a petition seeking closure of the state’s thermal power plants in the Supreme Court. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema in a press note, said, “The leaders of the Punjab unit of AAP, including its state convener Bhagwant Mann, and legislature party leader Harpal Cheema have failed to react to the anti-Punjab step of party convener, Kejriwal.” Cheema added that the Punjab AAP owed an explanation to Punjabis. “They should explain if they had been taken into confidence before the Delhi government filed its petition on seeking closure of thermal plants. If they had been informed, then they should tell Punjabis why they did not raise any objection. Why are they silent till now,” he added. Cheema claimed it was now increasingly clear that Kejriwal had deliberately filed a petition in the apex court with the sole purpose of worsening the power crisis in Punjab. “Kejriwal wants to play politics on the misery of Punjabis after ruining their agriculture and industry. The silence of the Punjab AAP unit proves that it is also an accomplice in this conspiracy,” Cheema alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/explain-your-silence-on-kejriwal-s-sc-plea-sad-to-punjab-aap-101626015578642.html
11-07-2021||Kolkata||3 Bangladeshis with suspected JMB link nabbed in Kolkata||The special task force of the Kolkata Police on Sunday afternoon arrested three Bangladeshi nationals with suspected links with the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), police said.The three men have been identified as Naziur Rahman Pavel, 30; Mekail Khan, 30; and Rabiul Islam, 22. The police are trying to find out if the trio had plans to carry out a terror attack in Kolkata.The suspects were living in a rented apartment at Haridevpur in the southern outskirts of Kolkata, said V Solomon Nesakumar, joint commissioner of police (STF).The arrested men posed as traders and used to sell fruits and mosquito nets, police found. They used Hindu names to take the apartment on rent. Naziur Rahman, who is suspected to be the leader of the group, used the name Jayram Bapari. He also went by the name Joseph.“Militant literature and documents seized from the suspects prove their links with the JMB. Fake identity cards were also seized. There is a diary that contains the names of Islamic State (IS) leaders,” said the joint commissioner.“We have scrutinised their social media profiles. There is proof of their links with JMB militants,” said Aparajita Rai, deputy commissioner of police (STF).“These men had links with Al Amin, the JMB leader based in Bangladesh,” she added.The arrested men were being interrogated.Reacting to the arrests, the Bharatiya Janata Party's Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh said, "Terror groups treat Bengal as a safe haven. We have seen several arrests in recent years."Trinamool Congress leaders said the arrests prove that the police are active and vigilant.The arrests come months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested several men from Bengal’s Murshidabad district for alleged links with the Al Qaeda.In September last year, the NIA arrested 10 people from West Bengal and Kerala. These arrests were followed by several more in the subsequent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/3-bangladeshis-with-suspected-jmb-link-nabbed-in-kolkata-101626014258183.html
11-07-2021||Pune||PMC to construct 200-metric ton garbage processing plant||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is all set to construct a mammoth 200 metric tons garbage processing plant at one of the strategic spots of the newly included 23 villages in the PMC urban agglomeration. The PMC has sought grants worth ₹200 crore from the state government for setting up the plant and has got assent for the same. The grant is likely to be credited to the PMC exchequer soon while a draft plan is being readied to be immediately implemented. The decision has been taken as tons of garbage and waste was being dumped along the roadsides in major villages leading to a fresh set of challenges before the administration. With the PMC taking over the villages, the zilla parishad has withdrawn from collecting and disposing the garbage leading to widespread accumulation and possibility of a major outbreak of garbage induced diseases amidst the spread of Covid-19 in the city and the district. PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Lots of garbage is getting accumulated in the villages and disposal is a major issue in the gram panchayat. We had not expected this problem to crop up as 200 tonnes garbage is being generated every day and it requires processing. The big gram panchayat did not have their independent processing units. Currently it is also being dumped in the ‘gairan’ area of the villages. Till what time will the garbage be dumped at the roadside.” In the meantime, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also started to identify new lands for the garbage disposal for the merged 23 villages. As per the PMC’s estimate around 200 metric tonnes of garbage is generated per day in big villages like Manjari, Wagholi, Shivane and Ambegaon area which according to the administration are the maximum garbage generating urban sprawls. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has also instructed the solid waste management department to utilize the gram panchayat’s facility for a few days. Two weeks ago, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to pay ₹2 crore for not completely complying with the tribunal order from 2018, related to a garbage dumping ground in Uruli Devachi and Phursungi. The fine amount will be utilized to enforce an action plan to restore the environment in the area which will have to be prepared by PMC, as originally directed, and submitted to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). The Maharashtra Environment Secretary will monitor the compliance by PMC. MPCB and state environment department will assess continued violation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and levy a compensatory amount that PMC will have to pay along with the ₹2 crore, according to the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-construct-200-metric-ton-garbage-processing-plant-101626011797506.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Woman arrested after brown sugar worth ₹4.25 lakh recovered||A 36-year-old woman was found selling brown sugar from her house in Pimpri on Saturday. The woman was identified as Deeka Sagar Thorat (36), a resident of Bharatnagar area of Pimpri, according to the police. Hawaldar Balasaheb Suryavanshi of anti-narcotics cell received information about a seller of brown sugar near the Goddess Lakshmi temple in Bharatnagar slum area of Pimpri. Based on the information, the police conducted a raid at the given location and found the woman in possession of 85gram of brown sugar worth ₹4,25,000. The woman’s sister identified as Reena Randive was also present in the house but gave a slip to the police, according to the police. The police are on a lookout for the person from whom the women sourced the drug. “The arrested woman has told the police that she brought it from a man named Swamy Anna from Koliwada area of Sion, Mumbai,” read a statement from the anti-narcotics cell of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. A case under relevant Sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropoc Substances Act was registered at Pimpri police station. Assistant police inspector Shashank Kadam of Pimpri police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-arrested-after-brown-sugar-worth-rs-4-25-lakh-recovered-101626009877433.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||'All 3 parties have decided...': Sharad Pawar says next Maharashtra speaker to be from Congress only||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, considered as the architect of the unlikely Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance, comprising the NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress, said on Sunday that the next speaker of the Maharashtra legislative assembly will be from the Congress only. The post has been lying vacant since February when then-speaker, Nana Patole, was made the state Congress president.Also Read: Nana Patole resigns as Maharashtra speaker, to be state Congress chief"All three parties have decided that the new speaker will be from the Congress only. We will all support whatever the Congress decides about the speaker," Pawar told media persons in Pune city's Baramati district. Election for the post of the speaker was expected to take place during the special two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra assembly, which took place on July 5 and 6. However, neither a meeting of the state cabinet, nor those among various leaders of the alliance, could arrive at a unanimous decision. According to reports, the Congress was keen to hold an election soon, but the NCP and Sena were not.Also Read: No decision on post of Maharashtra SpeakerThe election for the post of the speaker takes place via a secret vote.As per the power-sharing pact among the three parties, Congress, the junior-most alliance member, was given the post of the speaker, while the NCP received several key portfolios, including home. Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray heads the alliance as the chief minister of Maharashtra.The MVA was formed after the Sena, and its now former ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), split despite winning a second consecutive five-year term in late 2019. The chief minister's post was a major bone of contention between the Thackeray-led party and the BJP.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-3-parties-have-decided-sharad-pawar-says-next-maharashtra-speaker-to-be-from-congress-only-101626008155477.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Southern Army Commander visits territorial army group headquarters, Agnibaaz division||Lieutenant General JS Nain, Army Commander, Southern Command, reviewed the operational readiness and tasks undertaken by the Territorial Army Group and its affiliated units during his visit to its headquarters on Friday. Brigadier MS Sidhu, Commander, Territorial Army Group Headquarters, briefed the Army Commander about the unit’s activities. Territorial Army (TA) has been at the forefront of various nation-building activities, including providing security backup in sensitive areas of Jammu & Kashmir and North-East. Ecological TA battalions carry out plantation drives in Rajasthan and Maharashtra. TA also has railway and oil sector units that are required to operate trains in forward areas and supplement oil supplies during war. The general officer complimented the Territorial Army for their work. The Army Commander visited Agnibaaz division in Pune and was briefed by Major General Anoop Jakhar, General Officer Commanding of the division. Lt Gen Nain said the Agnibaaz Division is the power hub in the Southern Theatre. He emphasised maintaining a high state of combat readiness as well as synergy and cooperation with other resources for giving a cohesive and befitting response during any future contingency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/southern-army-commander-visits-territorial-army-group-headquarters-agnibaaz-division-101626008197398.html
11-07-2021||Jaipur||7 months and farmers protest against 3 agri-laws continues in Rajasthan||Its’ been over 200 days of their agitation at Shahjhanpur border against the farm laws passed by the Government of India, farmers have decided to Gherao the parliament daily, and pressure opposition to raising questions related to farmers inside the house. To maintain the momentum of the agitation, as it has stretched long, the farmers have now adopted a new strategy - a dozen or more from every village will be sent to the agitation place (Shahjahanpur border on Jaipur-Delhi highway) in rotation, which helps them to manage their personal and household works. The seven-month-long farmers protest led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha is probably one of the longest continuous protests in the country, where thousands have joined in from different parts of the country. Convener, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, Sanjay Madhav said sowing has been done and the farmers in large numbers have started returning. It has been more than seven months since the protest started but the government is still adamant with its stand that the three farm laws will not be rolled back. He continued, “If the law is not withdrawn, then the government will be removed. The way they were defeated in West Bengal, will be repeated in other states. The trade, labour and farmers’ organization will go among the masses on-farm laws, increasing inflation and changes in labour laws. ‘Ab janta hee ilaj karegi (now people will deal with them),” said Madhav. The monsoon session will start on July 19, the Morcha will send a letter to all opposition parties of the country on July 17 to ensure that the session is used to support the struggle of the farmers; and that the government is bound to fulfil the demands of the farmers, he said. Along with this, from July 22, at least 200 protesters will protest outside Parliament every day till the end of the monsoon session, he added. The farmers are firm on their demand for the repeal of agricultural laws. He said, “The government has not yet given a single reason why these laws cannot be repealed. We can only conclude that in the world’s largest democracy, an elected government is the most important of its citizens. Playing a game of arrogance with a large section - the peasantry - and giving priority to the interests of crony capitalists over the grain of the country will not work,” said Madhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/7-months-and-farmers-protest-against-3-agri-laws-continues-in-rajasthan-101626005857934.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Your Space: Infra development top priority in 23 villages merged in Pune municipal limits||The merger of 23 new villages into Pune Municipal Corporation, though a populist decision, will leave the civic administration handle basic amenities of an extended area of 518 sq km from its present 334 sq km. What are the steps that PMC should take to turn this merger into advantage and boost exchequer? Planned development must in merged areas We can have planned development in the new areas that have been merged into Pune civic limits. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should provide facilities and the government should give subsidies to improve civic amenities in these villages. The new areas can be utilised for creating infrastructure related to housing, transport, medical, new colleges and garbage management. Projects like low-cost housing can be promoted in the areas for slum rehabilitation. Dinesh Sood Merger will help rationalise property tax The merger of 23 villages under PMC has its advantages and disadvantages. Since the area after merger has increased, it becomes a challenge to manage the same unless the professional manpower is employed for the task. There are many advantages of the merger. Property tax collection of PMC will increase multifold due to the merger. The increase in revenue can be rationally utilised to develop the existing facilities and provide basic amenities to the villages newly merged. The merger can also help in bringing the development faster since the hierarchy has changed and communication becoming easier. The merger can also help in judicious estimation of property tax as the payer base will increase. Any decision or change has its own advantages and disadvantages. It’s up to us how we want to utilise the same. Ankit Rungta Focus on development should be priority Although the merger makes Pune the biggest city in Maharashtra in terms of geographical area, I wonder how much beneficial the decision would turn out for the added villages. For the current size of Pune, there are already numerous issues which are unanswered for years. With the addition of these 23 villages, it would be challenging for the administration. The new villages would be seeking benefits of being included in city limits and they don’t even know how long will it be till they actually see the benefits. I feel PMC is going to have a tough job at their hands for the next 5-10 years. The appointment of right people and focus on development would probably change the game. Aditya Gund New areas should have a separate civic body The advantages of being in municipal area include planned development, stricter watch on unauthorised construction, being part of larger authority, better chances of good implementation of common facilities such as footpaths, roads and water. Part of a large municipal corporation also has its disadvantage. It should have been divided into two civic bodies, as there may be delay in work implementation/decisions due to workload on the authorities to cover a bigger geographical area. Nihar Adkar Good to be part of the city Living in one of these 23 villages never felt like a part of Pune. Apart from living amidst greenery, one had to travel long distance for other amenities. It feels good to be officially recognised as a Punekar and not being condescended as a countryman. We have been waiting for this merger for years now and finally the civic body has made it official. Over the years, living in a village but staying close to urban life has been influencing our lifestyle. Although, centralised infrastructure and roads which would be maintained by the authorities would not only make our life easier, but make us feel a part of the city. Tax collection would be better and streamlined as population has increased by 0.2 million. Ronit Augustin. Strategies must for new areas With the merger of 23 villages into PMC limits, the civic body becomes largest municipal corporation in the state. However, they will have to plan new strategies for generating revenue for the administration and development of extended area. PMC needs funds from the state and they can generate funds by altering taxes. PMC can get more revenue through these villages. They will have to put more effort to administer and give basic facilities to the people. Guru Sontakke Infra development of villages must It will support Pune Municipal Corporation for development and work towards achieving progress. The city administration has to take initiatives such as construction of sewage treatment plants (STP), remodeling of stormwater drains, water supply, development of waste management facilities, rehabilitation of slums under environmentally sensitive locations, residential area, commercial, industrial, public utilities, transport, public transport, metro, ring roads, road widening and subways, recreational reserved, forest and agriculture, river improvement forest land, water bodies, hills and housing policy. Parag Rasal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-infra-development-top-priority-in-23-villages-merged-in-pune-municipal-limits-101626003759173.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath unveils UP Population Policy. Check all key points here||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday spoke about the need for curbing population growth to address the ‘hurdles of development’ as he launched Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030. He said nations that addressed the issue have seen positive results. The chief minster said the new policy has been prepared keeping all sections of society in mind.“Increasing population is the root of major problems, including inequality, prevailing in society. Population control is the primary condition for the establishment of an advanced society,” Adityanath said. According to the new policy, couples who do not have more than two children will benefit from government schemes.Here are some of the key points of Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-unveils-up-population-policy-check-all-key-points-here-101626001017106.html
11-07-2021||Dehradun||Arvind Kejriwal offers 300 units free electricity to Uttarakhand if AAP wins||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised 300 units of free electricity to people in Uttarakhand if his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was elected to power in the assembly elections next year. Kejriwal’s offer comes four days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state promised to provide the first 100 units of electricity for free and the next 100 at 50% discount.Kejriwal gave four guarantees related to electricity: “First we will provide 300 units of free electricity, which will have a financial implication of around ₹1200 crore. Second, people won’t have to pay old pending and inflated bills. Third, there will be no power cuts in the state; electricity will be provided 24X7 and fourth, farmers in the state will get free electricity for farming purposes”, he said.Kejriwal asked why people in Uttarakhand had to pay a heavy amount for power despite the state producing electricity in good quantity and why no party in the state had thought of providing free power to residents till now.Kejriwal said the Uttarakhand’s minister for energy and renewable energy’s announcement to provide 100 units of electricity free and the next hundred at 50% discount had no value in the face of a denial by the chief minister. “Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said the state has no such proposal, which made it clear that they will not provide free electricity,” he said.Kejriwal also alleged that the Congress and the BJP had some “arrangement” between them. “Since 2000, first one [party] comes to power and then the other. BJP is busy changing CMs, [it is] something that has happened for the first time in 70 years that the party is itself saying that this or that CM is not good and needs to be changed. ...Congress can’t make up its mind about who will lead the state, who will be the leader of Opposition. Both the parties have destroyed Uttarakhand,” he claimedTalking about replicating AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand, he said if the party comes to power it will transform the schools and health infrastructure. “Our leaders here are talking to youth, and within a month or so, we will make a big announcement about employment for the state’s youth”, he said.“I also want to appeal to all those who love this nation, who are honest and feel stifled in their parties, to leave their parties and join AAP”, he saidKejriwal said he will soon return to the state to announce AAP’s CM candidate.With less than a year left for the next state assembly elections, AAP is increasingly becoming aggressive. Over the last eight months or so, it has attacked the ruling BJP on various issues including corruption, unemployment and health through various political events and on social media.In the Himalayan state, Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL), a government of Uttarakhand undertaking, is the sole distributor of electricity to over 2.5 million consumers across the state with a peak demand of 2233 MW.Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson said AAP was trying to mislead the people of Uttarakhand. “They are just trying to mislead people of the state with such promises. Everyone knows the condition of Mohalla clinics in Delhi and the overall Delhi model. Here they don’t have much cadre or a face. They can’t even win the local civic elections [in Uttarakhand] if they try”.Bhasin refuted Kejriwal’s claim that the BJP government had no intention to provide free power and said that the CM hadn’t rejected the proposal but he only meant to say that it hadn’t been brought before the cabinet yet. “He just spoke about the technicality that it hasn’t yet been brought before the state cabinet,” Bhasin said.Pritam Singh, state president of the Congress said AAP doesn’t have any roots in the state and it was a B-team of the BJP. “They know very well that they can’t win here. They have no base here and people of the state will themselves give them a befitting reply”. He added that so far the party didn’t have any plans to provide free electricity if elected to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/arvind-kejriwal-offers-300-units-free-electricity-to-uttarakhand-if-aap-wins-101626001957758.html
11-07-2021||Other||1,800 affected in 8 days. Tripura govt concerned over surge in anaemia cases||As many as 1,799 cases of anaemia have been detected after screening 4,429 people in Tripura in eight days since July 1, said a health official on Sunday. Among the anaemia cases, 55 were severe, 710 are moderate and the rest 1034 were mild. The state has started mass anaemia testing across the state since July 1 following concern over the rise in anaemia cases in the state as per the latest National Family Health Survey report. “According to the NFHS4 report, Tripura had nearly 50 percent anaemia cases. The matter has become a concern after it rose to around 67 percent, as shown in the latest National Family Health Survey report. So, we have taken up the initiative throughout the state since July 1 and it will continue. People are also cooperating,” said Dr Mausumi Sarkar, state nodal officer of Anaemia Mukt Tripura drive. She added that they follow two methods for conducting anaemia tests. One is Sahil’s method and another one is the Digital HB method. Out of a total of 4,429 tests, samples of 2,905 people were tested on Sahil’s method while the rest 2,006 were tested as per the Digital HB method. “In order to increase the pace of testing, we have introduced Digital Haemoglobinometer,” she said. West district has 768 anaemia patients, the highest among the other seven districts in the state, though Unakoti district has the highest proportionate figure of anaemia patients, as per the government data. The officer said that they have completed district level training of facility nodal officers and laboratory technicians. However, facility-level orientation training for all medical officers, multipurpose workers, ASHA is yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-1-800-anaemia-cases-detected-in-tripura-in-8-days-state-health-dept-101626001717851.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Over 90% of Delhi police personnel fully vaccinated against Covid-19||The Delhi Police has fully vaccinated over 90 per cent of its staff against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while nearly all personnel have been inoculated with the first dose, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Being at the forefront of combating the pandemic in the national capital, the Delhi Police has and continues to execute a range of duties such as ensuring adherence to lockdown and other restrictions and Covid-appropriate behaviour, awareness drives about the viral disease and also imposing challans (fines) for violations of any Covid norms. About a month ago, the force had announced setting up of district and thana-level committees for public healthcare management in view of the third wave of the pandemic in Delhi.An official statement said it is important to focus on the safety of Covid-19 warriors and, hence, the Delhi Police has made arrangements for complete inoculation of its staff and their families. A total of 70 per cent of such family members have been fully vaccinated till now.Also Read| Collected over ₹27 crore in fines for Covid norm violations: Delhi Police to HCTwelve police personnel have, so far, lost the battle to the viral disease despite receiving both the doses, while the recovery rate among the vaccinated is over 99 per cent.The personnel have also been motivated through webinars, text messages and circulars to get the jab. ANI reported that Balaji Srivastava, the newly appointed commissioner of the police force, interacted with the personnel and advised them to encourage their family members to get vaccinated as quickly as possible.Dedicated centres have been set up for inoculating the police personnel and their families. A vaccination drive for the family members aged 18-45 years has also been launched at these centres by the Delhi Police. At the beginning of the second wave, two Covid care centres were set up by the police for its personnel and their families in Rohini and Shahdara districts.Meanwhile, the authorities in Delhi have, so far, administered doses to as many as 8,817,257 beneficiaries against Covid-19. Of them, 6,766,972 have received the first dose, while the remaining 20,50,285 have received both the doses, according to the health department’s bulletin. On Saturday, 76 new cases and one more death were reported taking the caseload and death toll to 14,35,030 and 25,012, respectively. Active cases have declined to 792, while 14,09,226 have recovered from Covid-19 till now.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-90-of-delhi-police-personnel-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101625998343361.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Yamuna levels at 'all-time' low, Delhi Jal Board to move SC against Haryana||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha took to Twitter on Sunday to announce the board’s decision to move the Supreme Court against the Haryana government for withholding Delhi’s share of water. Chadha said water levels in the Yamuna river were at an “all-time low”, as Haryana was not releasing Delhi’s “legitimate share” as per a 1995 ruling of the Supreme Court."We are witnessing all-time low water levels in Yamuna river as Delhi's water share withheld by Haryana. @DelhiJalBoard has decided to move Hon'ble Supreme Court against Haryana Govt seeking due supply of Delhi's legitimate share as already determined by the Hon'ble SC in 1995," Chadha tweeted."Raw water discharge through Yamuna by Haryana is at an all-time low. Even 1Ft decline can cause havoc in the city but currently the pond level has fallen from 674.5 Ft to 667 Ft. Delhi's legitimate share is withheld by the Haryana government," he added.We are witnessing all-time low water levels in Yamuna river as Delhi's water share withheld by Haryana.@DelhiJalBoard has decided to move Hon'ble Supreme Court against Haryana Govt seeking due supply of Delhi's legitimate share as already determined by the Hon'ble SC in 1995.Attaching pictures of the Wazirabad pond with his tweet, Chadha said there has been a drop in the water levels there and in the operational capacity at Chandrawal, Wazirabad and Okhla water treatment plants due to the withholding of Delhi’s share of water by the authorities of the neighbouring state."Haryana was directed by Upper Yamuna River Board (UYRB) upon the Supreme Court's direction to supply 150 cusecs above Delhi's requirement. But Haryana is not even supplying the requirement, leave alone additional water," Chadha had said at a press conference on July 10.Also Read: Haryana to blame for water shortage in Delhi: Raghav ChadhaThe Aam Aadmi Party Member of Legislative Assembly alleged that the water crisis in central, south, and west Delhi had been caused by Haryana supplying about 100 million gallons less water everyday. He also said the Supreme Court’s direction to Haryana for supply of an additional 150 cusecs of water above Delhi's requirement has also not been met as the state continues to not supply even the required amount. Chadha added that he has written 12 letters to the Haryana government and authorities concerned but to no avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yamuna-levels-at-all-time-low-delhi-jal-board-to-move-sc-against-haryana-101625999257793.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi considers offline teacher training after nod to reopen school auditoriums||After the Delhi Disaster Management Authority removed academic and training activities from the list of completely prohibited activities, the Delhi government on Sunday said it will now start preparation and planning for reopening of schools in the national capital. Teaching-learning activities, however, shall continue in online mode, it added.On Saturday, DDMA allowed the use of auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions for academic training and meetings at 50% seating capacity following all Covid appropriate behaviour and protocol.This comes ahead of the two-week long parent-teacher meeting in the state government schools from July 19 to 31 to discuss teaching-learning processes and concerns of parents over the reopening of schools.“Owing to the considerable decline in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and overall improvement of the situation, DDMA removed academic and training activities from the list of completely prohibited activities,” the government said in a statement on Sunday.“This decision will give a boost to ongoing education projects of the Delhi Governments like teacher training in offline mode also, in a phased manner,” the government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-considers-offline-teacher-training-after-nod-to-reopen-school-auditoriums-101625996917631.html
11-07-2021||Jaipur||Unlock 4: Rajasthan ends weekend curfew; cinemas to open with 50% capacity||The Rajasthan government has scrapped the weekend curfew, clamped earlier to contain the pandemic, beginning Sunday as infections in the state continue to dip. The government also released guidelines for further relaxations such as opening of movie theatres, training centres, tourists’ movements, marriage ceremonies, indoor and outdoor games.Active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan have dropped to 750 and 16 of the state’s 33 districts reported zero new cases in the 24 hours preceding the release of the data. However, the state reported two Covid-19 deaths in the same period.The home department’s guidelines said tourists from outside the state will no longer require a negative RT-PCR test report or home/institutional quarantine if they have received at least the first dose of a vaccine against Covid-19.Cinema halls/theatres/multiplex operators who have posted their seating capacity information online will be allowed to open with 50% capacity between 9 am and 8 pm only for those who have got at least the first dose of the vaccines.Similarly, skill development centers in the state will be allowed to open with 50% capacity from 6 am to 8 pm with the same condition.Marriage functions will be permitted from 6 am to 8 pm with a maximum of 25 persons in attendance. However, the number of guests can be increased to 50 by the sub-divisional magistrate on the basis of a review.Outdoor games have been allowed till 8 pm while indoor games will be allowed only for those who have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.The government has also allowed outlets where 60% staff have been vaccinated to operate for an additional four hours, till 8 pm; while hotels and restaurants with 60% vaccinated staff will be allowed to operate till 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/unlock-4-rajasthan-ends-weekend-curfew-cinemas-to-open-with-50-capacity-101625993617631.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh further relaxes night curfew timings: All you need to know||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced another revision of night curfew timings in the state, which will be now implemented statewide from 10pm to 6am. This decision was taken in view of the current coronavirus situation in the state, which the government say is under control.A similar decision of reduced the night curfew timings came into force on June 21. From 7pm to 7am, the timings were relaxed 9pm to 7am.The UP government has also allowed resumption of markets located outside of containment zones, and allowed restaurants to open with 50% capacity from June 21. Attendance was made compulsory for government employees. Social functions like marriages were allowed to take place with a ceiling of 50 guests for both indoor and outdoor ceremonies. Religious places were also opened up for devotees with a maximum number of 50 guests.Also Read: 'Every community taken care of': Yogi Adityanath launches UP population policyUP imposed a curfew to curb the rising number of coronavirus cases on April 30, which was initially extended till May 31. Curbs were relaxed in most districts from June, as the number of active cases fell below the 20,000-mark. Only the districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur had to abide by curfew norms as active cases in these three districts were above 600UP’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases have been on the downswing. The state recorded a total of 100 cases on Saturday, and four fatalities. Recoveries continued to outnumber new cases, with 183 people making a full recovery in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate in the state now stands at 98.6 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-further-relaxes-night-curfew-timings-all-you-need-to-know-101625992100947.html
11-07-2021||Dehradun||‘Not a jumla’: Arvind Kejriwal gives 4 guarantees in poll-bound Uttarakhand||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who arrived in Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun on Sunday, announced four guarantees including free electricity to the people of the poll-bound state. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal, who is also the AAP's national convener, said, “Today, I’m giving you four guarantees with regard to electricity. This is not an election jumla. The first guarantee is that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will provide 300 units of electricity free of cost to every family of Uttarakhand if the party comes into power.”He said the second guarantee is that all old electricity bills will be forgiven.Also Read| Eye on polls, Arvind Kejriwal promises free electricity in Punjab“For the past few months, our party workers have been going from home to home. There have been several instances where people have received wrong electricity bills, which at times is done intentionally. For example, a person receives a wrong bill of ₹60,000. Now when the person goes to correct it, he/she is told to pay ₹10,000 and the bill will be forgiven. And then the person is running from pillar to post.” Kejriwal said, adding the number of wrong bills is so high that the entire machinery will be unable to correct it.The third guarantee which the Delhi chief minister gave is that there will be no power cuts in Uttarakhand and electricity will be available 24x7. He pointed out that free electricity does not mean that less of it will be provided.Uttarakhand के लिए Kejriwal जी की 4 बड़ी गारंटी‼️AAP की सरकार बनने के बाद देवभूमि के लोगों को -⚡हर महीने 300 Unit Bijli Free ⚡पुराने बिजली Bill माफ होंगे⚡24 घंटे Electricity देंगे⚡किसानों को मुफ़्त बिजली मिलेगी- CM @ArvindKejriwal#KejriwalKiBijliGuarantee⚡ pic.twitter.com/IzeG1R8EhTThe fourth and the final guarantee which Kejriwal gave is that all farmers in Uttarakhand will get electricity for free.Kejriwal also said that except for ensuring 24x7 availability of electricity, the remaining three guarantees will be fulfilled right when the AAP comes into power in Uttarakhand. “It will take 3-4 years to ensure 24x7 availability of electricity as the network will have to be rectified,” he added.Also Read| Uttarakhand announces free electricity scheme ahead of assembly electionsBefore Uttarakhand, Kejriwal had in June visited another poll-bound state, Punjab, where he promised 300 units of free electricity for each household along with a waiver of their pending bills.During Sunday’s briefing in Dehradun, the Delhi CM also hit out at the ruling and opposition parties in Uttarakhand by alleging that such leaders have left no stone unturned to destroy the state. The ruling party does not have a chief minister while the opposition party does not have a leader, Kejriwal said.“Opposition doesn’t have a leader. They have been coming to Delhi for the past month to select a leader. Who will think about the development of Uttarakhand residents? Are these parties concerned about the state’s people? They do not care. They are only fighting for power.” Kejriwal further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/not-a-poll-jumla-arvind-kejriwal-gives-4-guarantees-in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-101625990284610.html
11-07-2021||Patna||Controversial Bihar SHO suspended for nexus with liquor mafia||A Bihar Police inspector posted in capital Patna has been suspended for alleged nexus with illicit liquor mafia. Inspector Mohammad Qaisar Alam, currently the station house officer (SHO) of Buddha Colony police station, was punished after a report by inspector general (prohibition) Amrit Raj said he was involved with the liquor mafia. “The SHO has been placed under suspension based on a report on his illegal activities,” confirmed Patna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Sharma. A senior official in state police headquarters said Alam was under the radar after his name surfaced during June 12 raid in Digha police station area, where five individuals involved in the liquor mafia were arrested with two SUVs and 326 litres of liquor. Sale and purchase and consumption of liquor is prohibited in Bihar. The Prohibition department soon found out that one of the absconding accused was constantly in touch with the suspended inspector. The officer allegedly protected him and his illegal business. The SHO was then put under surveillance. The suspended SHO was also accused in the fake encounter of 21-year-old Mohammed Gurfan in Samastipur district on February 5, 2002.On December 28, 2018, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar demanding the suspension of Alam, posted as SHO of Phulwarisharif police station. Tej Pratap alleged he saw a liquor bottle inside the SHO’s chamber, which he said was an offence since liquor was banned in the state.Later on, May 23, 2019, the central range deputy inspector general (DIG) Rajesh Kumar ordered an inquiry against the SHO for alleged illegal detention of a person after his vehicle was seized for not possessing valid papers. He directed the SSP to attach the SHO to the Police Lines if found guilty in the inquiry report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/controversial-bihar-sho-suspended-for-nexus-with-liquor-mafia-101625985037179.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||More relaxations in Delhi: Auditoriums, assembly halls in educational institutions allowed to open||The Delhi administration has allowed auditoriums and assembly halls in educational institutions to open with 50% capacity from Monday. Students, however, are still not allowed to attend the institutions physically. This easing of restrictions is only meant for teachers and professors."Only teachers and professors will be allowed inside educational institutions for online lectures and other administrative work," said the notification issued by the state government.Academic gatherings and meetings will also be allowed with 50% capacity in educational institutions under the seventh phase of unlocking.Exemption to attend in-person classes has only been given to Delhi Police and Army personnel, who can attend skill training classes without seeking permission from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Also Read: Delhi unlock: Stadiums, sports complexes open; movie halls to remain shutDelhi was put under a strict lockdown from April 19 to May 30 as the second wave ravaged the city. The national capital started unlocking in phases from May 31. With coronavirus cases going down the government has been allowing more relaxations on a weekly basis. However, with people flouting Covid-19 protocols experts have started cautioning against a possible third wave with more severe consequences.DDMA allowed stadiums and sports complexes to operate at 50% capacity from July 5. Metros and public buses in the national capital have also been plying at reduced capacity. A week before that gyms and yoga institutes were allowed to open at 50% capacity. Hotels and banquets have also been allowed to host weddings with a maximum of 50 guests.Spas, multiplexes, cinema halls, religious and social gatherings continue to be prohibited. The national capital recorded 76 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, and one fatality. The Covid-19 positivity rate slipped further to 0.9% in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-relaxations-in-delhi-auditoriums-assembly-halls-in-educational-institutions-allowed-to-open-101625984077856.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||No driving test to get license now! Delhiites wonder why?||Remember the days of queuing up in trepidation at the regional transport office (RTO) when trying to pass the driving test for a license? No longer are Delhiites required to go through this struggle since the new amendment in the rule by Union Transport Ministry states that passing a driving test is ‘not mandatory’ to get a license! Surprised? Well, while many in the Capital are sure taking this as a good riddance, but the change that might have been introduced to make life easier is being speculated to have other repercussions as well. What is the common (wo)man’s view?It might be easier to get your license now, however, the number of people who have vehicles to drive on the roads “is scary”, says a Patparganj-based entrepreneur Geeta Verma, adding, “It’s going to be a chaotic situation on the road! I am dreading it already as I need to go to work every day and ab sab hi road pe honge unlock mein! It’s so risky as it has become much easier to get a license... And by the time the violators are challaned, for all you know they might have already skipped a test at the cost of a life!” Arnav Rajpal, a student of Delhi Technological University, is hopeful that the new rule and the system being set-up will help regulate traffic by making the drivers more responsible. He adds, “There should be some uniformity so that the applicant’s driving skill level is above a certain threshold, to as to ensure road safety. Previously, there were many RTOs and each would have a different driving test according to the space and resources available. Even then some could get away with a driving licence without appearing for a proper test, so not driving rules but the drivers need to get updated.”A few driving schools to go out of business?The training centres, which will now be allowed, shall be required to have simulators and a dedicated driving test track. Opining on this, Anil Kumar, owner of driving school in Pitampura, says that this decision has put them in a tough spot. “The authorities have asked for a two acre track for the test, and we cannot arrange that. And if that’s the case, no one will come to us and other smaller driving schools. It’s going to be tough to sustain in the business. Let’s see if we are able to continue or need to change business,” he says. Vijay Kumar, owner of a driving school in Dwarka, feels that just the training in a driving school isn’t enough to get a license and start driving independently. “Driving needs practice. A lot of times people learn driving from the driving schools, but they are still not ready to drive on the road. Sirf basics clear hote hain driving school mein, on-road experience toh chahiye. So there must be an on-road test after any training,” he adds. Expert’s opinionA city-based road safety officer for over six years, Raj Kumar Yadav says that this sort of judgement comes with it’s own pros and cons, and explains: “It’s good in the sense that there will be private driving schools that will be reputed, where people can take their training. And this will certainly help them drive better. But yes, there is also a chance that these schools would just train as a formality as compared to the details that were earlier taken into account at RTOs. So, the new rule could swing either way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-driving-test-to-get-license-now-delhiites-wonder-why-101625984098904.html
11-07-2021||Patna||50 Bihar firms caused ₹171 crore loss in GST tax, raided||The commercial taxes department on Saturday carried searches at 50 business firms across Bihar and detected tax swindling worth ₹171 crore through fake e-way bills and fraudulent claim of input tax credit (ITC).Out of the 50 firms searched, 49 firms were found to be non-existent. “ Prima facie investigations show that these firms are all fictitious firms and have been involved in fraudulent transactions against the goods and service tax (GST) regulations,” said a senior officer in the commercial department.He said all the 50 firms, claiming to be mainly engaged in iron, steel, coal, copper, bitumen, lead and other materials, were found to have made transactions worth ₹958 crore over the past few years. The firms searched today were mostly under Saran, Patna West, Tirhut, Patna East and Darbhanga divisions of the department.Sources said the firms were selected for searches by using data analytics and 360 degree profiling on the instructions of commissioner cum secretary, commercial taxes department Dr Pratima.Officials said the department had started tracking the owners of these firms involved in tax evasion and would impose penalties as per legal provisions. “We will also lodge FIRs against the persons involved in the racket and take other punitive measures,” said another officer, engaged in raids.The commercial taxes department has witnessed a decline in revenue in the past few months owing to Covid induced lockdown following the second wave of the pandemic and is presently focused on cracking down against tax evaders to minimise losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/50-bihar-firms-caused-rs-171-crore-loss-in-gst-tax-raided-101625983417151.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Delayed by a day, heavy rains to begin on Sunday in Mumbai; orange alert issued||Despite the weather department predicting heavy rains in Mumbai starting Saturday, the city received just 45.6mm of rain in the 48 hours ending 8:30am on Sunday and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) revised its forecast to say that heavy rains were now expected to arrive sometime on Sunday, peak by Tuesday and continue intermittently for the rest of the week.The delay is said to be due to the formation of an east-west shear zone (an area filled by opposing winds) over the north Konkan coast. Two independent meteorologists said it had inhibited rain bands lying just off the coast of Mumbai from penetrating inland, leading to lesser than anticipated rainfall over the city. However, such a phenomenon typically strengthens monsoon conditions, they added.Officials and experts said rains were likely to arrive soon under the influence of a low pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal and an upper air cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea. Over the next four to five days, Mumbai may receive as much as 400mm of rain and has therefore been placed under orange category by the IMD, warning of heavy to very heavy showers.“Mumbai will start getting showers soon. Going to be [the] wettest week of the season so far. From today till Wednesday/Thursday, total rainfall [is] likely to exceed 400mm. Will have a 12 hours period with 200mm rainfall which will lead to waterlogging,” an independent meteorologist said.“Mumbai-MMR can expect moderate showers on July 11. Current forecast suggests moderate to heavy rain in the region on July 12, which can cause water logging and usual disruptions. Overall, active next week for the monsoon,” Akshay Deoras, another independent meteorologist, tweeted.The city has so far seen 1106mm of rain since June 1, which is about 37% in excess of the seasonal normal of 801mm. However, since July 1, the city has recorded largely deficient rains at a departure of more than -80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delayed-by-a-day-heavy-rains-to-begin-on-sunday-in-mumbai-orange-alert-issued-101625978856984.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath says rising population behind societal inequality, urges awareness||On World Population Day, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that a population spike is the root cause behind major problems, such as inequality, plaguing a society. The chief minister also urged people to spread awareness about problems arising out of an increasing population and proposed that population control is one of the primary factors behind the establishment of an 'advanced society'.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh govt to release new population policy today: All you need to knowSpeaking on the issues of a population spike, the UP CM said, "Increasing population is the root of major problems including inequality prevailing in the society. Population control is the primary condition for the establishment of an advanced society."Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state in India, sheltering a population of around 220 million.Notably, the UP law commission had proposed a day ago a 'two-child policy' aimed at population control in the state. The state government is set to announce the new policy on Sunday, ahead of the assembly elections next year. The issue has emerged as one of the main focus areas in the state ahead of assembly polls.The draft population control bill, which has already been uploaded on the UP government's website, has provisions to give government incentives to those who help in population control.Highlighting the occasion of World Population Day, Yogi Adityanath urged people to spread awareness regarding the problems of an increasing population count."Let us, on this 'World Population Day', take a pledge to make ourselves and the society aware of the problems arising from the increasing population," news agency ANI quoted the Uttar Pradesh chief minister as saying.Also Read | World Population Day 2021: Theme, history and significanceIf enacted, the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021, make people with more than two children ineligible for government jobs, disentitle those already in service to promotions, and exclude them from the benefits of 77 schemes. The proposed legislation also suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with two children or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/world-population-day-yogi-adityanath-says-rising-population-causes-societal-inequality-101625971220180.html
11-07-2021||Dehradun||Arvind Kejriwal in Dehradun today with promise of free electricity to poll-bound Uttarakhand||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will visit Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun on Sunday, in a bid to expand his Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) base. The visit is crucial in view of the assembly elections in Uttarakhand next year.Kejriwal is going to the state with a pitch to provide free electricity to the people of Uttarakhand.“Uttarakhand itself generates electricity and also sells it to other states. Then why is electricity so expensive for the people of Uttarakhand? Delhi does not generate its own electricity and buys it from other states. Still, electricity in Delhi is free. Shouldn’t the people of Uttarakhand get free electricity? See you tomorrow in Dehradun,” Kejriwal said in a tweet ahead of the visit.This promise of Kejriwal comes just days after the Uttarakhand government announced on July 8 that 100 units of electricity will be provided free of cost every month to domestic consumers. State power minister Harak Singh Rawat said there are around 13 lakh consumers who come under the purview of 100 to 200 units of electricity. “Those who use 100 units per month will be given electricity free of cost. Those using 101 to 200 units per month will get a 50 per cent discount,” he said, according to news agency ANI.Rawat added this scheme will also benefit electricity consumers in Uttarakhand’s remote areas. Highlighting that electricity bill in the state comes for two months, he said the benefit of this scheme will be given on the basis of units each month. “That is, if someone gets a bill of 200 units in 2 months, then he will not have to pay any money,” the state power minister further said, adding those related to dairy, horticulture, and agriculture sectors, which were earlier under the commercial category of electricity consumers, will now be brought under the domestic category.Before Uttarakhand, Kejriwal had in June visited another poll-bound state, Punjab, where he promised 300 units of free electricity for each household along with a waiver of their pending bills. “With 300 units of free power to each household, 77-80% families in Punjab will get zero bill. They will get 24-hour power but no bill,” the Delhi CM had said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/kejriwal-in-dehradun-today-to-promise-free-electricity-to-poll-bound-ukhand-101625972039188.html
11-07-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal records 997 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, 17 more deaths||West Bengal recorded 997 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, a bulletin issued by the state health ministry confirmed on Saturday. With this latest rise, Bengal's Covid-19 infection tally has gone up to 15,11,205 cases. The bulletin showed that only 17 new deaths were recorded in the state in the same duration, taking the fatality tally to 17,903.West Bengal recorded 1,336 Covid-19 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The number of people cured of the disease in the state has now gone up to 14,77,998, the health department bulletin said. The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in West Bengal now stands at 97.80%.West Bengal now has 15,304 active Covid-19 cases.North 24 Parganas reported five fresh Covid-19 deaths, followed by Nadia at four and Kolkata at three. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.West Bengal has been showing a declining case positivity rate for Covid-19 cases; however, four districts -- North 24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, and Darjeeling -- have become "places of concern" for the health department, according to an official. These regions have recorded a daily average of 82 Covid-19 infections.West Bengal has tested 52,541 samples for Covid-19 since Friday, the state health department said, adding that as many as 2,08,752 people were vaccinated against the coronavirus in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-records-997-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-17-more-deaths-101625969207617.html
11-07-2021||Kolkata||Trinamool Congress to continue state-wide protests today over rising fuel prices||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to continue on Sunday its state-wide protests across West Bengal over the rising fuel prices in India. The two-day protests, planned by the state's ruling party, were launched a day ago against the relentless fuel hike in the country.Also Read | TMC launches two-day state-wide protest against hike in fuel pricesPetrol and diesel prices have continued to hike over the past several weeks, reaching an all-time high in several major cities. Petrol prices have crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai. Petrol is currently retailing for ₹101.01 per litre in Kolkata, while it stands at ₹106.93 per litre in Mumbai.The Trinamool Congress devised several unique ways on Saturday to protest against the rising fuel prices. At Girish Park in Kolkata, a scooty was loaded on a hand-cart and then dragged. At Ganga Sagar in South 24 Parganas, TMC workers cooked on the road and organised a rally with bullock carts. At Canning, local party leaders held a rally carrying LPG cylinders on their shoulders.At Kashipur in the northern fringes of Kolkata, however, Trinamool Congress supporters tore posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Petrol, in cities like Jaipur and Hyderabad, has crossed the ₹107 per litre mark. In Bhopal, the situation is worse -- motorists have to shell out ₹109.24 per litre on petrol.Diesel prices, on the other hand, have not yet crossed the ₹100 per litre mark but are inching towards it throughout major cities. In Rajasthan's Jaipur, diesel is retailing at ₹99.02 per litre while the rates have also neared the alarming mark in Bhopal, where diesel is being sold at a rate of ₹98.67 per litre.Diesel, in Kolkata, is retailing for ₹92.97 per litre while in Delhi, the fuel is being sold at a price of ₹89.88 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trinamool-congress-to-continue-state-wide-protests-today-over-rising-fuel-prices-101625960659476.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA denies issuing advts for draw of plots in Aerotropolis project||After advertisements regarding draw of residential plots in Aerotropolis project in Mohali appeared on various social media platforms, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has denied issuing any such advertisements.In a statement issued by GMADA on Saturday, the public and stakeholders were informed that GMADA had not issued any such advertisement.The statement said that GMADA was in the process of preparing a letter of intent and the same would be issued to the landowners soon whose land had been acquired for the project. People in general and landowners in particular were requested not to believe in rumours being spread about the project and for obtaining any authentic information pertaining to the project, they should visit the concerned offices of GMADA. The official statement further added that GMADA was going to take appropriate action against the miscreants who were misleading the people and stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-denies-issuing-advts-for-draw-of-plots-in-aerotropolis-project-101625949515709.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||27 Panchkula villages accomplish 100% vaccination||After facing much reluctance and difficulties, the health department of Panchkula claims to have successfully vaccinated all residents of 27 of the district’s nearly 500 villages.One of the hardest to reach was Morni block, where residents of 12 villages have been 100% vaccinated. Supervisor Swaroop Singh from Primary Health Centre (PHC), Morni, said the 312 villages in the block had a population of around 19,000.“At times, I had to walk 40km a day from one village to another. On regular days, one travels 4-5 km easily, as vehicles don’t reach there,” said Singh.District immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan said: “We have strategies to vaccinate entire villages one by one. So far, we have achieved 100% vaccination in 27 out of nearly 500 villages.”She said Morni was a difficult area as teams had to walk several kilometres to reach the villages with limited population. “But they reached where roads won’t take you,” she said.Some of these villages are Bitna and Rampur village of Kalka; Rampur, Amb Ki Bhud, Tandawala and Neemwala that fall under community health centre, Raipur Rani; 14 villages under PHC Morni; Alipur village in Kot; two villages in Surajpur; and Malabog, Jabrot, Nala Dhamir, Nala Dakhrog villages.Only 18% population fully vaccinated More than six months have passed since the first woman was vaccinated for Covid-19 in the district, but the health department has been able to fully vaccinate only 18% of the population. Vaccine shortage, reluctance among people are some factors due to which only 64% of the target population have been jabbed just once.Panchkula has a total target of 4,10,940 beneficiaries, of which 3,38,442 have been vaccinated. While 2,63,054 people have received the first dose, 75,388 have been fully vaccinated. Over 1.8 lakh men have been inoculated, which is slightly more than the 1.5 lakh women vaccinated.Shortage of CovishieldThe vaccination drive’s pace has also been affected by slow supply of Covishield doses. Even now, the health department has stopped administering the first dose , as they are left with just 2,900 doses. Even vaccination sites have been reduced to four amid the shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27-panchkula-villages-accomplish-100-vaccination-101625949455688.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh plans job curbs based on family size||A draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission proposes to make people with more than two children ineligible for government jobs, disentitle those already in service to promotions and exclude them from benefits of 77 schemes.The draft bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public by July 19, also proposes to prohibit people who have more than two children from contesting local bodies elections or receiving any kind of subsidy. It also suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with up to two children.The draft has been uploaded on the commission’s website. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to announce on Sunday a new population policy 2021-30 for the state, which is set to go to the polls early next year. Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state with a population of around 220 million.Justice AN Mittal (retd), the panel’s chairman, said all aspects were looked into and an exhaustive study of such laws was carried out before the proposed legislation was drafted. He underlined the need for a law to check the increasing population of the state.“Resources are already overstretched due to increasing population. Be it medical facilities, food grains and jobs, everything is under stress due to the rising population,” said Mittal, a former Allahabad high court judge.“Imagine if the population of the state remains 22 crore (220 million) to 23 crore (230 million) even after 20 years, then what will be the state’s condition. There will be the availability of everything in abundance for the future generation. There will be no scarcity of resources,” he said.The proposed incentives for government employees with one child include increments, promotions and concessions in housing schemes. For those who are not government employees, the incentives listed are rebates in taxes on water, housing and home loans. If a single child’s parent opts for vasectomy, then the child will be entitled to free medical facilities until the age of 20. Such children are also proposed to get free education, insurance and preference in government jobs.The draft bill said: “Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer’s contribution fund under the National Pension Scheme.” A state population fund will be constituted for its implementation. Listing the government duties, the draft bill said that maternity centres will be set up at all primary health centres.The draft bill also said that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools.The Congress questioned the timing of the draft bill ahead of the assembly polls in the state. “The polls are due in seven to eight months. What is the urgency to bring the (draft) bill now when parties are preparing for the assembly polls?” said VN Madan, state Congress spokesperson. Madan said they were studying the draft bill and added that the Congress will support its positive aspects and oppose the ones the government has incorporated for its own benefits.Chief ministers of Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh and Assam have of late sought population control. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said large families were likely to lose certain state benefits.According to United Nations data, the rate of population growth is falling behind replacement rates in over half of the countries globally. The growth rate in the global population is projected to be zero by the end of the century perhaps for the first time. China has allowed two to three children per household to reverse a fall in its population after decades of the one-child policy.India is projected to overtake China as the most populous country by 2025.Adityanath will release the Uttar Pradesh Jansankhya Neeti-2021-30 (UP population policy-2021-30) on the occasion of the World Population Day on Sunday. He will also distribute kits to promote family planning among some newly married couples, a state government statement said on Saturday.On Thursday, the chief minister held a meeting on the policy and said: “For providing a better standard of living to all, it is necessary to control the population growth. And for the development of Uttar Pradesh, it is necessary to check the population growth rate. By controlling the population, we can realise the dream of a better tomorrow.”“People should be told that a small family is the basis of prosperity and with a reduced population density, people will have a better environment. For a healthy society, it is necessary to stabilise the population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-plans-job-curbs-based-on-family-size-101625948654498.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure Manjinder Sirsa doesn’t flee from justice: Delhi court to police||A court here has directed the Delhi Police to ensure that Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa does not flee from justice as he is facing probe in a case of alleged misappropriation of funds during his tenure as the secretary-general of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC). Metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma passed the order on Friday while hearing an application of one Bhupinder Singh, who had filed the graft complainant. The applicant informed the court that there was apprehension that Sirsa may leave the country. “In view of the apprehension expressed on behalf of the complainant and for the interest of a proper investigation, investigation officer has to ensure that accused persons do not flee from the course of justice,” the court said. The court also sought a progress report from Delhi Police in the case by July 26, when it will next hear the matter. During the hearing held through video conferencing, the applicant’s advocate Sanjay Abott told the court that Sirsa has already sold his properties and he is in the process of fleeing as soon as flights resume. The counsel further submitted that the investigation agency has not taken appropriate steps to prevent him from fleeing. Meanwhile, the court also noted the submission of the Delhi Police that lookout circulars (LOCs) against the accused persons have not been opened as they are joining investigation as and when asked. A Delhi court had earlier directed the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police to register an FIR on the complaint filed by Bhupinder Singh. Singh had alleged that Sirsa, who at the time of the incident in 2013 was general secretary of DSGMC, had caused wrongful loss of public funds. Following the direction of the court, the EOW of Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-manjinder-sirsa-doesn-t-flee-from-justice-delhi-court-to-police-101625948795665.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Victim’s statement changed in POCSO case: Suspended SHO, SI booked in Ambala||Two days after the station in-charge of Naraingarh women police station, inspector Satwinder Kaur, was suspended for allegedly changing the statement of a rape survivor in a case lodged under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act in June, she along with the investigating officer, sub-inspector Rajwinder Kaur, were booked on Saturday.The FIR came after the victim’s family had written to various authorities calling out for an action against the officers for changing their original statement and weakening the case by adding flimsy charges in favour of the accused. Subsequently, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar marked an inquiry to deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Barara) Rajnish Kumar.While Akhtar didn’t respond to calls, Kumar said, “I found that the allegations levelled by the family were true and a case was lodged against the officers.” The officers, Satwinder, 40, and Rajwinder, 35, who have yet to be arrested, remained incommunicado for a comment.The FIR was lodged under Sections 166A (public servant disobeying direction under law), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of the offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 218 (public servant framing incorrect record or writing with intent to save person from punishment or property from forfeiture) of the Indian Penal Code.As per the case, an 18-year-old girl had complained on June 26 that a 25-year-old Navneet had repeatedly raped her, given her abortion pills and violently sexually assaulted her.“We had e-mailed the complaint to the SSP and DSP concerned, and on the Whatsapp number of the SHO. But we found that the mobile number on the official website was old, so my cousin handed over the complaint at her office later in the evening. After this, the police raided his house the same night, but he was not found there and the officers started pressuring us to change my statement in favour of Navneet,” said the Class 12 student.The girl further said that the officers had taken her and her mother’s signatures on plain papers. On June 27, the girl was referred to the civil hospital in the city for an ultrasound because of the abortion pills she was given. But after waiting for hours at the hospital, the next day, the girl alleged, Rajwinder told them that she didn’t need to get the test done.“We were yet to get an FIR copy, so we went to the police station to get one and were shocked to read my statement different from what we had sent. The case was lodged under the same act in three-four lines with mention only of rape and all other allegations were removed,” the survivor alleged||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/victims-statement-changed-in-pocso-case-suspended-sho-si-booked-in-ambala-101625948675641.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||CM not allowing police to act against Simarjit Bains: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday said that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is not allowing the police to proceed against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Simarjit Bains even as a Ludhiana court had ordered to book him for rape on the complaint of a woman. Addressing a press conference here, SAD spokesperson Virsa Singh Valtoha said, “It is eight months since the 44-year-old widow had accused Bains of raping and sexually exploiting her. The police failed to take any action in the matter despite clear cut apex court guidelines on such issues. The victim was forced to go to the courts to seek justice and finally after a protracted legal battle, the court of the additional CJM in Ludhiana ordered the police to register a case against Bains on the basis of the complaint of the victim. The police, however, have still not swung into action.” “Earlier, the Gurdaspur sessions court had ordered custodial interrogation of Bains for threatening the deputy commissioner but the police didn’t execute the court directive. We demand that the DGP be proceeded against in both cases,” Valtoha said. He said a detailed inquiry should also be held into the role of food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in patronising and shielding the LIP leader. “There are murmurs that Bains is scheduled to dissolve the LIP and join the Congress party soon and that is why no action is being taken against him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-not-allowing-police-to-act-against-simarjit-bains-sad-101625948497966.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Power shortage persists, PSPCL relying on rains||Amid an all-time high demand for power, Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) managed to supply only around 12,500MW daily against a demand of 15,500MW. The PSPCL is now relying on monsoon as rains will decrease the demand by about 3,000MW and the generation from hydropower stations will also go up. The shortfall is mainly due to lesser generation by hydropower stations, including Bhakra Beas Management Board, and 1,980MW Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) going out of operations. In order to bridge the gap between demand and supply, the PSPCL was constrained to impose power regulatory measures on industrial as well other consumers. The corporation is enforcing outages from 2 to 6 hours across the state, especially in rural belts. Besides, the industry is on forced shutdown for three days a week till July 14. Industrial bodies held protests against the PSPCL across Punjab on Saturday, after which the corporation came out with some relaxations. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said keeping in view the persistent demand of the industrial consumers, power regulatory measures on general category LS consumers having sanctioned contract demand up to 100KVA have been relaxed with effect from July 11. Industrial consumers have now been allowed to operate up to 100KVA of load, while the earlier exemption limit was only up to 50KVA. However, industrialists termed the relaxation as insufficient. “There is need to order probe why such lopsided arrangements were made. You can’t run industry short of capacity as it leads to higher input costs and ends up in losses,” said Yogesh Kumar, an industrialist from Patiala. The PSPCL has arranged to purchase 752MW extra power at a rate of ₹3.08 per unit for July 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-shortage-persists-pspcl-relying-on-rains-101625948256058.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||RWAs seek Chandigarh MC’s attention towards stray dog menace||The resident welfare bodies in the city have called out the municipal corporation for not delivering the desired results with their animal birth control (ABC) programme, alleging that the stray dog problem in the city had gone out of hand.Speaking about this, secretary of the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) and president of the Sector-8 RWA, RS Gill, said, “Packs of stray dogs roaming in the city make us feel very unsafe. Children can’t go to play in parks because of them and the dogs are even more aggressive during the summer heat. This summer we have had around 25 dog bites in the sector. They have even been attacking our cars and leaving bite marks on the plastic.”Gill added that numerous eateries in Sector 8 were drawing stray dogs from neighbouring sectors, but the authorities hadn’t been considering their complaints.Chairman of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri, who lives in Sector 43, said, “This isn’t a problem restricted to the northern or the southern sectors, it’s spread throughout the city. The ABC programme being run by the authorities needs to be ramped up. Dog census of all sectors needs to be carried out regularly to keep a track of the situation. If the dog population is increasing over the years despite the ABC programme, then something is going wrong.”Puri added that they had received numerous complaints from Sectors 21, 28 and 33 and CRAWFED will take up this issue in their next general body meeting.District animal welfare officer Inder Sandhu said, “While it is incorrect to say that dogs get more aggressive in the summers, the authorities need to implement the ABC programme more effectively. Animal lovers must do their part and ensure that they get any animal they care for spayed. Those who are not comfortable with dogs need to avoid hitting them or teasing them. We must coexist and treat them humanely and focus on sterilisation.”Inspector with the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Dharminder Dogra, added that due to lockdown restrictions imposed earlier, not many cases of dog bites or other attacks have come forward this year.Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The MC is working on the stray dog issue. We have vaccinated around 80% of the canine population of the city already. Many dogs enter UT from neighbouring cities, which increases the count, but overall the population of dogs is going down year-by-year. We have also asked animal lovers to come forward and adopt strays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rwas-seek-chandigarh-mc-s-attention-towards-stray-dog-menace-101625948195542.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||32% teaching posts vacant in Chandigarh’s govt schools||Over 32% of the 4,874 sanctioned posts for teachers in Chandigarh’s 115 government schools are lying vacant, UT education department’s response to an RTI application has revealed.Among the 1,585 posts vacant, 146 are for Nursery Teacher Training (NTT) category, for which 245 posts are sanctioned, indicating a 59.6% vacancy. Similarly, 28.4% of Junior Basic Training (JBT), 26% of lecturer and 29.4% of master cadre posts have also yet to be filled.Among lecturers, 24 posts of English teachers are vacant, followed by 15 of Hindi, 14 of physical education and 13 of Punjabi teachers. Similarly, 130 social studies teachers of master or Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT) cadre have not been recruited, apart from 114 teachers for non-medical and 87 for fine arts.“The number of vacancies increased in 2020 after the Punjab government decided to reduce the age of retirement from 60 to 58. Many teachers retired due to this and fresh recruitments could not be conducted due to the Covid pandemic,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, Chandigarh.Brar said the education department was working to fill most of these vacancies. “An entrance exam for 100 TGT and 300 JBT teachers will be conducted soon by the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research. Another 300 teachers will be roped in on deputation from Haryana and Punjab.”The official said as classes were being conducted online due to the contagion, students’ education was not affected by the vacancies: “Many lectures were pre-recorded for students and teachers worked with students throughout the lockdown, taking their doubts and answering any queries they had.”However, president of UT Cadre of Educational Employees Union, Swarn Singh Kamboj said vacant positions had increased teachers’ workload. “The department needs to recruit more teachers soon, even if on contractual basis,” he said.NGO Yuvsatta’s coordinator Pramod Sharma added, “Students of government schools are already facing hardships in accessing the internet and using phones to study. The student-teacher ratio must be maintained. More teachers must be hired before schools reopen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-teaching-posts-vacant-in-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-101625947956257.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP expels former Punjab minister Anil Joshi for 6 years over ‘anti-party’ activities||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday expelled senior leader and former Punjab minister Anil Joshi for six years terming his outburst against the state and the central leadership on mishandling the farm protests as an ‘anti-party activity.’ A two-time legislator from Amritsar North, Joshi, 57, had been openly blaming the party’s state leadership for not giving a correct feedback to the Centre on the farm laws. He had also demanded revocation of the three agri laws. Joshi was expelled on the directions of state unit chief Ashwani Sharma, said state general secretary Subhash Sharma.Joshi did not give up his stubborn attitude of going against the party whereupon the state BJP chief on the recommendations of a disciplinary committee expelled him from the primary membership of the party for six years, the statement added.Joshi was issued a show-cause notice earlier this week. In a two-page reply to the notice, the former minister said he never spoke against the Centre’s farm laws. “I neither spoke against the Centre’s farm laws nor against central leaders,” Joshi said. He added that workers were leaving the party and asked state party chief Sharma whether giving a suggestion to save the party was indiscipline. According to a senior party functionary, Joshi was expelled after taking the party high-command into confidence. After his explusion, Joshi said: “Is speaking for farmers a sin? Is it indiscipline to talk about ‘arhtiyas’, industrialists, small traders and labourers?” “I have worked very hard for the party in the past 35 years. Working as a soldier of the party, I received bullets, my car was burnt. When I was minister, my brother faced bullets. And now they have ended my tapasya (for the party) in such a manner,” Joshi told mediapersons in Batala. Some senior state BJP leaders also came out in support of Joshi. “Expulsion of a senior leader who gave 35 years of his life to the party is very unfortunate. Joshi spoke for farmers and communal harmony and in no way this was an anti-party activity,” former chief parliamentary secretary KD Bhandari said. He urged the senior leaders to reconsider the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-expels-former-punjab-minister-anil-joshi-for-6-years-over-anti-party-activities-101625947776655.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases down, Chandigarh admn readies plan to reopen colleges in August||With the second wave of the Covid pandemic ebbing way, the UT administration has started preparing the unlock plan for city colleges. The proposal is to open colleges in August with several riders in place. For both students and college staff, at least a single dose of Covid vaccine will be mandatory to attend the classes. For those yet to get jabbed or not willing to attend physical classes with concerns of Covid spread, online classes will continue. For more than a year, since March last year when the pandemic first broke out, city colleges have remained largely shut. Some colleges reopened in November, but didn’t evoke much response from students.When the first wave subsided, the administration had decided to reopen all colleges in February this year. However the second wave started soon after in March, thwarting the plan. On May 4, the administration had imposed strict lockdown in the city, but over the last couple of weeks most of the lockdown restrictions on public movement, gatherings, shops and restaurants, and weekend curfews have been withdrawn.“The Covid situation in Chandigarh has improved considerably. Consequently, we are in the position to consider reopening colleges. We are weighing different options, but the key to allowing colleges to reopen is the vaccination status of teachers and students. We are also keeping a watch on the situation in the neighbouring states,” said a senior UT official. Focus on increasing vaccination coverageThe administration has sought from education and health departments the current status of vaccination among the college staff (both teaching and non-teaching) and students. Its emphasis now is on increasing the vaccination coverage among students and teachers. “Over the next three weeks we will be pushing for more teachers and students to get vaccinated. If the administration is satisfied with the rate of vaccination among them, it will allow resumption of physical classes,” said the official. On the directions of the administration, the UT health department is also going to start a special vaccination drive for college students.Daily camp from 10am to 5pmThe special drive with the tagline “Students before join your college vaccinate yourself” will be launched on July 12 and will be organised everyday from 10am to 5pm. “The department will hold three vaccination camps at Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12; Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26; and Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46. No prior appointment is required for getting jabbed. All students above 18 years of age can walk in for the vaccine. They can also get vaccinated at the nearest government vaccination centre,” the official said. Vaccination of outstation students a challengeChandigarh is a major education hub of the region, with students from neighbouring states like Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country pursuing their undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in the city.As such, enforcing the one-jab rule for outstation students remains a challenge for the administration. “We are looking at all these issues before the final decision to open the colleges is taken. Initially, attending physical classes will not be mandatory. If and when Covid’s third wave unfolds will also greatly determine the complete reopening of colleges,” the official said.No call on reopening of schools yetEven as the UT education department has asked all eligible teaching and non-teaching staff to get vaccinated by July 31, no date has been planned for reopening schools. As per higher officials of the department, a meeting is likely to be held next week to review the situation and take a decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-down-chandigarh-admn-readies-plan-to-reopen-colleges-in-august-101625947595949.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||NITTTR Chandigarh eyes deemed to be university status||Aiming to focus on emerging areas of knowledge, the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR) in Sector 26, Chandigarh, is eyeing to get the deemed to be university status under ‘de novo’ category.The institution has already submitted its detailed project report to the University Grants Commission (UGC) and has also sought a no-objection certificate from Panjab University (PU). The institution will be granted the status if it gets the approval from the Union ministry of education.The deemed to be university status under the ‘de novo’ category is given to institutes devoted to unique and emerging areas of knowledge, not being pursued by conventional or existing ones, particularly in specific areas of study and research.Caters to development of polytechnic education in northNITTTR Chandigarh was established in 1967 by the Government of India, along with three other similar institutions in Bhopal, Chennai and Kolkata. It was designed to meet the requirements for developing polytechnic education in the northern region covering Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh.Since 1983, the institution has been guiding and assisting these states in the areas of educational planning and management. In 1992, NITTTR Chandigarh started offering regular masters of engineering programmes and from 2005, modular master of engineering programmes were started.All the programmes are offered for teachers of technical institutions and their administrators, professionals from industry and general candidates. These programmes are affiliated to PU. The institution has also been recognised as a research centre by PU in 2006 and Punjab Technical University (PTU) in 2005 for pursuing PhD.Institute’s 15-year strategic planThe 15-year strategic plan of NITTTR envisions the development of the institute as deemed to be university, to meet the needs of the technical education system in view of the changed scenario, with more focus on the use of ICT in the teaching-learning process. Its objectives include: to become a preferred university offering teacher-focused multi-disciplinary programmes; to establish centres of excellence in selected areas of engineering and technology with industry collaboration; to provide programmes with multipoint entry and multipoint exit option among others.Unique programmes proposedDirector of NITTTR Chandigarh, Shyam Sundar Pattnaik, said, “The country needs some areas that are strategic in nature and demand driven societal requirements. The conventional institutions are structured for a particular requirement and they cannot change very fast, but an institute like NITTTR can do that. That is the reason we have applied for deemed to be university status under de novo category.”“If we get the status, we would like to launch those strategic programmes that cannot be run by conventional institutions,” he added.The unique postgraduate programmes proposed by the institute include digital kinematics for organisational resilience, 3D/4D printing, innovative design and production, sensor, data and IoT system management, drone and unmanned airborne system technology, nanophotonics and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nitttr-chandigarh-eyes-deemed-to-be-university-status-101625947415594.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali girl Harleen Deol’s stunning catch garners praise from far and wide||Chances of watching a women’s T20 cricket match at 11pm are low, especially when Wimbledon is being televised simultaneously. But, the fortunate ones who chose to watch the match between India and England being played at Northampton on Friday night, witnessed Harleen Deol’s stunning catch on the boundary line which has already garnered over two million views worldwide. Netizens showered Harleen with praise, while bestowing upon her titles like “wonder woman”, ‘flying Sikh’ and “superwoman”. It was in the 19th over of England’s innings, when Amy Jones whacked the ball towards wide long-off, and Harleen produced the stunning effort to get the dismissal and save the six. She jumped in for the catch, but realised she was stepping out of the boundary line. Immediately, she tossed the ball into the air and then came back inside the line to complete the catch mid-air.Stalwarts of the game laud Mohali girlPlaying in her 10th T20 match for India, Harleen was lauded by stalwarts of Indian cricket like Sachin Tendulkar, VVS Laxman, Harbhajan Singh and Suresh Raina. Indian businessman Anand Mahindra and political leaders like I&B and sports minister Anurag Thakur and Priyanka Gandhi also showered her with praises. Harleen was not in the Indian ODI team that lost the three-match series to the hosts. It would have been the icing on the cake had the match been completed and Harleen won the game for India while chasing 177. England won the first T20 and took a 1-0 lead in the series, after no more play was possible due to the rain. The hosts won by 18 runs (DLS method). Harleen remained 17 not out. Back home in Mohali, her mother Charanjit Deol has been flooded with texts, messages and calls from relatives and friends. “I spoke to her after the game. She was thrilled, but disappointed as India lost the game. She wanted to win the game for the country,” she said. Harleen’s mother attributes her daughter’s success as a fielder to her fitness and commitment. Harleen’s brother would drive her 30 kms everyday for practice from Mohali to Zirakpur. “Not many grounds have opened since the pandemic broke out. We found this ground and even though it was a bit far, it had good facilities. We bought gym equipment so she could work out at home. She was always in good shape and working on her fitness and athletic ability,” added Charanjit. Not many know that Harleen shifted base from Mohali to Dharamsala to join Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association’s residential academy for U-19 girls. The academy was ex-BCCI chief and sports minister Anurag Thakur’s brainchild, who was then HPCA president. She was 13 when she left Punjab Cricket Association for better facilities. As a teenager, she lived away from home at the academy, with a dream to win the world cup for India. “It feels great to see Anurag sir appreciating Harleen. My daughter was always welcomed at HPCA, where she honed her skills. She wants to be part of the India ODI team and play in the Australia series, followed by the ODI World Cup in New Zealand early next year,” added Charanjit. The Indian team’s fielding coach Abhay Sharma has also helped Harleen become a sharp fielder. She made her ODI and T20 debut against England in 2019 when she replaced an injured Harmanpreet Kaur. Known to be a sharp fielder, solid top-order batter and a useful leg-spinner, Harleen has not had many chances playing in ODIs. She scored a 50 against South Africa at Lucknow in the T20 series. “Harleen is a livewire on the ground. She will always take match-winning catches and save runs for the team. She should be in the Indian ODI team too. Her presence can make a difference,” echoed Pawan Sen, HPCA women’s team coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-girl-harleen-deol-s-stunning-catch-garners-praise-from-far-and-wide-101625947355650.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House to meet on July 15 to finalise waste plant technology||A special MC general House meeting has been scheduled for July 15 to finalise the technology for upgrading the solid waste processing plant.The development comes a day after UT adviser Dharam Pal asked the MC to speed up the process.For nearly a year now, the civic body has been debating over the issue, even as most of the city’s solid dry waste is being dumped unprocessed at the Dadumajra dumping site.Technology like plasma and waste to energy will be considered by the MC House. After a decision on the technology, tender will be floated and the eligible firm will be given the work. The firm will install latest machinery and be responsible for operating and running the plant.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had earlier fixed July as the deadline for floating of tenders and August for allocation of work .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-house-to-meet-on-july-15-to-finalise-waste-plant-technology-101625947239438.html
11-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC House to meet in person on July 14||With the opposition parties raising objections against the announcement to hold a first-ever virtual meeting of municipal corporation (MC) general house, mayor Balkar Sandhu rolled back the decision on Saturday. He announced that a physical meeting will be held at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan on Wednesday.Earlier, Sandhu had announced that the meeting would be held virtually, keeping in view the restriction on gatherings imposed by the government amid the pandemic. But the opposition slammed the move stating that the mayor and the civic body are avoiding answering the queries of elected representatives regarding improper solid waste management and hike in water-sewer tariff, among other issues.All the opposition parties in the house including, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) opposed the move on Friday and stated that a physical meeting should be held to discuss the issues in detail.Leader of opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang and leader of BJP councillors Sunita Rani stated that two physical MC house meetings were held when the Covid cases were on a rise— one at the Rose Garden on November 10 and the other at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan on March 24. Now when the situation is under control, the civic body wants to hold virtual meetings to avoid answering the queries, they added.Sandhu said that the decision to hold the virtual meeting was taken keeping in view the ongoing pandemic and the gathering restrictions. As the government has eased the restrictions, and the opposition has been demanding a physical meeting, we have decided to hold a physical meeting at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-house-to-meet-in-person-on-july-14-101625947177612.html
11-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s letterboxes get a facelift||The Ludhiana postal department has taken the initiative to redecorate over 90 letterboxes located outside post offices and at designated places in the city. The department has already covered around 12 letterboxes under the initiative and plans to revamp the rest of them this month.The letterboxes situated outside Ludhiana head post office, Ferozepur Road, Bharat Nagar near BSNL office, Madhopuri, Near CMC, Samrala Chowk, Sarabha Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Iqbalganj, New Hargobind Nagar, Shivpuri, Sidhpeeth Colony, and PS Walla have been renovated. The Ludhiana head post office letterbox was the first in the city to be revamped. The letterbox has two sections, one for letters and the other for parcels. The clearance timings are also mentioned on the letterbox. They are: 8.05 am, 11.20 am, 3 pm, 4.45 pm, and 5.30 pm. Ludhiana city division superintendent of post offices Kulwant Singh said, “We have identified various locations where pillar embedded letterboxes are in deplorable condition. To give them a better look, we are in the process of getting them painted.”He said, “Letterboxes are the face of the post offices, and a majority of the customers visit our office to post letters. So, we decided to get them repainted. We have also kept earthen pots near the letterbox to beautify the surroundings.”Residents laud initiativeThe residents have appreciated the efforts made by the head post office authorities. Manpreet Kaur, a resident, said, “I have visited the head post office several times to post letters but, this time when I dropped the packet in the box, I found that it had been repainted and looked appealing. My grandfather, who accompanied me to the post office, also praised the authorities for taking the initiative. I also took a picture of the letterbox and then circulated it among my friends, who also applauded the new look.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-letterboxes-get-a-facelift-101625947176570.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir opposes changing of Panjab University’s territorial jurisdiction||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said that the territorial jurisdiction and regional character of Panjab University should not be tinkered with. His reaction comes days after a high-level committee of experts constituted by vice-president of India and PU chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu submitted its report on governance reforms at the varsity. Besides downsizing of senate and syndicate, the panel has also recommended that colleges situated in close proximity of PU in Mohali and Ropar may be affiliated to it, while colleges far away can be affiliated to other varsities. Sukhbir has cautioned PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar not to rush into this ill-advised venture, which concerns the sentiments of the people of Punjab. “It seems that the varsity’s authorities are insensitive towards the emotional fallout of their actions. Their motives strike at the very roots of the ideals which inspire SAD and form the cornerstone of the Constitution of India,” he said. He also said that this move will deprive PU of its character as an “institution of global repute, symbolising Punjab and its rich and varied culture”. Sukhbir added that the university’s authorities are using Covid as an excuse to not hold the senate elections. The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31, 2020. Elections were scheduled to take place in August 2020, but varsity deferred it amid the pandemic. The elections were later scheduled in April this year, but was postponed again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-opposes-changing-of-panjab-university-s-territorial-jurisdiction-101625947175473.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rape allegations against MLA Bains: Police claim FIR delayed due to power cut, SAD leaders offer generator||High drama was witnessed at the Division 6 police station after the woman who has levelled rape allegations against Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh Bains and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) supporters staged a protest and demanded that an FIR be registered against the MLA from Atam Nagar constituency on Saturday morning. The 44-year-old complainant refused to leave the police station until the LIP chief was booked as per the July 7 directions of a local court. The police, however, said they could not register an FIR as the power supply of the area had been disrupted. However, SAD leaders were not placated. Former SAD MLA Harish Rai Dhanda, an advocate, who was accompanying the complainant, offered to arrange a generator for the police station to facilitate the process. Later, the cops claimed that the computer system had developed a snag, due to which they could not lodge an FIR. In response, Dhanda along with SAD workers raised slogans against the police. They alleged that the police were not lodging an FIR on behest of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Dhanda said, “Despite the court’s directions, the police are dilly dallying so as to favour Bains. This amounts to contempt of court.” He alleged that the police officers concerned had gone on leave till Monday to escape questions. “Bains knows that the police will not lodge an FIR against him. Thus, he has moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking stay on the local court’s orders.” The woman said she had filed a complaint against Bains six months ago and had been protesting outside commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal’s office for five months, to no avail. “Even after the court directed the cops to lodge an FIR, they are still reluctant to do the needful,” she said. Inspector Sukhwinder Singh, who was holding charge of the police station in absence of station house officer Amandeep Singh Brar, said they had received the court orders two days ago. The court has ordered the police to file a status report in the case till July 15. “We will lodge an FIR as soon as the system resumes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-allegations-against-mla-bains-police-claim-fir-delayed-due-to-power-cut-sad-leaders-offer-generator-101625947116742.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cop, his councillor father, 10 others booked for abetment of suicide||A day after a woman who had consumed poison alleging harassment by an inspector, his councillor father and their aides over a property transfer row succumbed, the police booked twelve people for abetment of suicide on Saturday. Those who have been booked are inspector Bittan Kumar, posted at Ludhiana Police Lines, his father Surinder Atwal, who is the councillor of the ward 84, Bittan’s brothers Sajan Atwal and Pawan Atwal, uncle Pardeep Kumar, realtors Jaspal Singh, Gurcharan Singh, Gurcharan’s son-in-law Ravinder Singh, the victim’s step sisters Kuljinder Kaur, Manjeet Kaur, Ravinder Kaur and step brother-in-law Balbir Singh Makkar, said assistant commissioner of police Waryam Singh.The 35-year-old victim had named the 12 accused in her suicide note before attempting to end her life on July 2. She succumbed six days later on July 8 at Dayanand Medical College and hospital on July 8. The victim’s family have refused to cremate the body until the accused are arrested. In her suicide note, the victim had said that Bittan and his allies had fraudulently grabbed their properties and were harassing her in order to take possession of them. She had also accused her step sisters and step brother-in-law for fraudulently taking fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) from her mother.The victim’s brother said that their mother, who is illiterate, wanted to transfer the ownership of two properties in his sister’s name in 2013. But, the realtor, Jaspal, fraudulently managed to transfer a part of the property in his son-in-law Ravinder’s name, while ownership of the rest was given to Pardeep Kumar, the inspector’s uncle. The accused allegedly also made his sister sign the documents on the pretext of transferring the property in her name. Later, they started harassing her to vacate the property, which forced her to take the extreme step. He had also accused the inspector and his supporters of harassing him and threatening to arrest him on made-up charges. Inspector Bittan Kumar has refuted the allegations and has said that he does not know the woman. Controversy’s favourite childNovember 7, 2020: The Division Number 4 police had booked inspector Bittan Kumar, his brother Sajan Atwal and 10 accomplices for assaulting two siblings. One of the victims’ nasal bone had been fractured in the attack. An FIR had been lodged against the cop and his aides only after the family moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. The family had alleged that the police were favouring the inspector.October 23, 2019: Two days after dreaded gangster Vijay Sidhu alias Chhota Lalla was murdered while he was trying to extort money from firecracker traders, the Salem Tabri police had booked the aides of the dead gangster, which included the inspector’s brother Sajan Atwal,for extortion. Subsequently, the inspector, who was the Dugri station house officer was transferred to Police Lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cop-his-councillor-father-10-others-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-101625947115594.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gangster shot nine days ago held with bullet still lodged in stomach||A gangster, who was shot while attempting to extort money from a shopkeeper in Giaspura, was arrested on Friday night with the bullet still lodged in his stomach. The accused, Arvinder Singh alias Aman Tatto, had opened fire on a shopkeeper during an extortion bid on July 1. The shopkeeper had retaliated and shot Tatto in the stomach. “After the incident, Tatto left Ludhiana. He went to Barnala, Patiala, and Jalandhar and returned on Friday night. He did not go to a hospital to evade arrest so the bullet remained lodged in his stomach,” CIA Staff 3 in-charge sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma said, adding that Tatto had been admitted to the civil hospital. Tatto was arrested with his aides Abhishek Sharma of Baba Fateh Singh Nagar and Deepak of Gill village while hatching a plan to execute another robbery. A country-made 0.32 bore pistol, 11 cartridges, a knife, a 0.12 bore barrel and one cartridge were seized from the accused. The trio had gathered at a vacant plot along the Malerkotla Road in front of the main gate of Gurudwara Alamgir Sahib, the police said. A case was registered under the Arms Act at the Dehlon Police Station.“Nine cases, including attempt to murder, robbery, assault, are already registered against Tattoo, whereas Deepak and Abhishek are facing trial in six and five cases, respectively. Deepak and Abhishek are the proclaimed offenders,” said the sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gangster-shot-nine-days-ago-held-with-bullet-still-lodged-in-stomach-101625947055465.html
11-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana industrialists protest against forced weekly off, say units will operate despite curbs||Lambasting the state government over the forced weekly off imposed on the industry amid power crisis in the state, various industrial organisations staged a protest at the cycle market on Gill road.The organisations warned the state government that the industry would operate the units despite restrictions, if the forced weekly off for the large-scale industry is further extended by the government after 8am on July 11.Burning an effigy of chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh, who also holds the power portfolio, the industrialists stated that the government would be responsible for any accident in the grids and the industry will move the court if the state government imposes penalties for operating the units amid restrictions.Ruing losses running into thousands of crores, the industrialists said that it had never happened in the history of the state that the industry was forcibly closed for over a week.Members of different industrial associations including Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA), Furnace Alliance Association, Federation of Industries, Ludhiana Steel Broker Association, Fastener Suppliers association of India, Moti nagar United Factory association, Federation of Associations of Small Industries in India among others participated in the protest.Stating that the industry had suffered production losses of over 20,000 crore and revenue loss of over 5,000 crore in the last 10 days, president of FOPSIA, Badish Jindal, said, “This restriction has directly affected 10,000 industrial units and indirectly affected 2 lakh industrial units who do labour jobs for large units or provide raw material. The steel and yarn production has been badly hit in the state and the 35-lakh labour/staff have been forced to sit at homes. The exports of more than 1,000 crore are at risk and the multinational companies are boycotting the industry in Punjab due to delays in supply of material.”Slamming the state government for its alleged mismanagement which led to the crisis, the industrialists rued that they were already reeling under losses due to the pandemic and the power crises had added to their woes. The industrialists stated that the CM should step down from the power ministry and the government will pay in the upcoming assembly elections.President of the Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, Narinder Bhamra, said, “The government should have made proper arrangements as it knows that power demand increases during the paddy season. It is only due to the failure on the part of the government that the industry is witnessing blackout for the last 10 days, which has never happened in the history of the state. We cannot bear any more losses and the industry will commence operations even if the government extends the forced weekly off.”President of the Furnace Alliance Association, Mahesh Gupta, said that the industry paid hefty power bills, but the state had still failed to provide uninterrupted power supply.If the crisis continues, we will be forced to raise the agitation to the next level and if needed we will also protest outside the CM’s residence, said the industrialists.On July 1, industries in the central and north zones of the state were asked to close their units for 48 hours for the first time. Subsequent orders extended the curbs for another day. The general industry was only able to work on July 5 and 6, before three weekly offs were imposed on July 7 and subsequently extended for another day (July 11). In the latest orders, the directions for power shutdown for industry which were already applicable since July 7 to 11, were further extended by three days till July 14. However, the threshold limit of 50 KVA to industry was increased to 100 KVA giving relief to small units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-industrialists-protest-against-forced-weekly-off-say-units-will-operate-despite-curbs-101625946995541.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s hospitality sector cheers night curfew roll back||Marriage palace owners, restaurateurs and hoteliers have reason to cheer as night curfew has been lifted at long last and the ceiling on guests has been extended.Stakeholders say this will be a shot in the arm for the Covid-hit hospitality sector, which had been reeling under losses for around three months after the government restricted gatherings in March and subsequently imposed a night curfew amid an escalating Covid crisis.Owners of marriage palaces, hotels and banquet halls say resumption of nighttime weddings has improved their chances of weathering the slump in business caused due to months of closure during the first and second waves of the pandemic. Citing the low positivity rate in the state, the state government has allowed gatherings of 100 people indoors and 200 persons outdoors from July 12. Though Sunday lockdown restrictions had been lifted on June 27, night curfew from 8pm and 5am continued across the district.Marriage Palace Welfare Association president and owner of Shehanshah Palace on Ferozepur Road Amarjit Singh Sant said, “Hundreds of events were cancelled and our business came to a standstill when the government scaled down the strength of public gatherings to 20 in March. Business failed to pick up when the ceiling was increased to 50 in mid-June. Those who had taken resorts on lease had to wind up their business as they could not afford to make payments.”“With gatherings up to 200 people allowed, we are hopeful that we will get some bookings in the coming days. Our staff is vaccinated, and we will adhere to the government’s guidelines,” said Sant.Punjab Marriages And Resorts Association general secretary and owner of Regency Garden in Mullanpur, Gurpreet Singh Malhi, said, “Though people will not start hosting events immediately, the announcement has come as a major relief. We are expecting a positive response in a week or so. We will at least be able to cover fixed expenses such as salaries, power bill, and bank instalments. The sector may not be able to survive another lockdown as we have suffered many setbacks since the outbreak of the pandemic.”More families will venture out: Restauranteurs, traders Restaurateurs have also hailed the move as customers prefer to dine out with their families after 8pm. Owner of Bruu Kiln on Malhar Road, Typsy Bal, said that even after the government allowed the restaurants to stay open till 7:30pm, many of restaurant owners kept the unit shut due to the low footfall. “Now, we will open the units as bars have also been allowed to open. Things will slowly come back on track.”The state government had shut down dine-in facility at restaurant from April 20. Home delivery and takeaways were allowed subsequently. Dine-in facility was resumed in mid-June and the bars were allowed to open at 50% capacity from July 1 during the curfew relaxation period.Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said, “The announcement will certainly give a push to the business as people will start holding social events. The footfall in the restaurants will also increase as the restriction of working at 50% capacity have also been removed from bars. We are taking all precautions and the staff has also been vaccinated. We expect that the government will further ease restrictions on gatherings so that the business can bounce back.”Traders say abolition of night curfew will improve footfall in markets as people will venture to popular haunts like the Sarabha Nagar Market, and Model Town Market in the evening. Sarabha Nagar Main Market Traders’ Association chairperson Wangjenn Chiu (Wong) said, “People visit the Sarabha Nagar Market to spend leisure time with their families and friends in the evening . The move to abolish the night curfew will certainly increase the footfall in the market, but we appeal residents to take all precautions to avoid a third wave of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianashospitality-sector-cheers-night-curfew-roll-back-101625946935665.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Yeh dil maange more irises||The towering mountain of nearly 16,608 feet that takes its name after the dominant tiger stands quiet and solemn like a sentinel over Drass. There is no giveaway clue on the distant horizon that Tiger Hill was riven by a bloody battle 22 years ago. Standing on the outskirts of Drass below, one gazes at wild yellow roses blooming in abundance along the skipping, whirling snow streams. Another summer will go by too quickly in icy Drass just as young soldiers had gone too quickly to their Gods in the summer of 1999. In their melancholic silence, the elegant roses frame Tiger Hill’s grieving homage to the indomitable spirit of our soldiers.Westwards of Tiger Hill stands the equally quiet Batra Top (Point 4875) in the Mashkoh LoC sector. Here, Captain Vikram Batra’s heart’s desire for more fighting was fulfilled and he was later awarded the Param Vir Chakra. On Batra’s 22nd death anniversary that fell on July 7, northern army commander Lt Gen YK Joshi, UYSM, Vir Chakra, Sena Medal, flew over Batra Top in a Su-30 MK1 fighter to pay homage and express solidarity with his fallen comrade from the 13 JAK Rifles. Just 1,706 feet below Batra Top and situated in its towering shadow stands an abandoned Pakistani stone bunker at Point 4355. This bunker had stymied the Indian Army’s approach up the Safed nallah during the Kargil War. Here, amid unexploded mines, live grenades and rifle-propelled grenades abandoned by fleeing, rattled intruders, wild Hooker’s irises grow sparsely. They pay lonely homage to the fallen soldiers’, whose eternal memorial majestically looms above in the guise of Batra Top. Life survives under great adversity in Drass, somewhat controversially marketed as the second-coldest inhabited place after Siberia. To catch a glimpse of these blooms is to get a feel of how life raises its dainty head for just the brevity of a summer song. Flowers breathe easier now as there are no shells landing and blowing them to oblivion or cordite and artillery explosives contaminating snow and the tumbling melts along which they erupt. These petalled embers of summer are no longer crushed under army boots fearlessly charging up ibex trails and bullet hails. From hell to heavenFrom doom and gloom to a very cool pool! As many as 29 elephants rescued from a life of cruelty, damaged health and serfdom at circuses, shrine rituals, tourist rides, begging on streets and wedding processions are enjoying the bliss of a proverbial second life. The NGO, Wildlife SOS, has transformed their hitherto hellish existence into one where their emotional and physical needs are minutely cared for and even the anniversary of their freedom from exploitation is celebrated with an extravagant cake of vegetables and cooked pulses!These 29 gentle giants are committed to the lifetime care of the NGO at the Elephant Conservation and Care Centre, Mathura, whose patrons include celebrities like Canadian PM Justin Trudeau, superstar Amitabh Bachchan and turbanator Harbhanjan Singh. The latest facility to heal the damaged giants suffering from a gamut of health issues is the introduction of India’s first jumbo hydrotherapy pool firing 21 high-pressure jets. “An effective complementary treatment for the elephants’ painful joints, it uses the therapeutic benefits of water to perform physical rehabilitation in animals. Exerting hydrostatic pressure compresses muscle and joints. helps in relieving chronic muscle aches, aids blood circulation and rebuilds muscle memory with its natural resistance,” according to a wildlife SOS media release.While the elephants’ horrific past cannot be changed, the NGO’s rehab work amounts to an atonement on behalf of a guilty society. Elephants enjoy their personal pools as well as dips in the Yamuna river to beat the heat. Buoyancy of water helps take the massive weight off the elephants’ damaged feet and relaxes them. “Older elephants spend hours relaxing in cool, refreshing water. Younger, more playful ones like Peanut, Coconut, Laxmi and Chanchal dive headlong into water and play with rubber tyres inside the pool!” the release added.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-yeh-dil-maange-more-irises-101625946577455.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati: When Tom, Schick and Harry met Sally||The ongoing Euro championship is tossing up not only goals, but also tribes of Tweeple whose lives have been tweaked and tailored to train not just their eyeballs but also lifestyles for this titan of tele-entertainment. We’re talking here not of football fans, but non-fans whose lifestyles resemble Tauktae-alerted terrain by virtue of being under the same roof as sports lovers with a proven propensity to bring the roof down. At the drop of a goal. By any Tom, Schick and Harry.These are tribes of Tweeple whose timelines have been tossed topsy-turvy by in-house Euro watchers glued to small screens or smartphone screens — spouses, sons or spaniels. Spaniels, not for their love of the game, but for the chicken lollipop or chilli cheese snacking that feeds all the Euro exclaim. The “catch” in the timelines tossed topsy-turvy – the unearthly hours.Of Gold Booty and Golden Boot Sample this. An author friend would much rather be tucked into bed, dreaming of goals as sublime as shattering glass ceilings of global authorhood by bagging bylines in The New York Times or grappling with goalposts such as penning future masterpieces for The Washington Post.Instead, she finds herself sacrificing sweet slumber to stare at some other spectacular sort of goals.Thanks to her sports journo son, she who knows not the A, B, C of soccer, has of late mastered the ‘D’ of it. That is, the tongue-twisting nomenclatures of all players in the team from Denmark.She who is an uncrowned gold queen, courtesy the golden booty amassed from myriad magazine caption contests, and she who has hitherto been familiar with only one sterling – pound sterling – now finds her vocabulary expanding to include the other kind of boot and sterling: Golden Boot and Raheem Sterling.The Curious Case of Sleepless in See-It-All.Of rooting and relationship goalsThe other species is symbolised by a better half who has been losing sweet slumber, not because she is driven by noble relationship goals of lending company to a lonely soccer-consumed spouse. Nah, she is staying awake well past her early bedtime solely to make sure her spouse stays awake. And doesn’t fall a victim to that other passionate pastime of his apart from soccer – snoring. The fallout – since the this better half stays awake to be sure the spouse stays awake, she’s not awake, for next day’s customary good morning WhatsApp calls to Biradri, BFFs & Co. When we’re talking relationship goals in the time of soccer goals, how can our comic couple Lollita and Lamba ji be far behind! Lamba ji is gurgling and guffawing as he goggles at the nail-biting England Vs Denmark action on the Idiot Box, his calf tendons twitching ‘n’ tingling to a bhangra unleash.“Where is the leash?” Lollita interrupts into his impending revelry.“Kane!” Lamba ji roots raucously.“How in the world can a cane help to leash the new kitty?” Lollita sounds stupefied. Lamba ji’s rooting refuses to be reined in. His jiving jollifications resemble those of a Labrador liberated from a leash. “Kane … Kane!’ “Are you insane … insane?” Lollita glares more frostily than the Gangotri glacier, and scornfully snaps shut the Idiot Box.The curious case of Kane and Dis-able.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-when-tom-schick-and-harry-met-sally-101625946275552.html
11-07-2021||Other||124 fresh cases in Punjab, lowest since June 2020||Chandigarh Punjab recorded 124 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the lowest number of cases in a single day over the past year. The state had see lower than 124 cases in June 2020; in the second wave, that is assumed to be have started from January 1 this year, the lowest number of cases registered on any one day was 129 on January 26. A medical bulletin recorded the fatalities and infections to 16,177 and 5,97,469, respectively. The number of active cases stands at 1,674, it said, adding the number of recoveries has reached 5,79,618.The state’s positivity rate of 0.3% is also the lowest in the second wave; over 41,000 tests were conducted today. Six people lost their lives to the viral infection on Saturday. Amritsar topped the list of fresh cases at 15; followed by 13 in Bathinda, 13 in Jalandhar, nine in Patiala and eight each in Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Sangrur. As many as 248 people were declared recovered on Saturday. Over 52,000 doses of Covid vaccine were administered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/124-fresh-cases-in-punjab-lowest-since-june-2020-101625946215329.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||PM hails BJP win in block pramukh polls in UP, says it’s a reflection of Yogi government’s pro-people policies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the Yogi Adityanath government’s “pro-people policies” and congratulated the BJP cadres after the party’s win in the block pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday.Other top BJP leaders, including party chief JP Nadda, party vice president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah, transport minister Nitin Gadkari and minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, as well as party national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, congratulated chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev on the party’s win.“In block pramukh polls too the BJP candidates have won. The win is a reflection of the fact that Yogi Adityanath government’s pro-people policies have helped the people. Congratulations to the cadre for this win,” PM Modi tweeted.CM thanks PM ModiChief minister Yogi Adityanath thanked PM Modi for his tweet hailing the party’s win.“Thank you, Prime Minister for your congratulatory wishes. The win is an amalgamation of your pro-people policies, expert guidance by the organisation and the pro-public initiatives of the state government. My congratulations to all the people of the state,” tweeted Yogi to PM Modi.Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “The grand win in block pramukh polls is a reflection of the pro-people policies of the Yogi Adityanath government under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Congratulations to CM Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and all BJP cadres.”Reiterating the same view, Goyal added, “It’s clear that the people are backing a government that is ensuring safety, security and development of the masses.”BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh described it as an “unparalleled win” and congratulated chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Union minister and former BJP chief Nitin Gadkari also congratulated Adityanath and party leaders for the victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-win-in-block-pramukh-polls-a-reflection-of-yogi-government-s-pro-people-policies-says-pm-101625946036458.html
11-07-2021||Other||Education dept grants ₹9 cr for smart playgrounds in govt schools||Chandigarh Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday said that the state government had decided to develop smart playgrounds in government schools. Singla added that the education department had approved a grant of ₹9.1 crore for the development of smart playgrounds in primary and middle schools in the first round of the Smart Playground project. Singla added as their government has drastically improved the infrastructure of government schools by introducing the Smart School Policy, now the project to develop smart playgrounds have been initiated. He added that sports and other extra-curricular activities also hold importance in a student’s development. Singla claimed that the Congress-led state government has ensured growth in every field of school education which was also visible from the success of students and education department as well. He said apart from other achievements, Punjab has been placed on the top of Performance Grading Index (PGI) which was released by the Union government on the basis of 70 parameters of school education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-dept-grants-rs-9-cr-for-smart-playgrounds-in-govt-schools-101625946035352.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: To dress up or dress down, that is the question||Not so long ago, there was a great brouhaha over the ripped-jeans controversy. While it is certainly not immoral to wear ripped jeans, ‘Friday Dressing’ has sadly permeated official settings and universities as we forget basic dressing etiquette. Even the Central Bureau of Investigation recently put in place a formal dress code for both men and woman as the agency’s newly appointed chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal felt it was non-negotiable to indicate a professional work environment.It is the norm to wear formals at universities in western countries. While I was studying at Cambridge University , in the United Kingdom, the faculty could not wear jeans to class, they had to wear trousers and a jacket (a blazer as Indians refer to it). Sadly, the same is not seen in our country.I am a strong supporter of women wearing trousers, especially as it encourages the wearer to stay trim. However, I loathe to see doctorate students and sometimes even younger faculty wearing ripped jeans. This hardly aesthetic or appropriate in an academic set up.I have seen students presenting seminars and even appearing for viva voce examinations wearing round-neck tee-shirts and open-toed footwear.So do clothes really matter? Not to Albert Einstein, who felt if most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies. However, for lesser mortals like us, I would say, dressing up well is a form of good manners.The legendary lyricist Gulzar would agree as he had famously given the Oscars a miss in 2009 because he did not have a black coat to conform to the mandatory dress code, though his song ‘Jai Ho’ won an Academy Award for the best original song. A decade down the line, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo deviated from the strict dress code and received their Nobel Prize in economics donning a dhoti and a sari, respectively.It is strange that people who would not be caught dead attending a social function wearing casuals are unaware of workplace dressing etiquette. After all, one gets noticed and defined by their dressing sense. Try recalling an old friend or acquaintance. You will also immediately recall his or her dress sense, whether simple, elegant, flamboyant or shoddy. Each generation has always had their favourite style icons. During my teenage years, I pored over outfits worn by princess Diana, while my mom was fan of Jackie Kennedy’s classic style.Bridal colours, funeral colours and clothes to be worn while visiting a religious place are all defined by society. In some mosques, it is mandatory for women to wear a burkha, while one must drape a saree to enter certain temples. In gurdwaras, one is immediately told to cover one’s head properly if the head covering slips by even an inch.Traditionally, the Brits have been particular about dress etiquette. Our dress code and local customs seem rather strange to the English. Once our visitor, an Englishman, felt it was rude to take off one’s shoes and socks in public, so he decided to wait outside, while the rest of us went in to pay our respects at the Golden Temple, Amritsar. In another incident, a British friend of mine was amused to see men in western suits sitting cross legged on the carpet during a Sikh wedding!While at Cambridge, a batchmate of ours was an alumnus of IIT. In the 1980s, the intellectual IITian would be seen in a kurta-pyjama paired with kohlapuri chappals and a ‘jhola’ bag. Now, this batchmate changed into the aforementioned attire for dinner at the college hall, oblivious to the fact that Brits take formal dining very seriously.He was denied entry by a university official and told to dress up and come. Baffled, he muttered, “Oh! So in your country people dress up for dinner, while in our country we dress down for dinner.”Indeed, during hot summer months, we wash up and change into loose sleepwear before sitting down for dinner at home.sbedipau@yahoo.comThe writer is a professor at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-to-dress-up-or-dress-down-that-is-the-question-101625945796389.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Dalit man assaulted and brutalised by kin of partner in UP, say police||A 25-year-old Dalit man was assaulted and brutalised allegedly by the family members of a woman he was in a relationship with, in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur Dehat district, police said on Saturday. Three people have been arrested in connection with the case, while police teams have been formed to find the six other culprits, they added.According to the victim, a painter and a resident of Sarwan Kheda, the incident took place in Patari village on July 6, when he went to meet the woman he was in a relationship with. The victim has alleged that the family members of the woman, who belonged to the Other Backward Classes, tied him to a tree and assaulted him till he lost consciousness. The accused have, however, alleged that the victim was punished for harassing a woman at his workplace.A video of the incident went viral on Saturday, following which the Akbarpur police registered a suo motu complaint and arrested Manish Sharma and Shiva — both residents of Akbarpur — and an unidentified person. The viral video purportedly showed the victim being tied to a tree in full public view by one of the accused Sanjay Pal, who is absconding. A mob gathered and some of the men were purportedly seen beating the victim with sticks and brutalising him.Akbarpur station house officer, Tulsiram Pandey, said the man is undergoing treatment at the LLR hospital in Kanpur and a case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.Additional Director General of Police (Kanpur zone), Bhanu Bhaskar, said the district magistrate and Kanpur Dehat SP later visited the village and spoke to members of the two castes to ensure law and order situation remains under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dalit-man-assaulted-and-brutalised-by-kin-of-partner-in-up-say-police-101625945074605.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Violence, clashes as UP elects local body chiefs||The violence-marred Uttar Pradesh local body chief elections concluded on Saturday with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming victoryin the polls that saw candidates being attacked while filing nominations, parties’ workers clashing across districts and the Opposition accusing the ruling party of using state machinery to corner political rivals.The elections were held for 825 block panchayat chief posts, out of which the BJP and its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) looked set to win 635 posts, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, citing official trends as of 6.30pm. A total of 349 candidates were elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers.“….The BJP has found favour with the (rural) masses in a big way. The inclination of the people was towards the BJP,” Adityanath said at a press conference at the party office in Lucknow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi credited the Adityanath government’s policies for the party’s performance in the elections.“In block pramukh polls too, the BJP candidates have won. The win is a reflection of the fact that Yogi Adityanath government’s pro-people policies have helped the people. Congratulations to the cadre for this win,” Modi tweeted.The BJP’s state unit chief, Swatantra Dev, said the results were a precursor to the upcoming state polls. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP would sweep the 2022 UP assembly polls,” he said.The Opposition, however, accused the state government of using the administration to gain an unfair advantage and carrying out attacks on the members of rival parties.“The BJP doesn’t believe in democracy and the Constitution. With the cooperation of the government, the BJP got votes polled in its favour,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in a statement issued late on Saturday.“Block pramukh candidates and kshetra panchayat members were kidnapped in various districts and those who protested against rigging are being harassed. Despite having all the valid documents, many were forcibly deprived of voting,” he added.“What kind of a farce this election was where the police and local administration were openly made to side with the ruling party. It was a blatant, shameful display by the ruling party whose cadres also attacked the police. We saw shocking images of women candidates from the Opposition being ill-treated by BJP goons. It would have been better had the BJP declared itself a winner without a contest,” Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, “violence has been renamed masterstroke”.The clashes that erupted on Thursday during the filing of papers for the polls continued on Saturday with incidents of stone-pelting and firing being reported from different districts, the police said.“When a mob was asked to stop from coming near a polling booth [in Etawah district], it started stone-pelting and firing. We have all the CCTV footage. We will investigate once the election is over. A case will be filed soon,” Etawah senior superintendent of police Brajesh Kumar Singh said.At places, police had to resort to baton-charge and fire tear gas shells to break the clashes between members of different parties and supporters of Independent candidates, officials said.The UP Police arrested two people and suspended six personnel after a woman candidate was assaulted while filing nomination on Thursday.“Cases have been registered under Section 147 (Punishment for rioting) and 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) [among others] in connection with the incident of misbehaviour with a woman candidate during filing nomination,” the police said in a statement.Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Bahujan Samajh Party (BSP) chief Mayawati alleged that the law and order situation had deteriorated under the BJP government.“In the current reign of the BJP in UP, there is no rule of law, but a jungle raj is prevailing under which there has been widespread violence in the panchayat polls and indecent behaviour with a woman in Lakhimpur Kheri. This is highly condemnable,” she said.The CM, however, praised the State Election Commission for the “peaceful and fair” polls, stating that “conducting such a massive election process peacefully was praiseworthy.”(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/violence-clashes-as-up-elects-local-body-chiefs-101625944442246.html
11-07-2021||Other||Delimitation: Vakil slams NC for different stands on Jammu, Kashmir||The People’s Conference on Saturday censured the National Conference for submitting a proposal to the delimitation panel in Jammu, which it said echoes the Bharatiya Janata Party’s demand to frame a new criterion to carve out constituencies.Former minister and vice-president, People’s Conference, Abdul Gani Vakil said the memorandum submitted by the NC in Jammu is in contrast to the Srinagar memorandum.“In Srinagar, the NC demanded that population should be the sole parameter to delimit constituencies, whereas in Jammu it has urged the delimitation commission to give its due to all parts of Jammu region by taking area terrain and scattered population into consideration,” he said.Questioning the NC’s different stands in Jammu and Kashmir, Vakil asked it to “describe and define the two starkly different memorandums”.“It’s time the people of Kashmir see the real face of the NC. Gone are the days when the NC leadership would weave a story in Kashmir and super weave another in Jammu and then superbly weave another one in Delhi. We are living in the age of electronic media, where such hypocrisy gets exposed,” he said.Vakil also questioned whether the NC believes that people in Jammu have been wronged previously by the delimitation commissions.“Does the NC believe that Kashmiris have been given more seats in the assembly than they deserve? If they think this delimitation commission was unconstitutional in Kashmir, why do they think it was not unconstitutional in Jammu? Why in Jammu they think that Jammu people have been wronged, and in Kashmir they think Kashmiri people have been wronged?” he said.Slamming the NC, Vakil said that even after J&K has been deprived of statehood, the NC is no mood to be truthful to the people of Kashmir.“Even after we are left with nothing, are they still going to do the same? Where has the shame gone? And for the people of J&K, please see where they stand. They stand with power,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delimitation-vakil-slams-nc-for-different-stands-on-jammu-kashmir-101625944955420.html
11-07-2021||Other||Reduction in NPAs of docs: Punjab govt doctors on strike from July 12-14; no OPDs as well||Chandigarh The Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC) has announced that health and veterinary services, including Out-Patient Departments (OPDs) will not function from July 12-14. Emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico-legal services will continue as usual.The doctors have been protesting against the government silence on their demand of no reduction in Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) being paid to them. The doctors added that if the government did not resolve the issue of the NPA by July 18, all health and veterinary doctors would go on indefinite strike from July 19 onwards. Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) association president and senior members of the JGDCC, Dr Gagandeep Singh; president, veterinary officers association, Dr Gagandeep Singh Shergill; president, dental association, Dr Sanjeev Pathak; president, ayurvedic association, Dr Balwinder Singh; president, homoeopathic association, and Dr Deepinder Singh president, rural medical officers association, in a joint statement said, “Due to the government’s silence on the issue of NPA, the JGDCC is forced to give a strike call again. For the convenience of the public, government OPDs will be shut from July 15-17, but parallel OPDs would be run by the JGDCC in lawns of hospitals so that the needy persons would not be deprived of availing health/veterinary service.”During the boycott, all doctors across the state will donate blood. Doctors are irked as health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had recently assured the joint committee that the issue of NPA would be resolved within a week, but nothing has been even as many days have passed.  JGDCC convener Dr Inderveer Gill said this NPA agitation is to the save the public health care system. The government is pursuing a policy of evading the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reduction-in-npas-of-docs-punjab-govt-doctors-on-strike-from-july-12-14-no-opds-as-well-101625944835467.html
11-07-2021||Other||Estates dept asks 4 PDP leaders to vacate official accommodations in Srinagar||The J&K estates department has asked four top People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leaders, including former minister and legislators, to vacate the official accommodations allotted to them in Srinagar.One of the leaders, Ajaz Mir, who is a District Development Council member from Shopian and has been the former legislator, has already vacated his government accommodation at Jawahar Nagar in Srinagar and is currently residing at a hotel of his friend as police is not allowing him to stay at his house in Shopian due to threat.Officials of the estates department said politicians of other parties have also been asked to vacate their government accommodations if they are not entitled for the government accommodations.“I have already vacated my official accommodation at Jawahar Nagar which was allotted to me as a legislator. The place where I was staying has been allotted to director finance despite my protests. So I had no option but to leave the house,” he said.“I wanted to go to my house in Shopian and stay there but police fear that I might become target of militants. Even the locals are not ready to give me an accommodation on rent due to security men attached with me. I had requested my PSOs to leave me alone but they have strict instructions not to leave me,” he added.Mir, who got elected as a DDC member from Shopian on PDP ticket, said he doesn’t know why the government took away his accommodation despite being a protected person.“In the present circumstances, I am unable to understand what to do. As an elected DDC member, I don’t have any government accommodation,” he said.Another PDP leader and former minister Zahoor Ahmad Mir was also asked by the estate officials to vacate his government quarter at Tulsi Bagh.“A few days ago, some officials from the estates department came and asked me to vacate my official house. My father was an elected legislator and was killed in a militant attack at Pampore in 2003. I can’t stay at my house in South Kashmir as I haven’t been provided any police protection there. I am in quandary what to do,” he said.Another former legislator Mohamed Yusuf Bhat, who is currently the member of PDP’s political affairs committee said he too was asked unofficially to vacate the government accommodation at Jawahar Nagar.“Several times, the estates officials told me to vacate the house, despite knowing the fact I am a former legislator and a protected person. I am still in the house because I have no place to go,” said Bhat.He questioned as to why only PDP leaders are being asked to vacate their government accommodations.“There are many people who have no entitlement and have still been allotted government accommodations and nobody is asking them to vacate their places,” he said.Another former legislator and senior PDP leader Nizamudin Bhat too has been asked to vacate the government accommodation.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said politicians are eligible for government accommodation only till they hold any constitutional posts.“In J&K, even after losing their posts, politicians and other people have the habit of holding the accommodation which is against the law. I agree that politicians have threat but law is for everybody,” Thakur said.Director estates Subash Chibber said he isn’t aware about these cases and said his deputy is dealing with the issue.Deputy director estates Mohammad Aslam said it is the order from the high court that all unauthorised people occupying government accommodation should be asked to vacate their accommodation. “It has nothing to do with any particular political party,” Aslam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/estates-dept-asks-4-pdp-leaders-to-vacate-official-accommodations-in-srinagar-101625944777311.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Health workers should get bouquets, not brickbats||The fight against the virus is not over yet as the pandemic continues to torment the world. The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic had devastated the country, especially in the months of April and May, this year.Amid all this, doctors, nurses, attendants and technicians have led the fight from the front. Few realise how stressful, physically tiring and mentally exhausting it can be to work in Covid wards. As cases surged and more hospitals were converted into Covid hospitals, the same workforce was stretched with longer duty hours and more workload.At times, staff in intensive care units had to work on endless shifts without weekly offs. More often than not only two doctors had to manage around 100 to 150 patients. The stakes for healthcare workers were high as not only were they at risk of contracting the deadly virus themselves but they could also transmit the pathogen to their families.As per the Indian Medical Association around 700 doctors have succumbed to Covid in the second wave, while 748 had succumbed last year. The figures will be all the more horrifying, if one were to include the fatalities reported among nurses and other healthcare workers, considering the size of the workforce. No wonder healthcare workers have been called frontline workers.Periodically, we come across pieces by doctors and nurses chronicling the emotional upheaval they undergo as they witness the last moments of Covid patients. How emotionally taxing and hard it is to choose between two patients when only one ventilator is available. This often scars psyche and many healthcare workers have developed post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and have had to seek counselling.Despite their punishing hours and personal sacrifices, healthcare workers are sadly not appreciated enough. Far from being appreciated, incidents of violence against them are on the rise. Relatives of patients have beaten up doctors at several hospitals across the country and some nursing homes have been vandalised. Just recently, a doctor in Assam was manhandled.Things were worse at the outset of the pandemic when many doctors and nurses were barred from entering residential areas as it was feared that they could transmit the virus.We must honour healthcare workers in any way we can. In several countries, fast-food chains would offer a free coffee or burger to healthcare workers who could furnish a valid identity card during the first and second waves. In India, IndiGo Airlines sent a pack of goodies to a healthcare worker, if any passenger wanted to send a note of appreciation to their favourite doctor or nurse. Earlier this year, ITC, a leading hotel chain had announced a hefty 50% discount on bookings in their hotels for all doctors as a gesture of appreciation for their contribution to the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Last year, PM Modi had extolled the citizens to express gratitude to healthcare workers for their contributions during the pandemic. Such gestures are morale boosters. It is time that the contribution of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers is acknowledged and appreciated in a more fitting manner.dr_kochhar@hotmail.comThe writer is professor of gastroenterology at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-health-workers-should-get-bouquets-not-brickbats-101625944358149.html
11-07-2021||Other||Anil Joshi’s next move being keenly watched||AMRITSAR With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expelling former local bodies minister Anil Joshi from the party for six years, for what state president Ashwani Sharma has termed ‘indiscipline’ and ‘anti-party activities’, Joshi’s next move will be keenly watched in political circles. Sources said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be the least of his priorities, with former Punjab Police inspector general (IG) Kunwar Vijay Partap recently joining it. As Amritsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) in 2009, Kunwar had locked horns with Joshi, a BJP MLA then, who sat on a dharna against his own government seeking his transfer. It is also a given that Joshi will contest the next elections from any of the assembly segments in Amritsar. Kunwar, however, is likely to get the AAP ticket from Amritsar north, a Hindu dominated seat and the home turf of Joshi. Advocate RP Singh, a close aide of Joshi, who had quit the BJP in support of protesting farmers a few months ago, and joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), congratulated him. In a Facebook post, RP said, “Congratulations for being Independent.” The post carried the election symbol of the SAD, with a victory sign for 2022 assembly elections. This is being interpreted to mean that Joshi is likely to join the SAD. The seat-sharing arrangement between the SAD and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), however, is seen as a hurdle to this possibility. The SAD has already given Amritsar north seat from where Joshi was elected as MLA in 2007 and 2012, to the BSP. When queried, a senior SAD leader said, “Resolving this issue is not difficult, if Joshi is ready to join the party.” The SAD holds sway in some villages falling in this constituency. Joshi, however, will remember that SAD workers in Tarn Taran had thrashed his brother and aides during local elections years ago. For the Congress, sitting MLA Sunil Dutti, had defeated Joshi in his home turf in 2017. Another influential Congress leader, Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, is also from this seat. Political observers, thus, conclude that the Congress may not be a viable option for Joshi. Some of his aides claim he could also contest as an Independent, as he holds considerable influence in the constituency.When asked about his future, Joshi said, “I have no agenda/plan to join any other party. I have been punished for supporting farmers, and I accept it. They have not hung me, at least. I am a product of the organisation and am attached to their ideology from which I cannot detach myself.”“I have always worked with honesty for my country and Punjab. I am proud of being a Punjabi and will always raise the voice of state’s residents, irrespective of the consequences,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anil-joshi-s-next-move-being-keenly-watched-101625944355493.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Police bust international drug racket, recover heroin worth ₹2,500 crore||Delhi Police on Saturday said they have busted an international drug cartel with the arrest of four men, including an Afghan national, over the past week and recovered 354 kg heroin, estimated to be worth over ₹2,500 crore, in raids in Delhi, Faridabad and Gurugram. Police traced the cartel’s operational footprint across Portugal, Afghanistan, Iran and India, with the drugs reaching Mumbai from Iran’s Chabahar port, and then moved to different parts of the country.Police said it is the force’s biggest drug haul in at least 10 years. In 2019, Delhi Police recovered 330 kg of heroin, which was said to be the force’s biggest seizure then.A five-member police team were set on the trail of the massive drug operation after one of the gang members, Rizwan Ahmed, alias Rizwan Kashmiri, who was involved in peddling drugs in parts of Delhi, in addition to Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, was arrested from south Delhi with a kilogram of heroin.“On July 5, a reliable source informed us that Rizwan was going to deliver contraband in Ghitorni area of south Delhi. We laid a trap and arrested him with a kilo of heroin. This initial recovery proved to be just the tip of the iceberg. When Rizwan was questioned at length, he revealed that he works under the command of an Afghan national named Isha Khan who recently left India and is now based in Afghanistan,” said deputy commissioner of police(special cell) Pramod Kushwah.“Khan had directed Rizwan to contact Gurpreet Singh and Gurjot Singh, both residents of Punjab who operate the drug racket from Faridabad. We conducted a raid at their hideout in NSG Vihar co-op housing society, Sector-65, Faridabad and arrested them. Heroin weighing around 166 kg and 115 kg were found in two cars -- a Hyundai Verna and a Honda Amaze -- parked in the society,” added Kushwah.A subsquent search in the house yielded 70 kg of heroin stashed in a secret cavity in one of the beds.Police said the two men confessed that they were working under a man named Navpreet Singh, alias Nav, currently suspected to be hiding in Portugal. Gurpreet told police he had met Navpreet in Kapurthala Jail, Punjab.Separately, another police team questioned Rizwan and learned that he was in touch with an Afghan national Hazrat Ali who was arrested from his house in Gurugram sector 39 with two kilograms of the drug.Investigation so far has revealed that Gurpreet, Gurjot and Hazrat have been arrested in drug cases in the past and were out on bail.How the drugs reach IndiaExplaining how the drug is smuggled into the country, DCP Kushwah said that opium from Afghanistan --concealed as legitimate export items like talc stone, gypsum powder, basil seeds and packed in gunny bags, cartons and others -- is sent from Iran’s Chabahar port to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Navi Mumbai.From there, the consignment is sent to makeshift factories in Shiv Puri, Madhya Pradesh, for processing to get the final product -- heroin.“The factories procure various chemicals required for processing through a network of chemical shops located in Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. Experts from Afghanistan also assist in the factories. Once processes, the heroin is sent to Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir and various other parts of India, using different supply chains,” added Kushwah.Police said they are in contact with their counterparts in these states to trace the other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-bust-international-drug-racket-recover-heroin-worth-2-500-crore-101625943939289.html
11-07-2021||Other||Vikramaditya appointed as titular ‘raja’||Keeping up with the centuries old tradition, Vikramadtiya Singh - the heir apparent of Virbhadra Singh - was appointed as the head of the family at the palace in Rampur Bushar.The royal palace in Rampur Bushar held a close-door ceremony to coronate Vikramaditya as the ‘raja’ of Bushar. Besides close family and a priest, no one was allowed to be present. Vikramaditya’s wife Sudershna was also present.The ceremony started in the wee hours of Saturday. No one was allowed to carry mobile phone camera inside the hall. The family did not call the ceremony ‘rajyabhishekh’ of the king.In accordance with the tradition of the family Vikramaditya was declared the titular head (nominal head of the family). Vikramaditya, who was earlier referred to as ‘tikka sahib’ (the prince) will now be called ‘raja’ while Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh will now be called ‘rajmata’.Considered a descendent of Praduymna, son of Lord Krisha, Virbhadra was born on June 23, 1934, to Raja Padam Dev and Shanti Devi in the royal family of Rampur Bushahr.Rampur Bushahr was known as Shonitpur which was believed to be founded by demon king Banasur which later came to be known as Bushar with its capital shifted from Sangla in Kinnaur to Rampur.Virbahdra was crowned as the king of Bushahr in 1947 at the age of 13 upon the demise of his father.As per tradition, his coronation had taken place before the cremation of Raja Padam Dev, who was the last king of Bushar. After his death, Virbhadra was made the titular head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vikramaditya-appointed-as-titular-raja-101625944179771.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Haryana to blame for water shortage in Delhi: Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday blamed the Haryana government for triggering a “severe water crisis” in the national capital, and exhorted the neighbouring state to adhere to orders by the Supreme court on water sharing. Haryana government, however, said it is adhering to water sharing pacts, and blamed “internal mismanagement in Delhi” for the scarcity.“Haryana has reduced the water supply into the river Yamuna by 120 million gallons per day (MGD), which has led to a decrease in drinking water production in Delhi by 100 MGD,” said Chadha, during a press conference.The water released in the Yamuna is treated at the various water treatment plants (WTPs) after which it reaches households.“Water production at Chandrawal WTP has come down from 90 MGD to 55 MGD, at Wazirabad WTP from 135 MGD to 80 MGD, and at Okhla WTP from 20 MGD to 15 MGD. The water production in Delhi has come down from 245 MGD to 150-145 MGD. This is at a time when the Upper Yamuna River Board directed Haryana to provide an additional 150 cusecs of water, besides providing the legally prescribed amount of water to meet the requirement,” said Chadha.Water supply has been disrupted in areas falling under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), central Delhi, and parts of west and south Delhi on account of the reduced supply by Haryana.“Delhi receives Yamuna water coming from Haryana at three places - CLC channel, DSB channel, and the Wazirabad pond. There has been a heavy reduction in water received at the CLC and the DSB channels while the Wazirabad pond has not received the supply,” added Chadha.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj too attacked the Haryana government for “repeatedly stalling Delhi’s water”. “Nearly 10% of total water consumption is not being released, which means around 20 lakh people across the city are not getting enough potable water,” said Bharadwaj in a statement.The DJB has been raising the water issue with Haryana since May.“I fold my hands and request the Haryana government to not reduce water supply to Delhi as we need water to drink,” said Chadha.Denying the DJB’s allegations, a Haryana irrigation department spokesperson said Delhi it has not reduced the water released to Delhi. “...Haryana is supplying 1,049 cusecs at Munak or more than 950 cusecs of water (against 939 cusecs) at Bawana contact point, through its canal system, which is more than their legitimate share... Shortage of water in Delhi is the result of internal mismanagement; Haryana has no role in it. It is worth mentioning that due to a delayed monsoon, Haryana is facing serious water scarcity but we are still maintaining water supply to Delhi without any reduction,” the spokesperson said.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the Delhi government has failed to ensure adequate water supply, adding that the Capital is receiving its full share from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Delhi is facing water shortage because the Arvind Kejriwal-led city government has failed to check water pilferage and has not been able to use its full water treatment capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryana-to-blame-for-water-shortage-in-delhi-raghav-chadha-101625943947150.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Over 200,000 migrants arrived in Maharashtra from north India||As the Maharashtra government started easing the lockdown restrictions, migrants who had left the state have now slowly started returning.The Central Railway (CR) that operates outstation trains towards north and north-east India has witnessed a marginal increase in the number of passengers travelling back to Maharashtra from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Assam.Last month, more than 200,000 passengers arrived in Maharashtra from north and north-east India by regular outstation trains as compared to around 170,000 migrants who had left the state. Passengers have also arrived in the state on special trains operated by other zonal railways.In May, nearly 200,000 people had left Maharashtra.Railway authorities have also stated that the pattern of passengers arriving back in the state has been witnessed in July till date as well.“The number of passengers arriving back in the state has increased. There has been a surge witnessed from the start of June and now in July as well. Special trains are being planned and operated towards Maharashtra from different parts of India,” said a senior CR official who did not wish to be named.After restrictions were announced by the Maharashtra government in April, nearly 600,000 people had left the state on regular and over 250 special outstation trains that were operated by both Central and Western Railway. Majority of the special trains were operated towards UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/200k-migrants-arrived-in-maharashtra-from-north-india-101625944114879.html
11-07-2021||Other||PIL in Bombay HC seeks independent probe into P305 tragedy||An ex-master mariner has moved the Bombay high court (HC), seeking an independent probe into the loss of 86 lives after accommodation barge P305 and tugboat Varaprada capsized in the Arabian Sea when severe tropical Cyclone Tauktae had hit the Mumbai coast in May. Captain Naveen Singhal has filed the public interest litigation (PIL) contending that an independent inquiry is necessary in the matter, although the director general (DG), shipping, has initiated an internal probe into the matter. Singhal has apprehended that the real root causes and systemic failures may not come out in the inquiry undertaken by the DG. In this regard, the marine consultant has said that he “believes that the issues and allegations that need to be investigated will include the role (acts of omission and commission and lapses) of the DG itself, because it is the DG who grants licences to self-propelled and non-propelled domestic and other ships to engage in trade in the coast of India and oversees, the condition and maintenance of ships and issues certificates to operate and ply.” His PIL points out that as early as March 10, the India Meteorological Department had announced the beginning of formation of a cyclone on India’s west coast that acquired the name Tauktae. As it consolidated over the Arabian Sea and moved towards the north-western direction, the cyclone started gathering intensity and was constantly upgraded. The PIL stated that while all other vessels returned to the safety of the port and anchorages, barge P305 with 261 on board, GAL Constructor – a floating crane with 137 crew members, and an ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation) vessel named Sagar Bhushan continued near an unmanned platform. Being “dumb” barges, they were unable to move by themselves, stated the PIL. “As events showed, despite the early warnings, ONGC and Afcons (a contractor of ONGC), continued work on the platform [in Mumbai High oilfields] and retained their full complement untilled it was too late,” the PIL read. It added that after the weather became severe, the captain of GAL Constructor insisted on returning to safety of the harbour and accordingly, tugboat Varaprada brought it out of Mumbai High, but had to remain in unsheltered water outside Mumbai port, known as Bombay Floating Light. Varaprada anchored somewhere else. P305, the PIL said, continued at the platform in Mumbai High and was moved off the rig platform (for safety of the platform) and made to anchor in unsheltered waters, without any protection. “It is believed that even life rafts on P305 failed. The vessel is registered on Saint Kitts and Nevis, one of the most lax and notorious flags of convenience,” Singhal alleged. The PIL also raised the issue of sea worthiness of the vessels involved. ONGC as a matter of policy does not allow use of vessels that are more than 21 years old. However GAL Constructor was 48 years old, while Varaprada was built in 1984. Referring to the statement of Varaprada’s chief engineer – who is one of the two survivors of the vessel – the PIL added that when the tug began to take in water, its pumps were not working and the crew had to manually bail out water, which ultimately is an impossible task. “It could not or did not send out a distress signal till 5pm of May 17, that is 12 hours after it broke anchor and began to drift, and seven hours after it began to take water in. It is not imaginable that any sailor would delay asking for assistance for that long and presumably, the vessel’s communication status needs to be checked,” stated the PIL. The litigation will come up for hearing before the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pil-in-bombay-hc-seeks-independent-probe-into-p305-tragedy-101625944054792.html
11-07-2021||Other||Virbhadra cremated with full state honours||“Raja nahin fakir tha, Himachal ki taqdir tha (He was not a king but an ascetic, he was the fortune of Himachal)” slogans echoed loud in Rampur town, about 125km from Shimla, during former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s final journey from ancestral Padam Palace to the Jogni Bagh royal crematorium. The six-time chief minister was cremated with full state honours. His son Vikramaditya lit the pyre at around 4.30pm. People who had gathered in large numbers fondly remembered ‘Raja Sahib’ as a leader who stood by them through thick and thin. Virbhadra, 87, had breathed his last at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, following a cardiopulmonary arrest on Thursday. Leaders from across political parties, including the national BJP president Jagat Parkash Nadda and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, paid tributes to the departed leader in Shimla on Friday. A large number of people thronged the national highway when Virbhadra’s mortal remains were being taken from Shimla to Rampur. People from across the state had descended on Rampur to pay last respects to ‘Raja Sahib’ who left an indelible imprint on the state’s public life through his political achievements for nearly six decades. “Dekho dekho kaun aaya, sher aaya, sher aaya… (Look who has come, the lion…” reverberated the crowd when the body was brought out of the palace as people could not hold back their emotions. Local folk bands accompanied the body to the cremation ground. “He was a ‘living God’ for us, he worked for the downtrodden, he was full of magnanimity,” said Purno Devi, 65, who had come all the way from interior 15-Beesh area of Rampur. There was no room for vehicles on the highway as the massive surge of supporters from claimed every inch of the stretch up to the crematorium. No one talked of Covid-19 protocols as police personnel struggled as people jostled to get the last glimpse of their beloved leaders. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, along with some members of his cabinet, himself flew to Rampur to pay last tributes to the six-time chief minister. He was present at the Jogniwas cremation ground along the banks of the Sutlej river. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, former Union ministers Anand Sharma, Pawan Bansal, Rajeev Shukla; HP education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, state Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, AICC secretary and Congress in-charge for Himachal affairs Sanjay Dutt , leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former Congress chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu were also in attendance. Vikramaditya Singh lit the funeral pyre as a police contingent gave the guard of honour and gun salute to the former chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virbhadra-cremated-with-full-state-honours-101625943997142.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Metro services on Pink Line to be affected from Monday to Thursday||The Delhi Metro on Saturday said that sevices on its Pink line will be disrupted between Monday and Thursday due to ongoing interlinking work.According to a statement issued by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday, the services on the Pink line will be regulated between Monday and Thursday to undertake the interlinking work of Overhead Equipment (OHE) on the yet-to-be-opened section between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations.“Train services during these days on Pink Line will continue to run as usual from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase-I section and from IP Extension to Maujpur/Shiv Vihar section,” DMRC executive director Anuj Dayal said in the statement.However, metro services will not be available between IP Extension and Trilokpuri, and between Mayur Vihar Ph-I & Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations. “Besides, Mandawali West Vinod Nagar, East Vinod Nagar Mayur Vihar Ph-II, Trilokpuri and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations will remain closed in the above said period,” the statement added.The timing for the first and last train from the modified terminal stations for this period -- Mayur Vihar Phase-I and IP Extension -- will remain unchanged during this period. “Announcements will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on Pink Line about the modified destination of trains during this period,” read the statement.The normal train services on Pink Line will be resumed as per the present practice from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-services-on-pink-line-to-be-affected-from-monday-to-thursday-101625943653143.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP’s win in block pramukh elections shows people’s preference, says Yogi Adityanath||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday claimed a decisive victory in the violence-hit block pramukh elections in Uttar Pradesh.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that on the basis of trends, leads and results, the BJP, along with its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal), won at least 635 of the 825 block pramukh or kshetra panchayat chief’s posts for which elections were held across the state.Saturday’s big win came just a week after the BJP dominated the zila (district) panchayat chairpersons’ polls, winning 67 [including one win by its ally Apna Dal (S)] of the 75 seats.The party had won 349 of block pramukh posts unopposed by the close of the nomination withdrawal time on Friday itself. Election in the Mujhena block in Gonda district was not held as the term of the block pramukh has not been completed there.Adityanath, along with UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, arrived at the party office in Lucknow on Saturday evening to greet cadres.Adityanath described the win as “janta ka rujhaan (people’s preference). The state BJP chief said the victory had now set up the 2022 UP assembly polls nicely for the party.The chief minister said villages were at the centre of all development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda and the blueprint was now ready. “These rural polls were the biggest test of democracy and the win shows that the people have incredible and unshakeable belief in BJP and its policies,” he said.Adityanath also said that in 76 seats, BJP cadres were engaged in “friendly contests” in these block pramukh polls where both contestants were from the ruling party.“Besides, we left 14 seats for our ally Apna Dal (S),” he said, adding that the whole process was carried out in a transparent manner.“The official results are yet to come in but it’s very clear that BJP has found favour with the (rural) masses in a big way,” Adityanath said at a press conference at the party office. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said the results were an indication that the BJP cadres would accept the 2022 UP poll challenge too.“Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP would sweep the 2022 UP assembly polls,” the state BJP chief said. On the other hand, the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) accused the ruling BJP of “hijacking democracy”. The SP has already announced statewide protests on July 15, according to a statement issued by the party on Friday.Both Adityanath and Swatantra Dev didn’t take any questions at the party office. The BJP claimed a clean sweep in Agra, Ghaziabad, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Shravasti, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Pilibhit, Kannauj, Banda, Mahoba, Lalitpur, Sonbhadra and Varanasi districts.The Apna Dal won nine of the 14 block pramukh seats that the BJP left for it, said Apna Dal spokesman Rajesh Patel.The last of the rural elections were marked by visuals of BJP and Opposition members, mostly those from the Samajwadi Party, clashing at many places.At places, the police fired tear gas shells as in Etawah, where a senior police officer was slapped and later named BJP cadres as responsible for the attack on him while in Hathras the Samajwadi Party workers were accused of pelting the police with stones.At many other places, police had to resort to lathi-charge to disperse agitated party workers accusing the ruling party of misusing official machinery. From Muzaffarnagar to Ayodhya and Lucknow, the scene was no different as at all these places as the BJP and the SP engaged in claims and counterclaims.Several senior politicians from the BJP, as well as Opposition, had fielded candidates or family members in these polls. For instance, former UP assembly speaker and Samajwadi Party leader Mata Prasad Pandey’s wife contested and won from Itwa block of Siddharthnagar from where state’s basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi hails.In Rae Bareli’s Unchahar, UP labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya’s daughter-in-law contested and won.While the Congress couldn’t do well in its lone bastion Rae Bareli, in Pratapgarh’s Rampur Khaas assembly segment represented by party MLA Aradhana Misra ‘Mona’, the Congress managed to win three block pramukh seats. Piyush Singh, son of former Congress MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh, who is now in BJP and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully against Sonia Gandhi, BJP’s Raebareli MLA Aditi Singh’s mother Vaishali also won these block pramukh polls. On paper, Aditi is still a Congress MLA. The Samajwadi Party had won the first round, winning more seats than the BJP for the zila panchayat ward members’ poll. The win for the ruling party was accompanied by accusations and objectionable visuals of some male cadres’ physically stopping a woman candidate of the Samajwadi Party in Pasgawa block of Lakhimpur Kheri district.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has since suspended six local police officials on the issue. Some BJP members shared visuals showing armed supporters of opposition SP flexing muscles in Basti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-win-in-block-pramukh-elections-shows-people-s-preference-says-yogi-adityanath-101625943695398.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Another day, another rain delay in national capital||June 15. June 29. July 10.In what is the most delayed arrival of monsoon in the 17 years since records have been made available, the summer rains have now defied yet another prediction. The monsoon was meant to arrive on Saturday, with some pre-monsoon showers the day before – but neither days saw a drop of rain. Instead, in a bulletin later on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said the rains will take “another 24 hours” to reach the Capital.The IMD has shared monsoon onset dates since 2004. Typically, the onset occurs on June 29. The most delayed onset prior to this year was in 2006, when rains arrived on July 9.The delays this year — which altogether may be one of the latest yet — have led to a summer of an unusual spell of high-heat, high-humidity conditions across much of north-west India.For the past 10 days, Delhi and its surroundings have reeled under near-heatwave conditions. IMD officials, however, added that the wait may finally be over as monsoon winds reached Delhi on Friday. The easterly winds, which originate in the Bay of Bengal, extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and East Rajasthan on July 10, the IMD said.“Relative humidity has also increased over the region. Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during next 24 hours,” the bulletin stated.RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD, said a prediction was made for July 10 but added that its “realisation each time is different”. “The easterly winds that bring the monsoon showers have reached the northwestern region including Delhi. Rain is expected between late Friday evening and Sunday noon. This is why we have given another 24 hours to officially declare its onset. It has already rained in parts of Punjab and Rajasthan while Haryana, south Punjab, south Rajasthan and Delhi are yet to get rainfall,” he said.Showers will intensify in Delhi as well as over Haryana, Chandigarh and West Uttar Pradesh between July 11 and 13, the bulletin said.The monsoon is arguably India’s most watched weather event, influencing much of the country’s farm sector where a vast majority of fields are still rain-fed. But predicting how it behaves has often been rife with errors, particularly for the north-western region where weather scientists say conditions are typically volatile.This year, the rains were first predicted to make a record early march across the country, initially predicted to hit Delhi by June 13-15. But in the latter half of the month, the progress slowed down before it eventually stalled and entered a three-week long break phase.Independent weather forecasters now also say that monsoon showers are likely to arrive in Delhi on July 11 and will continue over the following days. Mahesh Palawat, vice president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet weather, a private forecaster, said monsoon currents have reached Delhi-NCR and there is also a rise in humidity. “These conditions help cloud formation that triggers rainfall. Clouds are likely to be seen over the Capital on Sunday resulting in showers around noon. Though heavy rainfall is not expected, short spells of ‘moderate’ rain are likely over the next few days. This will also bring the mercury down to around 34°C,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-day-another-rain-delay-in-national-capital-101625943520005.html
11-07-2021||Other||PM Modi, CM Yogi condole death of Mahant Rameshwar Puri||: Mahant Rameshwar Puri of Kashi Annapurna Temple passed away while he was undergoing treatment in a private hospital here on Saturday. He was 67.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the death of Mahant Puri.A pall of gloom descends on saints’ community and commoners over his death. His body has been kept in the temple for last darshan. His last rites will be performed on Sunday morning.“Mahant got infected with the corona virus during Haridwar Kumbh. After getting treatment in New Delhi, he came to Lucknow and later came back to the temple in Kashi. Meanwhile, on June 11, his health deteriorated, and he was admitted to Medanta in Lucknow. His condition remained critical for the last 10 days. After doctors’ lost hope of improvement, we shifted him to a private hospital in Varanasi where he breathed his last,” said Shankar Puri, deputy mahant of the temple. “Rameshwar Puri was appointed Mahant of Shri Annapurna Math temple after the death of the then Mahant Tribhuvan Puri in 2004. Under his guidance, the Kashi Annapurna Anna Kshetra Trust continuously expanded its social service. At the time of his appointment, only one project of the Trust was operating in the form of Annakshetra, while at present the trust is working in field of education, medical and welfare of elderly people,” said Puri.PM Modi tweeted, “Deeply saddened by the demise of Mahant Rameshwar Puri ji of Kashi Annapurna Temple. His passing is an irreparable loss to the society. He constantly inspired people for social work by connecting religion and spirituality with social service. Om Shanti (peace)!Chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted, “ I am extremely saddened by the death of revered Rameshwar Puri ji, Mahant of Kashi Annapurna Temple. Your passing is an irreparable loss to the spiritual world. I pray to Prabhu Shri Ram to give place to the departed virtuous soul at his feet and give strength to the mourning followers to bear this unfathomable sorrow. Om Shanti!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-modi-cm-yogi-condole-death-of-mahant-rameshwar-puri-101625943454734.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Parents’ association demands relief from last year’s school fee arrears||The Delhi Parents Association on Friday wrote to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal demanding relief from last year’s fee arrears private schools are charging following a High Court order, citing survey filled by over 3,000 parents wherein 98% of them opposed the arrears.On May 31, the Delhi high court set aside two orders issued by the Delhi government last year, prohibiting private schools from collecting annual charges and development fees during the Covid-induced lockdown.The court directed that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year retrospectively in six monthly instalments starting from June 10, but only after applying a 15% reduction on total school fees in lieu of facilities not used by students during the lockdown. The court also allowed schools to charge the whole fee, including tuition fee and other charges, for the 2021-22 academic year.The Delhi government’s education department challenged the order in the Supreme Court which refused to stay the order. On July 1, the Delhi government issued an order allowing 460 private schools, which had filed a petition in the high court, to charge last year’s arrears as per the court direction and barred other schools from charging development and annual fees from parents.The Delhi Parents Association started an online survey on Google forms to collect parents’ responses on the matter of fees and sent it to the CM and the L-G. “Over 3,000 parents responded with the majority of them being from schools that have been granted permission to charge the last year’s arrears. Around 98% of these parents said they are against the Delhi government’s July 1 order, and 87% of parents think that the Delhi government’s education department failed to properly represent parents’ point of view in the court. We have sent the responses of over 3,000 parents to the Delhi CM and L-G, requesting them to help the parents at a time when the majority of them are witnessing financial challenges due to the pandemic,” said Aprajita Gautam, president of the association.“We request the Delhi government to listen to the demands of parents and put their issues before the double bench during the hearing scheduled on Monday. So that parents and children can get relief from the court,” the association said in the letter.A senior Delhi government official said that they are taking every possible step to provide relief to parents. “The Delhi government’s education department had in fact challenged the Delhi high court’s order in the Supreme Court in the matter. The government will continue taking all possible steps to safeguard the rights of parents,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parents-association-demands-relief-from-last-year-s-school-fee-arrears-101625943257292.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Collected ₹27+ cr in fines for Covid norm violations: Delhi cops||In a bid to enforce Covid protocols in the national capital, the city police has collected over ₹27 crore in fines between April 19 and June 20 this year, with over 900,000 challans issued for the violations, the Delhi high court was informed.In a status report filed before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh on Friday, the Delhi Police said it has issued 121,230 fines for not wearing face masks in public, and 20,493 fines for flouting distancing norms.The police have also said that 11,144 FIRs have been registered and 10,209 people been arrested in the two-month period. The police said it issued a total of 908,243 fines for various violations of Covid-appropriate protocol as put in place by state authorities.The Delhi government, in a separate report, also submitted on Friday, has told the court that it has issued over 580,000 fines till June 30, with the most being handed out in north Delhi district. The fewest fines were issued in south district with 22,208.Giving a district wise breakup of the challans, the state government told the court that it has taken several measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city, including issuing notices and shutting down various markets after overcrowding.The reports were filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) initiated last month by the high court after it took note of photographs sent to one of the high court judges on WhatsApp by a doctor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that showed Covid-19 protocol violations by street vendors in the city.In response, the court sought status reports from the authorities on steps being taken to control the spread of pandemic while observing that such breaches would only hasten the arrival of a third wave of the infection.The Delhi government, in the report filed through additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, informed the court that it issued a show cause notice to Vegas Mall in Dwarka on July 4 after it failed to adhere to the 50% seating capacity limit in restaurants at their food court. The government said the food court was ordered to stay shut from 7pm on July 4 to 11pm on July 5.Similarly, the Hauz Khas sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on July 4 ordered the closure of the food court at Select City Mall in Saket, due to violation of seating capacity norms, as laid out by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The food court was shut for that day (july 4), the government said.The matter was listed for Friday but could not be taken up due to a shortage of time, and will now be heard in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/collected-27-cr-in-fines-for-covid-norm-violations-delhi-cops-101625943335929.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||1,000 AC low-floor buses: AAP, BJP lock horns over LG panel’s report||A report prepared by a committee set up by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to investigate the Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC) tendering and procurement of 1,000 air-conditioned (AC) low-floor buses became a political flashpoint between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the Capital’s ruling party said it would go ahead with the purchase of the buses, even as the opposition accused it of “misleading people”.HT on Saturday reported that the three-member panel, prima facie, did not find criminal misconduct by any public official, even as it recommended that the 12-year annual maintenance contract (AMC) worth ₹3,412-crore awarded by the DTC be scrapped over “procedural lapses”.State transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday said the Delhi government will now go ahead with the work order for the procurement of the 1,000 buses, for which two companies were appointed, but added that they will revisit the AMC in light of the panel’s recommendations.“These new buses will give a much-needed boost to the city’s public transport as Delhi needs 11,000 buses and we currently have over 6,600. Buses were last added in the DTC in 2008 and the fleet hit an all-time low of around 4,500 buses. Gradually, when the AAP came to power, we started adding buses through the cluster scheme,” he said.Addressing a digital press conference on Saturday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “The investigation committee of the BJP-led central government, after going through at least 3,000 documents, has not been able to find any flaws or irregularities in the purchase of 1,000 DTC buses. The report of the inquiry committee has made it clear that the government in Delhi led by Arvind Kejriwal is honest. Delhi BJP leaders in the opposition are trying to malign the government’s image,” he said.However, senior leaders of the BJP’s Delhi unit in a press conference on Saturday said the entire deal was meant to favour two companies as a quid pro quo and siphon off ₹3,500 crore from taxpayers’ funds.Rohini BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who registered a complaint with the city anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and the LG in March said the Delhi government is wilfully not focussing on the part of the report that recommends scrapping the AMC.“The ruling AAP is misguiding [people] by saying that the committee has inquired into the procurement process of the buses and given the DTC a clean chit. This is just another cheap way to mislead the people. After finding the AMC process and contract faulty, the committee suggested scrapping the deal entirely,” he said.The report, portions of which HT has reviewed, stated that the evaluation criteria adopted by DTC was flawed and not in consonance with the provision of relevant guidelines.“Since the technical bids for supply of buses was opened ahead of the bid for AMC, the number of bidders for AMC was known, leaving limited room for negotiation. Both bidders had an assured number of buses to maintain, since only two bidders participated in the purchase bid. Hence, there was no real price discovery in the absence of any cost benchmarking,” it stated.The report also said that the panel examined the material on record and observed that the allegations in the complaint essentially pertain to the AMC of buses.“The committee therefore focused its attention only on the procurement process of AMC of the buses... The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said. The committee, however, recommended floating fresh tenders for its annual maintenance contract (AMC) over what it described as “procedural lapses” arising out of a “bona fide decision-making process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1000-ac-low-floor-buses-aap-bjp-lock-horns-over-lg-panel-s-report-101625943161043.html
11-07-2021||Other||Cooperation ministry: Key citadel of Congress, NCP in trouble?||If former chief minister (CM) Narayan Rane’s induction into the Union cabinet has come as a clear signal to Shiv Sena that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will get more aggressive against it in the coming days, the creation of a separate ministry for the cooperative sector has sent alarm bells ringing in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Congress camp. Maharashtra has strong network of cooperative bodies, which also forms a significant support base for the NCP-Congress. There are apprehensions in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition that the cooperative sector in the state may turn into a new battleground between BJP and NCP-Congress, with the former trying to end the monopoly of the two parties in the sector. For decades, the cooperative sector has been the backbone of rural economy in Maharashtra. It changed the face of rural Maharashtra, with farmers getting benefit, as cooperative sugar factories, banks and dairy units were formed. It significantly reduced their exploitation by traders and middlemen as farmers became stakeholders in the local cooperative units. The cooperatives movement flourished in various parts of Maharashtra as successive Congress governments encouraged the same since the state’s formation in 1960. Maharashtra now has around 225,000 cooperative bodies comprising sugar mills, banks, dairies and cotton spinning mills. The rural economy of almost entire western Maharashtra and several parts of north and central Maharashtra got a boost with the emergence of the cooperative sector. It also became a strong support base for Congress and later its offshoot, the NCP. Local politics, especially in the sugar belt in western Maharashtra spread from Pune to Kolhapur-Solapur, is closely connected with the cooperatives sector. It has become the strength of the NCP-Congress which is why even during the BJP’s dominance in the 2014 and 2019 Assembly elections, the two parties had managed to retain many of their strongholds in rural Maharashtra. The control over the sector and its close link with power has also led to lot of malpractices and corruption. There have been a number of episodes of corruption and mismanagement in running cooperative banks and sugar factories. The mismanagement and irregularities in the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank – the state’s apex cooperative bank – compelled then CM Prithviraj Chavan to dissolve the board of directors of the banks and appoint an administrator. The directors of the bank were mostly politicians from NCP and Congress. “Though the official version is that the Union cooperation ministry is formed to improve the cooperation sector, it is likely that the Centre will take charge of the mechanism that controls the cooperative movement. It assumes political significance as the cooperative sector has a strong presence in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat, and has substantial influence over politics in these states. In Maharashtra, it forms the backbone of a party like NCP, whose chief Sharad Pawar was the architect of the three-party coalition (comprising Sena, NCP and Congress) formed to keep BJP out of power in the state,” said political analyst Hemant Desai. “The Enforcement Directorate is already probing the allegations of corruption and misappropriation in MSC Bank as well as in the sale of Jarandeshwar Cooperative Sugar Factory in Satara which might get linked to [deputy CM] Ajit Pawar. It won’t be surprising if the NCP-Congress-controlled cooperative units come under scrutiny and if attempts are made by BJP to end their control over the sector,” he added. On Friday, Ajit Pawar expressed his suspicion over the Centre’s move over forming the cooperation ministry. “The intention of the Central government is yet to be clear but they may have something in their minds. It will be known only after the new legislations are introduced for the sector, just like the three contentious farm laws over which farmers are now protesting for the past eight months,”Ajit Pawar said in Pune. He added that the cooperative sector has existed from the past 100 years and states have their own rules to deal with it. He insisted that the Centre should not “encroach” on states’ rights. “There are some black sheep in the sector and I’m not denying it, but defaming the entire cooperation sector because of them is not fair,” the deputy CM said. Former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “Those who have done good work for the sector must be happy but those involved in malpractices must be obviously worried because [Union home minister] Amitbhai Shah will be heading the cooperation portfolio. He is also an expert in the field as he was a part of the sector before coming into politics.” State BJP president Chandrakant Patil refuted the allegations that the new ministry is aimed at creating trouble for the cooperative sector in the state. “The new ministry is formed to improve the sector. In fact, the cooperative sugar factories in the state were benefitted as the [Narendra] Modi government [in the Centre] for the first time fixed the minimum sale price for sugar,”Patil said in Pune on Saturday. He added that there was no connection between his letter sent to Shah seeking probe into the sale of the 29 troubled cooperative sugar factories to private companies and the Centre’s decision. “The decision to form a ministry for cooperation had been taken earlier,” said Patil. The tussle between Centre and state over the sector began even before the formation of the cooperation ministry. Recently, MVA government had decided to form a task force comprising ministers from the three parties to explore alternatives against the Centre’s amendment in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, last year. The decision was taken following directives issued by Pawar. According to party insiders, the NCP leadership believes that the new amendments in the Act will end the cooperative banking system. The 13-member committee formed on June 7 is headed by state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and eight other ministers from all the three ruling parties. Experts are of the view that most of the provisions brought in the Banking Regulation Act are against the principles of the cooperative sector and creates a conflict. “Most of the provisions passed by the Central government are related to the Companies Act which are against the principles of the cooperative sector,” said Vidyadhar Anaskar, former chairman and administrator of MSC Bank. He said that the cooperative sector is a state subject. “If the objective of both the state and the Central government is to strengthen the cooperative sector then there won’t be any issue. But if not, then the chances of conflict in the federal structure cannot be denied. As of now the objective of the ministry is said to be providing a separate administrative, legal and policy framework,” Anaskar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cooperation-ministry-key-citadel-of-congress-ncp-in-trouble-101625943154857.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Collected over ₹27 crore in fines for Covid norm violations: Delhi Police to HC||In a bid to enforce Covid-19 protocols in the national capital, the city police has collected over ₹27 crore in fines between April 19 and June 20 this year, with over 900,000 challans issued for the violations, the Delhi high court was informed.In a status report filed before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh on Friday, the Delhi Police said it has issued 121,230 fines for not wearing face masks in public, and 20,493 fines for flouting distancing norms.The police have also said that 11,144 FIRs have been registered and 10,209 people been arrested in the two-month period.The police said they issued a total of 908,243 fines for various violations of Covid-appropriate protocol as put in place by state authorities.The Delhi government, in a separate report, also submitted on Friday, told the court it has issued over 580,000 fines till June 30, with the most handed out in north Delhi district.Giving a district wise breakup of the challans, the state government told the court that it has taken several measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city, including issuing notices and shutting down various markets after overcrowding.The reports were filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) initiated last month by the high court after it took note of photographs sent to one of the high court judges on WhatsApp by a doctor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that showed Covid-19 protocol violations by street vendors in the city.In response, the court sought status reports from the authorities on steps being taken to control the spread of pandemic while observing that such breaches would hasten the arrival of a third wave.The Delhi government, in the report filed through additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, informed the court that it issued a show cause notice to Vegas Mall in Dwarka on July 4 after it failed to adhere to the 50% seating capacity limit in restaurants at their food court. The government said the food court was ordered to stay shut from 7pm on July 4 to 11pm on July 5.Similarly, the Hauz Khas sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on July 4 ordered the closure of the food court at Select City Mall in Saket, due to violation of seating capacity norms, as laid out by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The food court was shut for that day (July 4), the government said.The matter was listed for Friday but could not be taken up due to a shortage of time, and will now be heard in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/collected-over-27-crore-in-fines-for-covid-norm-violations-delhi-police-to-hc-101625942985815.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 8 deaths, 38 cases||Haryana on Saturday reported eight Covid-19 deaths and 38 new cases, taking the number of fatalities and infections to 9,542 and 7,69,243 respectively.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths include one each from Gurugram, Hisar, Panipat, Rohtak, Panchkula, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Kaithal districts.The total number of active cases in the state stands at 973, with 337 patients in home isolation. The total number of recoveries has reached 7,58,728 as 50 more patients were discharged from various hospitals.Among the new cases, Palwal and Kurukshetra reported four each followed by three each in Karnal, Sirsa and Kaithal districts. As many as five districts — Jind, Nuh, Charkhi Dadri, Mahindergarh and Panipat — reported no case. The recovery rate was 98.63% and fatality rate was 1.24%, while positivity rate for the day stood at 0.13%, the bulletin said.In view of the drop in the number of cases, the Haryana school education directorate had on Friday announced to reopen government and private schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 from July 16. The classes of middle school students (Class 6 to 8) will start from July 23, while the decision regarding reopening of primary schools will be taken later. The consent of parents is mandatory for students to attend school, and the option of online mode of studies will continue for those unwilling to attend the school as physical attendance will not be enforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-records-8-deaths-38-cases-101625943096513.html
11-07-2021||Delhi||Now, pay up to ₹1 lakh for violating noise pollution norms in Delhi||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has revised the penalties issued for noise pollution caused by loudspeakers and diesel generator (DG) sets in the national capital notifying hefty fines up to ₹1 lakh for violation of rules. The move has come following directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for better enforcement and compliance of noise pollution norms.For the first time, the DPCC has come out with an order that not only lists the different sources of noise pollution but also categorically defines the penalty to be levied if the noise pollution levels cross the prescribed limits.As per the DPCC order dated June 25, a fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed for noise pollution caused by loudspeakers or public address systems. “For DG sets over 1000 kilovolt-ampere (KVA) emitting sound above the prescribed rules, the penalty will be ₹1 lakh as well as sealing of the equipment,” stated the order.Besides, using construction equipment that make a lot of noise will invite a fine of ₹50,000 as well as seizure/sealing of equipment, it said.So far, loudspeakers making noise beyond the permissible limits led to confiscation of equipment, a fine of upto ₹ 5,000 as well as imprisonment up to five years, depending on the gravity of the violation under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. This rule was applied to the noise pollution generating from all other sources and was tweaked to determine the penalty for each category based on the seriousness of the violation.The order further states that people found bursting firecrackers in residential or commercial areas will be fined ₹1,000. Bursting firecrackers in the silent zone will attract a fine of ₹3,000. In case of firecrackers being used in public rallies, marriage ceremonies and other religious events, the fine levied can go up to ₹10,000 for residential and commercial zones and ₹30,000 in the silent zones.“Earlier, there was no upper limit fixed for penalties to be levied on violators. The step has been taken for better compliance to noise pollution rules as well as to bring realism in the quantum of the penalty levied,” said a senior DPCC official.Last year, the NGT asked the pollution-control agencies to take further steps to ensure noise pollution is under control at the ground level for protection of public health and environment. Following this, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), in a report submitted to the NGT on June 12, proposed higher penalties for the violations, which were cleared by the latter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-pay-up-to-1-lakh-for-violating-noise-pollution-norms-in-delhi-101625942655593.html
11-07-2021||Kolkata||Actress alleges getting rape threats in Kolkata, police start probe||A Bengali actress alleged that she was receiving rape threats on social media following which sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s cybercrime department started a probe, HT has learnt. “We have initiated a case under various sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act 2000 and the Indian Penal Code on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman,” said a senior officer of the detective department. The actress told media persons on Saturday that her pictures were morphed and the sexually explicit pictures were posted on social media. “I was receiving threats that I would be raped. Initially, I was asked by the police to ignore it but the harassment went on. I feared for my life,” the woman told media persons. She also alleged that whenever she would block a profile, a second profile was created to send her messages and threats. “The morphed pictures were even sent to my mother and friends,” she added. Meanwhile, in another incident, the son of a local Trinamool Congress leader from Hooghly district allegedly uploaded the morphed pictures of the daughter of a police officer on social media. Her phone number was also uploaded. The woman and the accused knew each other, officials said. Even though the family lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar Police in June, police started a case under the IT Act on Saturday. “If being a police officer I don’t get justice then what would happen to the common citizens,” said the woman’s father who is a police officer of deputy superintendent of police.“I was getting calls not only from other states but also from abroad after my morphed photo and number was uploaded on porn sites,” said the woman. The two incidents have triggered a political slugfest between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Police have become inactive. Some of the efficient officers have been sidelined by the TMC government. Maybe they didn’t do the task which the ruling party asked them to during the elections. They had to face the consequences. What would the police do? Ultimately it is the party leaders who are running the police,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal. “Cybercrime is not just restricted to West Bengal. It happens across the world. West Bengal police act on such cases very promptly. There is no party interference. Such allegations are baseless,” said Sujit Bose, TMC minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/actress-alleges-getting-rape-threats-in-kolkata-police-start-probe-101625942795279.html
11-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak land release: Independently look into case, SC tells CBI||The Supreme Court has said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will independently look into the legality and bona fides of the action of the persons responsible for illegally entertaining the applications of real estate developer Uddar Gagan Properties Limited. The agency will also probe release of the Rohtak land to Uddar Gagan in light of the fact that it had no title to the land on the date of the notification under Section 4 of the existing Land Acquisition Act, and proceed against erring officials in accordance with law. The apex court had on July 7 ordered a CBI investigation into the release of land in Rohtak to the real estate developer during the Congress rule with Bhupinder Singh Hooda at the helm. The SC in its detailed order said that the matter shall be looked into by the CBI without in any way being influenced by the reports and conclusions as stated in this order. The apex court was referring to the outcome of the multiple inquiries ordered by the state government, which as per the amicus curiae only concluded that there was “systemic failure” rather than considering the individual actions of those who were responsible. The SC in its order said that amicus curiae Jaideep Gupta while highlighting the May 2016 directions of the court has said the drift of the apex court’s decision showed that the state power was deliberately misused for private gain, and therefore the direction required the state to “inquire into the legality and bona fides of the actions of the persons responsible for illegally entertaining the application of the builder and allotting the land to it”. “The amicus curiae further submits that initially the matter was referred to a senior civil servant. After his report, which suggested systemic failure and that no action be taken against any official, the matter was (handed) over to a retired judge of the high court. The matter was then considered under five heads as stated in the report and with respect to the fifth head, the matter was again dealt with by another civil servant. This report also concluded that there was systemic failure rather than considering the individual actions of those who were responsible,’’ the SC said. The SC said the amicus curiae has invited the court’s attention to a subsequent judgment in the Manesar land release case, in which similar misuse of state power for private gain was the matter in issue. In that case, the inquiry is presently being conducted by the CBI. The amicus curiae, therefore, submits that on similar lines, inquiry in the present matter may also be handed over to the CBI to secure the ends of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-land-release-independently-look-into-matter-sc-tells-cbi-101625942735327.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 3,583 casualties in 10 days||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 8,296 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 6,149,264. The tally of active cases increased to 114,000 after 6,026 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state saw 494 casualties, which also includes 315 fatalities owing to the reconciliation process of Covid-19 deaths. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 26 deaths. It was followed by Aurangabad with 23 fatalities.The state has reported 3,583 casualties in the past 10 days. Of them, 2,030 fatalities were added as part of the reconciliation process of Covid-19 deaths. This has lifted the number of deaths in the state to 125,528. The case fatality rate of the state is also rising gradually and has reached 2.04%.Last month, it had reported 26,269 casualties, including 18,727 deaths as part of the reconciliation process.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said deaths are more in younger generation compared to the first wave. “Casualty figures have increased for two reasons. One, the number of cases is much higher than the first wave and going by the trend, at least one percent of the total cases lose their lives. Second, deaths are more in younger generation this time, apart from senior citizens. This is because of late detection and hospitalisation and hence casualties are higher in the state,” Dr Salunkhe said.He said that they want to bring CFR down to 1.5% or even less and attempts are being made for the same.After cases of Delta-plus variants were found, the state government has imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels having maximum relaxations were removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on June 25. But daily cases are not reducing in the state. On Friday, Mumbai clocked 503 cases and reported 727,136 cases till date. It also recorded 13 fatalities, taking the toll to 15,612. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 235,020 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.52%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 14.04%, according to the data issuedon Saturday. A day after vaccinating only 195,396 doses, the state improved its daily tally by administering 362,062 doses on Saturday, according to the data available on Co-Win portal. Till date, 36,341,644 doses have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-3-583-casualties-in-10-days-101625942554754.html
11-07-2021||Other||Haryana to blame for water shortage in Delhi: Raghav Chadha says||New Delhi: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chada on Saturday blamed the Haryana government for triggering a “severe water crisis” in the national capital, and exhorted the neighbouring state to adhere to orders by the Supreme court on water sharing. Haryana government, however, said it is adhering to water sharing pacts, and blamed “internal mismanagement in Delhi” for the scarcity.“Haryana has reduced the water supply into the river Yamuna by 120 million gallons per day (MGD), which has led to a decrease in drinking water production in Delhi by 100 MGD,” said Chadha, during a press conference. The water released in the Yamuna is treated at the various water treatment plants (WTPs) after which it reaches households.“Water production at Chandrawal WTP has come down from 90 MGD to 55 MGD, at Wazirabad WTP from 135 MGD to 80 MGD, and at Okhla WTP from 20 MGD to 15 MGD. The water production in Delhi has come down from 245 MGD to 150-145 MGD. This is at a time when the Upper Yamuna River Board directed Haryana to provide an additional 150 cusecs of water, besides providing the legally prescribed amount of water to meet the requirement,” said Chadha.Water supply has been disrupted in areas falling under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), central Delhi, and parts of west and south Delhi on account of the reduced supply by Haryana.“Delhi receives Yamuna water coming from Haryana at three places - CLC channel, DSB channel, and the Wazirabad pond. There has been a heavy reduction in water received at the CLC and the DSB channels while the Wazirabad pond has not received the supply,” added Chadha.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj too attacked the Haryana government for “repeatedly stalling Delhi’s water”. “Nearly 10% of total water consumption is not being released, which means around 20 lakh people across the city are not getting enough potable water,” said Bharadwaj in a statement. The DJB has been raising the water issue with Haryana since May.“I fold my hands and request the Haryana government to not reduce water supply to Delhi as we need water to drink,” said Chadha.Denying the DJB’s allegations, a Haryana irrigation department spokesperson said Delhi it has not reduced the water released to Delhi. “...Haryana is supplying 1,049 cusecs at Munak or more than 950 cusecs of water (against 939 cusecs) at Bawana contact point, through its canal system, which is more than their legitimate share... Shortage of water in Delhi is the result of internal mismanagement; Haryana has no role in it. It is worth mentioning that due to a delayed monsoon, Haryana is facing serious water scarcity but we are still maintaining water supply to Delhi without any reduction,” the spokesperson said.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the Delhi government has failed to ensure adequate water supply, adding that the Capital is receiving its full share from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Delhi is facing water shortage because the Arvind Kejriwal-led city government has failed to check water pilferage and has not been able to use its full water treatment capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-blame-for-water-shortage-in-delhi-raghav-chadha-says-101625942434777.html
11-07-2021||Other||Metro services on Pink Line to be affected from Monday to Thursday due to construction work||New Delhi: The Delhi Metro on Saturday said that sevices on its Pink line will be disrupted between Monday and Thursday due to ongoing interlinking work.According to a statement issued by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday, the services on the Pink line will be regulated between Monday and Thursday to undertake the interlinking work of Overhead Equipment (OHE) on the yet-to-be-opened section between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations.“Train services during these days on Pink Line will continue to run as usual from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase-I section and from IP Extension to Maujpur/Shiv Vihar section,” DMRC executive director Anuj Dayal said in the statement.However, metro services will not be available between IP Extension and Trilokpuri, and between Mayur Vihar Ph-I & Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations. “Besides, Mandawali West Vinod Nagar, East Vinod Nagar Mayur Vihar Ph-II, Trilokpuri and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations will remain closed in the above said period,” the statement added.The timing for the first and last train from the modified terminal stations for this period -- Mayur Vihar Phase-I and IP Extension -- will remain unchanged during this period. “Announcements will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on Pink Line about the modified destination of trains during this period,” read the statement.The normal train services on Pink Line will be resumed as per the present practice from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/metro-services-on-pink-line-to-be-affected-from-monday-to-thursday-due-to-construction-work-101625942376634.html
11-07-2021||Other||Orissa HC orders probe into allegations mismanagement in Covid hospitals||Orissa High Court has ordered a probe by a retired district judge into alleged negligence or lack of timely medical treatment of patients at a Covid hospital in western Odisha district of Sambalpur during the second wave of Covid, HT has learnt.A division bench of Orissa High Court, comprising Chief Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Savitri Ratho, has ordered former district judge ABS Naidu to examine the allegations of lack of proper or timely treatment at the Sambalpur’s Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a government medical college cum hospital during Covid-19 pandemic.Former district judge ABS Naidu will examine the allegations of lack of proper or timely treatment at the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research during the Covid-19 pandemic.Petitioner Gyanadutta Chouhan of Bargarh district sent an e-mail to the Orissa HC on May 23 highlighting the lack of proper medical facilities at VIMSAR. He filed nine affidavits of persons whose close relatives reportedly suffered on account of lack of proper or timely treatment at the hospital. “More people died due to lack of treatment, ICUs and oxygen than Covid-19. Patients suffered due to carelessness of the government,” Chouhan alleged.The HC bench underlined that the issues flagged in the letter of the petitioner, as well as the affidavits of the nine deponents, raise serious questions involving the fundamental right to health which is an inherent part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.The HC, in its order, said the PIL raises serious questions involving the fundamental right to health, which is an inherent part of right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.“VIMSAR is one of the premier medical institutions of the state catering to the medical needs of the population of western Odisha. It has to function in the manner befitting its status of providing the highest standard of care and treatment to everyone for that purpose. While during Covid-19 times all resources were indeed stretched and many medical personnel and nursing staff went beyond the call of duty to render tireless service, it is entirely possible that there were lapses. Whether this was for the reasons beyond the control of the doctors, nurses and staff of VIMSAR and whether it was avoidable, can properly be established only in a detailed enquiry,” the HC said in its order.The HC asked the inquiry officer to conclude the probe within three months and submit a report by November 1.The court said the incidental expenses of the inquiry officer in conducting the enquiry and his functioning shall be borne by the government of Odisha as per the bills raised on an actual basis without any delay.Last month, another PIL was filed in the Orissa High Court over alleged gross mismanagement and negligence in the treatment of patients in a Covid hospital of Baripada town.Advocate Bibhuti Bhusan Choudhury filed the PIL highlighting a disturbing incident at a Covid hospital in Baripada where patients, including a woman, were seen lying naked on the floor of a washroom. Besides, Choudhury also drew the attention of the court regarding the cremation of bodies of multiple Covid-19 victims in a single pyre at a cremation ground in Bolangir district.Choudhury urged the HC for a court-monitored probe into these incidents and demanded action against the hospital authorities and other officials responsible for such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-hc-orders-probe-into-allegations-mismanagement-in-covid-hospitals-101625942315379.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man kicks cat to death, booked||Ghatkopar police booked an unknown man for allegedly killing a cat. The incident took place last Sunday when the man was having his lunch at Chetan Hotel in Kamrajnagar, Ghatkopar (East) and cat tried to approach him. The man kicked the cat belonging to the hotel owner, Chetan Gauda, repeatedly, leading to its death.“The accused kicked her repeatedly on her head. After the cat started bleeding, he got afraid and informed the waiter,” said a police officer from Ghatkopar police station.The waiter then rushed the cat to the IDA Hospital in Deonar where she was declared dead. Animal activists Brij Bhanushali intervened in the matter and a case was registered on Friday in the matter.“We are searching for the accused and have booked him for mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of ₹10 and upwards and under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. We have a video footage and have circulated it to identify the accused,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-kicks-cat-to-death-booked-101625942134724.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||Research scholars demand 1-year extension to PhD, timely disbursal of fellowships||Research scholars from across the country came together on Saturday to demand a one-year extension in their PhD duration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and regular disbursement of fellowships.The first All India Scholar Convention took place on Saturday under the aegis of the Democratic Research Scholars’ Organisation (DRSO) — a national group of research scholars from across sectors. Members discussed various problems faced by research scholars during the pandemic.Apart from extension in PhD duration, other demands included free vaccination of all students, research scholars, staff members; sanitisation and opening of laboratories, libraries and hostels; proper maintenance of instruments during and after lockdown; end to abuse and harassment of research scholars; and withdrawal of all fees collected from research scholars during the pandemic.Arghya Das, a post-doctoral fellow at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) Hyderabad and one of the convenors of DRSO, also revealed the findings of a survey of over 1,000 research scholars in the country. Das said that 90% of those surveyed said the pandemic had affected them personally and professionally, with most seeking an additional year to complete their research work. Of the respondents, 10% said they would need extension of more than one year to complete their work.“Only 30% of those surveyed said they received their fellowship amounts on time, 60% said they received their fellowship once in three months, six months or a year,” said Das.When asked about employment and research opportunities after a PhD, 60% respondents said they didn’t have future research and employment options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/research-scholars-demand-1-year-extension-to-phd-timely-disbursal-of-fellowships-101625942075872.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||IITs gear up for another year of online placements, train students in advance||After wrapping up their placement season for the 2020-21 academic year which was conducted online for the first time due to Covid-19 restrictions, Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have decided to conduct the upcoming placement season online as well.With the aim of giving a kick-start to the hiring process, most institutes have already started training their students in virtual personal interviews, mock tests and group discussions to ease the current batch of graduating students into the online hiring process.“We are gearing up for processes as required by the situation. The office of career services (OCS) team can cater to both online and offline selection processes as per the needs of recruiters and guidelines of the institute,” said a spokesperson for the OCS team of IIT-Delhi.An officer from the placement cell of IIT-Bombay confirmed that the institute will go ahead with virtual placements for the upcoming season as well.IIT-Patna, which saw a 10.39% rise in the number of job offers in the last placement season, will also continue with the online mode. “This decision has been made taking the current situation and everyone’s well-being into account. Secondly, going online does have its own benefits. It draws in many more firms, owing to the fact that this mode of recruitment proves to be more cost and time-efficient. Statistically speaking, it helps a higher volume of students get placed which can be attributed to the ability to scale up the whole process,” said Kripa Shankar Singh, training and placement officer, IIT-Patna.Singh said engaging companies with the institute and its students outside the placement scenario helped in strengthening relationships. “Such interactions and engagements improve the statistics of the hiring process,” he said.Some IITs have already started approaching employers and are experiencing a welcome trend. “The registration process of companies has already started and the number is growing by the day which is very similar to pre-Covid days. It is already looking better than last year,” said Vinay Sharma, professor-in-charge, training and placement, IIT-Roorkee.Despite a slight drop in number of companies registering for placements in 2020 compared to 2019, IIT-Madras managed to place 821 students from the 2020 graduating batch, compared with 727 the previous year. “We are in the process of incorporating the lessons learnt from the previous year to evolve an improved standard operating procedure in this regard. The placement team will be reaching out to students who need specific assistance, especially with lockdown still affecting many parts of the country,” said CS Shankar Ram, advisor (training and placement), IIT-Madras.Most IITs have already started reaching out to their students with the aim of ensuring that everyone is ready to ace placement tests as well as interviews in the virtual mode. “We collaborated with various online platforms to train students in the virtual mode. The results have shown that virtual training has been successful in upskilling students,” said Bithiah Grace Jaganathan, faculty coordinator, placement, IIT-Guwahati.“IIT-Hyderabad has a dedicated career cell, focussing on conducting sessions and workshops for students such as career counselling, soft skills, resume building, technical/coding skills, group discussions, etc. All the sessions and workshops are being conducted virtually for the benefit of students,” said a spokesperson for IIT-Hyderabad.While conducting placements completely online has had its trouble, some IITs found it easier t compared to others. "In terms of participation in career guidance sessions, it has been easier for the students to connect and attend the sessions. In order to make sure that students have been provided with proper counselling and guidance, the number of speakers has also been increased by the Institute. With the online mode of (placement) sessions, it has become easy for the counsellors, experts and guides to connect and interact with the students and brief them, which was not the case earlier because of the remote location (of the institute)," said Sunny Zafar, advisor, placement cell of IIT Mandi. This institute managed to attract more companies to participate in placement 2020 compared to the previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-gear-up-for-another-year-of-online-placements-train-students-in-advance-101625942075286.html
11-07-2021||Mumbai||45-year-old man drowns in Jawhar waterfall near Mumbai||Adarsh Dharamshankar, a 45-year-old from Navi Mumbai, drowned after he slipped at Kal Mandavi waterfall in Kelichapada-Kalsheti village on Saturday evening.The incident took place when a group of 15 persons from Navi Mumbai had come to the waterfall for a picnic. Dharamshankar lost his footing and fell into the 50-foot-deep waterfall, said senior inspector Appasaheb Lengare of Jawhar police station. Locals fished out the body. “We have registered a case of accidental death and sent the body for post mortem at Cottage Hospital, Jawhar. The report is awaited,” said the officer.Palghar collector has banned people from entering beaches, waterfall and other waterbodies in the area due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier in February 2020, five youths aged between 18 and 22 years drowned in the same waterfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/45yearold-man-drowns-in-jawhar-waterfall-near-mumbai-101625941894711.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Nearly 10% of Lucknow’s target population fully vaccinated against Covid-19||As many as 7529 more beneficiaries took their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines in Lucknow on Saturday. With this, roughly 10% of the target population in the state capital is now fully vaccinated, according to official data. A total of 18,761 beneficiaries took the jab on Saturday, including 7529 second dose recipients. Till now, 349,255 people have taken their second dose in the state capital. The target population to be vaccinated in Lucknow is over 35 lakh (3.5 million). In all, 1,606,322 doses have been administered here, including 1,257,067 first doses, according to the health department data. “The enthusiasm shown by beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age has given the much-needed boost to the vaccination coverage. With a probable third wave of Covid, more people should come forward and take their vaccine dose,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The vaccination started in Lucknow, along with the rest of the country, on January 16. Among those fully vaccinated, over 1.20 lakh (120,000) are in the 45 to 59 years’ age group, over 90,000 in the 60-plus age group, besides over 54,000 healthcare workers, more than 48,000 frontline workers and over 40,000 between 18 and 45 years of age. “We are working to raise the daily target of vaccination. In the next week, the number will rise considerably,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of vaccination in Lucknow. Some experts say the private sector should be involved more to give a boost to vaccination.“If more private hospitals conduct Covid vaccination, the average daily number will certainly rise sharply,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of the Healthcity Hospital in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nearly-10-of-lucknow-s-target-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101625939795213.html
11-07-2021||Lucknow||Hire youths with tech skills to help newly elected public representatives: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the officials concerned to explore the possibility of hiring youths with technical and management degrees to assist the newly elected public representatives at the village panchayats, urban local bodies, district panchayats and development blocks in their work.He said this on Saturday when the block pramukh elections were held across Uttar Pradesh.“Such youths will help the newly elected public representatives and prove useful with their professional and technical skills in better planning of development works and financial management. Also, once hired, the government should train these youths in better understanding of government policies and priorities,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting here.Explaining the importance of the idea, he said, “Such an arrangement would lead to the fulfilment of public aspirations with the synergy of public representatives’ vision, government officers’ experience, and the skills of such youths. Also, it will add to the experience of these youths when they work for gram panchayats, urban local bodies, district panchayats and kshetra panchayats.”Yogi Adityanath asked the rural development and panchayati raj department and the urban development department to discuss the idea and prepare a detailed work plan for its execution.Purvanchal Expressway to be operational soonThe chief minister said the construction of expressways in the state was progressing fast. Soon, the people of the state would get a gift as the Purvanchal Expressway would become operational, he said. He asked the officials concerned to develop industrial and commercial clusters along all the expressways in the state.Pilibhit becomes 4th district with no active Covid case in U.P. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that no district in the state reported fresh Covid-19 cases in double digits in the past 24 hours. He also said Pilibhit had become the fourth district in the state to have zero active Covid-19 cases after the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. Shravasti, Aligarh and Kasganj are the three other districts.He reiterated that all these districts would be rewarded if they did not report any fresh cases in the week after attaining the zero active case statusHe, however, asked the districts to continue intensive testing for Covid.“In the past 24 hours, 1,23,437 samples were tested in the state by RT-PCR technique and only 86 of them tested positive for Covid. The positivity of the tests done by the antigen technique was even less. All this is satisfactory. Continue the policy of tracing, testing and treating aggressively,” he said to the officials.Only 100 fresh cases of Covid were reported in the state in the past 24 hours and 183 patients recovered in the same period, he added.Currently, the state has 1,608 active Covid-19 cases and the recovery rate is 98.6%. Out of the total 2.76 lakh Covid tests done in the state in the past 24 hours, the positivity rate was a mere 0.04%, he added.As many as 7.23 lakh (723,000) Covid vaccination doses were administered in the state in the past 24 hours, he said, adding that Uttar Pradesh had administered 3.68 crore (36.8 million) Covid-19 vaccine doses so far (since January 16).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hire-youths-with-tech-skills-to-help-newly-elected-public-representatives-yogi-101625938535418.html
11-07-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Intriguing the audience to read the original book||I was in the process of making an audio-book of the acclaimed novel in Marathi “Raarang Dhaang” written by Prabhakar Pendharkar. Sameer Dhamangaonkar, the producer representing the company “Snovel”, and I were in agreement that this was a novel that warranted adapting it to the audio medium rather than a plain narration. I had begun writing an audio-play script, drawing on my short experience of writing screenplays, and had finally found a way to adapt it and tell a visual story through sound. After the script had been approved, we started casting for it. Amey Wagh and I have been working together since our college days, where we first met. When I started directing, I used to see Amey in the lead role of whatever I did, by default. And he too has never given me any reason to feel that anyone else would have done a better job. I asked Amey to read the book and explained the project to him. He too was excited to try something new. I read the book and the script several times over and tried to place the voices of the characters to the people I knew around me. I was mostly successful in assigning unique voices to many characters. Though when I look back, I realise that I could have widened my scope a little and offered some Hindi speaking roles to actors whose first language was Hindi. It would have been a huge value addition. The project’s sound designer and music composer was another friend, Gandhaar Sangoram, with whom I had begun my journey of direction and he had been a constant in all productions. He had recently made a makeshift studio in his home and we decided to record everything there, so that we would not have to worry about studio hours and expenses and could give the project the time it deserved. We also took a decision to record scenes with up to four actors when all the actors concerned were present. We could have planned to record the part of one actor at a go and then add layers of the recordings of other actors. Usually that’s how films are dubbed. But we decided to rehearse an entire scene first, with all actors. Then, when all of us were ready, we would record the scene. It improved the give and take and also helped in getting natural vocal reactions from actors wherever necessary. Usually when recorded individually, these small things have the potential to sound fake, and by using this technique we minimised that risk. Gandhaar had composed a theme right after he had read the script, even before the recordings had started. That music piece also set a tone for many scenes and scene-to-scene transitions. I have always believed in getting music pieces in hand before starting a project. It helps me visualise the moments in the scenes. While adapting the book, I had changed the voice from third person to first person and had thus added a narrator, who was in fact the protagonist, Vishwanath, telling the story thirty years later. We approached veteran actor Dilip Prabhavalkar to see if he would be ready to play the part. I thought that there was a similarity between Amey’s voice and his. Even he accepted it graciously and was extremely warm and welcoming with any ideas and changes. After recording sessions that lasted for more than a month, we finally had the first cut of the audio book! Sameer and I listened to it individually. While we had a few minor creative differences, there was an elephant in the room that needed to be addressed. The audio book was well over three hours long. In the past “Snovel” had produced books which were hardly two hours long and they were looking to maintain that same length. Their main concern was that one audio CD could hold around an hour’s content and a content this large would increase the number of CDs. It would increase their cost of production and packaging too. I understood their predicament, but was unsure what to delete from the book. I met with them again and told them that reducing the length would imply editing ruthlessly. It was something that I was willing to take a shot at, but I was sure that it wouldn’t stay true to the original book. The beauty of the book was in the details and the descriptions and we would be losing most of that content. I also felt that we should not worry about the length if the content is good and if we have control over the medium too. After going back and forth a few times even they agreed and decided to use a different encoding format that would enable them to fit the content in just one CD. In hindsight, I think that was a good decision as in nearly a year, CDs became obsolete, and in another year, “Snovel” launched their own app and shifted their entire library there. It has been nearly seven years since the audio book released and I receive some feedback about it from listeners still. I cherish the moments when listeners tell me that they read the book after getting hooked listening to the audio book. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-intriguing-the-audience-to-read-the-original-book-101625929654196.html
