12-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Expect heavy rain till July 16, says IMD||The city saw its heaviest spell of rainfall in at least three weeks on Monday, with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz recording 42.6mm of rain (in eight hours between 8:30am and 5:30am). This was despite a drier morning, with just 2.8mm of rain recorded 24 hours. Official forecasts predict continued heavy showers in the city and suburbs until at least July 16, after which rainfall intensity will reduce.Doppler radar images from as late as 1:30am on Sunday showed the presence of rain clouds around the city, but the presence of a cyclonic circulation offshore prevented moisture-laden clouds from penetrating inland. However, the cyclonic circulation moved northward during the day while intensifying into a low pressure area, allowing rain bands to move in over the city and cause isolated heavy showers through the afternoon and evening.Ratnagiri, for example, recorded 92mm of rain in eight hours on Monday. Within a 24-hour period, areas along the same coast recorded very heavy rainfall, touching 350mm in Murud, 230mm in Dapoli and 124mm in Harnai. “The westerlies resumed during the day and were strengthened by a low pressure system currently prevailing over the west central Bay of Bengal as well. The synoptic situation is good for widespread rain over the Konkan coast next few days,” said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, on Monday evening.As per official forecasts, the maximum temperature over the next two days is expected to hover around 31 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature at 24 degrees Celsius -- down from 31.5 degrees and 25.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Monday.1 dead as bridge collapses in Raigad
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Despite July hiccups in Mumbai’s vaccination drive, double the jabs given||Although the city’s Covid-19 vaccination drive was hit thrice since July 1 due to shortage of doses, the number of citizens vaccinated doubled in the first 10 days of July, when compared to June, according to civic body data. Around 113,000 citizens were vaccinated in 243 civic centres between June 1 and 10. In the same period in July, the number of vaccinations increased to 238,000, across 281 civic centres.Further, in terms of vaccination across all 401 vaccination centres, which includes civic, state and private, the number is 539,568 between June 1 and 10, which increased marginally to 541,220 in the same period in July.According to BMC officials, along with the increase in number of vaccination centres, the supply has also increased due to which more vaccinations were possible.One indicator of increased supply is the supply of 688,470 vaccine doses to BMC in June 2021, up from the 523,440 in May. However, the demand is surplus to that of supply and hence we are seeing the vaccination drive being suspended despite more citizens getting vaccinated.In the past month, overall vaccination centres have increased from 342 in June to 401 in July. In terms of civic centres, they have increased from 243 in June first week to 281 in July first week.Of the 6,009,025 citizens vaccinated in the city, 42% vaccination was done at private hospitals. The maximum load was handled by civic vaccination centres.Further, between June 1 and 10, 453,455 citizens were vaccinated at private hospitals that went down to 282,991 in the same period during July as supply seems to have relatively improved at civic centres.Meanwhile, as vaccination resumed in the city on Monday with few centres seeing high footfalls for walk-in vaccinations resulting in crowding.There were long queues reported for walk-in vaccinations at BKC, Bhandup, Kandivli area. According to civic officials, the footfall probably increased as there is already a piled-up demand owing to vaccinations remaining shut since three days due to shortage of doses.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “The increased vaccination is because of increase in supply. We got around 240,000 vaccine doses in July till now and it looks like it is little better than June. However, there is still time to conclude that July has better supply than June.”Dr Gomare added, “Our vaccination is also increasing because we are not keeping vaccine doses in reserve by stocking them. Instead, we are administering them as we are getting them. Our capacity is to easily vaccinate 100,000 citizens daily with help of state government vaccination centres, provided we have that sort of supply.”Further, the BMC is expecting fresh stock of vaccine doses on Monday night and owing to this, the drive is unlikely to be suspended for now. On Monday, 106,904 citizens were vaccinated in the city. Until now, a total of 6,115,929 citizens have been vaccinated in the city with at least one dose.On Tuesday, the vaccination drive will continue at civic and state vaccination centres with 50:50 ratio, wherein 50% of slots will be given for walk-ins and remaining for online booking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-july-hiccups-in-mumbai-s-vaccination-drive-double-the-jabs-given-101626114288751.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Two killed in tiger attack in PTR, probe ordered||Two people were killed, allegedly in a tiger attack, in the Deoria range of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) late on Sunday night, forest officials said on Monday. A friend of the deceased who was travelling with them escaped the attack by climbing a nearby tree where he stayed perched through the night.Three men, Kandai Pal, 27, Sonu Pal, 22 and 23-year-old Vikas, were returning on a motorbike to their village in Pilibhit from nearby Shahjahanpur district via the Deoria range of PTR. The trio reached the barrier on the road passing through the PTR at around 9 pm. The forest guards present at the barrier warned them about the movement of a female tiger in the area which had been spotted with her cubs.“The trio neglected the warning and drove ahead on the road which passes through the forest. They were reportedly attacked by a tiger. The big cat killed Kandai and Sonu while Vikas managed to climb a nearby tree,” said Lallan Singh, circle officer of the area.The matter came to light when some locals passing through the road during the day spotted the bodies and informed the police. According to locals, Kandai and Sonu had visible paw injuries on their neck, face and chest. The locals also helped shell-shocked Vikas to come down from the tree. A team from the nearby police station that reached the spot recovered the bodies which were later sent for a post-mortem examination. The police team has admitted Vikas in a nearby hospital.“Vikas is in a state of shock. He informed us and a team of forest department about the tiger attack. We are investigating the matter,” the CO said.Meanwhile, forest officials are trying to identify and locate the big cat involved in the attack. “A female tiger was spotted in the area a few days ago so it is being suspected that she was behind the attack. Our teams are trying to locate it. Villagers in the nearby area have also been alerted about the animal and measures are being taken to mitigate any possibility of man-tiger conflict,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director, PTR.This is the first incident of man-animal conflict reported in the PTR following a slump in such cases lately. As many as 29 people have been killed in man-tiger conflicts in PTR since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-ptr-probe-ordered-101626114048710.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka faces big task of reviving UP Cong for 2022 polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra faces major challenges as she arrives here this week to interact with partymen and gear up the party organisation for 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. “Priyanka is likely to arrive here on a four-day tour on Wednesday,” said a party leader.As Priyanka begins her interactions with different groups of faction-ridden party at Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters here, her first major challenge will be to make an assessment about the apparent party’s poor infrastructure and strengthen it further despite the UPCC’s claims of carrying out a revamp at different levels across the state.The Congress has put up a poor show in the panchayat polls. Barring three block panchayats in Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra’s assembly constituency and a block panchayat in Amethi MLC Deepak Singh’s area, no other leader has been able to ensure victory of any party supported candidate in the rural polls. “Priyanka’s first major task will be to make an assessment about the party organisation infrastructure and gear it up for the 2022 polls,” said a functionary.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee had claimed of putting up strong organisation teams at district and block levels following the party’s revamp. UPCC leaders had assured the party leadership of a good show in the panchayat polls that they said would make the party a strong claimant for power in the 2022 UP assembly elections.“As the UPCC had assured good results in panchayat polls, the party earmarked a large chunk of funds to the state party to fund the party supported candidates. Accusations have been made about misuse of funds too and the party needs to get an inquiry conducted,” said another party functionary.Priyanka also needs to work on bringing old guards and other senior leaders together into party’s mainstream. A divide has persisted between the UPCC’s new team and the old guards following action taken against them. Efforts though have been initiated to bring the old guards into the mainstream, many senior leaders still find them isolated. A group of young leaders too had staged a protest in front of UPCC headquarters accusing the state party of not taking all party leaders together.On whether Priyanka will meet the disgruntled leaders during her visit, a party functionary said, “Priyanka’s only programme in Lucknow is to meet partymen. We are not sure whether disgruntled leaders will be allowed to meet her.” Priyanka has continued to have virtual interaction with the partymen. This will be her first visit to the state capital after a gap of more than a year-and-a-half. Her programme to visit Lucknow had to be deferred more than once in view of restrictions in fight against Covid-19.A bungalow situated at Gokhale Marg here, meanwhile, has been refurbished to work as her residence during her tours to the state. The bungalow belongs to former union minister and senior Congress leader the late Sheila Kaul.Priyanka recently addressed training programmes organised for block party teams via videoconferencing in different districts. She also addressed senior party leaders through videoconferencing on Monday.Priyanka speaks to UP party leaders Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday expressed serious concern over rising prices of petroleum products and essential commodities besides irregularities in the recently-held panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh.Priyanka was speaking to senior party leaders from UP at a videoconferencing with party’s strategy group and advisory council. She said the BJP government was taking recourse to violence to win the panchayat polls instead of helping people and crime-affected women and providing jobs to the unemployed youth.Senior party leaders, who attended the video conferencing, said a discussion about the state government’s population policy was also held at the videoconferencing. The party would come out with comments after studying the policy, said a leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-faces-big-task-of-reviving-up-cong-for-2022-polls-101626113629346.html
12-07-2021||Other||Bollywood celebs lend support to blind elephant ‘Nina’||AGRA Several Bollywood celebrities have taken to social media to lend their support to ‘Nina’, a 60-year-old visually challenged elephant and create awareness on prevention of such animals suffering from abuse. Over 60,000 signatures have been taken on an online petition on the issue, as a result of which ‘Nina’ has been taken to the Elephant Hospital in Mathura for treatment. “The elephant is blind in both eyes and suffers from severe arthritis, lameness, and degenerative joint disease. Her deteriorating health and critical medical condition means she needs urgent medical attention. Wildlife SOS and forest department rushed ‘Nina’ to the Elephant Hospital in Mathura for urgent treatment and care,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS. Nina has been subjected to begging for alms and used for wedding processions all her life. Despite being blind, weak, elderly, severely malnourished, and suffering from arthritis and fused joints, she continued to be exploited for commercial use, alleged Kartick. “The sharp jab of the bull hook by her owner/mahout forced the blind elephant to walk through busy traffic, towns from wedding to wedding where the startling loud noises and crowds of people kept her confused and scared. When Nina was not at work, she was tightly shackled by a spiked chain which prevented her from lying down and resting. Even during the pandemic, when there was a ban on crowds at weddings, this elephant was used for wedding processions and forced to beg for alms on the streets. Nina never received proper medical treatment,” said Dr Ilayaraja, deputy director of Veterinary Services at Wildlife SOS. “Bollywood celebrities such as Athiya Shetty, Shruti Haasan, Randeep Hooda, Vivek Oberoi, Adil Hussain, Ramona Arena, Pia Trivedi, Bani J, Pooja Batra and Suchitra Pillai, and even popular US TV series—“Modern Family” star Nolan Gould joined in to show their support by signing the petition to help Nina and sharing the same on their respective social media accounts,” he said. At the Wildlife SOS Elephant Hospital in Mathura, Nina now has the comfort of a dedicated team of experienced elephant veterinarians and care staff who are carrying out ultrasound of her damaged eyes to explore possibilities of reducing her discomfort, X-rays of her fragile bones, blood tests and other tests to assess her health status. The Wildlife SOS veterinary team has also developed an intensive treatment plan for her that involves hydrotherapy, laser therapy and healthy nutrition to help reduce her pain, stated Dr Ilayaraja. Baiju Raj M.V, director - Conservation Projects, WSOS, said: “We are very happy and grateful to the Uttar Pradesh forest department for their trust in us to help handicapped elephants like Nina.” Rajnikant Mittal, divisional forest officer, Mathura, said: “The UP forest department is happy to provide medical treatment for suffering elephants at the Elephant Hospital in collaboration with Wildlife SOS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bollywood-celebs-lend-support-to-blind-elephant-nina-101626113508709.html
12-07-2021||Other||Odisha tops list of states with maximum lightning strikes for 2nd year||Odisha again topped the list of states hit by lightning bolts for the second year in a row but managed to bring down the number of associated fatalities, the second annual lightning report compiled by a research organisation under Indian Meteorological Department has revealed.As per the report, a joint initiative of the Climate Resilient Observing Systems Promotion Council, the India Meteorological Department, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune and the India Meteorological Society, Odisha saw 20.43 lakh lightning strikes between April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.The lightning strikes were up by 37 per cent from 14.8 lakh strikes in 2019-20. Over 40 per cent of lightning strikes in Odisha are cloud to the ground the highest in the country along with Gujarat.The rise in fatalities due to an increase in frequency and intensity of lightning strikes prompted the IMD to start lightning forecasts from April 1, 2019.Despite an increase in the lightning strikes, Odisha managed to bring down the associated death toll to 156 from 207 a year ago.As per the Annual Lightning Report 2020-21, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are the only two states in the country that have pruned the lightning deaths by a whopping 70 per cent between 2016-2020.At least 1,697 people died due to lightning between April 1, 2020, and March 31, 2021. Of this, 401 died in Bihar, followed by Uttar Pradesh (238 deaths) and Madhya Pradesh (228 deaths).According to a pre-print accepted for the journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics recently, the frequency and intensity of lightning strikes in India are expected to increase by 10-25 per cent and 15-50 per cent by the end of this century. Coastal areas may be at the highest risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-tops-list-of-states-with-maximum-lightning-strikes-for-2nd-year-101626113331001.html
12-07-2021||Noida||All conditions favourable for monsoon in Noida, predicts IMD||All conditions are favourable for monsoon, reiterated India Meteorological Department (IMD) senior scientist R K Jenamani, but the southwest monsoon refused to show up in Noida.“It’s a bit challenging to give a date. We have high moisture, easterly winds and clouds, it’s just the rains that we are waiting for and expect it anytime soon in Noida,” said Jenamani.There is high moisture content in the air, the easterly winds are strong and clouds are low— but the monsoon has been delayed by almost two weeks in the region. Normally the monsoon arrives in Noida around June 27. Jenamani added that the monsoon had covered most of the part of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, and will soon cover remaining part of western UP, Noida, Gurugram and Delhi.“Only a small patch (Delhi -NCR) is yet to be covered due to several reasons, including the effect of a dry westerly wind. However, to discern the monsoon advancement or movement and tell when will it exactly rain is a mystery,” the IMD scientist said.On Monday, the IMD recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 37.3 degrees Celsius (°C) and 27.4°C, against 37.3 degrees Celsius and 29.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. “There is good moisture content in the air and there is also easterly winds, so the mercury won’t rise,” said Jenamani, allaying fears of a heatwave that had plagued the region in the beginning of the month.According to private weather forecasting agency, there are chances of heavy rain by July 16.“The monsoon could be declared with the first rains in region as all other criteria are being fulfilled. But the rains would be light and we can only expect strong rains by July 16-17. Till then the day time temperatures will hover between 36 to 38°C,” said Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum temperature was at 37.7°C which is two degrees higher than the season’s average and a minimum of 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/all-conditions-favourable-for-monsoon-in-noida-predicts-imd-101626113088663.html
12-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar hospitals witness rise in patients with fever, cough||With the season changing, the number of patients reporting cough, cold and fever at Gautam Budh Nagar hospitals are increasing.According to data from the Sector 30 district hospital, the number of patients reporting these symptoms in the first 10 days of July was 30% more than the corresponding period in June.Dr Vikas Kumar, a physician in the hospital’s fever clinic, said that at least 10 patients are being admitted daily for treatment. “We generally prescribe medicines for three days to these patients. And, if they do not get well with those medicines, we conduct their reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for confirmation of the presence of specific genetic material in any pathogen, including the Covid-19 virus infection,” he said. Dr HM Lavania, the head of pathology department in the district hospital, said that cases of malaria and typhoid too have increased. “However, this is quite common as the number of patients increase in rainy season every year,” he said. The Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), better known as Child PGI, too has reported a rise. Dr (Major) BP Singh, the medical officer in the emergency department of Child PGI, said that the number of children, having fever and cough, has nearly doubled in last 10 days. “Earlier, the average number of such patients were around 10 in a day, which has now gone up to 20,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, ruled out Covid-19-induced rise in infection. “Every year we see a sudden influx of patients having flu, cough, cold and conjunctivitis. The number will go down by mid-August. For critical patients, we cross-check it with the RT-PCR tests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-hospitals-witness-rise-in-patients-with-fever-cough-101626113029348.html
12-07-2021||Other||KGMU Employees’ Council chief threatens to crawl for pay revision||LUCKNOW President of the KGMU Employees’ Council, Pradip Gangwar, has threatened to crawl from the office of the vice chancellor till the chief minister’s residence on August 17, if the long-pending demand to make salaries of KGMU staff at par with that of their SGPPGI counterparts was not met by July end. “Keeping in view the pandemic situation and problems of patients, we are not going for any agitation at present. The decision to revise cadre of KGMU (non-clinical) employees was made in January 2021 and medical education minister had issued instructions. But till now, nothing has been done hence we are forced to demonstrate in such a manner,” said Gangwar. As per the plan, Gangwar will crawl from KGMU V-C’s office, reach the residence of medical education minister and then move towards the CM’s residence. He wrote a letter declaring the agitation to the principal secretary medical education on Monday. “Despite instructions from medical education minister Suresh Khanna in January to complete restructuring of posts by April, to give KGMU employees pay at par with SGPGIMS staff, the process has not been completed,” said Rajan Yadav, general secretary, KGMU Employees’ Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kgmu-employees-council-chief-threatens-to-crawl-for-pay-revision-101626113028624.html
12-07-2021||Other||Odisha, MP halt vaccination as states complain of vaccine shortage||The Covid-19 vaccination was halted on Monday in 24 out of the 30 districts in Odisha and Madhya Pradesh due to vaccine shortage even as several states have slowed down the drive citing not enough supply from the manufacturers, HT has learnt.On Sunday, India vaccinated 1.2 million people, the lowest in the last 45 days, and the number increased to 3.5 million by 6 pm on Monday, according to the CoWin website, the Central government’s website to track vaccinations across the country.Odisha health secretary PK Mohapatra said the next consignment of Covishield would arrive on July 15 and vaccination would start after that. “We are not getting enough vaccines. The Covishield allocation for July is 2.5 million doses while we require at least 2.83 million doses for the second dose in July. We would be forced to delay the second dose of several people,” he said.India’s per day vaccination peaked on June 21, when prime minister Narendra Modi launched free vaccination for all, with 9.1 million vaccinations. Since then, the CoWin website shows that per day vaccination numbers have been going down with the lowest reported on Sunday.“Normally, vaccination is usually low on Sundays when fewer vaccinations sites operate,” said a health ministry official, who was not willing to be quoted. He hoped the numbers to increase from Monday and expressed confidence in meeting the July target.Former and first vice-chairperson of National Institution for Transforming India (Niti) Aayog, Arvind Panagariya, on Monday tweeted: “India’s current vaccination rate of 3 to 4 million per day is simply not good enough. We need to up our game to achieve daily rate of at least 5 to 6 million jabs. Not clear whether the cause is hesitation or insufficient production.”As of now, a total of 13.3 million people, including 10.5 million first doses and 2.78 million second doses, have been vaccinated in Odisha. Many, like 75-year-old Biswanath Mohanty of Sanalpur village, have not received their second jab for lack of vaccines. “I have been told to wait for some time,” he said.Madhya Pradesh, which created a record by vaccinating 1.7 million people on June 21, has been able to vaccinate only 2.6 million people in the first 12 days of July, including 50,000 on Sunday, as per official data. State immunisation officer, Santosh Shukla, issued an order saying as the state has run out of vaccines, there will be no vaccination on Monday and Wednesday.MP Medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang, said, “We are receiving doses regularly but the manufacturers have supply limitations. We have conveyed that in MP people are showing more alertness now and want to get vaccinated as soon as possible so we need more doses.” Till Sunday, 23.9 million people had been vaccinated in MP.Officials in Rajasthan and Jharkhand also said that they have slowed down vaccinations due to a shortage in supply. Rajasthan health secretary, Siddharth Mahajan said from June 21 to July 8, they have received 31.63 lakh vaccine doses, an average of 1.75 lakh doses per day. The state has the capacity to vaccinate 15 lakh people daily, he said. The secretary said the state is regularly asking the Centre about vaccine shortage.Jharkhand government officials said the state can administer 1.5 lakh doses every day but only 19,586 people were inoculated on Sunday due to limited stock. “We sent an SOS to the Centre about the prevailing stock. On Monday, they delivered 2.5 lakh doses,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, nodal officer, vaccination. The state administered over a lakh doses at least three days in the first week of July. However, with stock running dry, the daily vaccination since July 7 has been less than 50,000 that came down to 19,000 on Sunday.Tamil Nadu, which has so far received 16,780,460 vaccines, incessantly faced vaccine shortages. On Saturday, 18 districts had no vaccines left. By Sunday night, five-lakh doses of Covishield were sent. “The chief minister sent our health secretary to Delhi to meet with the Union health ministry officials to dispatch our July allocation at the earliest,” said state health minister M Subramanian. “So, for the past two days, we have been receiving our supply without any disruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-mp-halt-vaccination-as-states-complain-of-vaccine-shortage-101626112969269.html
12-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: One-year-old is first patient at paediatric ICU set up for third wave||A one-year-old boybecame the first Covid-19 patient to be admitted to the paediatric ICU (PICU) of the government-acquired Santosh Medical College on Sunday, a tertiary care facility set up to deal with a possible third wave.The Ghaziabad health department said the child suffered diarrhoea and later tested positive for Covid-19.“The condition of the patient is stable, and doctors are keeping a close watch. Nowadays, we do not have a lot many cases. Two days ago, two patients were found to have low oxygen saturation levels and were immediately shifted to a facility,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “We have also started mapping areas from where fresh cases are coming in.”According to official records of the district health department, the district has 70 PICU beds at Santosh Medical College and Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital while there are 110 isolation beds for children at the two hospitals besides the four community health centres at Muradnagar, Loni, Modinagar and Dasna.As per state control room record of July 12, the Ghaziabad district has 55583 total cases which include 55087 patients discharged, 461 deaths and 35 active cases.“Although there is no major increase in number of cases, we are keeping a constant tab on health status of every individual patient and are closely monitoring high case load areas. We are sending 5% of positive samples regularly for genome sequencing and till date, of about 192 samples, none have returned any positive result for a severe variant of the coronavirus,” said Dr Gupta.According to official records, the district detected 49 patients (11.61%) in age group 0-20 years out of total 422 positive cases detected during the period June 1 to July 10 this year. Of the 49 patients, seven cases are aged 0-10 years while the rest are in age group 11-20 years.During the period of first wave from March 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, the health department data indicated that the percentage of patients in age group 0-20 was 9.82%; 2718 out of total 27671 cases.It was about 9.89% (2755 cases out of total 27849 cases) during the second wave period identified from April 1, 2021, to June 18, 2021, by the health department.The experts said that there is no major surge witnessed at present in patients having Covid-like symptoms.“The severity in cases is also not majorly adverse. But having said this, people should not shun the use of mask at any cost. It must continue. The health department should accelerate vaccination process with wider coverage,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-one-year-old-is-first-patient-at-paediatric-icu-set-up-for-third-wave-101626112908809.html
12-07-2021||Other||Odisha doctor donates ₹30 lakh to her alma mater 64 years after her MBBS||An 84-year-old doctor in western Odisha district of Sambalpur has donated ₹30 lakh from her savings to her alma mater that helped her study MBBS amid financial difficulties over six decades back, HT has learnt.Dr Narayani Panda, a renowned gynaecologist and obstetrician of Sambalpur, donated a cheque of ₹30 lakh to the Gangadhar Meher University (earlier college) last week, 66 years after she passed out from the institution as a science student. For Dr Panda, it was a case of gurudakshina (payback to teachers). The institution, in 1957, gave her a monthly scholarship of ₹25 to pursue her MBBS course in SCB Medical College in Cuttack city as her veterinarian father did not have enough financial resources to fund her education, as well as 10 of her siblings.“A month ago I got a call from her saying she has some money to donate to the alma mater that helped her study. She said she wanted to repay something to her institution. Though she passed out of GM University long ago, I was touched by her sense of gratitude,” said professor N Nagaraju, vice-chancellor of GM University, who received the cheque of ₹30 lakh from her during the 77th Foundation Day celebration of the institution.In 1957, when she secured a seat in the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack following an interview, Dr Panda was worried about her father’s ability to fund her education. “My father, who was a veterinary officer in Sambalpur, once told me it would be difficult for him to finance my MBBS education as there were 10 other siblings. But I was determined to study. When I got to know that the GM College Trust was giving monthly assistance of ₹25, I applied and got it. Besides, I got a monthly scholarship of ₹35 for being among the top 3 in the class. The ₹60 that I got was more than enough to fund my medical studies for the first 2 years till my father started paying for my expenses,” said Dr Panda, who was among dozen-odd girls in Odisha pursuing their MBBS degree then.The GM College Trust was set up in 1944 by a few like-minded intellectuals of Sambalpur to help needy students further their education.After completing her MBBS, Dr Panda joined the district headquarters hospital in Sambalpur in 1963 but quit a year and a half later after she was transferred to Kalahandi district as she thought she would not be able to look after her younger siblings who were still pursuing their studies. She then joined the municipality hospital in Sambalpur town, from where she retired 31 years ago with a small pension.“I was the third among 11 siblings. As my sister and 9 brothers looked up to me, I thought it was my duty to look after their education and get established in life. Later, all my brothers and sisters became, principals, lecturers and professors,” she said. In the process of helping her siblings build their careers, she postponed her marriage till her early Forties. Her husband Prashant Mohanty, a renowned journalist of Odia daily Samaj, passed away two years ago.While she was helping her siblings find their own feet, she did not forget the assistance that GM University provided her back in the day.Dr Panda said she wanted to give back to the university as her parents valued education above anything else. “My mother was quite instrumental in our education. Though I did not have much money after my retirement, I made up my mind to give back something that helped me pursue my education. Recently, I got some money from the sale of land and also broke my fixed deposit from which I could arrange ₹30 lakh,” she said.Nagaraju said the ₹30 lakh that Dr Panda donated would burgeon to ₹60 lakh as the state government under its Mo College-Mo University programme gives double the amount donated by alumnae. The Mo College-Mo University programme started in March this year is a platform through which the alumnae can connect and contribute for the development of their alma mater.“She was hesitant towards any publicity for her contribution. But we too have a sense of gratitude towards her act of philanthropy,” said the vice-chancellor. The chairman of Mo College-Mo University programme, Akash Dasnayak praised her contribution saying her gesture was worth emulating.Though retired now, Dr Panda was treating patients till the Covid-19 pandemic struck last year and keeps visiting people who need treatment in her district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-doctor-donates-rs-30-lakh-to-her-alma-mater-64-years-after-her-mbbs-101626112789830.html
12-07-2021||Noida||UP govt relaxes night curfew timings by 2 hours||Noida The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday relaxed the night curfew in the state by two more hours, which will now be applicable from 10pm to 6am.Last month, the timings had been relaxed from 7pm-7am to 9pm-7am. The government had allowed resumption of markets outside of containment zones, and also restaurants and malls to open with 50% capacity. The weekend curfew, however, continues to be in force.According to data available on Sunday (July 10), Gautam Budh Nagar reported three fresh Covid-19 cases. No deaths or discharges were reported in the 24-hour duration. The active caseload in the district was recorded at 43, total death toll at 466, and total discharges at 62,606.‘Market to suffer till weekend curfew in place’Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 Market Association and convener of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) - Delhi-NCR, says traders are happy that the curfew timings were relaxed. “Earlier, traders had to shut shop by 8.30pm as the curfew timings started from 9pm. However, with the new relaxations, now shopkeepers will be able to generate more sales.”Jain, however, added that the market will continue to suffer till the weekend curfew is in place. “Earlier, Noida traders were hopeful that the government would permit them to run businesses on Saturdays and Sundays, however, it did not happen. According to CAIT findings, traders, including retailers and wholesalers, in Gautam Budh Nagar suffered an estimated loss of ₹10,000 crore between March and June 2021. Markets collect the majority of revenue during the weekends, and they will continue to suffer losses as long as the weekend curbs are in place,” he said, adding that customers from Noida also travel to Delhi on weekends. “This not only harms the business, but the revenue also goes to Delhi instead of Uttar Pradesh.”‘Barely get customers on weekdays’Restaurateurs, too, welcomed the move, but were disappointed about the weekend curfew.Varun Khera, president of National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), Noida chapter, said, “The relaxation of night curfew is somewhat good for restaurateurs as we will be able to hold on to our dinner revenue. However, the weekend curfew is a major hurdle for us as we barely get customers on weekdays. Moreover, we have to pay bills and salaries every month, but are only generating revenue for a maximum of 20 days.” The NRAI had sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on July 6, requesting him to allow reopening of their establishments on weekends, too.‘Losing revenue to Delhi and Gurugram’District pub owners say they are losing revenue to Delhi and Gurugram, as there are no restrictions on restaurants and bars during weekends.Varun Puri, owner of Duty Free Courtyard in Noida and Duty Free - The Vayu Bar in Gurugram, said, “Earlier, corporate professionals used to go to pubs during weekdays, too. However, with office shut and work-from-home in place, people usually step out on weekends... Since there are no curbs on cross-border movement, Noida and Ghaziabad residents go to Delhi and Gurugram on weekends... Even I get maximum business from Gurugram on weekends.”Govt treading cautiously: Medical expertsMedical experts, however, say that weekend relaxations may lead to overcrowding at restaurants and pubs, increasing the risk of getting Covid-19. “I believe the government is treading cautiously and opening up the city gradually. Weekend curbs may lead to an overcrowding situation in markets, pubs and restaurants, which may eventually invite the purported third wave of Covid-19 sooner than we are expecting,” said Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter.Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, sais, “The state government can only take decisions on relaxations during the weekend.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-relaxes-night-curfew-timings-by-2-hours-101626112788606.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Post Covid-19 illnesses: Radiology test prices capped||The state health department has capped the charges for radiology tests to detect post-Covid complications, following complaints of overpricing by hospitals and private labs. As per an order issued on July 7, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the brain will cost between ₹2,200 (without contrast) and ₹3,000 (with contrast), as opposed to around ₹8,000 at present. Contrast dye is a substance that allows a radiologist to see the internal structure of concern in greater detail by making it more visible against the background of other tissues. “In order to rationalise the rates of various radiological investigations required for the diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients or post-Covid illnesses, the state government has limited the maximum charges to be levied for MRI brain and orbit, and CT Paranasal Sinuses (PNS),” the order stated. An MRI of the brain and orbit is generally done in case of post-Covid complications such as mucormycosis (black fungus infection), which affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement, the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound. Currently, at least 119 cases of black fungus infections are active in the district. Till now, 316 cases have been confirmed and 45 deaths have been reported in the district.An MRI of the orbit is conducted to detect the prevalence of infection in the optic nerves. This cost of the test, which is around ₹8,000, has been capped at ₹2,300 (with contrast) and ₹1,700 (without contrast), as per the order. An MRI of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which covers the nose region, has been fixed at ₹4,000 (with contrast) and ₹2,500 (without contrast), while the computed tomography (CT) of the nose will vary from ₹1,000- ₹1,800. The CT PNS procedure costs ₹2,500 at present.The maximum charge for CT chest has also been reduced from ₹2,100 to ₹1,800. The health department had previously revised the charges of CT chest in May, as labs were charging ₹4,000- ₹5,000 per scan.The fixed rates include all diagnostic expenses, concerning films, taxes and documentation, among others. As per the order, the revised rates do not apply to diagnostic centres providing services to the health department under a public-private partnership.Doctors treating mucormycosis suggest that the state administration should reduce the cost of the amphotericin-B drug, which increases the overall treatment cost of black fungus cases. Dr Rahul Bhargava, principal director, haematology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram, said, “Diagnostic tests like MRI or PNS are done only once or twice in case of mucormycosis. The cost should have been reduced when cases of post-Covid complications were at their peak. However, the maximum cost is incurred in the purchase of the amphotericin-B drug, which should be reduced. A patient with black fungus infection spends nearly ₹36,000 every day for at least three weeks on the amphotericin-B drug. Reducing the cost of one vial, which is around ₹6,000, will bring down the overall treatment expenditure.”Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Directives have been issued to labs and hospitals to follow the new order. Action will be taken if we receive any complaint regarding overcharging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/post-covid-19-illnesses-radiology-test-prices-capped-101626112490782.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 prep: Only 17 of 43 private hospitals have oxygen plants||Of 43 private hospitals in the district that have more than 50 beds, only 17 have a medical oxygen plant or are in the process of installing it, according to the district health department data. Even though the health department has been reporting a constant decline in new cases of coronavirus infection for more than a month now, private hospitals were directed in June to augment bed capacity for children and infants. They were given a deadline of July 10 to submit the data and ensure the installation of medical oxygen plants (in facilities with more than 50 beds).“The state government has extended the deadline for setting up of medical oxygen plants in hospitals by a few months now. In many hospitals, the installation process is in progress and will be completed by July-end or August. Also, the overall reserved bed capacity for children has been increased by 10%, which is also a part of the overall preparedness to tackle (the next) Covid-19 wave,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram. The district also has over 900 paediatric beds, including 258 newborn intensive care units (NICU) and paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), to tackle the next wave of Covid-19. Officials said that bed capacity in at least 76 hospitals has been increased by 10% to treat neonatal, infants and young children, who, as adults, are susceptible to get infected in the next wave. Data available with the district health department shows that of 96 hospitals registered with the government portal, at least 76 declared having neonatal, infant and paediatric bed capacity, amounting to about 900 paediatric beds in all. This includes at least 67 ICU beds for neonatal and infants, with ventilators, and 191 ICU beds without ventilators. More than 627 beds are for paediatric care, as per the data.To study the impact of Covid-19 on children, a pan-India serological survey was conducted, in which at least 1,059 people from the Ballabhgarh district of Haryana were covered. The survey, which was released in June, showed that 61.4% of children younger than 18 years and 58.8% above 18 years had antibodies to fight the infection. Officials said that as per the results of the survey, children and adults will be equally impacted.Currently, over 3,837 beds have been reserved for adult Covid-19 patients, of which 2,817 are oxygen beds, 759 are ICU and 261 are equipped with ventilator support systems. Since there has been a decline in the new Covid-19 cases, only seven patients from Gurugram are critically ill and being treated at hospitals, of the 81 active cases.On Monday, the district reported four new Covid-19 cases, while no death was reported for the third consecutive day. The death toll stands at 919. So far, 180, 762 cases have been detected in Gurugram, with the second wave alone accounting for over 100,000 cases in April and May. “Details submitted by hospitals will be reviewed in the next few days. Thereafter, further directives will be issued to gear up for the (next) suspected wave,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-prep-only-17-of-43-private-hospitals-have-oxygen-plants-101626112489615.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Dalit woman held captive, gang-raped by four men||Four men were booked for allegedly raping an 18-year-old Dalit woman at gunpoint after holding her captive for over nine days from June 30, the police said. The woman alleged that she was injected with sedatives and was unconscious for most of the time.According to the police, the woman was acquainted with the suspects, who were also residents of her village near Sohna. They allegedly recorded videos of the incident to threaten her to not disclose the incident to her family members. On July 8, they left her at the Ballabhgarh bus stand, following which she contacted her husband and reached home, the police said on Monday. A case under sections 201 (destruction of evidence), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 365 (kidnapping), 376 D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the Arms Act and Section 3 of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered at the Sohna police station. The police said that the woman was abducted from a temple on the outskirts of the village. She was talking to an acquaintance when two of his friends arrived in a car and invited her for a ride to Faridabad. “I asked them for water and after drinking a few sips, I fell unconscious. When I regained consciousness, I was in a room where there were four mattresses and a few liquor bottles. There was no cooler or fan in that room. Another man from our village visited the next morning. They raped me one after another,” the victim told the police in her complaint. The police said that the suspects threatened her life as well as that of her family members. They disposed of her clothes so that police could not recover any evidence. Umesh Kumar, station house officer of Sohna police station, said that suspects injected her with sedatives every evening. “When her family members called, they held her at gunpoint and asked her to tell them that she was at a friend’s place and would return soon. They bought her a shirt and a pair of trousers to return home on July 7,” he said. The woman said that she did not disclose the incident to her family for a few days, but later confided in her husband as her health deteriorated. She was taken to a government hospital as she suffered abdominal pain due to injuries, the police said.The police recorded her statement before a duty magistrate and are on the lookout for the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dalit-woman-held-captive-gang-raped-by-four-men-101626112432563.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Fire at Bandhwari landfill continues for second day, citizens’ groups protest ‘waste mismanagement’||A fire that broke out at the Bandhwari landfill around noon on Sunday continued to rage on Monday despite continued dousing operations. Fire department officials said they expected the blaze to be extinguished by Tuesday afternoon. Members of city-based environmental groups, meanwhile, protested over the incident, calling it a “mismanagement of waste.” Officials of the fire department said that due to toxic gases and windy conditions on Monday, waste lying underneath the mountain of garbage continued to catch fire. At least 12 fire tenders, from Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh have been engaged in dousing operations round-the-clock, officials said.“The blaze is not of high intensity and is difficult to spot. Embers and smoke emitting out of the garbage piles are giving us an indication that waste underneath is on fire. Earthmovers and propellers are being used to clear the waste pile right from the top. Until we reach the bottom of the pile, our dousing operations will continue,” said Sunil Adlakha, fire safety officer.Adlakha said that the fire at the landfill is a common occurrence due to the heavy build-up of toxic gases and high temperatures. However, it is for the first time it has continued for a second day.“The fire broke out naturally due to a high presence of methane gases and high temperature. All support was lent by Ecogreen for dousing operations. The main centre of fire has been extinguished and work is ongoing to douse any remaining embers as a precautionary measure,” said Sanjeev Sharma, spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, which is the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) concessionaire for waste management.Around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste is lying at the Bandhwari landfill, with heaps of waste as high as 37 metres. Around 1,800 tonnes of waste is dumped at the site from Gurugram and Faridabad every day.On Monday evening, members of the Aravalli Bachao Citizens Group and Citizen for Clean Air, carried out a protest outside the landfill citing “mismanagement of waste” in both Gurugram and Faridabad. The issues highlighted by the citizens’ groups included the dumping of 2,000 tonnes of unsegregated waste at the landfill every day and the lack of strict enforcement, concerning segregation at source and solid waste management rules in both cities.“Landfill fires often occur from trapped gases generated through the decomposition of mixed waste including wet food waste. It is critical for the government to implement a sustainable waste management plan for both Gurugram and Faridabad that consists of segregation at source, decentralised composting, production of biogas, and dry waste recovery centres. This will take care of 75-80% of the total waste,” said Neelam Ahluwalia, a member of Aravalli Bachao Citizens Group. The Aravalli Bachao Citizens Group also raised issues regarding the Haryana government’s plan to set up a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the landfill, as the location is a biodiversity-rich area with important wildlife habitats, a leopard corridor and “very critical” water recharge zone for the National Capital Region. Ahluwalia said that the two groups held the protest so that the Haryana government takes cognisance of the matter and takes constructive steps that firstly prevent future fires and come up with sustainable solutions based on the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, to reduce the volume of waste being transported to the landfill and eventually, remove this landfill from the eco-sensitive Aravalli area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-at-bandhwari-landfill-continues-for-second-day-citizens-groups-protest-waste-mismanagement-101626112431565.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Lift and loot: Gang involved in 50 robberies busted||A four-member gang that allegedly robbed around 50 people after offering shared rides in cabs on the Delhi-Jaipur highway (National Highway-48) over the past six months was busted, the police said on Monday. The police said that the gang members were from Jaipur and were involved in highway robberies in Delhi, Gurugram and Rajasthan. They were previously arrested in Jaipur in 2019 and were out on bail. Three members of the gang were arrested early on Monday morning, while the police are tracking the fourth member of the group.According to the police, the gang offered to drop people waiting for public transport at major intersections on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, such as the Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Rajeev Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, at cheap prices. When the commuters boarded the vehicle, the gang members would assault them, rob them of their valuables and force them to share their ATM codes to withdraw cash.The police said that their crime teams used technical surveillance to arrest the suspects. The police also seized a car that was allegedly used in the crimes. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects were arrested from Bawal in Rewari. “They were involved in highway robberies in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana. They used to target victims who used to wear gold chains and wristwatches. They revealed that they targeted ‘rich’ executives looking for lifts. They used to travel to Gurugram and offer lifts from spots close to corporate spaces on Sohna Road, Udyog Vihar, Sector 17/18, Iffco Chowk and Rajeev Chowk,” he said. Sangwan said they received several complaints of lift-and-loot incidents in which a Brezza car was involved. They said that it took a week of rigorous technical and human surveillance to identify the suspects. The suspects were identified as Manoj alias Monu (27), Surender Kumar (35), and Naresh Kumar (32) of Jaipur in Rajasthan. They lived at a rented accommodation in Bawal, the police said. “This gang was active since 2016 and they used to change places after a few robberies. They targeted different routes in Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The CIA-17 team, led by Narender Chauhan, started rigorous technical exercises and reconstructed the sequence of events right from the start until the victim was let go by the assailants. While retracing the past incidents, the team picked up several vital clues, both technical and human,” he said. Sangwan said that with the arrest of this group, a gang responsible for a majority of loot-and-lift crimes since the last year was busted. However, the police said they are suspecting the involvement of similar gangs from Nuh, who are also operating on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. The modus operandi of all the gangs are similar, due to which it is hard to zero in on the total number. They offer victims shared rides at night or early in the morning, assault and rob them. In the present case, the gang mainly operated from the three locations on a 10-kilometre stretch of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the police said. The police are compiling details of cases lodged at various police stations across the city and contacting victims to identify the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lift-and-loot-gang-involved-in-50-robberies-busted-101626112430479.html
12-07-2021||Gurugram||Sadar Bazar pedestrianisation on the cards again, committee to file report by July 20||A seven-member committee has been tasked with formulating a comprehensive plan to develop Sadar Bazar as a pedestrian-friendly and vehicle-free zone, as per an order issued on Sunday by the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). A deadline of July 20 was set for the committee to submit its report. The committee, which comprises MCG officials, World Resources Institute (WRI) officials, Gurugram traffic police personnel and civil defence personnel, will formulate the design plan under the Streets for People Challenge, hosted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA). As per the plan, a 600-metre stretch of Sadar Bazar starting from the T-point at New Railway Road, near the post office, up to the Sohna Chowk on Old Railway Road, near Jama Masjid, is to be made vehicle-free and pedestrian-friendly. The plan for pedestrianisation of the market, however, has been opposed by shopkeepers in the past. The MCG attempted a week-long pedestrian-friendly and vehicle-free trial on the 600-metre stretch on March 20. Within an hour of the trial starting, shopkeepers resisted the initiative citing loss of customers and difficulties in parking, following which the MCG allowed entry of vehicles. “The key responsibility of the committee will be to develop a comprehensive plan and design for pedestrianisation of Sadar Bazar main market street, which implies making the street motorised vehicle-free and creating space for pedestrians and cyclists. Thus, the committee would aim to create a sustainable, comfortable, accessible and inclusive market street, positively impacting the user footfall and triggering a transformation in the area,” an excerpt from the order issued by Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, MCG commissioner, issued on Sunday, stated.Part of the redesigning process also includes streetscaping, managing parking spaces, formulating enforcement strategies, managing vending zones and public amenities, among other such measures, said MCG officials. “All the aspects that can contribute to a holistic development of the area will fall under the purview of the committee,” Ahuja’s order stated. In the order, Ahuja also directed the committee to consult public representatives and local shopkeepers. It can also use the services of design experts who are experienced in street designs.Bablu Gupta, the president of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, said, “There is a massive communication gap between the MCG, traders and shopkeepers. The MCG tells us one thing and does another thing on the ground, which has been the root cause of all the issues in the past. Pedestrian-friendly markets have been a success in Delhi as the local municipal corporation and shopkeepers both had clarity regarding the type of redesign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sadar-bazar-pedestrianisation-on-the-cards-again-committee-to-file-report-by-july-20-101626112429365.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLA accuses Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal of 'distributing funds to Akalis'||Accusing Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal of distributing funds to the Akalis, Congress legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday urged party leader Rahul Gandhi to take disciplinary action against him.This comes amid efforts by the party leadership to end factionalism in the party unit in the poll-bound state."Punjab's finance minister is busy distributing people's money to the Akalis who ruined Punjab. This plan to weaken Congress and strengthen Akali Dal by @MSBADAL has been running for months. It is a request to @Rahul Gandhi that his resignation should be taken immediately after taking disciplinary action," said Warring in a tweet.पंजाब के वित्त मंत्री लोगों का पैसा पंजाब को बर्बाद करने वाले अकालियों को बांटने में व्यस्त हैकांग्रेस को कमजोर और अकाली दल को मज़बूत करने की यह योजना @MSBADAL द्वारा महीनों से चलाई जा रही है@RahulGandhi जी से निवेदन है कि तुरंत अनुशासनात्मक कार्यवाही कर इनका इस्तीफा लिया जाए pic.twitter.com/V5oih5R8pnEarlier on his Facebook post, he said that he was saddened to know Badal had been handing over cheques of ₹15 lakh to the Akalis.He even shared pictures of persons whom money was given and said they were members of the same Akali Dal whom Badal had left and then joined the Congress."The Congress party gave you everything then why are you stabbing the party in the back," he alleged.He reminded Badal that supporting the Akali Dal while being in the Congress will "destroy" his political life and the people of Punjab would never forget this.He further alleged that his working as a finance minister in the last four years "forced" every section of Punjab to protest against the Congress government.Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while tagging Warring's tweet, said, "The Congress can never have any understanding with Akali Dal which has destroyed Punjab from roots. Still, if there is any perception, it should broken."Warring had been raising questions over the functioning of Badal in the matter of release of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-mla-accuses-punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-badal-of-distributing-funds-to-akalis-101626110413076.html
12-07-2021||Kolkata||CID starts probe into alleged suicide of Suvendu Adhikari’s security guard||The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday initiated a fresh probe into the death of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials said. On Saturday the victim’s wife lodged a three-page complaint with the local police in Purba Medinipur district demanding a fresh probe into her husband’s death. According to the police, the victim, Suvabrata Chakraborty, allegedly shot himself with his service revolver in October 2018. Chakraborty was the former security guard of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who was then state transport minister in the Mamata Banerjee administration. He succumbed two days later. Adhikari, however, sided with the BJP in December 2020 just ahead of the state assembly elections. Even though the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who contested from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district, was defeated by Adhikari, her protégé-turned-adversary. Adhikari is now the leader of the opposition in the state legislative assembly. “A CID team came to our house on Monday. They wanted to know what exactly happened on that day – October 13, 2018. We requested them to unearth the truth. Even if it was a suicide, we want to know why did he die by suicide,” said a relative of Chakraborty, who didn’t wish to be named. Even though the victim’s wife Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty lodged a complaint with the local police and the cops started an investigation, the CID took over the case initiating a fresh probe. “From the beginning, I had doubts about my husband’s death,” Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty wrote in the complaint letter. She also wrote, “As Adhikari was a powerful man both at the state and district level, and I used to stay with my two daughters, I could not gather the courage to say anything. But now situations have changed and I thought I may get justice.” The complainant also wrote that when her brother-in-law raised doubts over the ‘suicide theory’ behind Suvabrata Chakraborty’s death, one Rakhal Bera, a close aide of Adhikari told them that Adhikari was unhappy. Incidentally, Bera has already been arrested by the Kolkata Police in early June in connection with a job racket. He is now in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cid-starts-probe-into-alleged-suicide-of-suvendu-ahikari-s-security-guard-in-2018-101626109611655.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Couple accused of love jihad; NGO writes to IGR||An inter-faith couple, awaiting a wedding date, has been subjected to social pressure by groups of people who have termed their union as “love jihad”. The pre-wedding notice under the Special Marriage Act, which has the couple’s names and credentials, has been shared on public online forums by those tagging it as “love jihad”. A screenshot of the notice is being circulated on social media messaging groups, according to social workers helping the couple. The notice is uploaded one month before the date of wedding on the website of the Inspector General of Registration (IGR), which is in public domain. A city-based non goevrnment organisation (NGO) called Right to Love, has written to the IGR of Maharashtra to take congnisance of the situation. The letter has been submitted to the IGR of Maharahstra, Shravan Hardikar, according to Advocate Vikas Shinde, a member of the NGO. “Even if this is one of the incidents come to light, there have been multiple such incidents where consenting adults were forced to cancel their wedding. These weddings have been prevented illegally,” read the letter submitted to Hardikar. The couple that has known each other for 7-8 years has been facing pressure from these self-appointed moral police, according to the NGO. The letter has also been sent to the chief minister’s office, state home pinister, and Pune city police commissioner, according to Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-accused-of-love-jihad-ngo-writes-to-igr-101626107328340.html
12-07-2021||Pune||BJP calls special general body meet on July 15||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to call a special general body meeting on July 15, to discuss issues concerning 23 villages merged into the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits, and to prepare a development plan for the villages. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The demand for a special general body meeting to discuss the development plan came from the elected members.” Political lines are being clearly drawn, and re-drawn, over the 23 villages merged into the PMC, not least because of civic elections due later in the year, At a recent meeting attended by the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune’s guardian minister, it was decided a development plan created by the PMRDA (Pune Metropolitian Region Development Authority) for the villages would be adopted by the PMC. Suggestions and objections to the plan would then be invited. Leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar said, “We have issued a whip to all BJP members to remain present for the special GB.” Chandrakant Patil, state unit president of the BJP is also of the view that the development plan for the merged villages should be prepared by the PMC, with no interference from the Urban development department or the PMRDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-calls-special-general-body-meet-on-july-15-101626107088360.html
12-07-2021||Bhopal||MP man, taunted for 3 murders by elder brother, also dies by suicide: Police||BHOPAL: A 21-year-old man owner in Madhya Pradesh’s Betul died by suicide on Monday, days after his elder brother shot dead three people before killing himself. Police said the young man left behind a note that linked his decision to the taunts that he had to suffer for the murders allegedly committed by his brother.The man used to run a tea stall in Betul, a little over 150 km from state capital Bhopal. He was found hanging at home, said Simala Prasad, superintendent of police. “My brother’s video was going viral on social media and people were taunting me as a brother of the murderer. My brother defamed our family’s name and I can’t bear this stigma, so I am ending my life,” said the man in a suicide note.Simala Prasad said “the man lived with his brother, sister-in-law and mother in Betul. Now, we are holding counselling sessions for the other three members to help them in dealing with this incident.”His brother, 25, shot dead a 22-year-old woman, her cousin and a neighbour on Sunday after the woman filed a complaint of sexual harassment against him. The woman recently filed a sexual harassment complaint against him. The accused also shot a video and posted it on his Facebook account before ending his life.In a clip that he sent to the local police station via WhatsApp, the man accused the woman’s fiance of supplying the two guns used in the murder. The woman’s fiance denied the charge, claiming that the accused had earlier threatened to implicate him in a false case if he married the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-man-taunted-for-3-murders-by-elder-brother-also-dies-by-suicide-police-101626106908829.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Maharashtra’s first Sainik school for girls completes 25 glorious years||July 7, 1997 was a golden day written in the annals of Maharashtra Education Society (MES) when the state’s first Sainik school for girls began its operations. The Rani Laxmibai Mulinchi Sainik school under the special scheme of government and MES to enhance women’s abilities and strengths. In its 25-year journey, the school has taught 1,000 girls starting with the first batch of only 40 girls and eventually growing the intake into 90 per year from all over Maharashtra. This special school is spread in 32 acres of land that was given by the government of Maharashtra with a special sanction right from the first day. Located under Mulshi tehsil, at Kasar-Amboli, just 25 km from Pune, the school is located as part of hill -top construction. Affiliated to the SSC board, classes start from 6th standard up to 12th. The school follows the semi-English medium for opportunities to girls from the rural areas, because language won’t be a barrier. Along with the academic syllabus, military training activities like horse riding, drill, karate, rifle shooting, obstacle training and a number of indoor and outdoor sports are an integral part of the daily routine. The day in the school begins at 5.30 am and ends at night at 9.30 pm. Minute to minute activities are planned and worked out under able supervision. An efficient and devoted staff has been appointed in both sections, and equal weightage is given for academics as well as military training. This is a unique and first sainik school for girls in Maharashtra. In 25 years, it has grown in stature training girls so that they can get into armed forces,” said Dr Madhavi Mehendalye, chairman, school committee and member, governing body, MES.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtras-first-sainik-school-for-girls-completes-25-glorious-years-101626106488234.html
12-07-2021||Pune||PMC raises demand for five TMC water from Mulshi dam for city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) water supply department has tabled a proposal in the City Improvement Committee (CIC) to get five Thousand Million Cubic feet (TMC) water from the nearby Mulshi dam. Manisha Shekatkar, executive engineer of PMC water supply department said, “We have tabled a proposal in the CIC to raise a demand for five TMC water from Mulshi dam. We mentioned in the proposal that a total of 23 villages have been merged into the corporation. Khadakwasla dam has been overstressed, due to the merger of villages, the PMC water demand has increased and we need a separate water source to quench the thrust of the increasing population. We have raised the demand to the state government through this proposal.” She further said, “At present, we tabled a proposal in CIC. It will be sent to the state government for approval. After the state government approval, we will take the decision to carry out further processes.” Khadakwasla irrigation division of the water resource department wants to reduce the water quota of 2.5 TMC from Khadakwasla dam as the city is getting that much water from Bhama-Askhed dam. During the inauguration of Bhama-Askhed water supply project in PMC, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had instructed a committee to submit a report to fetch water from Mulshi dam which is around 40 kilometres away from Pune city. After that, the state water resource department appointed a committee headed by retired irrigation secretary Avinash Surve to study the issue and submit a report to the government. The committee was supposed to submit a report in April 2021; however, the committee received an extension. The state government appointed two senior officials of the water resource department retired and posts are vacant. Avinash Surve, committee chairman said, “We have-not submitted a report to the state government. We need two reports, one from Maharashtra state Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) and another from Tata Power Company. For this project, the state government will have to approach the water tribunal and convince them about the requirement of drinking water in Pune city.” The Mulshi dam water is controlled by a private company, Tata which utilizes the water for hydroelectricity generation. The hydropower project located in Mulshi was established in 1927.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-raises-demand-for-five-tmc-water-from-mulshi-dam-for-city-101626106428320.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Society maintenance according to flat area: deputy registrar of housing societies||In a case involving a resident of Treasure Park society, the deputy registrar of cooperative housing societies announced that housing societies should charge maintenance that is proportionate to the flat area. Treasure Park society member Neelam Patil had filed a complaint with the deputy register objecting to recover the same maintenance from each flat holder. Treasure Park society which is located at Aranyeshwar charges the same maintenance for each 2 BHK, 3 BHO and 4 BHK flat holders. Patil objected to it and demanded a charge in proportion to the flat area, and deputy register Digvijay Rathod held a hearing for the same. Rathod issued the order on July 8, 2021 and accepted the points made by Patil in her application. The housing society should apply for the monthly maintenance as proportionate to the area of each flat holder. “The maintenance fee should be charged as per the act. Whatever excess amount collected by the society from small flat holders should be adjusted in future,” Rathod said. In a domino effect, Rathod’s order could now be applied by housing societies across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/society-maintenance-according-to-flat-area-deputy-registrar-of-housing-societies-101626106368281.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Palmist arrested for branding businessman’s wife as ‘bad omen’||A palmist by the name of Raghunath Yemul was arrested by Pune city police for advising a local businessman to leave his “bad omen” wife, according to the police. The arrested man was identified as Raghunath Rajaram Yemul (48), a resident of Dhawalgiri Apartment, Ivory Estates in Baner area of Pune. Yemul was remanded to police custody. The case was registered against Ganesh alias Kedar Gaikwad, his father Nanasaheb Gaikwad, their family members, and one bodyguard. However, the police also arrested Yemul in it for provoking the 36-year-old man to leave his wife by making him believe that it if he remained married to the complainant, he would never become an MLA or a minister. “Because of this, he asked her to get a divorce from her and take custody of their son. He asked the family to use a lemon he had given to them in order to rid the family of bad omens. The family believed him and began physically and mental abuse. In the 21st century, members of the well-known family believed such things and mistreated a highly educated woman,” read a statement by the police. A case under Sections 498(a), 354, 392, 323, 325, 406, 420, 506, 120(b), 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Invoke Anti Black-magic Act: ANiS The workers of Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS), a non-government organisation (NGO) started by slain rationalist and anti-superstition activist Dr Narndra Dabholkar, have demanded that the anti-black magic act be invoked in the case. Dr Dabholkar, who was shot dead in Pune, was instrumental in formulation of the law. “A woman in Pune has been beaten up mercilessly along with physical and mental torture. More seriously, a spiritual guru Raghunath Yemul has told the family that this woman is a bad omen, will bring bad luck, and her time of birth is wrong. He subjected her to superstitious customs. This is a serious case. ANiS urges the Maharashtra government and police to take strict action,” said Prashant Potdar of ANiS. “The police have arrested him, but they have not invoked the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. This case clearly falls under its ambit,” said Milind Deshmukh of ANiS. Another case against Gaikwad When the case was registered at Chaturshringi, a case of attempted murder was also registered against the father-son duo at Hinjewadi police station. In that case, the complainant woman has alleged that her husband fired a gun at her. She was not injured in the firing, according to the police. A case under Sections 377, 307, 323, 324, 504, 506, and 109 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(27) of Arms Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/palmist-arrested-for-branding-businessman-s-wife-as-bad-omen-101626106249535.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Make Covid vaccination convenient for pregnant women: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the officials concerned to make Covid vaccination convenient for pregnant women.“The Covid vaccination system should be made convenient for pregnant women. Contact the pregnant women or their family members for vaccination. The women special vaccination booths in each district should be publicised well so that people are aware of them,” the chief minister said at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting here.Earlier this month, the Union health ministry had announced that pregnant women were now eligible for Covid-19 vaccination at any time of the pregnancy.The ministry had said experts were of the view that the benefits of vaccination for pregnant women outweighed the potential risks.The chief minister also said that so far 3.71 crore (37.1 million) doses of Covid vaccination had been administered in Uttar Pradesh of which 3.13 crore (31.3 million) were first doses.He also said no new Covid case was reported in 42 districts in the past 24 hours. In 31 other districts, the fresh cases were in single digits, he added.“Sitapur and Lucknow are the only two districts that reported fresh cases in double digits,” he said.In the past 24 hours, 2.28 lakh (228,000) tests were done of which only 96 samples tested positive for Covid-19. He said the recovery rate in the state was 98.6% and the state had only 1,576 active Covid cases after 112 patients recovered from Covid.Health ATMs at CHCs, PHCsYogi had earlier announced that the state will establish health ATMs. On Monday, he said that they should be set up at the community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) as well. The health ATMs would be health kiosks equipped with a modern machine that checks various health parameters such as blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), body fat, metabolic rate, hydration, pulse rate, height, muscle mass, oxygen level and weight instantly.“Also connect the health ATMs with the tele-consultation service of the nearest district hospital,” he said to the officials.Improve health services for senior citizens: CMThe chief minister said health services in the state for senior citizens needed to improved. “Already the senior citizen health helpline 14567 is functional in the state, but there is a need to spread awareness about it so that senior citizens avail of the facility. Often in special needs, the senior citizens require ambulances and medicines. Make all these available to them,” he said to the officials concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/make-covid-vaccination-convenient-for-pregnant-women-yogi-adityanath-to-officials-101626106248992.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Man arrested three years after rape, murder of minor||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have nabbed a man from Uttar Pradesh for kidnapping, sexually assaulting, and strangled to death a seven-year-old girl in Pune in 2018, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. Sadly, her family had disintegrated as her parents passed away within a year of the crime. The man was identified as Rajkumar alias Pyarelal Chandraprakash Kuril Yadav (37), a resident of Uttar Pradesh. “This is an important detection. The girl was kidnapped, raped, and killed. The team worked tirelessly, developed strong sources, and fished the man out of Uttar Pradesh,” said Prakash. While a local court remanded Yadav to police custody until July 19, the two younger brothers of the now-deceased child are growing up at their maternal uncle’s place in Ahmednagar. “When I joined in February 2020, I took up the case. We found his immediate relatives and combed through minute details of all their phone records and verified their relations. We found out his native place and went there twice and developed local sources. Our team had learned that he was going to come home and they had been living there for 15 days. Finally, one of the sources told us when he came home,” said police inspector Shailesh Gaikwad of unit 2 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. On September 24, 2018, the man had lured the child using chocolate while her parents were at work. He had sexually assaulted her and killed her as she tried to raise an alarm, according to the police. The family members had reported the child to have been missing. In the search for the child, the police had traced the body in an open ground of Hindustan Antibiotics in Pimpri. A decomposed body of the child was found on September 27, 2018. By then, Yadav had reached and left his relative’s place in Uttar Pradesh after which he had not surfaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-three-years-after-rape-murder-of-minor-101626106189378.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Delta variant found in 13 Meerut samples gene sequenced in Delhi||The Delta variant of the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease was found in 13 samples sent from Meerut to a New Delhi-based lab for genome sequencing, a health official here said on Monday.The health department had sent 40 samples of Covid-19 positive patients from the microbiology lab of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College in Meerut for genome sequencing to the New Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in June.Meerut’s divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan said the reports of 15 of the 40 samples were received two days ago and the Delta variant of Covid-19 was found in 13 samples. Two other samples were tagged irrelevant.Dr Taliyan said the reports of 25 more samples were yet to be received. More samples would be sent to the Delhi lab in the coming months for genome sequencing, he added.He also said samples were often sent to the Delhi lab for genome sequencing to know how the virus was mutating and which variant was affecting the people.Health officials were concerned after the Delta Plus variant was found in two patients of Covid-19 in eastern UP. The officials were relieved as no traces of Delta Plus were found in the samples sent from the Meerut region in western UP.Meerut district has 67 active cases of Covid-19 at present. Out of the more than 5000 samples tested on Sunday, only one tested positive, according to official data.Nevertheless, health officials have asked people to continue following Covid-19 protocols, wear masks and maintain a safe distance from one another and avoid going to public places to prevent a possible third wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, cluster vaccination was postponed in Meerut for July 13 as a limited number of vaccines were received.Meerut district vaccination officer Dr Praveen Gautam said only 19,600 vaccines were received on July 12 (Monday) for the next three days vaccination. Therefore, all clusters were cancelled, and vaccination would be done only at static booths, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delta-variant-found-in-13-meerut-samples-gene-sequenced-in-delhi-101626106188829.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Special teams sent to Sultanpur, Sitapur in UP to probe sudden increase in fresh Covid-19 cases||The Uttar Pradesh health department sent special teams to Sultanpur and Sitapur on Monday to investigate the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in both the districts.Twenty fresh cases were reported in Sultanpur within 24 hours on Sunday while 28 fresh cases were reported in Sitapur district within 24 hours on Monday. Except Lucknow (14 fresh cases), Covid-19 cases were reported in single digits in the remaining 72 districts of Uttar Pradesh, according to official data.Expressing concern over a surge in Covid cases in Sultanpur and Sitapur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed the state health department to dispatch the special teams to both the districts to study the reasons for the increase in the Covid cases, as well as the containment measures to be implemented there.He told the officers concerned to launch contact tracing and sample testing of the family members of the infected people, adding that those who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive people should be traced and their samples should be sent for tests.The district administration should make adequate arrangements for the treatment of Covid-19 positive people, he said.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said special teams consisting of doctors, experts and surveillance officers were sent to both the districts. The teams will visit the areas where the fresh Covid cases have been reported, review the measures taken by the district administration to check the spread of the cases, look into the health facilities provided to Covid-positive people, and study the reasons for the increase in the cases. Even as the Covid cases continued to decline (elsewhere), the state health department had increased the sample testing to identify the infected people immediately, he said.Sultanpur’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr DK Tripathi said, “On July I, merely two cases were reported in the district, taking the total number of active cases to 17. With the increase in (fresh) cases (later), the active Covid cases in the district increased to 47.”About 20 fresh cases have been reported in seven villages of Sultanpur. In Babhangawa village alone, eight members of a family tested positive. The family members told the district administration that three members of the family returned from Mumbai four days back and they were ill. As the other family members also complained of fever, samples were sent for tests and eight of them returned Covid-19 positive, he said.The surveillance teams were activated in the areas and villagers asked to alert the district administration if any person visited the village from another state as well as about the people having Covid symptoms, the Sultanpur CMO said.Sitapur CMO Dr Madhu Gerola said fresh Covid cases were detected in villages in the Tambour and Pisawa areas of the district. The district health department has launched a door-to-door survey to trace the infected people in all the villages. The infected people were staying in home isolation or admitted in health facilities. The violation of Covid protocols by the people was one of the major reasons for the increase in Covid cases in the district, the Sitapur CMO said.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh increased to 17,07,446 on Monday as 96 more people tested positive while the death toll climbed to 22,700 with two more fatalities.The latest deaths were reported from Prayagraj and Azamgarh, an official statement said.As many as 112 more Covid-19 patients were discharged after recovering from the disease the previous day, taking the total number of recoveries so far to 16,83,170, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/special-teams-sent-to-sultanpur-sitapur-in-up-to-probe-sudden-increase-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-101626106129700.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Criminals injure petrol pump cashier, loot ₹48 lakh||Unidentified criminals shot at a petrol pump’s cashier and looted ₹48 lakh from him near Siris More on National Highway 2 under Barun police station of Aurangabad district on Monday.The injured Ram Niwas Singh was on his way to the Dehri branch of Punjab National bank to deposit cash of the petrol pump when four bike-borne criminals shot at him and fled with the money, Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Podia said. “Ram Niwas received a gunshot injury on his shoulder and is currently undergoing treatment at Jamuhar Narayana Hospital,” he said. The SP that police are trying to identify the criminals through CCTV footage. Podia said that though only one empty cartridge was recovered from the spot, the criminals had reportedly fired several rounds during the incident. The injured said that the alleged criminals asked him to hand over the bag containing cash at gunpoint. “When I resist their attempt, one of them fired and snatched the bag. The victim then informed the police and lodged a case.Meanwhile, Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association general secretary Bijendra Sinha said, “We were asked to get security cover from the police station concerned, but it is practically impossible as there are multiple petrol pumps under one police station,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/criminals-injure-petrol-pump-cashier-loot-48-lakh-101626106128378.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Six arrested, counterfeit currency worth ₹32 lakh recovered||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested six people and recovered counterfeit currency notes worth over ₹32 lakh from them over 18 days of investigation, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad city police. The first person to be arrested was Gorakh Dattatray Pawar (30), a resident of Bhalwani in Pandharpur area of Solapur followed by Vitthal Gajanan Shewale (38) a resident of Dhebewadi area of Patan in Satara, Jitendra Rankanidhi Panigrahi (36) a resident of Sankeshwarnagar in Nalasopara East, Vasai, Palghar; Raju alias Ranjitsingh Fatuba Parmar (38), Jitendrakumar Natvarbhai Patel (26), Kirankumar Kantilal Patel (38), all residents of Baroda, Gujarat. “The police sent a decoy customer and met Pawar near the graveyard in Ota scheme area of Nigdi on June 23 (around 6pm). Upon inspection, he was found with 50 notes of ₹2,000 in his pocket and four bundles were found in the storage of his two-wheeler vehicle wrapped in a blue coloured bag,” said Commissioner Prakash. All the notes found in his possession had the same sequence number on them, according to the police. The police team went to Palghar and Gujarat and worked on the case for 18 days before the gang was arrested. While the first arrest was on June 26, the last was arrested on July 11, according to the police. A total of 1,402 counterfeit notes of ₹2,000 denomination, and 929 counterfeit notes of ₹500 denomination were recovered during the entire operation. The total worth of the seized notes was estimated to be ₹32,67,000. The police have also seized one laptop, one printed, and a TVS Jupiter two-wheeler vehicle used in the case. “They sold the notes of ₹2,000 for ₹500 each and found customers who needed cash,” said Commissioner Prakash. A case under Sections 489(b), 489(c) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-arrested-counterfeit-currency-worth-32-lakh-recovered-101626106068222.html
12-07-2021||Ranchi||Cycle rally, signature campaign: Cong to hold phased protests against fuel price hike from July 17||Jharkhand state unit of Congress on Monday decided to hold a phased protest from July 17 against price hike, especially that of petrol and diesel, party leaders said, adding that a symbolic cycle rally and a “signature” campaign at petrol pumps will be part of the demonstration. A meeting to chalk out a detailed strategy in this regard was chaired by Jharkhand Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, along with legislature party leader and rural development minister Alamgir Alam, at the party’s state headquarters here. “We will organise a cycle rally in all district headquarters, as affording to ride even a motorcycle is getting out of common people’s budget. The protest will kick off on July 17 by taking out a cycle rally across the state. On July 19, a signature campaign will be run across petrol pumps, where we will seek opinion of peopleon price hike. On July 28, we will hold a state-level protest following Covid-19 protocol,” Oraon told media persons after the meeting. Blaming the Centre for the spiralling fuel prices, the Jharkhand finance minister said the state does not have the headroom to reduce VAT on petroleum products. “The Centre has left the states with no source of revenue after all commercial taxes were merged in GST. VAT on petroleum is the only major source of income left for states. But, still we have not increased VAT from the existing 22% sine we came to power. However, the Centre has increase excuse duty on petroleum products seven times since coming to power in 2014,” said Oraon.Some of the prominent leaders who attended the meeting included working presidents Rajesh Thakur, Keshav Mahto Kamlesh, Manas Sinha, Sanjay Paswan besides spokespersons Alok Dubey and Kishore Shahdeo, Rakesh Sinha and M Tausif amon others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cycle-rally-signature-campaign-cong-to-hold-phased-protests-against-fuel-price-hike-from-july-17-101626105408185.html
12-07-2021||Other||Three sentenced to life in 2018 murder case||The court of second additional district sessions judge (ADJ) Manoj Kumar Dwivedi on Monday sentenced three of the four accused to rigorous life imprisonment in a three-year old kidnapping and murder case, officials said.The fourth accused is currently absconding, police said.The accused had kidnapped and stabbed to death a 24-year-old youth under Laheriasarai police station in the district on January 31, 2018, said additional public prosecutor (APP) Arun Kumar Singh. According to APP, initially the police registered a case under Sections 364 (kidnapping) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, but later moved an application in the CJM’s court to append Section 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).After the police arrested three of the accused, the court convicted them on June 29 this year. However, the quantum of punishment was pronounced on Monday, the APP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-sentenced-to-life-in-2018-murder-case-101626105349443.html
12-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Three transgenders critically injured in attack by robbers||Armed assailants attacked six transgenders with rods, knives and sticks in a robbery bid on National Highway-2 near Mohania on Sunday night, police said on Monday. Three of the victims were critically injured and undergoing treatment.A case was registered with Mohania police station in this connection.The incident took place around 10pm on Sunday when the victims were begging on the highway. According to the victims’ statement to the police, six robbers from nearby villages attacked the transgenders with sharp weapons and snatched money from them.The assailants fled after threatening to kill the transgenders if they informed police.Passersby rescued all the injured and admitted them to sub-divisional hospital at Mohania. Three of the injured sustained multiple injuries and severe fractures, doctors said. Protesting against the violent attack, a group of transgenders led by president Sonu Kinnar on Monday demonstrated outside Mohania police station, demanding immediate arrest of assailants, and security to the transgenders.They said their community was facing hardship during the Covid-19 pandemic and were left with no other option than to beg.Station house officer Ram Kalyan Yadav assured the protestors of arresting the accused within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-three-transgenders-critically-injured-in-attack-by-robbers-101626105348786.html
12-07-2021||Other||Madhepura: Lawyer shot at||A lawyer was critically injured after being shot at by two unidentified bike-borne assailants in Madhepura district on Monday morning.The victim, identified as 55-year-old Md Afaque Alam, was on his way to Udakishunganj sub-divisional court when he was shot at by two-bike borne miscreants between Rahta and Panchhgachhiya on State Highway 58 under Udakishunganj police station of Madhepura.Soon after the incident, he was rushed to the community health centre (CHC) at Udakishunganj. Meanwhile, lawyers and locals gathered at CHC and demanded immediate arrest of the criminals involved in the case.Udakishunganj sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said “The injured lawyer has been sent to Madhepura Medical College and Hospital for better treatment. Probe is underway to find the motive behind the incident.” He added the culprits would be apprehended soon.“The incident appears to be a fallout of old enmity,” police sources said. The victim was previously an ex-sarpanch of Nardah panchayat, a source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madhepura-lawyer-shot-at-101626105348251.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Educational institutions evoke mixed response on Day 1 of reopening||All higher education institutions, including varsities, colleges and senior secondary schools, resumed physical classes on Monday with 50% strength after facing closure for 98 days.City-based educational institutions witnessed a mixed response of students on the first day of reopening while several continued with online classes. After reopening, Patna University has stressed on conducting practical classes for timely completion of pending syllabi. Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Assessing students’ needs, we decided to continue blended online and offline classes. Students in small groups attended practical classes at their respective constituent colleges while online classes are being conducted as usual for theory subjects. All Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed after reopening.”“For students returning to hostels, it is mandatory to show Covid-19 vaccine certificate before their accommodation,” he added. Similarly, constituent colleges of Patliputra University like AN College, JD Women’s College, College of Commerce, Science, Arts also resumed offline classes.Sumit Kumar, a second-year student of AN College, said, “I am happy to get back to college after three months. Online classes are not feasible for all subjects, especially like Mathematics.” City schools witnessed low to moderate attendance of students on the first day.Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said, “Our entire school team is Covid-19 vaccinated and regular sanitisation is being done. Around 25% of students turned up today. Attendance in Class 11 was comparatively better than Class 12. We live-streamed lectures from classrooms so that students attending offline and online classes can attend classes simultaneously.” Meanwhile, Bishop Scott Group of Schools, International School, Kendriya Vidyalaya recorded moderate attendance between 60% to 70%.Several missionary schools like Notre Dame Academy, Don Bosco Academy and Loyola High School are yet to reopen as they have decided to wait for a week to review Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-educational-institutions-evoke-mixed-response-on-day-1-of-reopening-101626105288773.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Centre fails to supply vaccine as per schedule||The Centre for the first time defaulted in supply of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine called Covaxin, as Bihar did not receive the tranche of 1.50 lakh vaccine doses it was supposed to get on Monday, according to the vaccine supply schedule shared with the state last month. The consignment is now supposed to reach the state on Tuesday, said an official requesting anonymity, as he was not authorised to speak to the media. Another consignment of 1.09 lakh doses of Covaxin is scheduled to arrive on July 15, as per the supply schedule. A total of 7,42,450 doses of Covishield and Covaxin are expected in the next three days by July 15, the official said. The state has not received a single vial of Covaxin this month, leading to its shortage and causing panic among those due for the second dose. Bihar recorded its lowest vaccinations on Sunday when it administered only 18,064 doses due to shortage of vaccines. This was the lowest single-day vaccination so far after the state peaked on July 2, when it administered 6,81,776 doses. “We have already informed the Centre about the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, which is hampering our vaccination drive. The Centre has assured us to make available vaccines soon,” said the official. The Centre has allocated a total of 90 lakh doses of vaccines to the state in July, of which 67 lakh doses have to be administered through government channel, while the remaining through private facilities. The state has received around 30 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far this month, the official said. Bihar launched a mega vaccination drive from July 1, setting itself a target to administer 4.54 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine four days a week till December 31 in its endeavour to inoculate its the 7.22 crore adult target population in six months. However, erratic supply of vaccines has pegged back its vaccination campaign. Barring July 2, it could achieve its daily vaccination target on July 8, when 4,84,673 doses were administered to beneficiaries. Efforts to reach executive director State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, also the state nodal officer for vaccination, proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-centre-fails-to-supply-vaccine-as-per-schedule-101626105288211.html
12-07-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka preparing to open colleges in physical mode, says deputy CM||Karnataka is preparing to open colleges in physical mode and is focussing on vaccinating students, teachers and staff, Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan said on Monday.Speaking to reporters, the Karnataka Deputy CM said: "We are in the process of preparing for the opening of colleges. The examinations are going on as per the schedule by respective universities.""The vaccination program has been going on and have been inviting students to get vaccinated", said Karnataka Deputy CM.Karnataka's Department of College Education on July 9 had said that it has vaccinated 51.12 per cent of students and staff in government degree colleges in Bengaluru.Confirming this information, Narayan had said, "The city comprises of eight Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones and the total number of students and staff in government and aided degree colleges is 62,255. Out of this 31,826 have been vaccinated as of July 8.""In the student group 31,147 are vaccinated as against 59,179 which covers 52.63 per cent. Among the staff 2,518 are vaccinated as against 3,076 which tallies to 81.86 per cent," he said.Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,978 new COVID-19 cases, 56 deaths and 2,326 discharges, as per the state health bulletin. With this, the total number of recoveries reached 27,98,703.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-preparing-to-open-colleges-in-physical-mode-says-deputy-cm-101626104955829.html
12-07-2021||Patna||SC agrees to hear Bihar govt’s plea against acquittals in Senari massacre case||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine an appeal by the Bihar government against the Patna High Court’s judgment which acquitted 14 people convicted for the infamous Senari massacre in which 34 people were killed allegedly by Maoist groups in 1999. A bench comprising Justices Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari issued notices to all 14 acquitted by the HC on May 21 this year. The state government, through its counsel Abhinav Mukerji, has challenged the HC order while arguing that it did not consider the testimonies of 23 eyewitnesses, of which 13 are those who lost their family members and three who were themselves injured in the incident. After nearly 17 years of trial, a Jehanabad court had held 14 accused guilty and sentenced 11 of them to death and three to life imprisonment in two separate judgments delivered on November 15 and November 18, 2016. Altogether 34 men were allegedly dragged out of their homes by the armed members of the outlawed and now-defunct Maoist group Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in Senari village of Jehanabad district (now in Arwal) on the night of March 18, 1999, by the assailants wearing police uniform. It was widely believed that the MCC had struck at Senari to avenge the killing of more than 60 of its alleged sympathisers at Laxmanpur Bathe less than two years ago, when the dreaded Ranvir Sena, a militia of upper castes, had carried out the worst ever carnage in the history of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sc-agrees-to-hear-bihar-govt-s-plea-against-acquittals-in-senari-massacre-case-101626105229035.html
12-07-2021||Patna||₹10.50 lakh looted from courier firm office in Patna City||Four motorcycle-borne miscreants on Monday morning looted ₹10.50 lakh from a courier company office at Sandalpur area under Alamganj police station in Patna City, police saidNo arrests were made in this connection till Monday evening. According to the police, the incident took place around 11.45am when the courier company staff were engaged in work. “Four armed criminals with their faces covered entered the company premises and took the staff hostage at gunpoint and locked them. They looted ₹10.50 lakh and fled after few minutes,” City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar said.The robbers also damaged the company’s CCTV cameras, he said.The company staff did not inform the police about the incident. “Police came to know after news spread in the area about the loot. On getting information, a police team reached the spot and investigated the matter. During investigation, it was found the criminals also damaged CCTV cameras,” the City SP said.Raids are on to trace the criminals involved in the incident, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1050-lakh-looted-from-courier-firm-office-in-patna-city-101626105228195.html
12-07-2021||Other||JD(U)’s Kushwaha backs Yogi’s population policy||The ruling Janata Dal (United) parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha on Monday backed the new population policy unveiled by Uttar Pradesh chief minister for his state.Addressing a press conference at Motihari, Upendra Kushwaha, a former union minister, said he welcomed the move to control population wherever it was being done. “Given the manner in which the population is rising, it needs to be controlled. Else, people may not be able the able to reap the benefits of development measures taken by governments. It’s welcome move,” said Kushwaha, who began his statewide tour of Bihar from West Champaran’s Valmikinagar on Saturday. Kushwaha’s statement came a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath released Uttar Pradesh’s Population Policy 2021-2030 on the occasion of World Population Day on Sunday in Lucknow. The policy is apparently aimed at bringing down the fertility rate. The JD (U) leader said he would collect feedback on the flood situation and relief measures announced by the state government for flood and Covid victims during his statewide tour. He defended chief minister Nitish Kumar on the functioning of the state police, which has been questioned by the BJP leaders, including its state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal. “An alliance partner must discuss the issue internally. There may well be some stray incidents, but Nitish Kumar has come down heavily whenever such matters come into his cognizance,” said Kushwaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jdus-kushwaha-backs-yogi-s-population-policy-101626105168163.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar CM frowns at law route to curb population||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the state emphasized on educating girls to bring down the rate of reproduction to check population growth and refused to endorse the new population policy in Uttar Pradesh unveiled by its chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday.Responding to a question by media persons after the holding Janata Darbar, which resumed after a gap of nearly five years, Kumar said, “Every state is free to do whatever they can to check population growth. Laws alone can’t check population. It was found after a lot of research work that the rate of reproduction comes down effectively if women are educated. Bihar has experimented with this by promoting education among girls and achieved success. If it continues, the state would have a negative growth of population after 2040.”“There are some exceptions. But overall, girls’ education has yielded good results in the state,” Kumar said.The CM once again made a pitch for total prohibition in the country while responding to a query over the Delhi high court’s observation that the time has come to go for the uniform civil code, which was provided for in the directive principles of the Constitution. Though the CM refrained from commenting on the court’s observation, he said the government should care for other suggestions made under the directive principles as well. “Uniform civil code pertains to Article 44 of the constitution, while Article 47 contained the provision for total prohibition,” Kumar said.Around 200 petitioners met the CM during the programme grievances pertaining to different departments. Majority of complaints were related to health and education departments. Dilapidated state of hospitals and non-availability of doctors in rural areas, denial of benefits to students through the government’s credit card scheme, etc were raised during the programme. The CM gave directions to concerned the officers present during the programme to resolve them promptly.The CM was taken aback when a student hailing from the extremely backward class (EBC) alleged that many students had been left to fend for themselves after the scholarship amount was slashed during their study period.A woman petitioner alleged her gold pendant was stolen in the middle of Janata Darbar. Another student claimed he was not being granted credit card loan to pursue course of mass communication and journalism in Gaya, even though his friends in other districts were getting in. A few other complaints related to the government’s failure to offer job on compassionate grounds and non-payment of rent for buses hired by the district administration during the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-frowns-at-law-route-to-curb-population-101626105108195.html
12-07-2021||Other||Sundarbani operation: Body of 3rd terrorist recovered, search operation on||The body of a third terrorist killed in an operation with the Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sundarbani sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on July 8, was recovered from the same area on Monday, the officials said. “Third terrorist, which we believe was killed in the operation with the Army on July 8, was recovered on Monday,” the officials said. The operation has been underway since June 29 in the Sunderbani forest area along the LoC. On July 8, the Army lost two soldiers and eliminated two ultras during an encounter in the same area while foiling an infiltration bid by Pakistani terrorists. A defence spokesman said, “on July 8, based on information regarding infiltration and movement of armed terrorists in the area of Dadal in Sundarbani sector, the Army launched extensive search operations on June 29 following intelligence inputs”. Subsequently, the information was corroborated on July 8 and a search and destroy patrol, seeking pro-active engagement with the terrorists, spotted the terrorists in Dadal forest area and challenged them. The terrorists opened fire and lobbed hand grenades leading to a fierce encounter in which two terrorists from Pakistan were killed. Two AK-47 rifles and ammunition in heavy quantity were recovered from the terrorists. In the operation, Naib Subedar Sreejith M and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy received fatal injuries and laid their lives in the line of duty. A detailed search of the area continues, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sundarbani-operation-body-of-3rd-terrorist-recovered-search-operation-on-101626104750125.html
12-07-2021||Pune||SPPU second semester exam: Helpline, chatbox get 3,500 calls on Day 1||Pune: More than 3,500 calls were received by the exam department of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on the first day of second semester online examination in a proctored manner organised by the varsity for graduate and postgraduate courses. A total of 97.15 percent students attended the exam held on Monday. The helpline was made available for students to address technical issues during the examination. Along with that, 450 students sought assistance through the online chat box. For the helpline and chatbox, SPPU exam department employed 60 technicians. Of a technicians, 40 were on call and 20 were responding to queries over the chatbox. On the first day of examination, 76,804 students were expected to appear for 74 subjects and 74,772 gave the papers on Monday. The subjects included Science, Engineering, Commerce, Architecture and Law stream. Mahesh Kakade, director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, said that for the first time voice recording was done in the exam. “These voice recordings will not be tested to see if students have used unfair means. Those suspected of cheating, their names will be declared later. Most queries were related to timetable, admit card, username, password,” said Kakade. Along with the voice recording, 10 photos of each student per minute were clicked to see if the student used any unfair means. In the morning slot, a total of 97.51 per cent attendance was reported by SPPU officials. And in the afternoon slot, the attendance was 97.69 per cent whereas for the evening slot, a total of 76.56 percent of students appeared on Monday. Officials from SPPU said that the results will be declared within 48 hours of a student appearing for the exam. The examination for the second semester will be held in phases. A total of 605,000 students are going to appear for 4,200 different subjects for various courses under the SPPU. The second semester examination method is the same as the first semester, SPPU officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-second-semester-exam-helpline-chatbox-get-3-500-calls-on-day-1-101626103668152.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||BMC to repair pipelines tomorrow: Water supply to be affected in these areas||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will on Tuesday carry out repair works on pipelines distributing water to some areas of Mumbai. During the exercise, residents of the concerned areas will see water supply being affected for 12 hours, from 10am to 10pm, as stated by the agency earlier.The supply will be hit in the following areas as BMC undertakes the activity: Juhu, Vile Parle, Santa Cruz, Khar and Andheri.Also Read | Mumbai: Water supply in western suburbs to be hit on Tuesday“On July 13, from 10am to 10pm, water supply will be cut off in some areas, or will be done at low pressure. This one-day change is being made to streamline the water supply in these areas. We humbly request citizens to cooperate,” the civic body tweeted on Sunday.On July 13, from 10am to 10pm water supply in some areas of Juhu, Vile Parle, Santacruz, Khar, Andheri will be cut off or will be done at low pressure. This one-day change is being made to streamline the water supply in these areas.We humbly request citizens to cooperate !🙏💐 https://t.co/6qbBg47joEOn Saturday, BMC informed the residents of the exercise which, it said, was necessitated due to technical difficulties. In a statement, it said, “Technical difficulties had arisen in some areas of H-West, K-East and K-West in the western suburbs. In this connection, necessary technical measures are being taken to ensure smooth water supply. Under this, the water supply valve (butterfly valve) will be replaced on July 13, 2021. Due to this, water supply will be cut off or provided at low pressure.”The task to replace the 1200mm diameter valve at the Bandra outlet of Part 2 of Veravalli Reservoir 3 will be undertaken during this 12-hour period. BMC, which is the richest civic body in Asia, regularly undertakes repair works to streamline water supply in various areas of the country’s financial capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-repair-pipelines-tomorrow-water-supply-to-be-affected-in-these-areas-101626103110357.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally falls below 50-mark; death toll at 25,018||Delhi's daily tally fell below 50-mark on Monday as 45 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department. The number is the lowest single-day rise in over a year. The positivity rate has improved to 0.08% as cases maintained a steady downward trend. Three people succumbed to Covid-19 and the death toll in Delhi now stands at 25,018, the bulletin also mentioned.The number of active cases has fallen to 693 and that of recoveries surged 14,09,417, the bulletin also showed. The national capital has recorded 1,435,083 Covid-19 cases so far since the pandemic started last year.On Sunday, Delhi reported 53 Covid-19 cases -- the lowest since April 15 last year -- and its death toll was at three. On Saturday, the city recorded 76 cases with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent and one death. A day before that, the city recorded 81 Covid-19 cases and three fatalities with a positivity rate of 0.11 per cent.Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in May-June that claimed a large number of lives every day. The exponential rise in the number of cases led to a severe shortage of medical oxygen at city hospitals. At the time of the peak, the city reported a record 28,395 cases on April 20. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest till then. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-below-50-mark-death-toll-at-25018-101626102500477.html
12-07-2021||Dehradun||AAP’s promise of free power sparks debate in Uttarakhand||Ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022, free electricity supply seems to have emerged a popular poll promise in Uttarakhand. Delhi chief minister (CM) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of free electricity supply of up to 300 units each to all the households may have been brushed aside as a “political gimmick” by both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, both the parties have made similar promises already.In fact, state power minister Harak Singh Rawat recently announced free power supply of up to 100 units to all the households. Former CM and Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat had said, way back in 2019, that if voted to power in 2022, Congress would provide free electricity of up to 100 units in the first year followed by 200 units of free power from the second year of the five-year tenure. Also Read | Over 5k people arrive in Har Ki Pauri on Sunday, police ramps up border checkingOn Sunday, Kejriwal also added that AAP would also ensure 24-hr electricity supply to all the households along with free supply to the farmers. He also promised to waive all the pending electricity bills. Experts said with its announcement, AAP got the reaction it wanted. Political analyst and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, MM Semwal said, “AAP, which is still very new in the state the political scenario of Uttarakhand made such an announcement to become the talk of town ahead of elections. And they succeeded very well in that.” “Whether they win the elections in 2022 is a different matter, but they have got the attention of the people and both the major parties that were earlier calling it irrelevant in the state politics. They have started a debate on the free power issue in state with the people talking about it now,” said Semwal. Political analyst SMA Kazmi said, “Kejriwal’s announcement was a very well thought move with months left for the next assembly elections...He has actually done that in Delhi where people are getting free water and free power supply up to 200 units.”Meanwhile, the Congress and BJP tried to downplay the announcement. Congress state president Pritam Singh said, “Kejriwal made the announcement because he knows AAP has no political ground in the state. Hence, he made it before the elections which is just a political gimmick. People of Uttarakhand are smart enough not to get trapped in such lucrative promises.” On whether his own party has a similar promise for the electorate, he said, “The Congress will make only those promises which it can fulfil after winning. Not like AAP [without any proper analysis].” BJP state president Madan Kaushik too termed AAP as irrelevant and said, “Their false promises won’t benefit in Uttarakhand where people are well aware. AAP did nothing in the state politics and is making such promises with the hope to get some votes. Both AAP and Congress would be rejected by the people in 2022.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/aapspromise-of-free-power-sparks-debate-inuttarakhand-101626101509018.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Law alone won’t help, says Nitish Kumar after UP floats population control bill||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday refrained from endorsing Uttar Pradesh’s new population policy whic aims to tackle the population problem. Kumar said that Bihar emphasises educating girls to bring down the rate of reproduction.Talking to media persons after the customary Janata Darbar, which resumed after a gap of nearly five years, Kumar said, “Every state is free to do whatever it can do to check population growth. Laws alone can’t help check the population. It was found after a lot of research work that the rate of reproduction comes down effectively if women are educated. Bihar has experimented with it by promoting education among the girls and achieved success. If it continued, the state would have negative growth of population after 2040.”On Sunday, the Uttar Pradesh government announced a new population policy for 2021-2030. The new policy has provisions to give incentives to those who help in population control. As per the draft bill, people with more than two children will not be eligible for a host of benefits, including government jobs, promotions, et cetera. He said that Bihar’s experiment to check population by educating girls is a success with all individuals. “There are some exceptions. But the overall impact of girls’ education yielded good results in the state,” said Kumar, while making an apparent dig at former CM Lalu Prasad for having many children.The CM once again batted for the total prohibition in the country, saying that the directive principles of the constitution suggested many provisions that needed to be implemented in due course. Kumar was responding to a query over the Delhi high court’s observation that the time has come to go for the uniform civil code. Though the CM refrained from commenting on the court’s observation, he said that the government should care for other suggestions made under the directive principles. “Uniform civil code pertains to Article 44 of the constitution, while Article 47 contained the provision for total prohibition,” said Kumar.Around 200 petitions met the CM during the programme and apprised their grievances pertaining to different departments. The majority of complaints were related to health and education departments. The dilapidated state of hospitals and non-availability of doctors in rural areas, denial of benefits to students through the government’s credit card scheme, etc were raised during the programme. The CM gave directions to the concerned officers present during the programme to resolve them promptly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/law-alone-won-t-help-says-nitish-kumar-after-up-floats-population-control-bill-101626100488413.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Sex workers in Pune appeals to CM for financial support||Pune: A total of 1,715 sex workers in Pune’s Budhwar peth claim that they have not seen a single rupee from a relief fund of the government of Maharashtra, the funds of which were dispatched to the account of the deputy collector of Pune now at least nine months ago. As per a Supreme Court ruling dated September 21, 2020, ₹15,000 was to be given to sex workers in the city as a relief measure given the Covid impact on their lives. An amount of ₹11,26,65,000 was then transferred from the chief minister’s relief fund to the deputy collector’s account. “We conducted a survey to find out how many women were yet to benefit from this state scheme and found a number of sex workers are totally deprived of the government aid,” said Tejaswi Sevekari, executive director, Saheli Sangh, an NGO working with sex workers in Pune. “We did not get any reply to appeals made by Saheli Sangh and the National Network of Sex Workers. We have appealed to the collector and if there is no reply, we will start an agitation in front of the collector’s office,” she added. In the phase of the distribution plan, done through the district Aids prevention and control department, Rs2,46,75,000/ (Rs15,000 per woman) reached 1,765 women out of a total of from 7,011 eligible for the scheme. As per the Child Development Department, in the second phase, 3,531 women received ₹5,29,65,000, which means ₹7,95,00,000 has been distributed in two phases. It was on April 29, that HT reported on the misappropriation of funds meant for sex workers. Sevekari said, “211 women had already submitted their documents and 247 women have been able to submit their documents, even after the misappropriations of funds was established.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sex-workers-in-pune-appeals-to-cm-for-financial-support-101626099947779.html
12-07-2021||Other||‘Abuse of power’: Hurriyat on sacking of J&K govt employees||Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday expressed dismay over the dismissal of 11 government employees from service by the J&K authorities, terming it ‘absolute abuse of power’.The conglomerate said that more than twenty people have so far been removed from services in a “whimsical manner, contrary to all norms of justice and fairness, under the guise of being a threat to the security of the state”.“Those dismissed are even mostly unaware of the exact nature of the charges against them. Such is the arbitrariness of the dismal orders,” the Hurriyat said in a statement.On Saturday, officials said that the administration has sacked 11 government employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, for alleged links with militant organisations. The employees were sacked without any inquiry and can approach a high court for relief.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday termed the government action as criminal.“GOI continues disempowering people of J&K in the garb of pseudo nationalism by trampling the constitution that ought to be upheld. The abrupt dismissal of 11 employees on flimsy grounds is criminal. All policy decisions vis a vis J&K are taken with the sole objective of punishing Kashmiris,” she had said.The Hurriyat alleged that after August 2019 the new laws introduced and being implemented by the government, deprive the people of J&K of employment opportunities in their own land.“Now, with such arbitrary actions, even those employed are uncertain about their future and live in fear of being removed in this abrupt manner,” the statement said.“This is an absolute abuse of power. In times of covid when economic hardship faced by people is on the rise, the rulers of the land are least thoughtful of the consequences such harsh actions will have on those dismissed and their families,” it said.The separatist conglomerate asked the government to revoke this “authoritarian” order or give those dismissed a fair chance to challenge the charges if any, levelled against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abuse-of-power-hurriyat-on-sacking-of-j-k-govt-employees-101626099769365.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 7603; less than 500 fresh infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Monday witnessed a fall in its fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as 7603 more people tested positive, taking its cumulative infection tally to 6,165,402, a health department bulletin showed. The Covid-19 related death toll, meanwhile, rose to 126,024, as the daily fatalities fell to 53, according to the bulletin. Ninety-three reconciled fatalities were also added to the cumulative death toll.Over the last few days, Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 caseload has been in the range of 8000-9000 infections per day. From July 8 to July 11, the state saw 9114, 8992, 8266 and 8535 fresh infections respectively.Monday's bulletin also showed that 15,277 more patients were discharged after recovery, taking the total number of such cases in Maharashtra to 5,927,956. This is a significant increase in the number of new recoveries, which stood at 6013 on July 11. In terms of testing, 175,899 tests were conducted in the state, as against 210,411, taking the total number of tests conducted thus far to 44,186,449.Mumbai's daily caseload also witnessed a decline, as the state capital recorded 496 new cases as against 558 on Sunday. 9 new virus-related deaths were reported in the city as against 15 a day ago. With this, Mumbai's cumulative infection tally has risen to 728,190, including 15,636 fatalities.On Sunday, the Maharashtra government said eight districts of the state have continued to report a high number of daily Covid-19 cases, as well as a high testing positivity rate. These are Kolhapur, Satara, Palghar, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Pune (rural) and Sangli.Also Read: Maharashtra records 8,535 Covid cases; 8 districts keep caseload highThe Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has expressed concern over the surge in new cases in Kerala and Maharashtra. On June 9, the health ministry said the two states contributed to 53 per cent of total Covid-19 cases from the preceding week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-7603-less-than-500-fresh-infections-in-mumbai-101626097285696.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Shirdi, Pandharpur temples closed for devotees; Eid celebrations at home||PUNE: The temple administration at Shirdi and Pandharpur has appealed to devotees not to pay visit for Guru Purnima and Ashadi Ekadashi in the light of the Covid -19 pandemic. These popular religious sites see many people from Maharashtra and across the country during festivals. Shirdi trust’s chief executive officer Kanuraj Bagate said, “Devotees are requested to not visit the temple campus between July 22 and 24. The temple has been closed for devotees since April 5 and all rituals have been performed in a simple manner since last two years.” The administration has imposed curfew restrictions in Pandharpur between July 17 and July 25. Solapur superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute said, “No devotee is allowed to enter Solapur district and mainly Pandharpur between July 17 and 25 this year.” After launching search operations over reports of devotees having already arrived and staying at ashrams in Pandharpur, Solapur police have appealed to them to leave the temple town. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday issued instructions regarding the Eid festival. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Citizens cannot offer Eid namaz at public places and should keep the celebrations at home only. The animal markets would remain closed and citizens should either buy it online or through telephone to avoid crowd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shirdi-pandharpur-temples-closed-for-devotees-eid-celebrations-at-home-101626099707795.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray, Ajit Pawar tracking my moves: Congress' Nana Patole||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said on Monday leaders of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra of which his party is also a partner are keeping a watch on his movement. Patole said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena and home minister Ajit Pawar from the NCP receive an intelligence report every morning and are shaken by the Congress’ moves to resurrect itself. Later, he said his comments have been misinterpreted and he would soon clarify the matter.Addressing party workers at a meeting in Lonavala, said, "Every morning at 9, an intelligence report is submitted to the chief minister and the home minister on what is happening in the state. The Congress is resurrecting itself and the report is making the ground beneath their feet slip away. I am here in Lonavala and this report will go to them," Patole was quoted as saying by PTI.He further said the Congress is re-establishing itself in Maharashtra and that is creating a “disquiet” among the other allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Also Read: Small person, won’t react, says Pawar over Patole’s claimHours later, he said he did not mean the state government was keeping a watch on him. "My allegations were against the Centre. I will issue a clarification when I return to Mumbai,” he said.Patole, who contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket before joining the Congress in 2018, has been in the news for some time now over his comments on the coalition government. Last month, he told reporters that “MVA was formed in 2019 for five years to stop the BJP. This is not a permanent fixture. Every party has the right to strengthen its organisation and the Congress has always given priority to providing relief to COVID-19 affected people by making available blood, oxygen and plasma at various places".He was in the news again this week for asking party workers to appoint “our people” as the guardian minister of Pune, a post which Ajit Pawar holds. NCP chief Sharad Pawar soon hit back saying, "I do not get into these things. These are small (junior) people. Why should I speak on it? If (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi says something, then I will speak”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-ajit-pawar-tracking-my-moves-congress-nana-patole-101626093129168.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lost and found: Slide rule, peace of mind after war||The 1965 war had not started, yet, but was expected any time since the army was visible in the countryside everywhere and the people were eager to see action. USAID and UNESCO organised 10-week Summer Institutes at Chandigarh in collaboration with Panjab University under the munificent PL 480 funds. Two accomplished professors from America, Dr Metzner and Father Dressel, had been appointed to conduct the physics programme of daily lectures, demonstrations, practical and weekly tests. About 80 of us had been selected after a rigorous test. The institute was a picture of highly organised lectures well supported by slides and demonstrations. The 10 weeks flew like a long cruise and we were awarded certificates of participation, sets of books summarising each lecture, expensive slide rules and the summer school ended. The schools reopened in late August. We were brimming with the curiosity to lace our lessons with snippets from America’s Physical Science Study Committee (PSSC) course. In the last week of August 1965, I got myself deputed to buy some much-needed new equipment and minor apparatuses from Ambala Cantt. I remember I bought like an eager student but taking care to select only quality items, all made in England. I bought even a 3-ft teaching model of slide rule (a calculating device used by engineers then) because it had been introduced in the new school curriculum. Perhaps, I bought more than I could handle personally. However, I reached Ambala Cantt railway station in a rickshaw. It was almost evening and there were few passengers amid a complete blackout. Trains steamed in slowly and quietly. My train, a slow, Amritsar-bound Dehradun passenger, arrived, pulled by a steam locomotive like other trains but its head light was kept at faint low beam. Even the analogue signals had been covered with long hoods. The train steamed out slowly and when it reached Amritsar, it was past midnight, perfectly dark, no sound, no coolies and no local transport. Nothing of the sort, till I saw a cycle rickshaw and reached home. After a couple of days, the much-awaited action the people had been anticipating, started. News of our army tanks having broken into the border gate and pounding Lahore came from milk vendors and border students. Dog fights of PAK Sabre jets and India’s tiny Gnats were daily events watched from rooftops. All schools had been closed but ours remained open because there was no headmaster to order closure. Ultimately, the cantonment authorities got it closed because boys would gather on the terrace and watch gun-hit enemy aircraft winging downward like a feather. After the ceasefire, normalcy returned and schools reopened. With a curious and excited mind, I went into the lab to take stock of my purchases from Ambala made three weeks before. Shockingly, there were many items missing, including some expensive apparatuses. Obviously, I had lost them while deboarding the train in pitch dark, but couldn’t share my grief with anyone. I was a confused lot. I came home all worried about the loss and the risk of losing my job. The next day, while pedalling past the railway station, I casually shambled in to platform No. 1 and looked into the lost property office (LPO), just in case. Believe it or not, I discovered my bag sitting on the top shelf, including the king-size slide rule, all staring at me like a lost child, among a pair of umbrellas, a paraffin stove and a bag of clothes. I had just to pick it up, no formality, nothing of the sort as such. Imagine my relief and peace of mind, after the war. prof.mohansingh@yahoo.in The writer is a retired professor in Amritsar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lost-and-found-slide-rule-peace-of-mind-after-war-101626093288092.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Criminals shoot at petrol pump cashier, loot ₹48 lakh||Unidentified criminals shot at a Reliance petrol pump’s cashier and looted ₹48 lakh from him near Siris More on National Highway-2 under Barun police station of Bihar’s Aurangabad district on Monday, officials said.The injured, Ram Niwas Singh, a resident of Japla in Jharkhand, along with another staff, was on his way to Dehri branch of Punjab National bank to deposit the cash of Reliance Petrol pump when four criminals on two bikes shot at him and fled with the cash, Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said.“Ram Niwas Singh, was attached with Radiant Security Company and worked at Reliance Petrol pump, received a gunshot injury on his shoulder and is undergoing treatment at Jamuhar Narayana Hospital,” SP Porika said.The SP said the criminals had probably been following the employees from the petrol pump itself. He said police had got some CCTV camera footage of the suspects and were working to ascertain their identities.Porika said though only one empty cartridge was recovered from the spot, they came to know that criminals had fired several rounds during the incident.“The money was collected from sales on Sunday,” he added.According to the injured, he along with Arun Kumar, left the pump on a Bolero jeep at around 12 pm to deposit the cash when bike-borne criminals intercepted and forced them to hand over the bag at pistol point. “When I resisted their attempt, one of them fired and snatched the bag containing cash,” he said. The victim then informed the police, who have lodged a case and have started the investigations.Meanwhile, Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association general secretary Bijendra Sinha said they have become a soft target for criminals. “Though we have been asked to get security cover from the police station concerned, practically it is impossible as there are multiple petrol pumps under one police station,” he said.Sinha said it would be better to develop some mechanism that money from all pumps under one police station is collected and police escort it to a bank. “There is no option for us but to continue depositing money as until oil companies are paid, they won’t deliver us fuel,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/criminals-shoot-at-petrol-pump-cashier-loot-rs-48-lakh-101626093227754.html
12-07-2021||Dehradun||Over 5k people arrive in Har Ki Pauri on Sunday, police ramps up border checking||With over 5,000 people arriving in Haridwar’s Har Ki Pauri on Sunday, police have increased checking at borders to stop people from entering illegally into the district, officials said. “On Monday, by evening, hundred-odd vehicles were sent back from the border who didn’t comply with the covid mandatory norms. We are politely urging pilgrims and tourists to ensure they get tested for Covid-19 as its mandatory requirement to enter Uttarakhand,” said SHO Shyampur Anil Chauhan. An increase in the arrival of vehicular traffic is being witnessed for the past two weeks in Haridwar since Covid-19 curfew norms were relaxed and inter-state transport was allowed. At Chidiyapur-Shyampur check post, on the border of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, on an average daily basis, 300-400 vehicles of pilgrims and tourists are arriving. Additional barricades have been put and police personnel have been deployed at the border check posts. According to Station House officer Shyampur Anil Chauhan, on Monday hundred-odd vehicles were sent back hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana for not having a negative RT-PCR report conducted within 72 hours of their arrival. The administration has now also charted weekend specific traffic plans taking into account the past two weekend’s rush at Har Ki Pauri and the national highway stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/over-5k-people-arrive-in-har-ki-pauri-on-sunday-police-ramps-up-border-checking-101626092507609.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Police renew strategy to clamp down on illegal mining||With illegal mining in the riverbeds and rivulets of Himachal Pradesh continuing unabated, the Himachal Pradesh Police have reworked their strategy to curb the malpractice. The problem is grave in border districts of Una, Kangra, Chamba, Sirmaur and Solan. The banks of the Ravi, Beas, Swan, Sutlej and Mand rivers are affected. Also read: IMD alerts: Heavy rainfall to continue in Himachal, Uttarakhand for 2 daysChief minister Jai Ram Thakur had recently taken a notice of the issue and ordered stringent action against the people involved in illegal mining. Himachal Pradesh director general of police Sanjay Kundu, who recently visited the border districts to review the situation, has issued an advisory on illegal mining to range inspector generals and superintendents of police. “In recent years, the sand mining industry has grown exponentially as a major economic activity due to the spurt in construction and urban expansion. Due to deforestation, incidents of flashfloods have increased,” Kundu said. A survey found that despite the ban, indiscriminate mechanical mining is going on unabated and the mined material is being smuggled into other states, causing loss to the state exchequer. “The industry is often patronised by local strongmen who are resourceful, and more often than not, they are also mixed up with the local law enforcement agencies,” he said. Increased presence, tech in vulnerable areas So far, the Himachal Pradesh Police have been carrying out legal action under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act and Rules, but such action has been insufficient to prevent illegal and indiscriminate mining, particularly that of sand. “Therefore, it is imperative that we widen the scope of police action to offer a greater deterrent to such illegal mining. The deterrent action has to include both increased presence in the vulnerable areas and more efficient and directed use of technology and criminal prosecution,” he said. Going after the big fish with robust intelligence Under the new strategy, the districts will focus on catching the big mining mafia. “These people will work from behind the curtain and can be tied to offences only with methodical investigation. A robust intelligence will be developed for which mobile data of vulnerable areas can be analysed to find out movements during odd hours,” Kundu said. He stressed on better liaison with neighbouring states so that intelligence is shared in real-time. CCTVS will be installed at particular locations to study movement of vehicles and if possible, drones will be used. District police heads have been directed that the team deployed to check mining activities should comprise of personnel of integrity headed by a gazetted officer. “Safety of personnel is of prime importance and therefore they should be well-armed, trained to handle the weapon being carried and wear body armour,” he said. The DGP said in the past three years and five months up to May 31, 2021, the state police issued 25,437 challans of illegal mining of which 21,597 were impounded and a fine of ₹15.85 crore was realised. A total of 101 cases were registered of which 94 are pending in court and offenders have been convicted in two cases and five are under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-police-renew-strategy-to-clamp-down-on-illegal-mining-101626090527417.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||IMD alerts: Heavy rainfall to continue in Himachal, Uttarakhand for 2 days||Heavy rainfall is likely in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Monday and the next two days as rains lashed several states in north India, causing flash floods and deaths due to lightning strikes, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Flash floods and cloudbursts were reported near Bhagsunag in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala and landslides in the hill state’s Kangra district. At least six houses were swept away and over 10 people are feared trapped after the landslide hit Kangra. And, more than 60 people lost their lives to lightning strikes amid heavy rainfall in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.IMD's senior scientist K Jenamani said on Monday that the monsoon has covered most parts of Rajasthan and some parts of Punjab. “For Delhi, conditions continue to remain favourable and we’re monitoring the situation. Monsoon is active in peninsular India, parts of north India, including Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.As per IMD’s latest bulletin, conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, some parts of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, and the remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday.Here is a list of key IMD alerts due to the monsoon:1. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, and northwest Uttar Pradesh, among others, during the next two days. Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh are very likely to observe heavy rainfall activity on Monday.2. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Rajasthan during the next five days.3. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Konkan and Goa between July 12 to 15, and over Telangana on July 12.4. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe in Puducherry during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/imd-alerts-heavy-rainfall-to-continue-in-himachal-uttarakhand-for-2-days-101626088533787.html
12-07-2021||Bhopal||Over 47,000 private schools in MP suspend online classes indefinitely||More than 47,000 private schools in Madhya Pradesh suspended online classes for an indefinite period on Monday to stress on their demands, including restoration of their recognition and resumption of physical classes for Classes 9 to 12, news agency PTI reported.The president of the MP Private School Association, Ajeet Singh, said that their decision to suspend classes indefinitely comes after they failed to get a response from the state government. There are nearly 45,000 private schools in Madhya Pradesh, which are affiliated to the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE), and 2,800 come under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The MP Private School Association is the umbrella body of about 45,000 MPBSE-affiliated schools in the state, PTI reported.Singh said that their primary demands were that authorities renew recognition certificates of already closed schools for five years, instead of one, and also cease inspecting these educational institutions. “Looking at the losses that we have incurred, the state government should not charge the annual school recognition fee during these testing times," he was quoted as saying by PTI.Singh added that under the Right to Education (RTE) act, the state government provides education to the underprivileged children, and the government is “supposed to pay” for it; hence they should pay the dues pending with the schools, the PTI report added.Meanwhile, the president of another private school association that has around 2800 CBSE-affiliated schools under its ambit confirmed that they have also suspended online classes from Monday onwards. “Among other things, we want resumption of physical classes for standards IX to XII immediately. When all other things have reopened, why are senior classes in schools not being allowed to re-open?" VR Modi asked, according to news agency PTI.According to the PTI report, MP school education minister Inder Singh Parmar and education commissioner Jayashree Kiyawat couldn’t be reached for their comments over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/over-47-000-private-schools-in-mp-suspend-online-classes-indefinitely-101626087965130.html
12-07-2021||Bhopal||Bodies of missing woman, three minor sons found in well in MP village||Police recovered the bodies of a woman, who had been missing, and her three sons from a well in a village in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh on Monday morning. “The 25-year-old woman with her three sons aged between 1 and 6 years was missing since Sunday morning. The woman’s husband, who works as a labourer, filed a missing person’s complaint at Baldevgarh police station on Sunday evening,” said Amit Sahu, in-charge of Baldevgarh police station. Also Read | ‘Covid infection rate decreasing to zero, situation under control’: MP ministerThe man, who continued to search for them in the village, reported seeing a woman’s body floating in a well and informed the police. Tikamgarh superintendent of police Prashant Khare said, “Police took out the bodies of the woman and her three sons on Monday morning and sent them for postmortem.” Police are investigating whether it was a suicide or murder. They are interrogating the husband and are also taking statements of villagers and family members to know more about the relationship of the couple, said Khare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bodies-of-missing-woman-three-minor-sons-found-in-well-in-mp-village-101626086867319.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: With fuel prices touching new highs, low bus fares can be a game changer||Rising fuel prices perhaps overshadowed an important local story last week, when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started its special air-conditioned bus service running through some of the most congested parts of Pune central. The highlight of this new bus transport service is that, the PMC-controlled public transport body, the PMPML, will charge only ₹10 for a ticket that will be valid for the entire day and a commuter can travel the central parts of the city. The decision is likely to increase transit ridership as petrol has reached ₹105 per litre, and diesel, ₹96 per litre. The service, if operated smoothly with increased frequency, can also provide a strong alternative to private transport that often leaves central parts of Pune congested, heavily polluted, and a nuisance for pedestrians. The PMC had earlier started the ATAL service through the PMPML, in which commuters can travel 5 km for Rs5. While the service was a hit among commuters, frequent restrictions and closure of schools and colleges, put the breaks on it. Keeping in mind the proposed no-parking policy that PMC is waiting to implement, the new service designed for congested areas like the peths, where the PMC will later go in for a pay-and-park service, will discourage citizens from driving private vehicles on congested roads. These central parts house various businesses, including cloth markets on Bajirao road, Laxmi road and Kumthekar road. A large number of students also throng the nearby wholesale market for books at Appa Balwant chowk, stationary items in Raviwar peth, electrical and electronics in Budhwar peth, automobile parts in Rasta peth, the hardware and timber market on Shankarsheth road, the utensils market in Ghorpade and Shukarwar peth. For women, the famous Tulsibaug market and Mahatma Phule vegetable market are a favourite. The central part of the city also has various religious places including the famous Shreemant Dagdusheth Ganesh temple and the Kasba ganesh temple. It has historical monuments such as Shaniwarwada, Vishrambaug wada and Lal Mahal. The PMC’s decision to engage only CNG buses on the nine routes in the central part of the city with ₹10 as the fare will reduce air pollution, lower traffic congestion and free footpaths. Once successful, the PMC plans to expand the service to other parts of Pune, which has 3.9 million private vehicles, almost equivalent to its population. On one hand, when PMC has lowered bus fares, the rising fuel prices are unlikely to reduce anytime soon. The increased prices have hit the poor even harder as they find it difficult to buy vegetables and groceries, which have also seen a price rise in a cascading effect. There have been demands to lower taxes – India is among the countries that levies the maximum taxes on fuel by the Centre and state. While both are unlikely to reduce the taxes given that government coffers have been emptied due to the pandemic and its impact on economy, they can further cross-subsidise the fares, making public transit even cheaper. This will help environment, and be a sustainable solution for various cities including Pune and its citizens, beset as it is with pollution, traffic congestion and high vehicle ownership. The second positive is that it is obviously a more environment-friendly and sustainable solution for the city and its residents, beset as it is with pollution, traffic congestion and high vehicle ownership. A reduction of fares even to May 2017 levels will result in a drop of 25%–33% in us of private vehicles on most commutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-with-fuel-prices-touching-new-highs-low-bus-fares-can-be-a-game-changer-101626086748139.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Thunderstorms and rain in parts of Delhi, NCR: IMD||Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain is likely in parts of Delhi, the National Capital Region (NCR) and Haryana, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted on Monday. IMD also forecast thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next two hours."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and winds with speed of 20-40 Km/h would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, North-East Delhi, East Delhi, NCR ( Noida, Ghaziabad) Sonipat, Aurangabad, Palwal (Haryana)," IMD tweeted.Also read | Rain deficiency looms large as monsoon revival remains sluggish"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Narwana, Hodal, Aurangabad (Haryana) Jahangirabad, Bulandshahar, Gulaoti, Aligarh, Khair, Gabhana, Atrauli, Jattari, Khurja, Mathura, Raya, Barsana (U.P.) Laxmangarh, Bharatpur (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours," IMD also posted on Twitter.It said Siyana, Hapur, Bahajoi, Debai, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Bulandshahar, Sikandrabad, Gulaoti, Sadabad, Khair, Gabhana, Atrauli, Jattari, Khurja, Mathura, Raya, Pilakhua in UP and Rajasthan's Bharatpur during the next two hours. Laxmangarh and Bharatpur in Rajasthan are also likely to witness thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain.Also read | Central Delhi most rain-deficient district in India, shows IMD dataIMD has also said that the Northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) is currently passing through Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Aligarh, Karnal and Ganganagar. After the southwest monsoon covers almost the entire country, it crosses Ganganagar and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. "In association with continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since the past three days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall during past 24 hours, the southwest monsoon has further advanced and covered most parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some more parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh on July 12," the MeT office said, according to news agency PTI.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Gujarat, central Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Monday, according to the weather bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thunderstorms-and-rain-in-parts-of-delhi-ncr-imd-101626085597970.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt doctors on 3-day strike against NPA cut||Health services were paralysed in Bathinda and other south Punjab districts on Monday as government doctors went on a three-day strike against the recommendations of the state’s sixth pay commission related to non-practising allowance and pension benefits. Patients had no choice but to visit private clinics and hospitals as the outpatient department (OPD) and other basic medical services remained suspended in all government hospitals in the urban and rural areas. Also read: Covid-19: Delhi’s Janpath market to remain closed until further ordersDoctors held demonstrations in support of their demands. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said all emergency services, Covid-19 related work, including duty of doctors in isolation wards and vaccination, continued as usual.The strike call was given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, which has members from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMS) and is supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association. The state’s sixth pay commission has recommended reducing the NPA paid to government doctors from 25% to 20% and it has been delinked from the basic pay, triggering the protests.Online classes at medical colleges suspended, too OPDs, routine laboratory examinations in the civil hospitals of Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts remained closed on Monday. Online classes for undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses and elective surgeries at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, were also suspended in support of the strike. Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said doctors were attending to cancer patients at the OPD or those who needed chemotherapy and radiation. “These treatments are considered as a medical emergency as the cancer patients have a crucial time-managed treatment protocol,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-doctors-on-3-day-strike-against-npa-cut-101626085785122.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Madhepura lawyer shot at by bike-borne assailants, critical||A lawyer was critically injured after being shot at by two unidentified bike-borne assailants in Bihar’s Madhepura district on Monday morning.55-year-old Mohammad Afaque Alam, a resident of Nardah village under Puraini police station, was on way to Udakishunganj sub divisional court on his motorcycle when he was shot at by two-bike borne assailants on state highway-58 under Udakishunganj police station of Madhepura. He was first rushed to the community health centre (CHC) at Udakishunganj and later referred to Madhepura Medical College and Hospital for better treatment.As the news of the murderous attack spread, lawyers and locals gathered at the health centre and demanded immediate arrest of the attackers.Udakishunganj sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said, “Probe was underway to ascertain the motive behind the incident.” He added that the culprits would be apprehended soon.A police officer who didn’t wish to be named said old enmity was suspected to be behind the incident. “The incident appears to be fallout of old enmity” he said, pointing out that the lawyer was also ex-sarpanch of Nardah panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-madhepura-lawyer-shot-at-by-bike-borne-assailants-critical-101626084341010.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||41 dead due to lightning strikes in Uttar Pradesh; state govt announces ₹4 lakh ex-gratia||Forty-one people died due to lightning strikes across several districts in Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Monday adding that an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh will be provided to the families of each of the deceased. "As per information available, 41 people died due to lightning strikes across 16 districts, 30 injured. ₹four lakh ex-gratia each will be provided to the kin of the deceased. All the injured will get proper medical treatment. 250 animals also died, while 20 were injured," news agency ANI quoted Uttar Pradesh relief commissioner Ranvir Prasad as saying.As per info available, 41 people died due to lightning strikes across 16 districts, 30 injured. ₹4 Lakhs ex-gratia each will be provided to kin of the deceased. All the injured will get proper medical treatment. 250 animals died, 20 injured: UP Relief Commissioner Ranvir Prasad pic.twitter.com/56LNFXKQGPChief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences at the loss of lives and directed officials to immediately distribute relief amount, as permitted under the rules, to the families of the deceased.मुख्यमंत्री जी ने दिवंगतों के परिजनों को नियमानुसार अनुमन्य राहत राशि तत्काल वितरित किए जाने के निर्देश दिए हैं।On Sunday, incidents of lightning strike were reported from various states in north India, including Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, as these were hit by heavy rains. Condoling the loss of lives, prime minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh to the victims' kin in the three states while ₹50,000 were announced for those injured.Also Read: PM Modi announces ex-gratia for families of those killed in lightning strikesIn Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for the family members of those killed in the lightning strikes. At least 22 people were killed in Rajasthan, including 11 in the state's capital city, Jaipur.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of more lightning strikes in the next two days, along with heavy showers in parts of north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/41-dead-due-to-lightning-strikes-in-uttar-pradesh-state-govt-announces-rs-4-lakh-exgratia-101626082617417.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Six houses swept away as landslide hits Himachal's Kangra district||At least six houses were swept away and more than 10 people were feared trapped after a landslide triggered by heavy rain hit the remote high-altitude village of Boh in the Shahpur sub division of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Monday.Kangra District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) training and capacity builder coordinator Bhanu Sharma said that rescue teams were on their way to Boh, which is 45km from Dharamshala, but the road was blocked due to landslides.Also watch: Flash flood after cloudburst in Himachal’s Dharamshala“The DDMA has sent a requisition to the Indian Air Force but aerial rescue will not be possible at present due to the bad weather in the area,” he said.A police team is also on its way to the village on foot, he said, adding the extent of casualty and damage to property will be known only after the rescue workers reach the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-houses-swept-away-as-landslide-hits-kangra-s-remote-boh-village-101626082000679.html
12-07-2021||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh booked for flouting Covid norms during Bhopal land site protest||Congress MP in Rajya Sabha Digvijaya Singh, former state minister and MLA PC Sharma, former mayor Vibha Patel,and 200 others were booked for rioting and violating Covid-19 guidelines while staging a protest against the Madhya Pradesh government in Bhopal on Sunday. They were protesting against the government allotment of a piece of land in an industrial area to Laghu Udyog Bharati (LUB), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The Bhopal district industries centre (DIC) handed over the 10,000 sq feet land available for utility in Govindpura Industrial Area (GIA) to LUB for free a month ago for promotion of small and medium scale industries and developing a skill development centre. The GIA opposed the decision, claiming that the DIC handed over a park to LUB, said a district official. GIA has handed over a memorandum to a district collector but refused to talk to media on the issue. GIA president Amarjeet Singh also refused to comment on this issue. Also Read | ‘Covid infection rate decreasing to zero, situation under control’: MP ministerLUB office bearers were laying the foundation stone of their office on the land on Sunday when Congress leaders led by Singh staged a protest there to stop the programme. Police force had to be deployed in the area and the LUB laid the foundation stone amid heavy security. Police resorted to mild force and used water cannons to disperse the protesters. An argument also broke out between Singh and Bhopal deputy inspector general of police, Irshad Wali. Later, Ashoka Garden police registered a First Information Report against Singh, former minister PC Sharma and 200 others under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 147 (rioting) and 269 (spreading disease) of the Indian Penal Code. Singh said, “The state government is harassing common people and handing over land to RSS for free. LUB office bearers cut down at least 30 plants of the park to construct the office. We were staging a peaceful protest but police used force on our workers.” However, district administration and DIC officers said the land allotment was done as per the rules. DIC officer Kailash Manekar said, “In the map, the land was reserved for utility. It is not a park. GIA has been given 44,000 sq feet land and 10,000 sq feet was given to LUB for opening a skill development centre and state office for the promotion of small and medium scale industries.” LUB claimed that the GIA was trying to encroach upon the land by planting saplings there. LUB joint general secretary Sudhir Daate said, “We applied for the land last year in July and received the nod in September but GIA planted about 25 saplings on the land. After registry of the land a month ago, we shifted the plants to other places. The Congress is politicising the matter without a reason.” Local BJP MLA Krishna Gaur said, “The land was allotted to GIA free of cost during the regime of then chief minister Digvijaya Singh and he has a problem in handing it over to another organisation [LUB] for skill development. At a time when the economy is in a bad shape, everyone should support such organisations without creating a controversy.”PTI quoted state medical education minister Vishvas Sarang as saying that the LUB project will provide skill development and create jobs. “This land was allotted to the LUB after considering all the aspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/digvijaya-singh-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-during-bhopal-land-site-protest-101626081760389.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Need 3 crore doses per month: Maharashtra health minister highlights vaccine shortage||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday that the state requires a minimum of three crore doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) each month to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries at the earliest.Maharashtra, which has been the worst hit state from the pandemic in India, has and continues to grapple with a shortage of vaccine doses which has led to the frequent shutting down of vaccination centres across. In May, the Maha Vikas Aghadi led state government announced that it will divert the doses procured for inoculating those between the age of 18 and 44 to give the second dose to 45+ beneficiaries.And just last week, several vaccination centres were shut on June 30 owing to the shortage of doses, Hindustan Times reported. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) suspended the vaccination drive at its centres in Mumbai twice this month, on July 1 and July 9.The frequent suspension of vaccination drives in Maharashtra has also affected the state’s inoculation rate.Speaking to news agency PTI, Tope said on Monday that Maharashtra currently has a capacity to administer doses to 15 lakh people daily but only two to three lakh people are being vaccinated because of the shortage.“Three days ago, we got seven lakh vaccine doses. The stock will be exhausted by the end of the day (July 12). We have got more than 3.60 crore vaccine doses so far and this includes about 25 lakh doses purchased directly by the state government,” the Maharashtra health minister added.As of Sunday, a total of 3,65,25,990 doses have been administered in the state to eligible beneficiaries. On being asked about the scarcity of doses, Tope further told PTI that the authorities are working below their capacity and it is becoming a hand to mouth situation.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-3-crore-doses-per-month-maha-health-minister-highlights-vaccine-shortage-101626079465342.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flashflood at Bhagsunag in Himachal’s McLeodganj washes away cars||More than 10 cars, most of them belonging to tourists, were washed away when a flashflood triggered by overnight heavy rain swept through Bhasunag locality near McLeodganj town of Dharamshala early on Monday.Kangra senior superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan, who was at the spot to assess the situation, said: “There has been a massive flashflood. Many cars of tourists were parked on the roadside at Bhagsunag and have been damaged.”Also read: Watch: Flash flood after cloudburst in Himachal’s DharamshalaThe floodwaters entered houses and shops. “Fortunately, there has been no casualty so far,” he said, adding that the police were on alert.All rivers and rivulets in Dharamshala and Palampur besides Kullu were in spate as rain lashed the region since last night. Manjhi rivulet that was flowing dangerously close to settlements damaged three houses and some shops in the Bagli area near Dharamshala.Manali and Dalhousie receive moderate rain Other parts of Himachal Pradesh also got moderate to heavy rainfall.Dharamshala was the wettest place in the state, recording 184 mm of rainfall followed by Palampur with 155mm, Kangra 64.9mm, Manali 55mm, Bhunter 53.4mm, Dalhousie 48mm, Kufri 38.5mm, Paonta Sahib 30mm and Nahan 19mm of rainfall.Weather office issues orange warning The meteorological department has issued an orange weather warning of heavy to very heavy rain in the middle and low hills for Monday and Tuesday.There is a yellow weather warning for July 14 and 15. The higher reaches may get a fresh spell of snowfall.Shimla weather office director Manmohan Singh said landslides and uprooting of trees may occur due to the incessant rainfall. People, particularly tourists, have been asked not to venture near riverbanks as the water level may rise within a short span.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flashflood-at-bhagsunag-in-hp-s-mcleodganj-washes-cars-away-101626078820474.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: 18 cops found protecting illegal sand mining shifted, more under radar||18 Bihar Police officers were transferred after being found to be protecting illegal sand mining mafia in the state, according to a senior officer in the state police headquarters in Patna, who didn’t wish to be named.The development was confirmed by the additional director general (ADG) (headquarters) of police Jitendra Kumar, who said 13 sub-inspectors, four inspectors and an assistant sub-inspector have been shifted to other range on “administrative grounds” without divulging more.However, an officer of the home department, said on condition of anonymity that the transfers are part of a crackdown on illegal sand mining mafia in the state following chief minister Nitish Kumar’s orders,“We have found that despite repeated warnings given to district officials to curb illegal sand mining at various places, the sand mafia continues to excavate sand from various rivers in Patna, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Bhojpur and Saran districts,” the officer quoted above said.He added that following a detailed investigation ordered by the home department, more than 50 government officials including superintendent of police (SPs), sub-divisional officers (SDOs), district transport officers (DTOs), circle officers (COs) were in the firing line for their alleged involvement in illegal sand mining, stone quarrying and transportation that has robbed Bihar of huge revenue but helped the corrupt make a fortune while harming the ecology, the official quoted above said.“It [crackdown] was on cards, and we have taken the step after a proper investigation. A few more officers are on the radar, and we shall not hesitate to take tough actions against any officer who indulges in corrupt practices,” he added.Another home department official aware of the developments said that the lid of the alleged cop-politician-sand mafia nexus was blown after top police officers made surprise visits to illegal mining hotbeds to find it thriving with the support of a few administrative and police officers. This led to police headquarters ordering the shifting of 18 police officers including seven station house officers (SHO) out of their present police range.Three SHOs of Bihta, Ranitalab and Paliganj from Patna district, while four from Koilwar, Chandi, Sandesh and Azimabad police stations in Bhojpur district have been shifted out for turning a blind eye to illegal mining and trade in their areas.“The transfers are probably in an attempt to send a message to field officers that they are being watched,” said a senior IPS officer posted at the police headquarters.“Illegal sand mining is not a new phenomenon. It has been going on unabated for years, which clearly points to a nexus, as truck loads of sand are able to find their way despite government’s directions to check. It is a kind of parallel economy, on which the high and mighty thrive. Even during monsoon season, when mining activity is banned, it goes on right under the nose of the administration”, said Jitendra Kumar, a Right to Information (RTI) activist from Chhapra.Earlier on June 19, the Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) arrested Rajesh Kumar, the SHO of Didarganj police station, while taking ₹60,000 as bribe from a transporter of sand and stone chips. ₹559,000 in cash and a few land agreement papers were also recovered from the police officer’s residence in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-18-cops-found-protecting-illegal-sand-mining-shifted-more-under-radar-101626078280588.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi’s Janpath market to remain closed until further orders||Delhi’s bustling Janpath market will remain closed until further orders for flouting Covid-19 norms and violating the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order, the government said on Monday.“The Director (Enforcement), NDMC and SHO, Connaught Place are hereby directed to enforce the order with immediate effect and submit a compliance report. This is issued with the approval of district magistrate, chairman, DDMA, New Delhi district,” a government order read.Authorities have launched a crackdown and closed several prominent market places in the national capital over the gross violation of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing.For the past several days, scores of people have thronged markets in Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Karol Bagh etc, stoking fears of a massive spread of the Covid-19 disease in Delhi and bringing back the horrifying pandemic situation in April this year.Also Read| Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area shut till Tuesday over violation of Covid-19 normsAs per the unlock rules of the government, markets are allowed to function from 10am to 8pm.Prior to the order to shut down Janpath market, the Delhi government ordered the closure of a part of the Sadar Bazar, from Bara Tooti Chowk to Qutub Road till Tuesday.“The market area from Bara Tooti Chowk to Qutub Road, Sadar Bazar, Delhi, is hereby restricted to open with effect from 10:00 pm on 10 July 2021 to 13 July, 2021, 10:00 pm or further orders, whichever is earlier,” an official order read.Delhi on Sunday recorded 53 new Covid-19 cases and three more related fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 1,435,083 and 25,015 respectively. The active cases have declined to 743 while 1,409,325 have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-s-janpath-market-to-remain-closed-until-further-orders-101626077171954.html
12-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s Cryptogamic garden of plants from Jurassic era opens to public||Uttarakhand Forest department has dedicated a Cryptogamic garden of ancient plants/organisms, existing since the Jurassic era, that grow without seeds and flowers, to the public on Sunday. It was built in the Deoban area of Dehradun district at a height of 2,700 metres. Cryptogam are plants or plant-like organisms that reproduce by spores, without producing flowers or seeds. Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing developed the Cryptogamic garden over three acres of land with 75 species of such plants and plant-like organisms (in case of fungi) belonging to six different groups. The forest officials said the aim of developing the garden was to create awareness and display the diversity of ancient Himalayan flora in the state. The garden was dedicated to the public by Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests and in-charge (research wing) said such ancient plants need pollution-free area and moisture to grow. “After searching for the right area, we finally found Deoban, which is pollution-free and has pristine forests of Deodar and Oak”, he said He said Cryptogam, which comes from Greek, means hidden reproduction as these ancient plants need no seeds, nor flowers to reproduce. “Cryptogamic plants include Algae, mosses, liverworts, lichens, ferns and fungi and they reproduce by spores”, he said. Chaturvedi said these plants have various commercial uses about which most people know very little. “Algae, being rich in vitamins and minerals are also used as a food ingredient in many countries. It is also used as a liquid fertilizer as it helps in repairing the level of nitrogen present in the soil. Many algae species are used in making medicines. Brown algae like Laminaria, Sargassum are good sources of iodine”, he said. He added that Bryophytes which include liverworts and mosses are reliable indicators and monitors of air pollution and help in the prevention of soil erosion as they bind to the rocky surfaces. “In the case of lichens, some are used as ingredients in dishes like Hyderabadi biryani. They are also used in making medicines, dyes and perfumes and cosmetics”, he said “Fungi species are used in many household and industrial processes, like the making of bread, wine, beer, and certain cheeses”, he said. Chaturvedi said Uttarakhand was very rich in such plants with 539 species of lichens, 346 species of algae, 478 species of bryophytes and 365 species of pteridophytes found in the state. Earlier this year, in its initiative to protect Himalayan flora, Uttarakhand forest department also created a repository of 1,576 plant species including 73 threatened, rare and vulnerable species, aimed at their germplasm conservation, so that these species remain conserved in case they disappear from the wild due to any reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhands-cryptogamic-garden-of-plants-from-jurassic-era-opens-to-public-101626076720415.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC seals Suniel Shetty’s apartment, says actor and his family safe||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday sealed an apartment in Mumbai where Bollywood actor Suniel Shetty lives with his family over coronavirus fears. A senior official said the actor’s entire family is safe. The BMC sealed 'Prithvi Apartments' located at Mumbai’s Altamount Road after a few residents of the building tested positive for Covid-19BMC assistant commissioner Prashant Gaikwad told news agency ANI " Shetty's entire family is safe". The civic body seals any building which reports more than five coronavirus cases as a preventive measure. As of July 11, 68 buildings and five chawls and slums have been sealed by the BMC.The BMC has asked housing societies which were sealed as ‘micro containment zones’ (MCZ) to deny entry to outsiders. It has released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for housing societies and has warned of imposing fines for violating its norms. The civic body has also made provisions to deploy police personnel at the entry gate of sealed buildings.The civic body has further warned of slapping a fine of ₹10,000 on a housing society if it found violating any of its norms. Subsequent instances of violation will attract a penalty of ₹20,000. Assistant municipal commissioners have been ordered to ensure strict implementation of norms related to MCZs with the help of police.Delivery personnel from e-commerce platforms and those delivering essentials will be allowed entry till the society management office. Residents of sealed buildings will be allowed to go out for emergencies with the permission of the society chairman, secretary and the police personnel deployed."Any asymptomatic positive patient in home isolation shall not move out of his/her flat. An FIR shall be filed by ward officials against violators," the BMC said.Mumbai recorded 555 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the country’s financial capital to 7,27,696. A total of 15 individuals succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-bmc-seals-suniel-shetty-s-apartment-says-actor-and-his-family-safe-101626074396896.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Unseasonal yatras, JD(U)-LJP slugfest keep political pot boiling in Bihar||Parliamentary board president of Bihar’s ruling party, the Janata Dal United (JD-U), Upendra Kushwa has launched a yatra with a vow to catapult the party into the forefront of national politics. This the second unseasonal political yatra, taken out close on the heels of Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan’s Ashirvad Yatra, within a year of assembly election results which returned a weakened Nitish Kumar into power with the opposition making bold predictions of a mid-term elections in the state.While this kind of political muscle flexing may also be considered unusual during the rainy season, it is not without reason since Nitish Kumar led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s razor-thin majority in the 243-member state assembly could be put to test during the forthcoming monsoon session of the assembly starting July 26. Political experts say strong undercurrents are affecting Bihar’s politics as seen in the JD-U getting just one Union cabinet berth, a number it had refused in 2019; and LJP rebel Pashupati Kumar Paras too making it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ministry with Chirag Paswan calling it a result of a conspiracy by Nitish Kumar to split the LJP. In such a fluid situation, JD-U has been busy with strengthening the organisation while protecting its severely depleted turf. This was evidenced recently when on one hand it tried to shore up its numbers by inducting three floaters but on the other, it also made extra effort to win back party MLA Manjeet Singh, who was made the state vice president after he threatened to quit. CM Nitish Kumar has also decided to revive his weekly programme Janata Ke Durbar me Mukhya Mantri after five years. It is likely to give him a platform to counter the opposition narrative of the state’s failure to manage the pandemic and the floods. Political analyst Nawal Kishore Choudhary said that Bihar politics was witnessing intense mind games with attempts to out-manoeuvre one-another.“One thing is clear that we are witnessing a weakened Nitish Kumar when it comes to his bargaining power with the Centre, which may have its roots in his poor show in the assembly election. He wants to regain his strength, but that is not easy in the present circumstances. I will not be surprised if there was some tacit understanding between chief minister Nitish Kumar and the BJP top brass,” Choudhary said. While the BJP does not want to yield any more ground to Nitish Kumar, whose party could only win 43 seats, it also does not want to alienate another ally after having seen Akali Dal and the Shiv Sena walk out of the alliance.“There appears to be a balancing act from both the sides as things are delicately poised in Bihar politics and none of the two can afford to take greater risk,” Choudhary added. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Sciences DM Diwakar said the political parties in the state were currently in a state of flux. “It is just to keep themselves in the memory of the masses with glib talk or attacks. BJP is happy sitting quiet, as issues like fuel price or inflation are not on anyone’s agenda. It also does not want to threaten Nitish Kumar, who also is not interested in pushing for his claims at a stage when chips are down for him,” Diwakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unseasonal-yatras-jd-u-ljp-slugfest-keep-political-pot-boiling-in-bihar-101626074620286.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||8 months after complaint, Punjab MLA Simarjit Bains booked for rape||Punjab legislator and Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh Bains, 51, was booked for raping a 45-year-old woman in Ludhiana on Monday. The woman had lodged a complaint against Bains eight months ago and had been protesting outside the office of the commissioner of police in Ludhiana for the past five months, seeking that the rape case be registered against the MLA, who represents Ludhiana’s Atam Park constituency in the assembly. Also read: BJP leaders taken hostage by farmers rescued in PunjabThe case was finally registered at the division number 6 police station on Monday on the directions issued by the district court last week. In his order on July 7, additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh said: “Extreme circumstances call for extreme measures. Extreme indeed, are the circumstances in this case at hand. The unsuspecting victim is a hapless woman stricken by adversity who was unabashedly exploited by the so-called saviour and his coterie. With the first responder, police agency having turned a blind eye to her hideous abuse, she knocked the door of the court. The real cause of concern is whether a miserable and poor victim of sexual exploitation be expected to get justice by lodging the private complaint and collecting evidence from a place alien to her and against the perpetrators who are powerful and resourceful. In case the directions for registering of case is not made, the entire case of complainant would crumble and it would tantamount to failure of justice.”. On November 16, 2020, the woman had moved a handwritten application to the commissioner of police for registering the FIR against Bains, Kamaljit Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Sukhchain Singh, Paramjit Singh, and Gogi Sharma of Ludhiana. The woman alleged that she had come into contact with the MLA in a property dispute but she was trapped. She claimed she received repeated phone calls and WhatsApp messages soliciting physical relationship with her and was raped repeatedly by Bains. Shiromani Akali Dal activists held a protest outside the office of the Ludhiana commissioner of police on Monday, demanding the arrest of Bains. BJP leaders also arrived at the Mini Secretariat to protest against the attack on BJP leaders in Rajpura. The main Ferozepur Road has also been blocked by protesters of both parties and traffic has been diverted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-months-after-complaint-punjab-mla-simarjit-bains-booked-for-rape-101626074200336.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flash floods due to heavy rainfall sweep away cars in Himachal Pradesh's Dharamshala||Amid massive tourists’ rush to the northern hill state of Himachal Pradesh, flash floods in the state due to heavy rainfall have caused normal life to come to a standstill. In visuals shared by news agency ANI, several cars were seen being washed away with rainwater gushing through Bhagsu Nag village in McLeod Ganj near Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala.Meanwhile, the national highway on Monday morning was blocked near Jhakri in Shimla’s Rampur area in Himachal Pradesh after a spell of incessant rainfall. The process of clearing the road had commenced, and officials are already en route to the site, ANI reported.ALSO READ | Two missing in Kangra flash floods; heavy rain wreaks havoc in Himachal PradeshIn another video shared by the news agency, the Manjhi River in Himachal Pradesh was also seen to be flowing with enormous rush due to heavy rainfall. Notably, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange weather alert of heavy to very heavy rains in plains and mid-hills for Monday and Tuesday, and a yellow weather alert for July 14 and 15 in Himachal Pradesh.Also watch | Roads washed away, cars submerged in Dharamshala flash flood; PM Modi tweetsShimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said that landslides and uprooting of trees may occur due to rainfall or heavy spell of rain, and general public and tourists must not venture near the river banks as the water level may rise.This comes after as many as 28 people were killed in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh due to lightning after heavy rainfall on Sunday. Thirteen animals have also been reported to have died, including 10 goats and a cow. Of the 28 fatalities, 18 were reported in Rajasthan. Besides, 21 people, including six children, were also injured in various villages of the state due to lightning.ALSO READ | Six houses swept away as landslide hits Himachal's Kangra districtPrime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for families of those killed due to the lightning strikes in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. He also announced ₹50,000 financial assistance to the kin of those who were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flash-floods-due-to-heavy-rainfall-sweep-away-cars-in-himachal-pradesh-101626072877609.html
12-07-2021||Other||Seven prisoners escape Arunachal prison by attacking guards with chilli, pepper||Seven undertrial prisoners escaped from a district jail in Arunachal Pradesh on Sunday evening by attacking guards with chilli, salt, and pepper, police officials disclosed on Monday. The incident took place at the jail of East Siang district located in district headquarters, Pasighat. A combing operation and manhunt has been launched to nab the escaped prisoners, said the police. “The incident took place at 6.20pm on Sunday when the prisoners were let out of their cells for supper. Seven of them suddenly attacked the guards on duty by throwing chillies, pepper and salt on their eyes, noses and faces,” said Ravindra Singh Yadav, additional director general of police. Also Read | Covid-19: Arunachal Pradesh recommends imposing lockdown in capital ItanagarThe district jail had 94 prisoners in all. The seven escapees have been identified as Abhijit Gogoi, Taro Hamam, Kalom Apang, Talum Panying, Subhash Mandal, Raja Tayeng and Dani Gamlin. “We are collecting information about the cases pending against the seven. Five prison guards were injured in the attack. Police have cordoned off areas in the district and a manhunt has been launched to nab the prisoners,” said Yadav. The five injured guards have been identified as Rajesh Lego, RK Kambhari, O Taying, Tago Tatung and Tapi Tali. The condition of Lego, who was injured in the head with a lock, is stated to be serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-prisoners-escape-arunachal-prison-by-attacking-guards-with-chilli-pepper-101626072880427.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leaders taken hostage by farmers rescued in Punjab||Twelve BJP leaders of the party’s Rajpura unit in Patiala district, who had been taken hostage by farmers since Sunday afternoon, were rescued around 4am on Monday after the Punjab and Haryana high court and the Union home ministry intervened. Police used mild lathicharge to disperse the farmers, who had gathered outside a house at Guru Arjan Dev Colony in Rajpura town, 45km from Patiala, and took away Punjab BJP spokesman Bhupesh Aggarwal and general secretary Subhash Sharma, Patiala rural BJP unit president Vikas Sharma and Rajpura unit workers under tight security. Also read: Punjab: Farmers manhandle BJP leaders, hold them ‘hostage’In a midnight hearing urgently convened through video-conferencing, high court judge Suvir Sehgal ordered the safe exit of those illegally detained at the Rajpura house and a compliance report by 2pm on Monday. DC, DIG camp at Rajpura at protest site Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit and Punjab Police deputy inspector general (DIG) Vikramjit Duggal were at the spot since Sunday evening to ensure the safety of the BJP leaders. The protesters had even cut off the electricity supply of the house. They were demanding the registration of a first information report (FIR) against the BJP leaders as one of their bodyguards had taken out a pistol in self-defence while they were protesting. The BJP leaders made several calls to their state and central leaders. “The Union home ministry was apprised of the situation and after their intervention, the police, which was earlier a mute spectator, swung into action,” a BJP leader said, requesting anonymity. Rajpura BJP councillor assaulted, clothes torn Tension prevailed in Rajpura since Sunday morning when agitators disrupted the district-level meeting of the BJP leaders at the Bharat Vikas Parishad in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Aggarwal, Vikas Sharma and the other leaders were taken to a house adjoining the Bharat Vikas Parishad office, from where a panicky Aggarwal released a video, saying the lives of the BJP leaders was in danger. Police managed to take him and others to safety, but Rajpura BJP councillor Shanti Swarup was not as lucky. While being escorted out by the police, protesters chased and manhandled him and even tore his clothes. The incident was shared on social media. BJP leader blames Congress goons By Sunday evening, the party leadership rushed BJP state general secretary Subhash Sharma to Rajpura to address a press conference. He blamed chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for the situation in the state and said, “Congress goons are trying to intimidate the Hindu minority in Punjab.” As farmers learnt about the press conference at Lions Club, Rajpura, they surrounded it but the police escorted Subhash Sharma to safety. Defiant BJP leaders firm on meeting In the meantime, Aggarwal issued a statement on Sunday evening that the BJP will hold its meeting as planned at the Guru Arjan Dev Colony. Following this, Aggarwal along with Subhash Sharma, Vikas Sharma, Patiala district president Harinder Kohli and other local leaders gathered at the house in Arjun Colony. The protesters laid siege to the house and the police managed to surround the house. In a video from the house, Subhash Sharma alleged that the Congress had sent its workers for the gherao. “It’s like terrorism days in Punjab. Police are not acting against goons,” he said. Protesters say Aggarwal provoked them Rajpura-based farmer leader Prem Singh Bhangu said that Aggarwal had used provocative language and added that the peaceful protesters turned restive in the morning when Aggarwal’s bodyguard pointed his pistol at them. He demanded an apology from the BJP leadership. The DC and the DIG tried to defuse the situation, but the stalemate continued overnight. BJP leaders at the receiving end in PunjabPunjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said: “This is an attack on democracy, and not the BJP. There is lawlessness in Punjab as police have become mute spectators.” Farmers have been targeting BJP leaders and events over the past few months. On June 30, Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik had to face the farmers’ wrath when he was on his way to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bathinda. In March, Fazilka BJP legislator Arun Narang was stripped by anti-farm law protesters, while the convoy of Ashwani Sharma was attacked in Ferozepur last October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-leaders-taken-hostage-by-farmers-rescued-in-punjab-101626069220146.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area shut till Tuesday over violation of Covid-19 norms||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been steadily coming down in Delhi. And the state government wants the downward trend to continue.This is the reason why it has been cracking down on places and market areas where Covid norms are violated. Two main markets - Lajpat Nagar and Rui Mandi in Sadar Bazar - were asked to shut down last week after overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms were seen in these areas.The shutdown in Sadar Bazar will continue till Tuesday. The orders were issued on July 10 to keep the part of the market from Bara Tooti Chowk to Qutub Road closed. It will remain closed till 10pm on July 13.In his order, the central district magistrate (DM) stated that shopkeepers, street vendors and even customers were found flouting Covid-19-appropriate behaviour on Saturday. The official noted that such behaviour would lead to “super spreading of the coronavirus”, according to news agency PTI.The DM further pointed out that the move to shut the aforesaid market area was an “immediate and stringent action to curtail the spreading of the virus”.However, the restriction will not be relevant to shops in Sadar Bazar that are dealing with essential goods and services, the order clarified.According to PTI, traders have been directed to submit an action plan before Tuesday to make sure that Covid-19-appropriate behaviour is adopted and maintained in the market area.The order revealed that if any shopkeeper is found not following the closure rule till Tuesday or any act that may cause Covid-19 spread, “necessary action as per law would be taken against him or her under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC (Indian Penal Code) and other relevant applicable Acts”.This development comes after in recent weeks the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) shut popular Delhi markets, including Laxmi Nagar, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, and Karol Bagh, among others, due to violation of Covid-19 protocols.Delhi on Sunday reported 53 new coronavirus cases, taking the cumulative tally of the national capital to 1,435,083, the government’s bulletin revealed. With three new fatalities recorded, the death toll of Delhi has reached 25,015, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-sadar-bazar-area-shut-till-tuesday-over-violation-of-covid-19-norms-101626068480738.html
12-07-2021||Jaipur||Lightning strikes parts of Rajasthan, kills 22 including 8 kids||Lightning claimed at least 22 lives across Rajasthan, including 11 in Jaipur after rain lashed several parts of the state on Sunday. Around two dozen people were injured across the state in rain-related incidents. Near Amber Fort, 11 persons were killed and over a dozen others injured during lightning strike. State disaster response force teams swung into action and rushed the injured to the hospital. An eye witness said lightning struck twice near the fort between 6.30pm and 7pm. Some people took shelter at the watchtower, and were struck by lightning. The deceased include a brother-sister duo from Punjab. News agency AP quoted senior police officer Anand Srivastava as saying that some of the victims were taking selfies near the watchtower when lightning struck late Sunday.Elsewhere, four children died in Kota and three in Dholpur district of the state due to lightning strike.Also Read | Rajasthan city tense after teen’s murder, Section 144 imposedSuperintendent of Police, Kota rural, Sharad Chowdhary said four children were killed in lightning strike in Garda village in Kanwas area. The children had taken their goats for grazing in the forest and took shelter from rainfall under the tree which was struck by lightning. Four others, including three children, were injured and were given medical care, he said.In Kudina village of Dholpur district, three children were killed during lightning strike while they were out with their cattle. Deaths due to lightning strike were also reported from Jhalawar, Baran, Tonk and Jaipur. The deceased have been identified as Tara Chand Bheel [Jhalawar]; Deepak [Baran]; Basram Gujjar [Tonk]; and a minor boy in Bagriya village, Jaipur. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has condoled the deaths and announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to the families of the deceased.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his deepest condolences over the deaths. “Many people have lost their lives due to lightning in some areas of Rajasthan. Deeply saddened by the demise of people. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased: PM @narendramodi,” Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a tweet. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/lightning-strikes-parts-of-rajasthan-kills-18-including-seven-kids-101626067120074.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai misses out as clouds deposit heavy rains off the coast||Despite the weather department’s forecast of Mumbai witnessing “moderate to intense spells of rain” on Sunday night, the city woke up to a drier morning on Monday compared to Sunday, with only 2.8mm rainfall recorded in the 24 hours ending 8:30am.On Sunday, the city had recorded 45.6mm of rain in the 24 hour period with three isolated heavy spells (between 40 to 70m) seen along the Western railway line, IMD data shows.Though doppler radar images from as late as 1:30am showed presence of rain clouds around the city, particularly off the coast, the prevalent wind patterns did not allow for moisture incursion inland, officials and independent meteorologists clarified. The development of a wind shear, with opposing easterly and westerlies, caused Mumbai to miss out on rain over the weekend. As the wind shear moved northward, the formation of an anticyclonic vortex of the coast of Mumbai began causing rain bands to move away from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and toward the sea.“Half of the active phase of the monsoon is already wasted for MMR. Current model guidance suggests that by 2-4 pm today (Monday), the vortex will be north enough to allow westerlies to resume over Mumbai and suburbs. However, the monsoon trough is not that strong anymore, so only usual heavy rains in Mumbai,” tweeted independent meteorologist Athreya Shetty.This view was echoed by a spokesperson with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, who said, “There will be more rains now in the second half of this week. We had anticipated as much as 200mm of rainfall in about 24 hours between Sunday and Tuesday, but that seems unlikely now. The latest images from our doppler radar in Mumbai at 8.45am show that clouds are still lying off the coast, with some over Raigad district, which received some heavy showers last night.”The city has so far seen 1,109mm of rain since June 1, which is about 37% in excess of the seasonal normal of 801mm. However, since at least July 1, the city has recorded largely deficient rains at a departure of more than -80% of the normal rainfall for the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-misses-out-as-clouds-deposit-heavy-rains-off-the-coast-101626064600244.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Pink Line services to be curtailed from today. Check details||Services on Delhi Metro’s Pink Line, which connects Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar, will be curtailed from Monday till July 15 due to an overhead equipment (OHE) work in yet to be opened section between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has said in a statement.Owing to the OHE work, metro services during these days on Pink Line will not be available between IP Extension and Trilokpuri, and between Mayur Vihar Phase-1 and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations, according to DMRC. Additionally, metro services will remain closed in Mandawali West Vinod Nagar, East Vinod Nagar Mayur Vihar Phase-2, Trilokpuri, and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations on the Pink Line from July 12 to 15.However, train services during these days will operate normally between Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase-1, and IP Extension to Maujpur or Shiv Vihar sections.“Announcement will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on the Pink Line about the modified destination of trains during this period,” the DMRC added in the statement.First and last metro train timings will, however, remain unchanged from July 12 to 15 between the terminal stations on Pink Line – Mayur Vihar Phase-1 and IP Extension. Normal train services will resume on the Pink Line from July 16 onwards, the statement further read.A senior DMRC official said that track laying and other ancillary works have already begun on the Pink Line route between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake after the completion of civil work, Livemint reported. The official added that overhead electrification work is also under progress.Notably, Pink Line services on Delhi Metro were opened in multiple stages in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-pink-line-services-to-be-curtailed-from-today-check-details-101626061737695.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Bihar’s artists seek help from Lalit Kala Akademi to tide over Covid crisis||Visual artists in Bihar have requested the National Academy of Arts in Delhi, popularly known as Lalit Kala Akademi, to launch a welfare programme to help them survive the financial impact of Covid-19 pandemic. They have also demanded greater inclusion in exhibitions and art camps held nationally by the academy to revive their earning, which has dried up since March last year, when restrictions on cultural events and exhibitions first kicked in to contain the pandemic outbreak. The artists earlier also approached the Bihar government for financial assistance.Bihar has a large community of visual artists including painters, sculptors and installation art makers apart from craftsmen including for internationally celebrated Mithila and Manjusha art and Sikki craft. It is also home to contemporary art geniuses such as Subodh Gupta, an installation art maker.“As most of these artists and craftsmen have been dependent upon exhibitions, shows, art camps and workshops, they are now in trouble. None of these activities have been held in the last 17 months due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. We want the Central Lalit Kala Akademi to launch a welfare programme for us,” Shyam Sharma, the Padmashree award winning block print artist from Bihar, said.Birendra Kumar Singh, a painter and Bihar Kala Manch secretary, said the visual artists last month gave a memorandum to the state government seeking monthly pension among other assistance. “Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan had assured us of all possible help, but it was still awaited. That is why we have to knock at the doors of the Central Lalit Kala Akademi,” Singh said.Uttam Pacharne, the pro-tem chairman of Lalit Kala Akademi in Delhi, said the institution will plan welfare programmes. “But we are waiting for the artists of the state to send proposals in this connection.”“There is also a plan to organise a National art camp in the state capital [Patna]. Delhi Lalit Kala Akademi has its camp office in the city and the event was being planned there. Altogether 30% artists in the camp will be from the state while the rest will be from other areas. It will provide good financial support and exposure to a wide variety of art styles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-artists-seek-help-from-lalit-kala-akademi-to-tide-over-covid-crisis-101626063460374.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath resumes Janata Darshan as Covid-19 cases dip in the state||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is resuming the daily Janata Darshan programme from Monday to listen to people’s grievances at his official residence in Lucknow. The routine was suspended in May due to the second wave of pandemic and is being resumed now after the Covid situation in the state has come under control, a government official said. The two hour relaxation in the state-wide night curfew, announced by the CM on Sunday, will also begin from today with curfew timings curtailed from 9pm -7am to 10pm-6am.CM Yogi said on Sunday that the Covid test positivity rate in the state in the past 24 hours was a mere 0.04% and the recovery rate stood at 98.6%.“No fresh cases of Covid were found in 29 districts. Forty-five districts reported fresh cases in single digits. Only one district recorded new cases in double digits. Despite all these improvements, aggressive testing must continue,” he said.The chief minister also said that only 125 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours taking the number of active cases in the state to 1594.He noted that 37.1 million doses of Covid vaccine had been administered in Uttar Pradesh so far, including 31.3 million first doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-resumes-janata-darshan-as-covid-19-cases-dip-in-the-state-101626060759794.html
12-07-2021||Other||Staff, students restricted from entering IIT Bhubaneswar if not vaccinated||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhubaneswar has imposed restrictions on the entry of students and staff unless they are vaccinated. It has also asked them to submit a “self-declaration every Monday” that no guest arrived at the campus to meet them, and neither did they travel outside the Khordha district where the institute is located.While the government has declared vaccination against Covid-19 “voluntary”, the institute has said that “all the fraternity of IIT Bhubaneswar, including outsourced manpower, mandatorily be inoculated at least one dose of vaccine by July 10, 2021.”It added that even if the staff and students were vaccinated with both doses, their entry to the campus would be restricted if they “visited outside Khordha-Bhubaneswar-Cuttack regions.”“While coming back, (students are) mandatorily required to inform the (Covid) nodal officer (at the institute) and should be at home quarantine for 5 days followed by RT-PCR test (sample of which should be collected on 5th day of quarantine),” the guidelines issued by the institute’s registrar Debraj Rath read.Also Read | Orissa HC orders probe into allegations mismanagement in Covid hospitalsIt further said that guests of any member of the institute needed to follow the same instructions and were also required to undergo “home quarantine for 10 days if both the doses of vaccine are not completed.”“Further, during the quarantine period, the entire host family of the guests must quarantine at home,” the guidelines read.The institute fraternity, however, alleged that the administration was using Covid-19 to issue their “autocratic and arbitrary diktats.”“Actually, this SOP is to put faculties/staff under severe pressure to keep them shut. While hundreds of people are coming and going from the institute every day, they want to terrify their employees so that they can be arbitrarily punished; their lives fully controlled,” said a faculty member of the institute, on condition of anonymity.A scholar at the institute said, “While the government is promoting vaccines as effective, I don’t understand, how a government-funded research and higher education institution can consider vaccines completely unreliable.”He added that the SOPs with “bizarre” restrictions will not just affect employees and scholars, but also their family members. “Imagine a family member such as a son or daughter of an employee studies or commutes to his job in the adjoining district? In effect, he cannot stay with the employee if we go by these guidelines,” he said.Meanwhile, an official from the institute said that vaccination at IIT Bhubaneswar is mandatory in general. “However, it provides exceptions for those who have valid reasons not to do so. [They can] inform IIT [in that case]. In a community, if vaccination is done in part, it will not work and protect. Also, it is not a ritual that we vaccinate. We need to holistically immunise a community,” he said.Asked why a self-declaration was required every Monday, the official said that they needed the information for contact tracing, to control infection effectively and responsibly, and to keep track of those coming in from other states. “Please note that it is a self-declaration that is sought from our staff and students coming from the outside. Without this information readily available how do you act quickly and protect the community?” he said.He added that at the IIT campus, the mechanism was well-controlled through several checks at the entry point. “We have students, families of faculty, staff, much outsourced staff, and 1,000 construction workers living or working on the campus. It is challenging to protect the campus. The campus cannot be Covid-19 free with a casual approach,” the official added.Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health expert and a senior epidemiologist said vaccination should be a priority, but it is not the only protection against Covid-19. He added that enforcing a mandatory vaccination protocol was very impractical.“Not everyone is lucky enough to get a shot instantly. When there is a limited vaccine supply, there are many people who have to wait for a long time before a vaccine is made available to them. So, there is no point of mandating vaccination in such circumstances,” he said.Lahariya added that the restrictions of quarantine of students, of temporary guests and even of their host families is an unrealistic approach. “The biggest problem with our country is that at times the decision to define Covid-19 protocols is made by individuals who have no scientific understanding of the problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/staff-students-restricted-from-entering-iit-bhubaneswar-if-not-vaccinated-101626060519725.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain today||With monsoon likely to hit the national Capital this week, Delhi may witness cloudy sky with light rain on Monday as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 28.8°C – one notch above the normal and the maximum temperature was 39°C– three degrees above the normal.Monsoon forecast by IMD was off the mark for the fourth time this season on Sunday. On Saturday, IMD’s daily bulletin said monsoon rain will take “another 24 hours” to reach the Capital. The bulletin repeated this on Sunday.Also Read | Rain deficiency looms large as monsoon revival remains sluggishThis is the second most delayed monsoon onset in Delhi since the IMD began documenting the arrival dates in 1920. The only time that the arrival of the monsoon was later than this was on July 19, 2002. The usual onset date for Delhi is June 29.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 96. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 94, which is also in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Due to the rain, air quality in the national Capital is also expected to stay in the satisfactory category this week. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and in east southeasterly direction. Increased rainfall activity is likely to influence AQI positively. As part of the advancing monsoon over the region, widespread rainfall is very likely during the next few days. Satisfactory to good AQI is forecasted for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rain-today-101626059380073.html
12-07-2021||Patna||Post-Covid complications rise at AIIMS Patna as new cases go down in Bihar||Number of patients with post-Covid pulmonary cavitation or cavity in the lungs and lung fibrosis or irreversible scarring in the lungs is increasing at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna, a designated centre of excellence (CoE) for clinical management of the pandemic in Bihar.“We have already got 30-40 cases of post Covid pulmonary cavitation in the last two months,” said Dr Deependra Kumar Rai, additional professor and head, department of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS-Patna.Such cases mostly show symptoms like persistent cough, chest pain, dyspnea (breathlessness) or hemoptysis (blood in sputum). Patients may have fever with oxygen saturation around the threshold level of 94.Additional professor and head, department of medicine, AIIMS-Patna, Dr Ravi Kirti, said there is a significant rise in patients with post-Covid fibrosis and “fibrosis-like changes” that may regress with time, depending on the severity of scarring.“Patients with post-Covid chest infection, whose oxygen saturation still drops below the threshold limit or those having dry cough and reduced exercise tolerance are increasing. We generally suggest a chest X-ray, sometimes followed by a chest CT scan and spirometry before deciding on further treatment,” said Dr Kirti.Cases of post-Covid pulmonary cavitation are often diagnosed as tuberculosis (TB) and Dr Rai advocates bronchoscopy investigation, especially in case of patients who cannot expectorate phlegm, before prescribing anti-TB drugs or antibiotics to the patient.“Patients are generally referred to us after they have been administered a strong dose of antibiotics, which is ineffective in such cases,’’ said Dr Rai, who is researching on post-Covid pulmonary cavitation.During his research, Dr Rai found that five of the six patients in his sample study had contracted aspergillosis fungal infection while one was a mucormycosis (black fungus) suspect.Dr Rai, however, said the prohibitive pricing of Voriconazole is a deterrent in the treatment of poor patients suffering from aspergillosis fungal infection.“Each tablet costs around ₹850 in the open market, but the same is available for one-third the market rate at AIIMS. We generally prescribe it twice a day for nearly three months to our patients. The government should include some such drugs related to Covid-19 and post-Covid ailments in its essential drug list and supply them to patients through its channel,” said Dr Rai.The AIIMS has played a significant role in the treatment of Covid-19 and post-Covid ailments, including mucormycosis, in the state. Its team of experts, led by additional professor of ENT, Dr Kranti Bhawna, has operated over 100 cases of black fungus.As many as 6,346 Covid-19 patients and suspects have undergone treatment at AIIMS-Patna since March 20 last year, when the state reported its first Covid-19 case. The institute has treated 5,650 patients, with a recovery rate of nearly 80%, after it set up dedicated Covid wards in May 2020, according to Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Covid-19 nodal officer of the institute.Around 1,437 Covid-19 patients were admitted to AIIMS-Patna between April and May, the peak of the second pandemic that saw 29% of the total Covid deaths with 377 out of the total 1,291 patients dying due to Covid-19 at the institute. “July 10 was the first day since the second wave of the pandemic that no sample out of the 2,217 collected for real-time polymerase chain reaction test tested positive,” said Dr Kumar.From 15,853 new infections and 82 deaths on May 1, the number of new Covid cases and deaths has come down to 87 and two, respectively, on July 10. As many as 1,233 cases and 23 deaths have been reported this month against 723,147 cumulative Covid-19 cases and 9,618 deaths so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/postcovid-complications-rise-at-aiims-patna-as-new-cases-go-down-in-bihar-101626059199860.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rate dips to all-time low of 0.07%||The city’s Covid-19 test positivity rate fell to a fresh all-time low of 0.07% on Sunday, as the city continued to recover from a brutal wave of infections between April and May.The city also added 53 new infections on the day, said the state government’s daily health bulletin, the lowest single-day spike in 453 days, going back to April 15 last year, in the early days of the pandemic.The bulletin also added three more deaths of the infection, taking Delhi’s overall toll to 25,015.As on Sunday, 743 in the Capital are battling Covid-19, as active cases also continued to drop to levels not seen since April 2020, before the first wave of infections hit the city.The city added an average of 76 infections each day over the past week. Meanwhile, just over 10,800 people were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses on a Sunday. To be sure, vaccinations routinely dip on Sundays since a large number of state government centres stay shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-rate-dips-to-all-time-low-of-007-101626051007535.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A jamun tree in CP||The ground looks like a fresh battlefield, splattered with blood stains, slippery with hundreds of used bullets. The blood isn’t red, but purple. And the bullets are actually jamuns. They have fallen from the tree above.It’s jamun season in Delhi. The lanes teem with vendors selling these berries. Their straw baskets are piled up with mounds of these soury treats. Posh fruit shops sell the exact same fruit, but neatly stacked inside transparent plastic boxes. Parts of Delhi are full of jamun trees. One evening in Deer Park, a group of folks were spotted shaking its trunk, making the jamuns fall from the branches like a sudden shower, before picking them up.There might be a jamun tree around your house too. But even then you should make a pilgrimage to the aforementioned tree, so generously weighted with its yield. The tree is situated in the commercial heart of Connaught Place, in N Block. It’s so gigantic that its dense foliage makes a virtual roof over the staircase emerging out of the subway. This afternoon, the whole ground under it is covered with jamuns. They all are squashed, probably after being trampled by the feet of busy pedestrians. On looking up, one is blindsided at first by the thousands of green leaves, and wonders where the jamuns are falling from, unable to see them. Gradually, the eyes adjust to notice big clumps of jamuns nestled across the foliage. They look like purple daubs in a green canvas.One wonders how long this tree has been standing here. Can it be older than the colonial-era shopping district it inhabits? After all, Connaught Place was formerly a forest of babool trees. In any case, this jamun must have seen so much change over the years. Its leafy branches are within a kissable distance of what used to be Winpy—the popular hangout of yesteryears that served lamb burgers for 16 rupees. Today, that building lies closed, and the tree faces a small hip cafe that came up not so long ago.Meanwhile, a long row of ants is climbing up the trunk. A broken statue of Goddess Lakshmi is lying at its feet—probably left here because it is not considered a good omen to keep a damaged idol.Some steps away, a woman is selling jamuns. “I get them from Azadpur (wholesale fruit market),” she says, her back turned towards the great jamun tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-jamun-tree-in-cp-101626035344599.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Food joints focusing more on direct delivery!||Multiple food joints are on their way to become ‘atmanirbhar’ and have started self-delivery services in the city. Some of them have discontinued the services of known food aggregators. They have by now strengthened their self-delivery mechanism while some are using organised delivery players for additional turnover and focusing on direct orders. Hazratganj-based famous Bajpai Kachori has withdrawn from online delivery providers. Now, customers queue-up at this food joint to pick their stuff. “Their commission is too high and then our loyal customers have to shell out extra money due to the inflated pricing. So, we decided that we won’t let them make a hole in people’s pockets,” says a salesperson from the joint. Afreen Restaurant in Indira Nagar completely switched to its own delivery system. “We can’t sustain if we give 25-30% to these aggregators. Either we compromise on quality, or we inflate prices which we don’t want to do. So, we are doing self-delivery which is picking up gradually,” says Chef Abdul Haleem. Similarly, Awadh Biryani Corner on Rana Pratap Marg too withdrew from the apps to give added value to their customers. Though cloud kitchens are highly dependent on aggregators, Pepperz chose to do business their way. “We have kept delivery boys and we pay them ₹100 per order and if it’s far-off we add petrol charges. We get big orders from our regular clients so this way we have control on quality, pricing and margin is also taken care of. This way we give buyers better portion in earthen-packing which is a win-win for everyone,” says Chef Zulfiqar Hussain. Players like Mr Brown are getting 25-33% business from their own apps. “We have own order-delivery system and take services of food aggregators as well. Customers are growing on our Danbro app, and our free-delivery system is known to transport cakes in the city. Besides, they are winning points and coupons which is an extra benefit for them,” shares Vikas Malik. Popular sweet shop Chhappan Bhog is also doing good deliveries through their own app. Pawan Agarwal of Kitchen the Food Stop informs that they are balancing both. “We are doing 50% business through our own 20 delivery vehicles. Though increasing own fleet will be an added cost as not all days and months one gets equal business.” Many are opting for both self-delivery as well as aggregator services but certainly their focus is more on self-mechanism. “Orders from aggregators all small-ticket size and commissions are very high. So, we focus more on self-delivery and with God’s grace 70% delivery business we are generating is directly, and these are big orders. At times, we have to switch-off aggregators’ app as our own orders are enough. Since we don’t have to share margins on our own orders, so we are able to give extra value to our customers who in turn repeat direct orders with us,” says Chef Bhasker Mishra of Sassy Canteen in Gomti Nagar. In all self-delivery mechanism, it’s the customers that is gaining in portion and packing quality while restaurants provide are happily getting better margins, he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/food-joints-focusing-more-on-direct-delivery-101626034779607.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||OTT platforms give new lease of life to regional language authors||Shailesh Bharatwasi, the founder of Hind Yugm, a publishing house, which has launched many young Hindi writers in the last few years, is busy writing pitches for production houses. After the success of the recent Grahan, a web series on Hotstar, inspired by Chaurasi, a novel Bharatwasi published three years ago, he has been flooded with requests from production houses to suggest books from his current and backlist that can be adapted into films and web-series for OTT (over-the-top) platforms.“I have already sold the rights to nine novels in the past year and conversations are at an advanced stage for another four,” says Bharatwasi. The Delhi-based Hind Yugm has so far brought out 300 titles, nearly all of them by young, first-time writers. “They are telling the sort of stories that these platforms need”.Also read| Girl power on rise: Female-led stories rule the roost on OTT spaceThe growing popularity of OTT platforms during the pandemic and their search for fresh content has given a boost to writers and publishers, not just in English, but also in regional languages — a trend that publishers say has the potential to significantly shore up revenues and bring into the spotlight young writers in regional languages and introduce their work to a new readership.Their work has got a further fillip, thanks to the advent of several OTT platforms such as Hoichoi, Addatimes, Aha, and Ullu, which focus on regional language content. The OTT platforms’ search for content has also given rise to ‘book story agents’, who act as intermediaries between publishing houses, writers and OTT platforms and production houses.Satya Vyas, the author of the Hindi novel Chaurasi (Eighty-Four) says these platforms have opened up new avenues for writers like him.“Selling the rights to my books has brought me money I never dreamt of and, more importantly, it will encourage more youngsters to write in Hindi and give the language the recognition it deserves,” he says. Vyas’s other books, including Dilli Darbar, Benaras Talkies, and Baaghi Ballia, are also being adapted for the small screen.The Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival organises ‘Word to Screen Market’, an event that brings writers, publishers and production houses under one platform. The film festival’s art director, Smriti Kiran, says that in 2019 , the event, which could not be held last year because of the pandemic, saw the participation of 40 production houses, 23 publishers and as many authors writing not just in English, but also Hindi, English, Malayalam, Tamil, Marathi, Kannada, and Assamese.“In all, the writers and publishers pitched about 600 projects, and there was staggering interest in regional language books. In India, unlike in the West, there was no system regarding how writers, publication houses and production houses can work together. There was no standardisation of the contract format, how to make pitches or how much money a writer should get for selling the rights to their book. But this is changing,” says Kiran.Interestingly, publishers say the books most in demand are the ones set in smaller towns — tales of crime, love, revenge and politics.Naveen Choudhary, a writer of Hindi fiction, who recently sold the rights to his book Janta Store, his 2018 bestseller about student politics in Jaipur, to a production house for a web series, says OTT platforms are looking for authentic stories set in small towns because a majority of their subscribers are based there.“No one can tell these stories better than authors from small towns writing in Indian languages, whose works evocatively capture the social-cultural realities of these places,” says Choudhary, whose book was published by Rajkamal Prakashan, a prominent Hindi publisher. He has already got a six-figure advance for his next book.Govind Deecee, who heads the copyrights and acquisitions division at DC Books, a leading publisher of Malayalam books, says OTT are targeting a specific audience in a specific location.“They have to keep their subscribers and are trying to look for different kinds of content to cater to a variety of tastes. It suits publishers as we also bring out books in different genres and it is easy for us to suggest books from particular genres to them,” says Deecee, adding, “Recently, a production house approached us to ask if we could give them a crime story set in Kerala. Malayalam films have evolved a lot and there is a lot of potential to increase cooperation between publishers and production houses, which are looking for not just crime thrillers, but also literary fiction”.Akshay Bardapurkar, founder, Planet Marathi, a platform that focuses on content in Marathi, says OTT is “the writer’s medium”.“The story is the real star in a web series and so we are always looking for stories that can be binge-watched, and we believe that publishing houses are a good place to find them. The Marathi literature is a minefield of stories, and we have already tied up with a prominent publisher for regular book-to-screen projects,” says Bardapurkar.Ajit Thakur, chief executive officer of Aha, an OTT platform that focuses on Telugu content agrees.“The books make for great web series as their stories are already validated, have a large sweep with multiples characters and so can easily be turned into a web series. Besides, we save about three months, which it takes to develop a story. Currently, we are in talks to adapt at least five Tamil and Telugu books into web series.”Hoichoi, an OTT platform with content primarily in Bengali, has been ahead of the curve in adapting web-series from books, having already brought to screen many popular classics such as Byomkesh Bakshi (a character created by Sharadindu Bandyopadhyay, Charitraheen (a novel by Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay), and Taranath Tantrik by Bibhutibhushan and Taradas Bandyopadhyay. It has also adapted lesser-known publications like Eken Babu and Damayanti. “We are also looking at works by young writers, and already have a few lined up. Some will be announced in September, and others will be announced next year,” says Mahendra Soni, co-founder, Hoichoi.“The book-to-screen adaptation deal can fetch anything between ₹10 to 25 lakh on average and up to a ₹1 crore in some cases,” says Siddarth Jain, who launched The Story Ink, which helps writers and publishers sell the rights of their books to production houses and OTT platforms.So far, he says his firm has facilitated over 150 such deals.“There is a woeful lack of screenwriters in production houses, which is why they are now looking outside the industry for stories. In books, they get ready-made, relatable, stories. There is a lot of demand for thrillers, mysteries and real stories,” says Jain. “When I set up the company in 2017, I sold only three books [to production houses]. But for the past two years, I have sold 40 to 50 books a year on an average. The demand for books in a regional language is also growing fast.”Interestingly, Jain has started soliciting unpublished manuscripts from writers and publishers. “There is always a possibility that what may not be good enough for a book is good for the screen,” says Jain, who receives about 50 books in a month from publishers and writers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ott-platforms-give-new-lease-of-life-to-regional-language-authors-101626033893218.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s private hospitals fear losses as takers for paid vaccine dwindle||Availability of free vaccine at government centres has left slots for paid vaccination at city’s private hospitals vacant.Witnessing the daily footfall gradually shrinking, owners of the hospitals are worried about financial losses as they have already sourced vaccine stock from the manufacturers and its shelf life is limited to nine months.As many as 12 private hospitals are providing Covid-19 vaccines in Chandigarh apart from 79 government centres.“We received 5,000 doses of Covishield vaccine, directly from the Serum Institute of India (SII), in June. Initially, over 150 people were visiting the hospital daily, but now, the number has dropped to less than 40. If the vials remain unused, we’ll suffer great financial loss,” said Dr Kuldeep Singh, owner of a city-based private hospital, adding that the primary reason for people not showing up was increase in government centres offering vaccination.Dr Neeraj, another city-based doctor, said only 40-60 beneficiaries were visiting his hospital on an average daily. “Earlier all slots used to be booked in advance, but now we have few takers. If people don’t step in regularly through the day, doses get wasted,” he said.Private hospital owners also blame repeated changes in central government’s policies for the slow pace of the vaccination drive.“The Centre is making frequent changes in the vaccine procurement policies for private hospitals. Also, the price of vaccine doses has changed multiple times in the past six months. This leaves people confused and even several private hospitals are also disinterested in participating in the drive due to complex procurement policies,” said Dr RS Sethi, former national vice-president, Indian Medial Association.Of the over 6,00,000 doses administered in Chandigarh since the commencement of the vaccination drive in January, private hospitals account for around 52,000 (or 9%) doses, data available with the UT health department shows. City’s immunisation officer Dr Manjeet Singh said, “People are preferring government facilities over private ones as vaccine is free and easily available. But those who can afford the paid vaccines must take the jab from private hospitals as they have enough doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-private-hospitals-fear-losses-as-takers-for-paid-vaccine-dwindle-101626033158913.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Violation of Covid norms: Himachal police deploy extra force on hotspots||After reports of large gatherings, violation of Covid norms and incidents of hooliganism involving tourists, the Himachal Pradesh Police have decided to deploy additional force to enforce norms and maintain law and order at the key tourists hotspots.The move comes against after a recent meeting convened by the HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur wherein he had raised concerns over the crowding and flouting of norms at hill resorts and ordered strict action against the visitors who were found violating the guidelines.Tourists have been thronging the hill stations of Himachal Pradesh ever since the state government lifted curbs on entry. Shimla, Dalhousie, Dharmshala and Manali are witnessing heavy influx from the northern Indian states, including Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttarakhand. The tourist rush doubles on the weekends. Nearly 10,000 vehicles crossed the interstate barrier in Parwanoo on Saturday. However, visitors could be seen flouting SOPs at the most of the tourist places and at some instances, also create ruckus when asked to adopt Covid-appropriated behaviour by locals and police.Recently, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had also warned that the crowding at tourists places and violation of norms by visitors may result in a lethal third wave in the country.Himachal’s director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu in a circular has asked the Indian Reserve Battalions (IRBN) in the state to provide force to be deployed at tourist places to ensure enforcement of Covid protocols.“The deployment will be till August 31 and maybe extended if the situation doesn’t improve,” said Kundu.He said the one company from 6th IRBN Kollar will be deployed at Shimla and another at Kasauli. Three reserves — one male reserve, one female reserve from 5th IRBN Bassi and one reserve from 1st IRBN Bangarh — will be deployed at Dharamshala and McLeodganj. One company from 3rd IRBN Pandoh has been sent to Kasauli and one reserved to Rohtang Tunnel. One reserve from 4th IRBN Jangalberi has been sent to Dalhousie.The SSPs of districts concerned have been asked to provide stay of the force at a safer place and the commandants of the battalions will coordinate with district police authorities for their smooth deployment. The state police from October 2020 till the first week of July have issued 88,369 challans for violation of Covid norms and realised more than ₹5 crore as fine.Last year, from March to November, 32,670 challans were issued and over ₹1.35 crore was collected as fine.Himachal logs 63 fresh cases
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew lifted in 16 out of 20 J&K districts||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday lifted the weekend curfew from three more districts taking the total districts where restrictions have been largely removed to 16.The curbs were lifted after significant improvement in the Covid situation in Jammu division’s Kishtwar and Ramban and Kashmir’s Kulgam.Earlier last week, businesses were opened throughout the week during the daytime in 13 districts – seven districts in Kashmir and six in Jammu division. Officials observed that there has been significant improvement in these 16 districts (out of the 20 districts of the UT) in terms of total weekly cases, positivity rate, bed occupancy, case fatality rate and vaccination coverage. “There will be no weekend curfew in these districts. However, the daily night curfew will continue from 8pm to 7am,” said an order by chairperson, state executive committee (SEC) and chief secretary, Arun Kumar Mehta.The order said that all outdoor shops and traders are permitted to open in these districts on all days from 7am to 7pm. Restaurants and bars can open for dine-in facility from 7am till 10pm at 50% capacity only for customers who are vaccinated or have an RT-PCR or RAT report done in the past 48 hours. “Paid public parks are also permitted to open only for the vaccinated public,” the order said.“All the outdoor shops and bazaars are permitted to open on five days in a week except on Saturdays and Sundays. 50% of the shops in indoor shopping complexes and malls can open subject to a roster to be issued by DCs concerned,” the SEC ordered.All schools, colleges and universities in J&K will continue to remain closed for in person education till July 31. The DCs have been asked to focus on the positivity rate in their respective medical blocks particularly in 10 specific blocks.“It has been noticed that four blocks in Kashmir division and six in Jammu have shown positivity rate higher than 2% in the past week. Strict measured related to Covid-appropriate behaviour and opening of activities have to be taken by DCs in these blocks,” the order said.224 test positive in UTJ&K on Sunday recorded one Covid-related death and 224 fresh infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 349 with active positive cases dropping to 3,002. There were 150 cases and one death in Kashmir valley. The Jammu division saw 74 infections. On Saturday, the UT had witnessed 185 cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,11,334 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.69%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,18,693 and the death toll has hit 4,357.Officials said with 53 cases , Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 23 each in Pulwama and Doda. Ten districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,138 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 832 deaths.After the most devastating month of May, the month of June reported 25,197 cases and 416 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekend-curfew-lifted-in-16-out-of-20-j-k-districts-101626032981063.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants bail to 4 of family in abetment to suicide case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to four members of a Phagwara-based family who were named as accused in an abetment to suicide case.The four were arrested after a taxi driver first poisoned his son 9-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter and later consumed the substance himself, resulting in the death of all three. The reason behind the step was stated to be dispute with his wife. The FIR in this connection was registered against his wife’s family members at the Goraya police station in Jalandhar district on March 5 this year.The high court bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj allowed their bail plea observing that the challan had already been presented and that the court is of the opinion that further custody of the petitioners, who are presently in judicial custody, may not be necessary as the trial is likely to take considerable time to complete. “The material witnesses are either close relatives of the victim or police officials and there does not seem to be any possibility of their being won over,” the court said. The accused include the victim’s father-in-law, mother-in-law and brothers-in-law who had approached the high court in May following their arrest in March. As per the FIR, the victim had a dispute with his wife who was living at her parental house for some time. In January, a compromise was effected between the couple but she refused to go with her husband. The petitioners had told the court their daughter was married 12 years back and had matrimonial dispute with the victim since December 2020. A claim for maintenance too was filed against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-bail-to-4-of-family-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-101626032979933.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rains lash Himachal, orange weather warning issued||While the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the monsoon onset is now likely to be on the afternoon of July 12, Himachal Pradesh experienced moderate to heavy rains on Sunday. Naina Devi in Bilaspur was the wettest place with 181 mm rain followed by Jatton Barrage (149 mm) and Nahan (119 mm). The MeT department has issued an orange weather warning of heavy to very heavy rains in plains and mid-hills on July 12 and 13 July and yellow weather warning for July 14 and 15. Landslides and uprooting of trees may occur due to rainfall/heavy spell of rain. General public and tourists are not to venture near the river banks as the water level may increase, said Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh. Meanwhile, Bharari in Bilaspur experienced 104 mm rainfall and Hamirpur 98 mm. Famous hill resort Kasauli experienced 64 mm rain, Mehre 38 mm, Kahu 35 mm, Palampur 31 mm, Baldwar 30 mm, Sujanpur Tira 29 mm, and Jhandutta and Berthin 25 each.Nalagarh recorded 23 mm rainfall, Kasol 21 mm, Kothi 19 mm, and Bhoranj and Manali 18 mm each. Similarly, Gohar and Baijnath got 17 mm rain each, while Jubbar Hatti and Una 13 mm received each. Singh said there was no appreciable change in minimum temperatures since Saturday night while maximum temperatures decreased by 1 to 2 degrees Celsius.However, low and high temperatures were 1 to 2 degrees C above normal. Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, recorded a low of 12 degrees C followed by Kalpa (15.8 degrees C). Night temperature at famous tourist resort of Kufri was recorded at 16 degrees C while Dalhousie saw a minimum of 17 degrees C.State capital Shimla recorded a low of 18.4 degrees C and Dharamshala and Manali 19.2 and 19.4 degrees C.Una was warmest with a high temperature of 34.7 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rains-lash-himachal-orange-weather-warning-issued-101626032978849.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Mandi Board in dire straits as RDF not released by Centre yet||The Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board, also known as the Mandi Board, is facing a severe financial crunch as the rural development fund (RDF) charged by the state government on grain procurement has not been released by the Centre for the rabi season (wheat harvesting) yet.Also, the fund amount for the last year’s kharif season 2020 has been curtailed. The Centre owes Punjab ₹760 crore RDF for the rabi season and ₹500 crore for the 2020 kharif crop when only 1% accrual was allowed against 3% charged by the state government. In the absence of funds, loans raised by the board are piling up and development works, particularly in the rural areas of Punjab, have come to a halt. The worries of the once cash-rich board, which funded a variety of expenditures of the state government, are mounting as the Union food and public distribution ministry is in no mood to release the funds anytime soon. As a result, loans to the tune of ₹3,000 crore, including ₹120 crore in interest, have piled up for the board. The loans are part of the ₹3,976 crore raised by the board by pledging future fund accruals for the state government’s debt waiver scheme launched in 2018. “We have no funds to repay loans and start development works,” said a board officer. The RDF is managed by the rural development board which has chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh as its ex-officio chairman. The upkeep of nearly 66,000 kilometre roads in the rural belt is done from the fund. “Our coffers have dried up as we don’t have funds for future works and to service the debts. We are supposed to pay half-yearly installments to repay debt. Our last installment of ₹325 crore was paid by the state finance department,” said the board official. The board had availed loans for waiving ₹4,600 crore as debt of 5.5 lakh farmers as part of the state government’s farm waiver scheme with ₹1,800 crore still pending. Also, ₹520 crore is to be paid to 2.85 lakh landless labourers. To repay the loans raised by pledging RDF, ₹26 crore is given on monthly basis and ₹625 crore after every six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-mandi-board-in-dire-straits-as-rdf-not-released-by-centre-yet-101626032921582.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy sowing: Punjab agri dept misses target to double area under DSR technique||The Punjab agriculture department has failed to meet the target of doubling the area under direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique for paddy sowing this kharif season against the last year’s 5-lakh hectare mark even as the overall acreage increased slightly. Pre-germinated seeds are directly drilled in the fields with a tractor-powered machine under the water-conservation technique with no nursery preparation or transplantation unlike the conventional methods of sowing. The farmers have to level the land which has to be irrigated just once before sowing starts. Agriculture department joint director (extension) Gurvidner Singh said of nearly 23 lakh hectare area under the PR (parmal) varieties this season, 6.5 lakh hectares were sown using the DSR method. “For this kharif season, the department had set the target of sowing non-basmati varieties on 10-12 lakh hectares using direct seeding. Though the paddy growers surpassed the last season’s total area, we fell short of achieving our target. The lesser area under DSR means a gross loss to natural resources to irrigate water-guzzling varieties of non-basmati crop,” he said. Till Saturday, rice had been sown on 28-lakh hectare area and the department expects another 2 lakh hectares will be covered under the basmati varieties in the next fortnight. “Of the expected 30 lakh hectares for the kharif crop, nearly 23-lakh hectare land is under the PR varieties. The basmati varieties will be sown on the rest of the 7 lakh hectares,” said the joint director. Farmers like Baldev Singh of Bathinda’s Bajak village are worried as scanty rainfall may impact the yield. “Paddy sowing begins in June and the first two months are quite crucial to the crop when transplanted paddy needs huge quantities of water. Delayed monsoon and poor electricity supply resulted in inadequate irrigation in the fields under direct seeding. Losses may be minimised if the state witnesses rain as predicted in the next week,” said Singh. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) principal agronomist MS Bhullar said the paddy cultivation situation is not critical and field studies say rice cultivated through the DSR is standing firm even as irrigation was inadequate. Bhullar said farmers who sowed paddy through the DSR after the recommended period of May 25 will hardly face any major challenge whereas the early sown crop may encounter problems. Even if some farmers experience marginally lesser yield their net income would not be affected as the DSR saves significantly on water and makes it less labour intensive, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-sowing-punjab-agri-dept-misses-target-to-double-area-under-dsr-technique-101626032920648.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Population stabilisation in Punjab: Special camps for family planning to be held||Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu kick started the population stabilisation fortnight in the state on Sunday on the occasion of World Population Day. He said that Population Day celebrations have been divided into two fortnights this year. Between June 27 and July 10, awareness and mobilisation fortnight was observed. The primary focus of this was to encourage people to use family planning methods and inform them about contraception. The second fortnight will focus on population stabilisation. Over the next two weeks, special camps will be organised at government health institutions all over the state to provide family planning/sterilisation services. Free of cost tubectomy and vasectomy operations will also be performed. Sidhu said that along with population stabilisation through reduction in total fertility rate (TFR), family planning programmes in the state have been re-oriented to promote reproductive health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/population-stabilisation-in-punjab-special-camps-for-family-planning-to-be-held-101626031778858.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Supplying more than allocated water to Capital: Khattar govt||Accusing the Delhi government of resorting to “falsehood to hide its own failures,” the Haryana government on Sunday said the state has been supplying more than the allocated share of water to the national capital.  On Saturday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi had blamed the Haryana government for the water woes in the national capital, and the next day Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha threatened to move the Supreme Court against the Haryana government for not releasing Delhi’s “legitimate share” of water. “The people of Delhi are facing scarcity of water as there is less water in the Yamuna due to the delayed monsoon and due to poor water management in Delhi,” the Haryana government said in a statement. “Though there is 40% less water in the Yamuna, Haryana has been supplying Delhi its share of water,” the government said. The state government, in a release, said Delhi gets 719 cusecs of water at Munak from Yamuna and Ravi- Beas waters and 330 cusecs extra Yamuna water is being released at Munak as per Supreme Court orders. “Due to delayed monsoon, Haryana is facing heavy water scarcity, but we are still maintaining water supply to Delhi without any reduction,” the spokesperson said. Referring to a report of the Economic Survey- 2017 of the Delhi government, the Haryana government spokesperson said 20% of the drinking water in Delhi was wasted due to mismanagement. “It is a matter of great regret that the Haryana government is being criticised by Delhi, despite making positive efforts and following the orders of the Supreme Court,” the spokesperson said, adding that the Upper Yamuna River Board has already verified its position. In May, Delhi had filed a petition in the Supreme Court saying that Haryana was not providing the full share of water to Delhi. This petition was disposed of on the basis of a report by a committee chaired by secretary, ministry of Jal Shakti. Similar petitions filed by Delhi earlier were also disposed of by the Supreme Court, the spokesperson said, adding “shortage of water in Delhi is totally internal mismanagement of Delhi and Haryana has no role in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supplying-more-than-allocated-water-to-capital-khattar-govt-101626031598858.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol price crosses ₹97 per litre mark in Chandigarh||The price of petrol in the city climbed to ₹97.04 per litre on Sunday, the highest it has ever gone and nearing the ₹100 per litre mark. Diesel is also close to hitting the ₹90 mark after reaching ₹89.51 per litre. In less than a week, petrol’s price has risen from ₹96 to ₹97 per litre.In the tricity, fuel is costliest in Mohali with petrol selling for ₹102.94 per litre and diesel for ₹92.81 per litre. Prices in Panchkula are higher than Chandigarh, with petrol at ₹98.35 per litre and diesel at ₹90.28 per litre.Petrol pump owners across the tricity are complaining of decline in sales due to the high prices. Spike in fuel prices is also leading to increase in vegetable rates, with transporters claiming losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-price-crosses-97-per-litre-mark-inchandigarh-101626031539756.html
12-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC leader’s son held for harassing Bengal cop's daughter on social media||The son of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader was arrested from North 24 Parganas district on Sunday on charges of harassing the daughter of a deputy superintendent of West Bengal police, said police officers dealing with the case.Arkadip Kundu, the accused, allegedly posted the victim’s phone number with objectionable photographs on various social media platforms. As a result, the victim was getting phone calls from unknown people for more than a month, an officer from the cybercrime police station in Salt Lake said on condition of anonymity.The victim registered her police complaint on June 12. “She mentioned that Kundu is one of her former classmates. The accused went into hiding. We tracked him down by monitoring the tower location of his mobile phone,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Non-bailable sections were added to the first information report on July 10, he added.The accused, son of Dipak Kundu, a junior leader of the TMC from Uttarpara in Hooghly district, was remanded in police custody for two days when he was produced in court on Sunday afternoon. Police seized two mobile phones from him.Dipak Kundu could not be contacted.“I am thankful to the police administration for taking action,” the victim told the media on Sunday evening. Her father earlier alleged that the police were not taking any action because the accused’s father belongs to the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-leader-s-son-held-for-harassing-bengal-police-officer-s-daughter-on-social-media-101626031360052.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University yet to chalk out plan to reopen campus for students||While the UT administration is readying its plan to reopen city colleges by August, Panjab University (PU) has yet to chalk out its strategy for its departments. The Punjab government has also already allowed universities and colleges to reopen on the condition that the staff and students have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Physical classes at the varsity have remained suspended since March last year when the pandemic first broke out. Teaching for the 2020-2021 academic session was conducted online and semester exams were also held online. As the beginning of the next academic session in August nears, uncertainty still remains over whether classes will continue to be held online. So far PU has allowed only PhD scholars with pending work to stay at the campus hostels. “The semester exams are going on and the admission process will start soon. University will take an appropriate decision after that,” said VR Sinha, PU’s dean university instruction.NSUI suggests phased reopeningLast week, members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) had submitted a memorandum to the varsity, advising phased reopening. They suggested that initially postgraduate students, who had thesis and project works pending, should be allowed to return. In the second phase, students of technical courses, dental college and departments where campus placements take place should be called in, before the rest of the varsity reopens.Former PU senator Rajat Sandhir said it was high time that PU reopened the campus for students. “It can be done in a phased manner with proactive vaccination of students and staff, so that teaching can resume in physical mode,” he said.“Practical sessions cannot be conducted virtually. The university must take advantage of the declining number of Covid cases to resume physical teaching and examinations. Research has also been impacted adversely due to lack of scholars on the campus,” Sandhir added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-yet-to-chalk-out-plan-to-reopen-campus-for-students-101626031358953.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases plunge to 10 after 13 months||The Covid-19 pandemic’s downward trajectory continued on Sunday as 10 people tested positive in the tricity, a first in nearly 13 months.Mohali was the biggest contributor to the drop as it logged only three cases, its lowest since June last year. Chandigarh also hit a new low of six cases, a number it also last recorded only a year ago, while Panchkula logged just one case, for the second time in the past week.The lone fatality on Sunday was reported in Mohali, for the fifth consecutive day. Both Chandigarh and Panchkula have confirmed only one death each since the beginning of July.Amid the devastating second wave, tricity’s daily cases had peaked to 2,612 on May 10, while the highest single-day deaths, at 38, were recorded on May 5.Following a slew of lockdown restrictions across the tricity through May and early June, the number of cases and deaths started declining steadily, now down by 99% and 97%, respectively.From the record 24,201 active cases on May 12, now 210 people are recuperating in the tricity. Among them, 96 are in Mohali, 94 in Chandigarh and 20 in Panchkula. The recovery rate continues to remain over 98% in all three locations, while the daily positivity rate is down to 0.1% in Chandigarh, followed by 0.2% in Panchkula and 0.3% in Mohali.With the downturn in pandemic’s figures, restrictions have been largely eased across the three jurisdictions over the past month, allowing public movement to resume. However, health experts have cautioned against complacency to avert the third wave, while urging residents to continue to exercise precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and sanitising hands frequently.Five of six UT cases from sectorsChandigarh’s fresh cases were reported from Sectors 15, 32, 39, 40 and 49, and Dhanas. Among the three cases in Mohali, two were Mohali city and one from Kharar. Panchkula’s only case was an 18-year-old from Batwal.UT’s caseload has reached 61,829, of which 60,926 patients have been cured and 809 have succumbed to the virus. A total of 68,370 people have been infected in Mohali till date. Among them 67,220 have recovered and 1,056 have died. In Panchkula, 30,217 patients have recovered among the 30,612 found positive so far and 375 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-plunge-to-10-after-13-months-101626031240693.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers target BJP’s meetings across Haryana||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha were confronted by the police on Sunday as they tried to disrupt party meetings of the Bharatiya Janata Party at Fatehabad, Jhajjar and Panipat on Sunday.The farmers waved black flags and raised slogans against state cooperatives minister Banwari Lal and Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal when they reached the party office in Fatehabad. They also protested the visit of Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal in Jhajjar.The farmers broke through the barricades amid heavy police security in Fatehabad and tore posters put up by BJP workers. Lashing out at BKU leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni, Dalal said, “Those leading the protests have been rejected. They are spreading lies about the three farm laws, which have been brought to uplift the farmers.”Farmers detained in Panipat In Panipat, a group of farmers was detained for holding a protest outside the venue of a district executive meeting of the BJP, which had state BJP in-charge Vinod Tawde, education minister Kanwar Pal and local MP Sanjay Bhatia in attendance.Farmers also removed the party’s flags from the main entrance of the venue. Later, the police detained the group and removed them from the spot in a Haryana Roadways bus. Satyawan Narwal, a farmer leader from Panipat, said that they will continue to hold protests against the leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP government and will not be deterred by the use of police force. He also slammed the Opposition for not supporting the farmers’ agitation. Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said that the protesters were not farmers and the agitation was politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-target-bjp-s-meetings-across-haryana-101626030938781.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali becomes a hotbed of protests||Ahead of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections scheduled early next year, Mohali has become a hotbed of protests, keeping the cops of both Chandigarh and Mohali on their toes for the last two months.UT cops have been permanently deployed at the border of Mohali and Chandigarh to deter protesters from entering the union territory. As per record, around 96 protests, organised by various outfits, have been held in Mohali in the last two months.Protests are also being held near the farmhouse of Punjab chief minister (CM), Captain Amarinder Singh, near Siswan in Mullanpur, forcing the authorities to permanently depute police force at the site. Only last week, both Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a big protest against power cuts near the CM’s farm house.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “It is the democratic right of the people to hold protests, but we make sure no untoward incident happens and deploy adequate police force.”Currently ongoing are protests by Punjab’s contractual unemployed teachers, outside Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) building. For the last three weeks, the temporary teachers have been demanding regularisation of their jobs and enhancement in their salaries. There have been several clashes between the protesting teachers and Chandigarh Police, amid use of lathi charge and water cannons.Even patwaris and kanungos in the district have been on strike since June 22, and revenue work has taken a severe hit. They are protesting over the non-fulfilment of their long-pending demand to fill over 2,800 vacancies.The members of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) have been holding protests since June 18 against the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission by the Punjab government. The doctors’ protests have affected OPD services and other elective surgeries in government hospitals of the district. The Punjab government has decided to decrease the non-practising allowance of doctors from 25% to 20%, and delinking it to the total salary calculation will actually decrease the salary of already overburdened government doctors.Also protesting the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission are the members of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union, Mohali, who are regularly holding pen-down strikes in the district. The members of the union are employees of the DC office, PWD office, excise and taxation department, health department, water supply and sanitation department, and others. With this protest, the common man is at the receiving end as no work is being done.Meanwhile, for the last six months, farmers have been regularly protesting outside Bestech Mall in Sector 66, Sohana gurdwara and at various chowks, demanding rollback of the three agri laws.General secretary of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, Dr Manohar Singh, said, “The government must understand the feelings of the people and work towards improving the system, so that people may not be forced to hold protests against the state.”President of the Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) Qualified Unemployed Teachers’ Union, Deepak Kamboj, said, “It is not easy to protest in the soaring heat. We are helpless as despite our requests, they are not paying heed to our demands. Most of the female teachers have left their families and are protesting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-becomes-a-hotbed-of-protests-101626030879328.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Vigilance books 3 employees of Omaxe group, two patwaris for fraud||The economic offences wing of the Vigilance Bureau has registered a case against five employees of real estate company Omaxe group and two patwaris of Mohali district for fraud.The accused were identified as Diwakar Bansal, Ritesh Sehgal, Harsh Bhargava, Baljit Singh patwari and Lekh Raj patwari.The three employees, while working with Omaxe, had allegedly shared internal information with other companies, resulting in losses to the former.Additional inspector general (AIG, Vigilance) Gagan Ajit Singh said, “The company had lodged a complaint in 2019. In the investigation it came to light that all these employees, while working in Omaxe, shared internal information with another company, Ambika Realcon.”He said, “With the shared information, the employees fraudulently got the land from farmers for Omaxe group and later the land was transferred to Ambika group with the help of the two patwaris.”The FIR stated that on the basis of a report of the patwaris, the revenue officers prepared a fake report and on the basis of that report, a change of land use (CLU) was obtained. Further, on the basis of the CLU, the area acquired by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) was again hypothecated from GMADA, and a loan of crores of rupees was taken from OBC Bank, Sector 17, Chandigarh.The accused also got a CLU issued of a disputed area, constructed flats, and sold them to the common public.The AIG said that raids were being conducted to arrest the accused. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 467, 468 and 471 (forgery), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-vigilance-books-3-employees-of-omaxe-group-two-patwaris-for-fraud-101626030821215.html
12-07-2021||Other||Parents’ bodies stage 3-hour protest at Ladhowal toll plaza||Irked with private schools that are allegedly forcing parents to deposit annual charges, members of the Parents’ Association from different districts of Punjab staged a protest at Ladowal toll plaza in Ludhiana for three hours.Parents from SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Khanna, Pathankot, Patiala, Ferozepur, Bathinda and Phagwara participated in the protest.They stated that private schools have hiked the tuition fee and are also forcing them to pay annual charges, such as building and re-admission fee, even though their wards are not utilising the school infrastructure due to online classes.President of the Ludhiana parents’ association, Rajinder Ghai said, “Parents from all districts have come together to get their voice heard. Our main demand is that schools don’t charge any re-admission fee or any extra charges from parents. Even though the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed private schools to only charge tuition fee, parents are still being compelled to pay other charges. Moreover, children whose parents have not been unable to pay these charges are being barred from attending online classes.” Anjali Singh, a parent from SAS Nagar, said, “Due to the pandemic, several parents have lost their jobs, faced losses in business and are unable to pay the hefty school fee. Schools had been closed due to the pandemic, but still school authorities are imposing annual charges etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-bodies-stage-3-hour-protest-at-ladhowal-toll-plaza-101626030820096.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh DGP tells district police chiefs to address people’s complaints timely||Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goel has instructed police chiefs of various districts to stay accessible to the maximum public, listen to the people’s complaints address them timely.The DGP issued these directives while taking stock of law and order in all 10 districts of Varanasi zone in a meeting with senior police officials, including ADG zone Brij Bhushan, IG range SK Bhagat, commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh, DIGs, and SPs here on Sunday.“Stay accessible to the maximum public, stay in the field and deliver your duty, listen to the complaints of people and address them timely,” Goel directed the police chiefs. He also said pending investigations should be carried out at the earliest.Senior officials should keep a watch at social media and present correct facts before the media, the DGP further instructed. He also directed the cops to take strictest action against the accused of crime against women. Constituted for the security of traders and businessmen, traders’ security cell meeting must be held once a month, he added.“Listen to the complaints of traders and businessmen and settle them on priority,” he said. The DGP also instructed the cops for proper patrolling in every area and deploying sufficient police force at jewellery markets, crowded places and main business establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-dgp-tells-district-police-chiefs-to-address-people-s-complaints-timely-101626030818895.html
12-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 24 new Covid cases detected in district||As many as 24 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. However, no deaths or black fungus cases were reported on the day. Two patients are however on ventilator support in the district. The fresh cases include 10 patients with influenza-like symptoms and seven patients referred from outpatient departments. Ludhiana currently has 160 active cases. Besides, 31 patients of black fungus are also recuperating in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-24-new-covid-cases-detected-in-district-101626030398734.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Coaching centres, spas, cinema halls to reopen in Haryana||The Haryana government relaxed some of the restrictions that had been put in place on May 3 on Sunday, even as it extended the lockdown till July 19. As per the latest directions, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes (both government and private) can open with Covid protocols in place. Spas can stay open from 6am to 8pm at 50% capacity. Cinema halls, be it in malls or stand-alone theatres, can also open at 50% seating capacity with social distancing norms. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the National Law University, Delhi, has been permitted to hold the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) on July 23. The state government has allowed universities and colleges to reopen for doubt classes, practical lessons, practical examinations and offline examinations. Hostels, both in colleges and universities, have been allowed to open only for those students who are appearing for examinations. The government has decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16 and Classes 6 to 9 from July 23. The ceiling of gatherings at weddings, funerals and cremations has been increased to 100 people indoors and 200 people outdoors. Swimming pools can be opened for athletes and swimmers practising for a competitive event. Open training centres established under the aegis of the Haryana skill development mission can reopen with staggered attendance. Similarly, industrial training institutes have been allowed to open for doubts and practical classes. The chief secretary said the relaxations permitted earlier will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coaching-centres-spas-cinema-halls-to-reopen-in-haryana-101626030158576.html
12-07-2021||Other||Amid infighting in Cong, BJP, big names set to join AAP: Cheema||With fissures evident in the Punjab unit of Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), leader of opposition (LoP) in the Punjab assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema on Sunday claimed that some senior leaders from both parties are in talks with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership and may switch sides in the coming days.Cheema was speaking at the Circuit House during an interaction with industry leaders for preparation of the party manifesto ahead of the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections.“Some senior leaders from both parties (Congress and BJP), who wish to contribute to the prosperity of the state, are in talks with us. This includes some big names. It would be too early to reveal their names. But they are soon going to formally join the AAP,” claimed Cheema.Hitting out at the ruling Congress on the issue of power crisis in the state, Cheema said that traders and industrialists are exasperated by the costly and erratic power supply and rampant corruption in government offices. He said that many industrial units are shifting to other states. Cheema alleged that while the GST return of the industry was pending, the state government has started VAT recovery.On the issue of offering free power to the people of the state, Cheema said that currently, the Congress regime is “doling out money to crony capitalists”. He said, “Those objecting to AAP for offering 300 units free to the people of the state must answer that why in the last few months, ₹6,000 crore was given to private power companies in lieu of power that was not even used. We want to benefit the common man of the state, not crony capitalists.”He said that if the AAP came to power, it will first scrap the power agreement made by the previous government, led by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD- BJP), with the private power companies and also put an end to mining mafia.He added instead of offering crores of rupees to private power companies, the benefit will be transferred to people of the state.Cheema also took an overt jibe at the Congress for protecting Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains. “It is indeed shocking and saddening that despite the directions of the court, Ludhiana police is reluctant to register a case against Bains who is facing serious allegations of power misuse and physical exploitation of a woman,” said Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-infighting-in-cong-bjp-big-names-set-to-join-aap-cheema-101626030100282.html
12-07-2021||Other||Govt’s inflexible stance on NPA condemnable: Bir Devinder||Chandigarh Responding to the decision of doctors in Punjab to go on strike for three days from July 12-July 14 in protest against the state government, former deputy speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, Bir Devinder Singh, has slammed the government. “It is preposterous that the state government has failed to resolve the issue to the satisfaction of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination committee and the PCMSA,” he said. The doctors are protesting over the report of Sixth Punjab Pay Commission that recommends delinking of their non-practicing allowance (NPA) from their basic pay. “The inflexible attitude of the state government against the reasonable demands of Covid frontline warriors is condemnable. The exemplary services rendered by the doctors’ at a phenomenal risk, during the Covid pandemic, disregarding the safety of their own families, must be acknowledged by the government with modesty,” he suggested. He added that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had provided an alarming information that 776 doctors lost their lives in the second wave of Covid; in the first wave, according to IMA figures 748 had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govts-inflexible-stance-on-npa-condemnable-bir-devinder-101626030038716.html
12-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana police lags behind in filing chargesheet in sexual assault cases||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has been lagging behind in filing chargesheet in sexual assault cases, giving a free pass to the alleged offenders in these cases.This even as the district has the grim distinction of having the highest number of sexual assault cases in the entire state. Of the total 2,556 sexual assault cases registered in Punjab between January 2016 and December 2020, as many as 1, 031 (40.3%) were from Ludhiana. Of these, police managed to file a chargesheet in only 822 cases (79.7%).Their counterparts in other districts seem to be doing much better. Of the 1,525 sexual assault cases registered in all other districts, chargesheet has not been filed only in 20 cases.Advocate Gaganpreet Singh, president of the Help Organisation, said that if the police don’t file the chargesheet on time, the accused can get bail from the court. “In cases where the provision of imprisonment is less than 10 years, police have to file a chargesheet within 60 days if the accused is in police custody. In cases, where the imprisonment is more than 10 years, police have to file a chargesheet within 90 days,” said Singh. Ludhiana police officials say the main reason behind lag is lack of cooperation from victims and their family members, many of who moved to their native places after the crime. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, head quarters) Ashiwini Gotyal said, “Ludhiana, being an industrial city, has a large chunk of migrant population. In most such crimes, children of labourer are the victims. The labourers leave their kids alone at home while they go off to work in factories, leaving them vulnerable to such crimes. It is often seen in such cases that the families leave for their native places once such an incident occurs. We are trying to trace these victims and convince their families to pursue the case.”Advocate Parupkar Singh Ghumman, former president of the district bar association, said that in cases where the complainant and witnesses do not record their statements, police remain helpless. He added that if migrant labourers go back to their native places, police should try to trace them using technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-lags-behind-in-filing-chargesheet-in-sexual-assault-cases-101626029918958.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: DRI busts ₹32 crore gold import racket||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted a gold import racket and allegedly seized a consignment of 100kg of gold potassium cyanide (GPC) worth ₹32 crores at the Air Cargo Complex in Mumbai. The agency arrested two persons on Saturday who were allegedly involved in the racket of exporting the material. Both were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody till July 21.The agency claims that they suspected that the buyers are spread across big cities in India. GPC is also known as potassium dicyanoaurate and its primary application is in the electrolytic gold plating of metals. The seized consignment was being exported to Dubai by a Mumbai-based firm, the DRI mentioned in the press release. The people who are part of the racket claimed that the GPCs they tried to export was made of duty-free imported gold for post-value re-export. The GPC attempted to be exported, was falsely declared to be the resultant products made from the duty-free import of gold that the Mumbai based firm was permitted to bring in as input against an Advance Authorisation (AA) license. The DIR mentioned in the release that, “the Mumbai based exporter never manufactured any products out of the duty-free for export from gold which was permitted to import by his company. Instead, it diverted the imported duty-free gold to the domestic market at a profit, by melting and recasting it. This effectively led to the violation of the ‘actual user condition” imposed under the AA Scheme. After selling the gold in the open market, the Mumbai-based exporter procured GPC from a connected firm based at Gandhinagar, Gujarat, and inaccurately claiming it to be a resultant product made of the imported gold brought in duty-free under the AA, mentioned in the press release.The official suspected after finding the Gandhinagar company is engaged in a solar energy solution that has nothing to do with gold. The Gandhinagar firm imported GPC last week from Indonesia by claiming a 0% tariff concession benefit available under the ASEAN India Free Trade Agreement (AIFTA).The documents and other evidence collected indicated that the GPC exported to Dubai was relocated to Indonesia and returned to Mumbai through the Gandhinagar office. The same produced entered and exited the country regularly. As per the investigation, the estimated duty evasion is ₹338 crores. The arrested accused were controlling and operating illicit schemes. The DIR did not disclose their names as the investigation is going on, said the DRI officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dri-busts-32-crore-gold-import-racket-101626029798179.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Doctors root for jabs from second trimester of pregnancy||The ministry of health and family welfare has approved Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant women underlining that the benefits of vaccination outweigh their potential risks. The only condition that the ministry has put forward is that the pregnant women should be informed about the risks of exposure to Covid-19 along with the risks and benefits associated with the three vaccines – Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V – available in India. Mumbai is set to roll out vaccinations for pregnant women this week. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said they are in the process of training the staff and are likely to start the vaccinations from Thursday. While the Centre’s guidelines allow women to get vaccinated at any point during the pregnancy, some doctors said it is advisable to take the jab after the first trimester – from conception to 12 weeks of pregnancy. The first trimester is when the process of organogenesis or formation of organs takes place. Medical experts do not prescribe any drug or vaccines during this period to avoid any interference in organ development. “The Covid-19 vaccines are completely safe, but I would be reluctant to prescribe them during the first trimester,” said Dr Kiran Coelho, gynaecologist, from Lilavati Hospital. “I would prefer that my patients take it after 12 weeks when the organogenesis is complete and the baby is simply growing in size,” she said. PLACENTAL BARRIER The mechanism used by the three available vaccines is such that there is no possibility of viral infection crossing the placental barrier in pregnant women. Covishield and Sputnik V are ‘viral vector vaccines’ that use a harmless adenovirus to deliver the genetic material from the Covid-19 virus to the host and induce immunity. Covaxin is a ‘killed virus vaccine’ which uses inactivated or killed genetic material of Covid-19 to induce immunity in the host. “The vaccines we currently have produce antibodies in the host and few studies have also found that these antibodies could be passed on from the mother to the baby, which would shield them from the infection,” said Dr Arun Nayak, head of gynaecology at the civic-run LTMG Hospital in Sion. “Live virus vaccines are a contraindication for pregnant women as there would be a risk of the viral infection crossing the placental barrier. But none of the vaccines available in India are live virus vaccines,” he said. Nayak too said it would be advisable for pregnant women to take the vaccines after the first trimester. “It is a universally known precaution followed by all gynaecologists. We don’t prefer prescribing anything to pregnant women during the first 12 weeks,” he said. VACCINES ARE SAFE The Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) was the first body to push for vaccination for pregnant women. A position statement issued by FOGSI in April said there is no available evidence about any teratogenic effects caused by the vaccines. In medical terms, a teratogen is an agent that can disturb the development of the embryo or foetus. FOGSI, however, said women who get vaccinated in early pregnancy should not panic or should not be advised to terminate their pregnancies. They should be counselled that the risk of congenital anomalies does not rise above the baseline risk. At that time, FOGSI’s statement also said that “it would be prudent to defer vaccination in the first trimester as there is no substantial available data to establish the absence of teratogenicity.” “Other countries that have opened vaccinations for pregnant women are allowing the jabs at any point during the pregnancy. We are also of the same opinion,” said Dr Alpesh Gandhi, the immediate past president of FOGSI. “We have been actively involved with the centre before it came out with the guidelines for pregnant women and there is consensus that women can take the jab at any point during the pregnancy,” he said. BOX Higher ICU admissions, fatality, among pregnant women in the second wave: study There was eight-fold rise in the case fatality rate of pregnant women with Covid-19 during the second wave, a study carried out by doctors from civic-run BYL Nair Hospital and the National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH) has found. Published in the American Journal of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the study analysed outcomes of 1,143 pregnant women with Covid-19 who came to BYL Nair between April 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021 (considered as the period of first-wave by the researchers) and 387 pregnant women with Covid-19 who sought treatment at the hospital between February 1 to May 14, 2021 (second wave). The case fatality rate among pregnant women jumped from 0.7% in the first wave to 5.7% in the second wave, an eight-fold rise. “The rates of severe Covid-19, admission to the intensive care unit or high dependency unit, case fatality rate, and maternal mortality ratio was higher during the second wave. The preterm birth rate and stillbirth rate were not statistically different,” the study said, adding that nearly 93% of maternal deaths were due to Covid-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. The study noted a higher frequency of severe Covid-19, intensive care unit or high dependency unit admission, and maternal deaths during the second wave. Researchers said the highly virulent B.1.167 variant could have a role to play and underlined the importance of vaccination for pregnant and lactating women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctors-root-for-jabs-from-second-trimester-of-pregnancy-101626029739133.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to see smooth Covid-19 vaccination drive today||Mumbai received 85,000 vaccine doses on Saturday night, which will facilitate a smooth vaccination drive on Monday, across all vaccine centres in the city. While this stock will likely suffice for only two days - Monday and Tuesday - Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting more doses to arrive on Monday or Tuesday night.On Monday, vaccination will take place between 9am and 5pm.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department said, “We received 84,000 vaccine doses on Saturday night. These will be sufficient for two days at most, depending on the turn-out at vaccine centres. We are expecting more vaccine doses to come by Monday or Tuesday.”“Mumbai can vaccinate 150,000 beneficiaries per day. So we put in demand with the state government for doses to vaccinate up to 100,000 beneficiaries per day. However, since the state government has not been getting enough vaccine doses from the Centre, based on available stock, Mumbai receives its share,” Kakani added.Presently, Mumbai has 401 vaccination centres, of which 283 are BMC centres, 20 state government-operated, and 98 are private. While the vaccination centres take 50% of beneficiaries by appointment, and 50% through on-spot walk-ins registrations.Among these seven vaccine centres are administering the Covishield vaccine to citizens travelling to other countries for jobs, education, or the Tokyo Olympics. The second dose of the vaccine is available only at these seven centres for these beneficiaries, 28 days after taking the first dose. The 29 other vaccine centres are administering the second dose for Covaxin, with 100 doses available per centre.On Saturday, 48,393 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 34,901 received their first dose, and 13,492 received their second dose. So far, 4,735,541 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their first dose, and 1,273,484 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their second dose||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-see-smooth-vaccination-drive-today-101626029678678.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Small person, won’t react, says Pawar over Patole’s claim||Days after the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief Nana Patole accused allies Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) of back-stabbing and not fulfilling the promises, Sharad Pawar downplayed Patole. While responding to a question on Patole’s allegations, the NCP chief said he need not react to comments by “small people”.“These are small people. Why should I react? If Sonia Gandhi says something, I will give my reaction,” said Pawar during his interaction on Sunday at Baramati, his hometown. Patole while accusing the allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had asked Congress workers to transform hardships into strength while reiterating his stance of going solo in the upcoming electionsCommenting on complaints from workers that Pune district guardian minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar was not helping them with their work, Patole during his interaction with party workers at Lonavla had asked them to keep calm and instead convert the anger into strength.“The guardian minister is from Baramati. Whose work he is doing? Is he getting work done for our members? You need to convert this hardship into strength. Do not treat this hardship as mental weakness,” said Patole.The MPCC chief had also accused both the MVA allies of not fulfilling the promises.“It’s fine that they are not giving us our share, it will come to us. But you need to take a vow that one day, the guardian minister here will be from our party. If they do not want to compromise and backstab while being together, then we won’t say anything but transform our hardships into strengths.”Reacting to the post of speaker, which is with Congress as part of an arrangement among MVA allies, Pawar said, “Our decision is clear and the post of the speaker is with Congress. Whomever they will decide will be the speaker.” On fighting elections solo, Pawar said every party has the right to expand the party base and there’s nothing wrong. “There shouldn’t be misunderstanding even leaders of all three parties say that their parties will fight polls alone. We are together in the government but not running parties together,” he said. Patole on Friday had said, “I am not going to backtrack on what I said about fighting elections solo. The other day, CM also appealed [to Shiv Sena workers] to start preparing for polls. If I say something, it becomes a problem but now that he is saying it then it is okay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/small-person-won-t-react-says-pawar-over-patole-s-claim-101626029558122.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||CDO apologises to scribe he attacked in Unnao||The chief development officer of Unnao Divyanshu Patel, who caught hold of a television journalist and beat him up during Block Pramukh elections in Unnao on Saturday, is said to have apologised to the scribe on Sunday.Patel had attacked journalist Krishna Tiwari while the latter was reporting outside a polling centre for Block Pramukh election.A video of the incident went viral on social media drawing widespread criticism for the official and government machinery. Considering the backlash, the state government has ordered a probe into the incident.Meanwhile, the CDO is said to have met Tiwari on Sunday and apologised for his action. The officer also reportedly called Tiwari to his office and met him in person. “He expressed his apology for the behaviour. He said that he failed to identify me in the crowd. He also apologised to my family members,” said Tiwari. No police complaint was lodged regarding the matter.While the CDO could not be reached for a comment despite repeated phone calls, his photograph showing him offering sweet to the journalist went viral on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cdo-apologises-to-scribe-he-attacked-in-unnao-101626029439195.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: What does a consistent low repo rate mean for various loan borrowers?||Borrowers inclined to take a loan were in for a pleasant surprise as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced that its repo and reverse rates would remain unchanged at 4% and 3.5%, respectively. The decision, taken at the monetary policy review meeting last month, means that interest rates are likely to remain static in the coming months, which is an advantage to borrowers, both existing and new. Of course, the extent to which a borrower would benefit depends on other factors, including agreements signed before loan approval. Let’s take a look at some of them. Home loan Home loans, usually taken over a prolonged period, result in a lot of interest outgo. A fall in interest rate can have a considerable impact on the total interest paid. Most lenders approve home loan applications charged on floating interest rates. In a circular passed by the RBI in October 2019, it is compulsory to link all floating rate loans to an external benchmark from the several benchmarks included in the circular. With most banks choosing repo rate as the benchmark for their loans, the continued fall in repo rates spells a good sign for borrowers as they will spend less money on repaying their loans through equated monthly installments (EMIs). Existing home loan borrowers who had sought loans on a fixed interest rate basis have to continue repaying them at the same rate. However, borrowers with loans more than three years old must check if they have benefited from the reduced interest rate. For this, they must check the benchmark under which their loan had been sanctioned. Those who had not linked their loans to any external benchmark may have to continue paying high interest on loans. However, they may also ask their lenders to switch their loans to external benchmark-linked loans in lieu of nominal charges or shift their loans to other banks. Vehicle loan Vehicle loans are mostly taken for five to seven years, and are approved on a fixed interest rate basis. Seeking one now means getting the loans financed at considerable low-interest rates that will remain fixed over the tenure. Borrowers will benefit from low EMIs throughout the loan tenure due to the fixed nature of the loan. Those with an existing loan can escape the burden of paying more interest by shifting the loan to another lender. However, one must check details regarding foreclosure charges regarding loan prepayment. If foreclosure charges are considerably low and there is a lot of time left for loan repayment, it makes sense to benefit from the lower rate charged by another lender. Personal loan Personal loan rates are higher than other loans due to their unsecured nature. Seeking personal loans now at the current interest rates means prolonged savings on interest payment with a hike in interest rates unlikely in the near term. However, personal loan borrowers must be aware of their credit score as it has an effect on the interest rates offered to them and whether the lenders charge interest on a fixed or floating interest rate basis. Those with existing personal loans, however, may be in for a bit of an unpleasant surprise if they had sought the loan on a fixed interest rate basis. Borrowers can ask for a switch if they realize a huge difference between their loan rates and the current interest rates. Those in the first cycle of their loan repayment will benefit most as these loans are allowed for three to five years only, thus, resulting in good savings. This is because a major portion of the EMIs paid during the first half of the repayment period consists of the interest amount. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-what-does-a-consistent-low-repo-rate-mean-for-various-loan-borrowers-101626029078732.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Govt’s “unconcern” over rising prices sad: Maya||Expressing her concern over rising prices of essential commodities, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati asked why the government was not taking the issue seriously and nor was it concerned over it.In a series of tweets on Sunday, she said, “The prices of the essential commodities—petrol, diesel, cooking gas, milk etc—are increasing continuously and the inflation is sky-rocketing. People are forced to suffer and their condition is sad. The unconcern of the government over the issue is sad.”“In order to effectively deal with the problem of poverty, unemployment and inflation etc everywhere in the country, it is necessary for the central and state governments to devote their full power and resources to their solution so that the country can be taken out of the atmosphere of despair. Development can be brought on the right track,” the BSP chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govts-unconcern-over-rising-prices-sad-maya-101626028898098.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||Fake road tax collection racket busted, four held||With the arrest of four people from Agra district, the Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday claimed to have unearthed a racket operating a parallel road tax collection system covering various states through a fake website.Police officials, however, said the racket’s kingpin Balveer alias Ballo of Palwal, Haryana, along with four others was still at large and further efforts were on to trace and arrest them. The officials said those arrested were identified as three Mathura residents Rajendra alias Raju, Prem Singh and Monu and Haryana resident Harsh Mittal.Moreover, the names of five more Haryana residents, including Balveer, Prakash Singh, Mahendra alias Arman, Sandip and Dheeraj also surfaced during the investigation, they added. Additional director general (ADG) of police, UP, Prashant Kumar said the accused operated a parallel road tax collection system through a website—tcchandra. He said the fraudsters set up booths on roadside on state borders and issued fake road tax collection receipts to commercial vehicles passing through there.He said the racket was unearthed on the complaint of an Agra resident Puneet Parashar who was also issued a similar fake receipt from one of these booths. He said an FIR of fraud, using forged documents as genuine, impersonation and misuse of information technology had been registered at Agra cybercrime police station in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fake-road-tax-collection-racket-busted-four-held-101626028778643.html
12-07-2021||Other||Farmers’ groups oppose farm bills tabled by Maharashtra govt||Organisations representing farmers have opposed the three farm bills tabled in the state legislature on July 6, stating that the proposed laws would not serve the interest of the farmers and the move is in fact an “attempt to crush” the ongoing agitation on the borders of Delhi. Accusing that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state has acted under pressure from the corporate lobby as well as the Centre, the farmers’ groups have threatened to launch a statewide protest to oppose the state’s bills. MVA government – comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress – had tabled the three bills proposing amendments to the Central farm laws, in both the houses of state legislature. The government has invited suggestions from the farmers, citizens and their organisations on the bills in the next two months before passing them in the winter session in December. The bills were said to be amendments negating the objectionable provisions that are against the farmers’ interest in the Central laws. Famers’ groups, however, have said that introducing the amendment bills is betraying the farmers and their ongoing protest as all the three ruling parties had extended their support to the stir. “We had demanded an unequivocal resolution in the monsoon session to demand repealing of the Central farm laws. Instead of that, MVA introduced amendment bills,” a statement by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella body of farmer groups supporting the ongoing protest at Delhi border, read. Ajit Nawale, state general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said that the bills tabled by MVA government are not going to serve any purpose and the act of bringing them in haste was a suspicious one. “In fact, the state government’s bills are more stringent than the laws passed by the Centre. There is no protection given to farmers from getting exploited by middlemen or ensuring that farmers get minimum support prices (MSP). Further, the bill replaces the sub-divisional magistrate as the appellate authority with competent authority, but does not clarify about the authority,” he said. More than 100 organisations representing farmers have come together in the support of the farmers’ protest and have announced to launch a similar agitation if the bills were not withdrawn by MVA government. According to the farmers’ associations, the state government has made a provision of penalty of up to ₹5 lakh and the imprisonment up to three years for harassment of farmers, but the definition of ‘harassment’ is loose ended. The trader is at the liberty of denying the produce, delaying the transportation of the goods, not abiding with rates agreed upon as these do not lead to the harassment. The bills say MSP will be applicable only if the contract is done for two years, which is not the general practice in Maharashtra. “The existing APMC (agricultural produce market committee) has a provision of stricter action against such traders by attaching his property and booking him under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. Section 29(1)(IX) of the APMC Act has powers to market committees to take action against such traders,” said Nawale. Agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse said, “The laws have been tabled in the state legislature and are open for suggestions and objections by farmers, their organisations and citizens. We are not claiming that the laws are fool proof or what we have proposed is final. There are two months for deliberations over the bills and organisations opposing them should raise their concerns on an appropriate forum.” Pratibha Shinde of another organisation, Loksangharsh Morcha, said the outfit does not want the amendment bills tabled because it does not approve them. “All the three ruling parties have supported the ongoing farmers’ agitation on the Delhi border and had opposed the Centre’s farm laws. Our question now is why did they bring laws which are a replica of the Central laws, with only some minor corrections. The move by MVA government is uncalled for as the Central laws have been stayed by the Supreme Court and are unlikely to be implemented immediately in the country. If MVA so serious about the interest of the farmers, it should have amended the APMC Act, 1963, which also was amended in 2005,” she said. Shinde said that they doubt if it was a backdoor political move to crush the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar welcomed Maharashtra government’s move, while leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly said the laws are similar to the Central Acts. This clearly indicates that the bills tabled by state government may help the Modi government in crushing the agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-groups-oppose-farm-bills-tabled-by-maharashtra-govt-101626028718038.html
12-07-2021||Other||ED case against Deshmukh: Ex-Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze’s statement taken again||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers on Sunday recorded the statement of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze at Taloja jail in connection with the money laundering case against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, which the agency is probing.Vaze is in judicial custody after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare case and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.This is the third time that the agency has recorded Vaze’s statement and quizzed him about other alleged financial irregularities linked to Deshmukh. Earlier, his statement was recorded in the jail on May 19 and 21. Earlier, on the basis of Vaze’s revelations, the central agency had arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26. ED has alleged that Deshmukh misused his position as minister, and collected ₹4.7 crore from orchestra bars in Mumbai for their “smooth functioning” through Vaze. The money was sent to two Delhi-based brothers who operated bogus companies, said the agency. The money was channelised into Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan – a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family – under the garb of donations, at the behest of the former minister’s son Hrishikesh, the agency has claimed.ED has claimed that while collecting money from bar owners, Vaze told them that a part of the amount was to be divided among a certain “No 1”, the crime and the social service branches of the Mumbai Police. The anti-money laundering agency alleged that Vaze had claimed that Deshmukh had called him to his official residence and instructed him to collect ₹3 lakh from all bars and restaurants in the city. He was allegedly also given a list of the establishments.ED has identified 24 private entities that are directly and indirectly controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money had moved among them without any rationale. “From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers and can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The agency also stated that Palande, during interrogation, admitted that a meeting was held on March 4 with police officers in which a discussion over imposing the Covid-19 restrictions on bars had been taken. Palande said Deshmukh had a role in the transfers and postings of police officers, especially those of the IPS (Indian Police Service) rank. During the meetings on transfer of police officers, an ‘unofficial list’ used to be prepared. However, the defence lawyer had refuted the allegations.In the various petitions filed against Deshmukh in the Bombay high court, several allegations were made over his involvement in the alleged cash-for-transfer racket. During the investigation, the names of some ministers and other persons were revealed who had played a role in the transfer of police officers.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered based on a first information report (FIR) by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him on April 21. CBI had started the probe after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had accused the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader of running an “extortion racket” in Mumbai and instructing some police officers to collect ₹100 crore for him every month from various establishments. Deshmukh had called the allegations false and claimed that Singh levelled accusations only after he was shunted out from the Mumbai Police chief’s post for his “poor handling” of the Antilia explosives scare and Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-case-against-deshmukh-ex-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-s-statement-taken-again-101626028599349.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants pre-arrest bail to rape accused||The Bombay high court (HC) recently granted anticipatory bail to an engineer from the public works department who was booked for raping a woman constable attached to Pune Rural police under the pretext of marriage. The constable later killed herself in February. While the police did not name the engineer in the suicide case, the accused approached the court apprehending arrest in the rape case. HC allowed the application after it was informed that the physical relationship between the two was consensual. The single judge bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the application of Ajay Bansode, 53, was informed by senior counsel Manoj Mohite that the applicant was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for repeated rape, unnatural sex and cheating a woman on the pretext of marriage in January, 2021. Mohite stated that Bansode was going through a divorce proceeding when he got into the physical relationship with the constable. The bench was further informed that the constable was aware of his client’s pending divorce proceedings and still agreed to the physical relationship, hence it was consensual. Mohite added that the complaint was lodged by the constable after she came to know that Bansode had received another proposal for marriage and refused to marry her till the divorce proceedings were completed. In light of these submissions, Mohite said that there was no need for custodial interrogation of his client, and hence he should be granted protection. The two had allegedly met in January 2020 and had a physical relationship. However, later Bansode told the constable that he had got a marriage proposal from another woman. After this, Mohite claimed, the constable started threatening Bansode to marry her, failing which she would lodge a complaint. He said the applicant promised to marry her after the divorce proceeding, but the constable lodged a complaint of rape and cheating in January 2021. She later killed herself in February 2021. In light of the submissions, the court reached the conclusion that the physical relationship between Bansode and the constable was consensual and hence custodial interrogation was not required. While allowing the application, the court ordered that in the event of arrest, Bansode would be released on furnishing a personal bond of ₹25,000 and sureties and he would have to attend the investigation at Worli police station and also surrender his cell phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-rape-accused-101626028600060.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai youths make shelter for street dogs using waste plastic||A group of youngsters from Navi Mumbai used their free time for environment and made a shelter home for street dogs, by using innovative ideas such as using plastic to make bottle bricks. Once the first one was made, they started collecting more plastic waste and installed several similar structures, especially in view of the monsoon. Vasundhara Gupte, 18, and her friend Khushi Shah, an environment lover, created a group called Urvari to conduct social environment-related activities. They started in 2019 by planting 10 trees every weekend, but their work stopped due to the lockdown. Brainstorming over how to continue their work even amid the restrictions, this group came up with the idea of making shelter homes for street dogs in the vicinity in July last year. After trying out a few experiments, the group posted on social media, urging people not to waste plastic bottles and instead send it to them.Gupte said, “We have taken up small eco brick projects last July to make a shelter home for street animals in heavy monsoon. Accordingly, we posted on our social media urging people to give their plastic waste to us. We were making plastic bottles by stuffing 300 grams of plastic waste wrappers and other things in each bottle. We mostly approached college students via social networking sites to prepare eco bricks at home and drop in at any of our drop stations across the city. More than 100 such bricks have been received from donors. We need around 150 such bottle bricks to build a shelter. Once it was ready, we kept t at Rajiv Gandhi Udyan, Sector 29, Vashi with the permission of the corporator of the area. Now, we are conducting this project on a much larger scale and are going to build a few more shelters in the next few weeks.”Shah said, “Every day tonnes of plastic goes to waste without being recycled, and street animals eat this plastic or the waste related to it when they get hungry. So, we urge all residents to donate their plastic to us and we will use the same for a good cause. Earlier, we made dustbins and several other usable things in daily life using waste plastic. This shelter home is our gift to these animals who do not get shelter during heavy rains.”Shashikant Raut, corporator of Vashi sector 29, praised the youth and made available four-five areas near gardens under his jurisdiction to install the shelter homes. Raut said, “I am really amazed after watching the efforts these children have taken to build this innovative shelter home. I have five parks in my area with Rajiv Gandhi Udyan being the biggest one. More than seven street dogs stay in that garden and during monsoon they hide under benches. Most of the time people kick them off the bench. Therefore, I have asked these youths to keep their shelter in the garden for these dogs. We have plans to keep five of such shelters in different areas in the gardens in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-youths-make-shelter-for-street-dogs-using-waste-plastic-101626028598834.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man kills neighbour over suspicion of having affair with his wife||Amboli police arrested a 40-year-old Andheri resident on Saturday, for allegedly killing his friend over suspicion that the deceased was having an affair with his wife. Police officers said the accused, Rakesh Devendra, had stabbed his friend and neighbour when he found him at the former’s house in his absence.“Devendra, an employee of a private firm, had suspected that his wife was having an affair with his neighbour Santosh Kirupali, 29, and wanted to shift to stay away from the victim,” said a police officer.On Saturday morning when Devendra returned from Sion, where they have a flat, along with his son, he found Kirupali at his house. He confronted Kirupali who refused to admit to the affair, leading to a fight. Devendra in a fit of rage grabbed a knife from the kitchen and stabbed Kirupali in the stomach. The neighbours called the police emergency number and reported the incident. Amboli police reached the spot and took Kirupali to a hospital where he was declared dead. The police then conducted panchnama and arrested Devendra.“Devendra has confessed to the murder,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-kills-neighbour-over-suspicion-of-having-affair-with-his-wife-101626028598113.html
12-07-2021||Lucknow||If voted to power, we’ll get Covid management audit done in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said if voted to power in Uttar Pradesh next year, his government will get an audit of Covid-19 management done in the state and take strict action against officials for allegedly concealing data related to deaths. The former UP chief minister also accused the state government of hiding Covid death figures and claimed that it hid data as it did not want to help the people. “After the assembly elections in the state and the formation of the SP government, an audit (of Covid-19 management) will be done and officials who had concealed information will face stringent action. During the pandemic, there was a time when it was felt that there was no government in UP. People were left to their fate ,” Akhilesh said while addressing his first press conference after the onset of the second wave of pandemic at the party headquarters here.“The government did not give the statistics pertaining to the Covid deaths, nor any help was given to them (victims). They (UP government) did not give the statistics as they did not want to help (the people),” Yadav told reporters.Akhilesh also alleged that people struggled for beds, medicines, oxygen. Many people lost their lives for want of these things. “Had those facilities been available, those people would have been alive. If anybody is responsible for all this, it is the BJP government,” he alleged.The SP chief also talked about the issue of teachers who allegedly died during panchayat poll duties in the state. “When the teachers went on (panchayat poll) duty, it was said that only three teachers died (on poll duty due to Covid). Later, when teachers’ organisations and we raised questions, the government had to admit that actually how many lives were lost,” he said. (With Agency Inputs)UP govt should thank officials for helping it rig rural polls, says SP chief Hitting out at the UP government, SP national president Akhilesh Yadav said the BJP government “should have thanked the state police and administrative officers for helping it rig the zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat polls”.“The BJP thanked many for their victory in the polls but they did not thank the police and administrative officers who aided BJP’s goondagardi (hooliganism). Had the police and administrative officers not worked for the BJP, the poll results would have been different,” he said at the press conference. “When BJP on Saturday celebrated the victory in the block pramukh polls, we saw how they (chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh shared ladoos) after violating the democracy,” he said.“How when the people voted in the direct panchayat polls (first phase in April), Samajwadi Party won the elections and BJP got defeated but when the indirect elections happened for the zila panchayat chiefs and then for the block pramukhs, the BJP won,” Akhilesh added.“I have till now resisted using the word goondagardi (hooliganism), but now I say that no party can surpass BJP in goondagardi”, he alleged.Reiterating that the SP was preparing a list of all the police and administrative officers who aided BJP in the elections, he said, “We will take action when our party returns to power in 2022 as people are restive to oust BJP from power in the state.” “I have BJP’s 2017 election manifesto in my hand and I am reading out from it that says BJP will double the income of farmers by 2022. Now I am asking the BJP when and where the income of the farmers had doubled,” the SP chief said.On the 2022 UP assembly polls, he said, “The Samajwadi Party will form the government in UP 2022. We will take small parties along and talks are going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/if-voted-to-power-we-ll-get-covid-management-audit-done-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-101626028478904.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||How vaccination scam unfolded in Mumbai||Between April and June, as the city was hit with a second wave and a lockdown, at least 4,055 residents of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai found themselves faced with another unfolding catastrophe: the first shot of Covishield vaccine that they had received was fake, and for a few weeks, they had no idea what liquid had been injected into their veins.The scam broke on June 14, when residents of Hiranandani Society in Kandivli realised something was amiss after the CoWin platform generated certificates that got two crucial details wrong: the date of the vaccine drive and the name of the hospital they thought they had tied up with. It turns out that the certificates, like their vaccine doses, were fakes.The national vaccination drive’s third phase guidelines that opened up vaccination to all adults starting May 1 permitted private hospitals to buy vaccines directly from manufacturers and administer them to people at a higher cost. At the time, only the Centre was buying vaccines from the manufacturers – Serum Institute of India (SII), which produced Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which produced Covaxin – and distributing these across states. The state governments in turn would distribute a section of these vaccines to private hospitals. The new guidelines allowed states, and private hospitals, to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers who, in turn, increased the price of their vaccines for the market. To make matters easier for citizens who could afford to pay for their vaccines, several housing societies across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region tied up with private hospitals to conduct the vaccination drive.BMC came out with its standard operating procedure (SOP) for housing societies a week back. As per the new guidelines, nodal officers appointed by the housing society or the office management will ensure that private Covid-19 vaccination centres (PCVC) or private hospitals engaged with vaccination are registered on the CoWin portal. The nodal officers have to contact and verify the authenticity of the PCVC with the local health authority. Hiranandani Society’s committee members organised a vaccination camp over two days, on May 30 and June 1, after Mahendra Singh approached them with the offer of inoculating the residents (390 in all) with Covishield. Singh said that the vaccines would be procured from Versova’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital. On May 30, the first day of the drive, 390 people received their first shot. Upon receiving their vaccine certificates through email from different hospitals, the residents found crucial details were incorrect. What’s more, they began to receive calls asking for their CoWin platform OTP, an indication that they had not done the due diligence and registered on the platform before vaccination. The society members also had not taken a no objection certificate from BMC to conduct the drive; they did not know and were told it was taken by the accused.Hiranandani Residents Association filed a first information report (FIR) on June 15, and investigations by Kandivli police revealed that this was just the tip of the iceberg.Scam comes to light In all 10 FIRs have been registered in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai – the latest was registered on July 2. Among the victims are commercial establishments, a school [Podar School] and a housing society [Hiranandani Heritage]. Also a branch of Bank of Baroda. At the heart of it, the scam was a way of making quick money, and it was the brain child of Shivam Hospital owners Dr Shivraj Pataria and his wife Neeta. They roped in Dr Manish Tripathi, who runs Knowledge Centre for Educational Planning (KCEP) Institute, a training centre for nursing students and ward boys in the hospital premises. In all, the police estimates that the trio managed to earn ₹5 crore through the unsuspecting victims.Shivam Hospital, located in Kandivli, was a private vaccination centre registered with the BMC. It had the permission to conduct a vaccination drive till April 30. The hospital received over 20,000 vials from the BMC, but police officers said, not all of them were used at the hospital. The doctor-couple kept the empty vials, which were then filled with saline water and used in the scam.Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) said at a press conference that the accused administered the leftover vials as well as saline water injections in the camps that they conducted before April 23. The trio contacted Rajesh Pandey, an employee of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. Pandey, who worked in marketing department of the Hospital earlier, directed people approaching his hospital to go to Shivam Hospital for ₹200 as his commission. Tripathi reached out to Mahendra Singh, an event organiser, who with some acquaintances contacted business establishments with an offer to organise private vaccination camps for their employees and their families. “Singh asked that they contact business establishments with at least 200 employees,” said an officer from the Kandivli police station who was part of the investigating team.“Since the trio did not have the vaccine stock, they decided to administer saline water to the recipients and decided to give the certificates stamped by Shivam Hospital when they had acquired the desired amount and were in a position to purchase vaccines for the hospital,” the officer added. “Pandey was the face of the fake camps as he was an employee of a reputed hospital who met the prospective clients and convinced them that the camp was government authorised and legitimate,” the officer said.It was a resident of Hiranandani Heritage society – a trustee of Aditya College in Borivli -- who introduced Singh and Pandey to the society members. “Housing societies were not initially the target of the gang but when 390 residents showed interest in the vaccination camp, the gang went ahead with the camp,” said the officer.The entire amount was deposited in Tripathi’s bank account.The trio however had not anticipated that the recipients would ask for certificates immediately. Tripathi came to their rescue -- many of his students were placed at the Nesco jumbo Covid centre in Goregaon and even the Bandra Covid centre to assist civic and government employees in the vaccination drive. Tripathi took the help of some of them involved in data entry on the CoWin application. He asked them to get the login ID of the app and password so that they could use it to forge certificates. In all 14 persons, including the three doctors at the centre of the plot, event organisers and associates, including data entry operators, have been arrested. Investigation is still going on, as police are yet to record statements of some the witnesses in the case.A spokesperson of Tips Music, which registered an FIR at the Khar police station, said that they gave all facts to the police and were in touch with the civic body for further action, including cancelling the fake certificates their employees received. Spokespersons of other affected companies, including Matchbox, (FIR registered at Versova police station), Kwan Entertainment (FIR registered at Amboli police station), Intercontinental Diamonds (FIR at Samta Nagar police station) and Inter Gold India Pvt ltd (FIR at MIDC police station) refused to comment.At least 468 employees of two private companies in Thane and Navi Mumbai have also been victims of fake vaccination drives in the past two months.An FIR registered at Naupada police station, Thane, on June 25 names Mahendra Singh, Shrikant Mane, Sanjay Gupta, Seema Ahuja and Mohammed Kareem Akbar Ali. It was filed on a complaint by Arnav Dutta, a manager with RenewBuy Dot Com, a health and motor insurance company. Dutta, in his complaint, stated that on May 26 this year, the five accused held a vaccination drive at the company’s Thane office in Shreeji Arcade near the Nitin Company. The vaccine, at a cost of ₹1,000 per head, was administered to 116 employees.On July 2, Kalpesh Patil, an administration manager of Atomberg Technologies Private Limited filed a complaint with the Turbhe police. The FIR names Dr Manish Tripathi and Mohammed Kareem Akbar Ali among others. According to Patil’s complaint, a camp was conducted on April 23 and 352 employees of the industrial unit were administered vaccines after paying ₹4.24 lakh. Two of the employees received certificates that named Nanavati Hospital as the vaccine centre, and had the wrong date. None of the other workers received any certificate.“We are still clueless on what we received in the name of vaccine. While the police is investigating the case, we are in touch with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and discussing if we can get a first dose again at some authorised vaccination centre. The NMMC would get back to us soon they said,” Patil said.Vax scam began in April Kandivli resident Ritu’s Bangude’s 54-year-old mother took her first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on April 3. Though her mother developed fever – a side effect of the vaccine – she did not receive a certificate. Even the CoWin platform showed her as being un-vaccinated. An antibody test revealed that her mother had none. She had received her jab at Shivam Hospital.Three months on, Bangude, 19, said that other vaccination centres refuse to allow her mother to take a jab after learning that she had received one from Shivam Hospital, as investigation revealed that it was at the centre of the scam. “I have nowhere to go. Neither the BMC not any state officials have contacted us. I am confused and worried a lot,” said Bangude.Hardik Shah, the chief executive officer of a private firm, lost ₹5.14 lakh because of the scam, but he said that the loss he feels is far greater. “I don’t trust any vaccination camps now. I don’t know whether the vaccine given now will be real or fake,” the 38-year-old stock broker said.Shah was approached by Seema Ahuja and Shashikant Mane, claiming that the doctors who ran Shivam Hospital offered to organise a vaccination camp -- all he had to do was to pay money and provide a space. Shah wanted to get his employees at Mansi Share and Stock Advertisers, vaccinated at the earliest, and agreed to the offer. On May 27, he paid ₹5.14 lakh and the camp was held at Chikoowadi area in Borivli on May 27. They received 100 (forged) vaccine certificates. Shah’s 80-year-old mother was also vaccinated. After the scam came to light Shah’s first reaction was fear. “We did not check with the others if they had side effects like fever. We just thought that we were among those who didn’t have any symptoms at all,” said Shah. “I blamed myself but everyone else assured me it was not my fault. I was cheated too,” he said. BMC officials reached out to Shah and told him to get antibody tests done, and if the result is negative, to receive their first vaccination.Gopal Sura, 62, one of the committee members of the Hiranandani Heritage society, said that the residents were scared and wondered what was injected in their bodies. Many were worried about possible side effects of what had been administered to them. The police probe eventually revealed that saline water had been injected instead of the vaccine. “Now, we have made a WhatsApp group which includes BMC doctors, police officers investigating the case and the residents, to keep all parties updated with the developments in the case,” said Sura.Fresh vaccinationThe society members claimed that they have been contacted by BMC officials and civic doctors who have asked them to get an antibody test conducted, and if the test shows low antibody count, to approach any government-affiliated centre and get their first shot, as all of them are still shown unvaccinated on CoWin portal. “We are in discussion with BMC to get the (forged) vaccination certificates, issued by the gang to some of our members, cancelled,” Sura, a member of the Hiranandani Heritage society committee, said.The BMC, however, is waiting for the police investigation to conclude before going ahead with vaccinating all 3,087 victims. “We have given full cooperation to police in the investigation. We are now waiting for their investigation to conclude. In this, we may come to know how many were actually given fake vaccine and how many were given genuine vaccine. After this, we will go ahead with vaccination of those who have been given fake vaccines,” Additional Municipal Commissioner of BMC Suresh Kakani, said.According to BMC officials, they will also have to write to the central government to nullify vaccination certificates issued on CoWIN portal.Thane Municipal Commissioner Abhijit Bangar agreed that the victims in the vaccination scam couldn’t be considered as having received their first dose. “They will have to arrange a workplace camp from an authentic hospital. In case of the two who have got their certificate, which they got after probably the accused procured the login and password of the CoWIN portal, we will have to approach the government to understand what can be done as it is a complex issue. We will soon be issuing guidelines for the housing societies and companies to follow while having any vaccination drive at their place.”(With inputs by Anamika Gharat, Raina Shine and Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-vaccination-scam-unfolded-in-mumbai-101626028418834.html
12-07-2021||Mumbai||Six Maharashtra districts still await rainfall for sowing crops: IMD data||Nearly a month into the monsoon and just four days before the usual sowing window for kharif crops runs out on July 15, six districts across Maharashtra’s Khandesh and western Vidarbha region are showing what experts have called a “significant deficit” in seasonal rainfall. These include Nandurbar, Dhule, Nashik, Jalgaon, Buldhana and Akola where impending showers may bring some relief in the next week.Across this belt where the primary cash crops include cotton, wheat and corn, Nandurbar and Akola show the highest seasonal deficit at -57% and -50% respectively, followed by Dhule at -46%, Nashik -37%, Jalgaon -29% and Buldhana -24%. This is based on rainfall data from June 1 to July 11, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) hydromet division in New Delhi.“Even if the situation in these districts improves over the next week, an entire month has gone by with little rains which is likely to impact agricultural productivity, given how important June and July monsoon is for kharif crops. The deficits are significant and indicate an emerging meteorological drought. The specific districts may not yet be facing hydrological, agricultural or socio-economic drought, but the trend certainly warrants attention from officials and policymakers,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD candidate at the University of Reading.IMD officials, on the other hand, were not alarmed by the trend and seemed confident that the expected spell of heavy rains from Monday will make up for the deficit in these districts. Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai, said all four meteorological subdivisions in the state have so far recorded normal or excess rains, despite erratic frequency of the monsoon.“The more spatial detail you go into, the more variations you will find. Some places will show deficit while others show excess. I cannot comment on the outlook for agriculture, but meteorologically speaking, there is still time for the seasonal average rainfall to be made up. Besides, in terms of meteorological subdivisions, all of Maharashtra has recorded normal to excess rainfall,” Sarkar said.Dr Kripan Ghosh, head of agricultural meteorology division at IMD Pune, said, “There are still a few days to go before the sowing window runs out for regular kharif crops. However, as good rains are expected during next week, farmers should be able to undertake sowing in unsown areas in most parts of Maharashtra. It is still too early to make any speculations on how crops may be affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/six-maharashtra-districts-still-await-rainfall-for-sowing-crops-imd-data-101626028418148.html
12-07-2021||Other||Exam schedule uploaded on Agra varsity website||Agra Officiating vice chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar University ( DBRAU) of Agra Prof. Alok Kumar Rai reviewed the ongoing preparations for university exams which are scheduled to begin from July 24. The VC stressed on compliance with Covid protocol during the exams and said the schedule had been uploaded on the varsity website. “Preparations for final exams of Dr BR Ambedkar University of Agra are nearing completion. All exam centres being asked to follow Covid protocol for which strict instructions have been issued,” he said. Prof Rai, who is also the vice chancellor of Lucknow University, listed timely exams as his priority when he took additional charge as vice chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar University earlier this month after the then DBRAU vice chancellor Prof Ashok Mittal was sacked by UP governor Anandi Ben Patel on charges of irregularities. On Sunday, Prof Rai held a review meeting at guest house on Khandari premises of the university. Presiding over the meet, he informed that exams would be held in three shifts, with full Covid protocol. “The schedule for exams has been uploaded on the official website of Agra university. The examination centres are being marked out. The colleges which were centres last year are being repeated this year. However, the centres debarred because of foul practices are not being included this year, he said. “Yet, to maintain the transparency, objections for making a particular college as centre are being invited and these objections would be analysed so as to rule out possibility of copying,,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exam-schedule-uploaded-on-agra-varsity-website-101626028240489.html
12-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC plans to reorganize district units; more people may play leadership role||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) is planning to create more organisational units in the 23 districts, including Kolkata, of West Bengal and create more posts in a bid to decentralise the present structure, leaders aware of the development said on Sunday. Election strategist Prashant Kishor and chief minister Mamata Banerjee met in Kolkata on Friday afternoon to discuss the proposed changes. The meeting, which continued for three hours, was held at the chief minister’s residence at Kalighat in south Kolkata. Her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was also present. According to the proposed plans, the TMC wants to split its current district units into several parts and set up new committees with a president heading each of these. “This is being planned to ensure smooth operation and stop infighting over leadership control, something that has affected the party’s image as well as the results in some recent elections,” said a senior TMC leader who did not want to be named. The changes are being made in view of the civic body election, which are overdue, as well as the 2023 panchayat polls and Lok Sabha polls in 2024, he added. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has a similar organizational structure in the bigger districts. It has two units in Murshidabad and Nadia. Each of these is headed by a president. In North 24 Parganas, which has 34 assembly and five Lok Sabha seats, the BJP has four units. The BJP refers to these units as organizational districts. We plan to do this more extensively. It is not possible for one president to manage an entire district,” said the TMC leader. TMC leaders said that following Kishor’s advice, Mamata Banerjee wants to firmly enforce the one-man-one-post policy and give more importance to young leaders to shake up the rank and file. Some announcements are likely to be made next week by the TMC chief. Over the past two years, the TMC has replaced several senior leaders with younger people. This led to infighting and defections to the BJP in some districts. The TMC will also relaunch Jago Bangla, the party mouthpiece. Abhishek Banerjee announced on Twitter on Saturday that the mouthpiece will undergo a transformation.TMC leaders said the relaunch is likely to take place on July 21, which is observed as martyr’s day by the party every year in memory of the 13 members of the Youth Congress who fell to police bullets in Kolkata in 1993. Mamata Banerjee was a Youth Congress leader in 1993. She led an agitation on July 21 against the then Left Front government. Over the years, the martyr’s day rally emerged as a symbol of the TMC’s struggle since its birth in 1998 and serves as a platform from where Banerjee sends out messages to party workers and declares future plans. Held at Esplanade in the heart of Kolkata, the rally is a big crowd puller. However, like last year, it will be held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Banerjee will address people on social media. Giant screens and monitors will be installed in public places and TMC offices across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-plans-to-reorganize-district-units-more-people-may-play-leadership-role-101626028239344.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||390 apply for Delhi government’s Covid aid||The Delhi government on Sunday said around 170 people have applied for one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 and 220 have applied for monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for deaths in their families caused by Covid-19.Delhi’s social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said in a statement, “Our representatives will go door-to-door and help in filling the application form.”On May 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the Delhi government will provide one-time cash relief of ₹50,000 to the families of people who died of Covid-19, a monthly pension of ₹2,500 to the families which lost their only earning member, and free education and a monthly payment of ₹2,500 for children who lost their parents or only surviving or legal parent to the disease until they attained the age of 25 years. On July 6, the government launched a drive under which officers are to visit families who lost relatives to Covid-19 and help them in claiming financial assistance.“The scheme was approved by the Delhi cabinet and notified for implementation in June. The city government has planned to set aside around ₹170 crore in this financial year for this scheme,” said a senior government official.State records showed that Covid-19 has claimed 25,015 lives in Delhi. “The government is yet to process applications concerning children who lost their parents to Covid-19,” said another senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/390-apply-for-delhi-government-s-covid-aid-101626027339325.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi water crisis: AAP volunteers protest outside city BJP chief’s house||A group of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers protested outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar, alleging that the shortage of water in the Capital has been caused by the BJP-led government in Haryana not releasing adequate water into the Yamuna.“The BJP-ruled Haryana government is not giving about 100 MGD of water to Delhiites, which they are entitled to. Due to this, there has been a shortage of water in Delhi for a few days, but the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party are busy doing politics. Yesterday, we gave BJP 24 hours’ time to solve this water problem but the BJP has not taken any step so far,” said the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.Dismissing the allegations as “baseless”, Gupta said, “We will keep exposing corruption and failures of the AAP government. We will not be deterred by such violence.”The Delhi unit of BJP alleged that the protesters damaged a water pipeline in the area.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “We strongly condemn the incident and the AAP for sending a large contingent of party workers to attack the residence of the Delhi BJP president. It is sad that the AAP workers damaged the water pipeline serving the entire block in which Mr Adesh Gupta lives, affecting hundreds of other families.”The AAP denied the allegations of damage to the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-water-crisis-aap-volunteers-protest-outside-city-bjp-chief-s-house-101626027278133.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Despite dip in caseload, state narrows focus to dense areas||Over the last two weeks, Delhi has reported 82 new Covid-19 cases per day on an average, and a large proportion of these cases surfaced in few pockets, several of them located in Shahdara, West Delhi and South Delhi districts, a senior Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) official said, adding that most of these residential pockets are densely-populated areas.Covid-19 cases in Delhi have witnessed a decline from the peak seven-day average of 25,294 new cases a day recorded in the city for the seven days ending April 23 to an average of 76 new cases a day for the week ending Sunday. “But the number has been oscillating between 80 and 100 cases in 24 hours for quite some time now, even though we have been trying to bring it further down,” said a senior official in the DDMA who asked not to be named.State government data shows that Delhi has been reporting an average of 82 new cases for the past 14 days.The DDMA official said a large proportion of the new cases recorded in these 14 days have surfaced in 40 pockets, located in areas including Ambedkar Colony, Gautam Nagar, Neb Sarai, Nihal Vihar, East Babarpur, B-Block Paschim Vihar and Tahirpur.Some other localities which have few such pockets are sectors 15&18 in Rohini, Auchandi village, Barwala, Lampur village in Narela, Vasant Gaon locality, Samalkha, Rajokari, Naraina Vihar, Dakshinpuri, area near Nanda Hospital in Chhatarpur, CRS complex Chhatarpur, C block Bhati Mines, Deoli, Khanpur transit camp, Raju Park, Prem Nagar, Madipur and East Punjabi Bagh, said the official.Some more such pockets are in East Rohtash Nagar, J and K blocks in Dilshad Garden, the bazar area in Meet Nagar Road, B1 block in Nand Nagri, Ambedkar Basti in Maujpur, Pratap Nagar, Harsh Vihar, Shalimar Park, Rajgarh Colony, Mandoli, Sundar Nagri and Harijan Basti in Patel Vihar, the official said.Between July 1 and 10, at least 60 containment zones were notified in these pockets, government records showed.A district surveillance official with the revenue department, who did not wish to be identified said: “Most of these pockets have two common links. Either the vaccine coverage is low or they were not severely affected during the recent wave of the pandemic, so a large number of residents are not immune to infection yet. In some of these areas, vaccine coverage for at least one dose was lower than 20%, against Delhi’s overall current coverage of 45%. Also, at least 10 of these pockets saw no cases during the recent surge. Several hardly saw a case or two.”Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said the city is out of the risk zone but the government has not let its guard down and is working to bring new daily cases to zero. “Delhi currently is out of the risk zone. However, we will still appeal to people to not let their guards down. We are working hard towards bringing new cases close to zero per day… We are also keeping an eye on possible mutations and new strains. Delhi thankfully has its own genome sequencing laboratories now. The government is taking all precautions against a potential third wave of the pandemic,” Gahlot said.When asked about specific measures being taken in these localities where most new cases are emerging, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said the government is taking up micro containment efforts and carrying out focused vaccination drives. “Recently, we have formulated a Graded Response Action Plan using a data-driven approach to trigger restrictions on movement as soon as epidemiological parameters breach certain predefined levels. Through this concerted approach, our target is to bring down the daily new cases in Delhi down to zero.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said it was a matter of concern that the number of new cases surfacing in Delhi is oscillating between 80-100 per day for more than two weeks now. “It shows that local transmissions are taking place in certain pockets. The government has to ensure that the 80-100 new cases per day does not become the beginning of a new potential surge in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-dip-in-covid-19-caseload-authorities-in-delhi-narrow-focus-on-densely-populated-areas-101626026078081.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||School auditoriums get nod to open with 50% capacity||With the city’s Covid-19 caseloads at levels not seen since the early days of the pandemic in April last year, the state disaster management body in an order issued on Saturday allowed auditoriums and assembly halls in the city’s educational institutes to hold training and meetings with a 50% seating cap from Monday, even as the Delhi government on Sunday said it will start preparations to reopen schools in the Capital. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order, however, reiterated that classes will continue online.“Owing to the considerable decline in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and overall improvement of the situation, DDMA removed academic and training activities from the list of completely prohibited activities,” the government said in a statement on Sunday. “This decision will give a boost to the Delhi government’s ongoing education projects like teacher training...,” it added.The national capital was locked down from April 19 as a brutal fourth wave of infections spread its footprint in the city, and stretched health care infrastructure to the brink. Over 760,000 people were infected between April and May, and more than 13,100 died.The state government started lifting these restrictions from the first week of June, as cases ebbed and hospital beds freed up.The Delhi government in a statement on Sunday said it will start preparing and planning for reopening of schools in the national capital.Schools in the national capital have mostly been shut since March last year due to the pandemic, and classes and other teaching and learning activities have broadly shifted online in that time.Though the Delhi government allowed in-person lessons in January this year for students due to appear in the Class 10 and 12 board exams, as well for remedial and practical lessons for students in classes 9 to 12, this was cut short as the fourth wave of infections began to spread in the city.The state education department will also hold discussions on the same with stakeholders during the two-week parent-teacher meeting scheduled between July 19 and 31.In order to help parents support their children during the continued online learning this academic session, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on June 30 announced that public schools in the city would hold a two-week special parent-teacher meeting beginning July 19. This would also be a first time when government school teachers would collaborate with their municipal corporation schools counterparts to speak to parents of class 6 students.The DDMA’s order added that all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious festivals and other congregations will remain prohibited, and cinema halls, multiplexes, and amusement parks will continue to stay shut. Buses and Delhi metro trains will continue to operate at 50% capacity along with restaurants and bars which are only permitted to use only 50% seating space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddma-allows-halls-in-educational-institutions-to-hold-trainings-meets-101626026018901.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||School remains a struggle despite govt intervention, say EWS children||Despite several interventions by state authorities, parents of several children from Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category continue to struggle after multiple private schools in the city either denied admission to these children or failed to provide EWS students with free textbooks and stationery as mandated under the Right to Education Act.A single-mother of a Class 2 student said she was only able to get a few books despite repeated complaints. “The authorities at New Bal Vaishali Public School (Molarband) said the amount they get from the government for EWS students is not sufficient so I had to pay ₹1,650 for books and stationery as per MRP, which is usually marked at a higher rate,” she said.Reacting to the complaint, principal of the school Vaibhav Sharma said, “The reimbursement allocated for this year has gone down from previous years. Hence, we could only provide books that we could afford from the reimbursement amount.”On July 5, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) also issued a notice to the school asking them to give the students free books and writing material.DCPCR member Ranjana Prasad said, “In the past two months, we have received at least 50 complaints pertaining to the distribution of books and stationery to students. We have also received many complaints about the denial of admission to EWS students in private schools and have been working to resolve the issues,” she said.On June 30, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “The government provides ₹2,260 per month to these schools for each EWS student towards their fee and other expenses. We are ordering schools that they conduct EWS admissions even if there have been no general category admissions. The government will reimburse them accordingly,” said Sisodia.Under the prevalent practice, schools admit one EWS student for every three students admitted under the general category.Sharma and several other private schools in the city said they were finding it difficult to provide free books and stationery after the state directorate of education (DoE) revised the reimbursement amount this year and fixed it at ₹250 for books, ₹1,100 for uniforms, and ₹300 for writing material for students of classes 1 to 5. For classes 6 to 8, the reimbursement rates have been revised to ₹400 for books and stationery each and ₹1,400 for uniforms. Till last year, schools were getting ₹1,100-1,400 annually for uniforms and ₹2,200 for textbooks, stationery, and tuition fees per student.Ekramul Haque, founder of the organization Mission Taleem which works with EWS children, said they have forwarded at least 50 such complaints related to the distribution of books.“Dozens of parents have approached us saying they have not received books or stationery from the schools this year. These parents have either lost jobs during the lockdown or faced financial hardships,” he said.A senior official of the education department pointed to a DoE circular released on Friday. “If some school requires exemption, they need to seek permission from the respective deputy director education as mentioned in the circular. If schools violate norms despite this order, we will start taking action against them,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/school-remains-a-struggle-despite-govt-intervention-say-ews-children-101626026018095.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Two who robbed realtor’s home held after shoot-out||Two men -- who, along with two others barged into a property dealer’s residence in Uttam Nagar, and robbed the house after taking the man’s family hostage on July 7-- were arrested after a shoot-out that took place on a road just two kilometres away from the crime scene on Sunday morning, police said.One of them was hit in his leg and a constable was shot at in his bulletproof vest during the exchange of fire, police said. The duo’s interrogation led to the arrest of another suspect--the realtor’s employee who provided information about cash and jewellery kept at the businessman’s house, said police.The robbery was captured in a CCTV camera installed inside the realtor’s house. The video footage was widely circulated on social media.On July 7, when Vinod Shorey was in his office, four men barged into his fourth-floor flat in G-block Uttam Nagar. Shorey’s mother, Savitri Devi, wife Seema Shorey, two children and Seema’s brother Sachin were inside the house, when the suspects gained entry after telling Seema that they were electricians and have come to fix an electrical fault.As soon as the door was opened, the four men, who were wearing caps and masks, took out a pistol and three knives, and threatened to kill Seema and other family members if they raised an alarm. They tied Seema, Sachin and Savitri with adhesive tape and ransacked the entire house. They took away ₹8 lakh cash, gold jewellery, two mobile phones and other valuables worth lakhs of rupees.The occupants of the house untied themselves and informed Shorey, who alerted the police. A case of robbery was registered and several teams were formed to nab the robbers. After scanning CCTV footage, checking mobile phone data and further investigation, the police identified the suspects and began tracking their movements.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said on Sunday around 5 am, the police teams spotted two suspects near the Uttar Nagar bus terminal and asked them to surrender. However, they fired at the police team and tried to flee. One bullet hit a constable in his bulletproof vest.“Our raiding team retaliated. One of the assailants was hit in his leg. He was identified as Ankush,23. His associate, Mukul, 24, was also caught. A pistol and a knife were recovered from them, along with three cartridges,” said DCP Meena.Police said the interrogation of the two suspects led to the arrest of Deepanshu alias Vaashu (25), who is Shorey’s employee who told the robbers about cash and jewellery.Ankush and Mukul also confessed to their involvement in two more robberies, including one in Sadar Bazar area on June 26. Both of them have previously been in jail for different crimes. Ankush was released from jail in February this year, and Mukul came out more than a year ago, the DCP said.“We are now looking for other suspects involved in the robbery and recover the stolen items,” Meena added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-men-held-for-uttam-nagar-robbery-101626025838590.html
12-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board moves SC against Haryana over water shortage||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Sunday filed a petition in the Supreme Court, seeking directions to the Haryana government to release the national capital’s legitimate share of water in the Yamuna, the water utility’s vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said.“DJB has just now filed the petition in Hon’ble SC seeking discharge of Delhi’s legitimate share of water by Haryana which was decided by SC itself in 1995-96. Tough times in Delhi because Haryana has withheld Delhi’s water in an outright contempt of SC’s existing order,” Chadha tweeted.Chadha, also the Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Rajendra Nagar, said Delhi is witnessing an “all-time low water levels in Yamuna” because the city’s water share is being withheld by Haryana. Several areas in the Capital had to go without regular water supply, as residents relied on DJB tankers.On Saturday and Sunday water supply in areas such as Civil Lines, Karol Bagh, Greater Kailash, Prem Nagar, Old and New Rajendra Nagar, Punjabi Bagh, Moolchand, Jahangirpuri, Sangam Vihar and Tughlakabad remained severely affected.Chadha said the level of the Yamuna at Wazirabad pond in Delhi has dropped from 674.5 feet to 667 feet, owing to the ongoing shortage.Because of the low water levels in the river, which is a major source of water for Delhi, the capacity of the Chandrawal water treatment plant has come down from 90 million gallons per day (MGD) to 55MGD, at the Wazirabad plant the capacity is down from 135MGD to 80MGD and at Okhla Plant treatment capacity has reduced from 20MGD to 12MGD, Chadha said.“Delhi is a landlocked state and does not have any water body of its own. It has always been dependent on neighbouring states to fulfil its water needs,” the DJB vice-chief said.“The SC has been issuing directions regarding this to neighbouring states, in which it cited that the Uttar Pradesh government will be releasing a designated amount of water from the Ganga, Haryana government from the Yamuna, and the Punjab government from the Bhakra Nangal Dam. These have been signed and agreed upon by the state governments. And under these, water is supplied to Delhi till date,” he added.Responding to Chadha’s allegations, Haryana government officials said that the Delhi government should take measures to plug leakages in their water supply chain instead of blaming them for the water shortage in the Capital.“The Delhi government has moved the Supreme Court on a number of occasions in the past as well but the apex court never said Haryana was not supplying water to Delhi as per the allocation. Keeping in view the fact that Delhi is the national capital and a populous city, not only the present government but successive regimes in Haryana have released more than the Delhi’s allocated share in Yamuna. There is no question of not releasing Delhi’s allocated share of water,” said Vinod Mehta, principal media advisor to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.In a separate statement, the state government said the water level in Yamuna is low because of the delay in monsoon. “The people of Delhi are facing scarcity of water as there is less water in the Yamuna due to delay in monsoon and due to poor system of water management in Delhi. The truth is that despite 40% less water in the Yamuna, Haryana has been supplying Delhi’s share,” the Haryana government said.The state government said Delhi has a share of 719 cusecs of water at Munak canal from Yamuna and Ravi Beas waters and 330 cusecs extra Yamuna water is being released by Haryana at Munak as per Supreme Court orders.The Yamuna and the Ganga are Delhi’s two major sources of water, together accounting for nearly 90% of the city’s water supply. The rest is covered by ground water. Of the 10 treatment plants run by DJB, the Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi WTPs in east Delhi get raw water from the Ganga through pipelines originating in Muradnagar in UP, while eight others rely on the Yamuna and ground water supply.Residents said the crippling shortage of water hit them hard, a problem exacerbated by the humid spell of weather in the Capital, which has yet to receive any monsoon showers.Karan Singh, a resident of old Rajendra Nagar, said the area has not received water supply since Saturday morning. “We are a group of IAS aspirants staying together, and it becomes very difficult to survive without water with so many roommates. The weather is also such that you need more water to get through with your daily routine. We had to call for a tanker on Sunday evening because we ended up finishing all our stored water,” Singh said.Mithilesh Pradhan, a resident Khanpur’s Jawahar Park, said, “We are facing an acute water shortage for the last five days. This is the national capital, and even here we have to struggle for our basic needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-jal-board-moves-sc-against-haryana-over-water-shortage-101626025838034.html
12-07-2021||Pune||BGM layers to help stop leakage from Mutha right bank canal||PUNE The Khadakwasla Irrigation division has decided to use the bituminous geomembrane (BGM) technique to stop leakage from the Mutha right bank canal of the Khadakwasla dam, and to avoid the canal breaching at passes through the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas.Last week, the state water resource department gave instructions to use the BGM waterproofing techniques to stop leakages and animals from burrowing, which can lead to the waters breaching the canal banks.Normally, animals burrow from either the water-side or the banks, extending laterally into the canal embankment or foundation.Due to these phenomena, the Mutha right canal breached in September 2018, and inundated nearby areas, affecting 200 families living in the slums at Dandekar bridge near Parvati.After the incident, Maharashtra water resource minister Girish Mahajan had claimed that irrigation officials informed him that it was suspected that rats and other rodents might have weakened the foundation of the wall by burrowing, which led to the incident. The state government also formed a committee headed by TN Munde, then chief engineer, Pune irrigation division, to find reasons behind the breach in the wall. The committee had mentioned a lack of maintenance and burrowing animals as the cause of the incident.According to the Khadakwasla irrigation division, it had found 14 dangerous spots over 28km on the Khadakwasla dam to Hadapsar stretch, in the PMC limits. The total length of the canal is 202km, from Khadakwasla dam to Indapur taluka. H V Gunale, chief engineer of the water resource department, Pune division, said, “BGM technique was used in the Pench water project in Vidarbha region and has given good results. So, water resources ministry has instructed us to incorporate techniques in canal and dam construction. We have also decided to use BGM to stop leakage of the Mutha right canal and strengthen it.”“As per our report, water leakage from the canal is 2.25 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) per year. We have started a survey of the canal and identified a vulnerable stretch for water leakages. After the report, we will use BMG techniques to stop leakages,” he added.TN Munde, director of Maharashtra Krishna Valley development corporation (MKVDC), said, “As mentioned in committee report, due to water leakages and earthen embankment of canal, burrowing animals creates holes in the embankment and the piping action busted the canal.”“We recommended lining the canal to stop leakages. Mutha right bank canal wwhich was constructed in 1960 and it is a mono-zone type manually constructed canal. BGM is an easy, time-saving technique. It is ready-made sheets of BGM. We have to just lay the BGM layer. Traditional concrete laying takes time,” he added.Benefits of BGM-BGM, or the bituminous geomembrane, is a specialty geomembrane with composite layers that make it stronger, more watertight and more durable than resin- based geomembranes.-It prevents burrowing animals from making holes in the embankment of the canal. -It also stops erosion of soil and weeds. -It is durable and enhances water carrying capacity. -It is cheaper than traditional cement concretisation layers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/irrigation-division-to-use-the-bgm-layers-to-stop-leakage-from-mutha-right-bank-canal-101626025658051.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Maharashtra’s co-op movement will not be affected by new ministry: Sharad Pawar||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president, Sharad Pawar, has rejected the idea of any adverse impact on Maharashtra’s cooperative sector after the Centre formed a new cabinet portfolio, the ministry of cooperation, headed by Amit Shah. Speaking to reporters at Baramati on Sunday, Pawar refuted reports which claimed that the newly-formed ministry of cooperation may “hijack the cooperative movement” in Maharashtra. The NCP chief said that while the concept is not new, forming a ministry at the Centre cannot interfere with the cooperative sector in Maharashtra, which has a strong network of such institutions, with politicians from the Congress and NCP relying on these networks to retain their clout. “As per the Constitution, cooperative institutions registered in a state come under the (jurisdiction of that respective) state,” Pawar said, days after leaders from Congress and NCP were suspicious of the move. Earlier last week, deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar had said, “The intention of the Central government is yet to be clear, but they may have something in their minds. It will be known only after the new legislations are introduced for the sector, just like the three contentious farm laws over which farmers are now protesting for the past eight months.” According to Pawar senior, the Centre’s newly-formed ministry is about multi-state cooperative institutions. “A state cannot control a cooperative institution registered in more than one state, which is called multi-state, and the central government has control over it,” said Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. The cooperative sector has been a catalyst in the economic development of western Maharashtra with senior politicians controlling sugar and milk cooperatives. As the sugarcane growers and milk producers are part of these institutions as shareholders, politicians have used them as base to enhance interests. Pawar said taking a decision on such a multi-state cooperative institution comes under the central government’s cooperation department. “This is not a new decision as such. It was there when I was in the central government. But, unfortunately, the media is painting a different picture that the Centre’s ministry of cooperation may hijack or end the cooperative movement in Maharashtra,” he said. The new ministry for cooperation earlier was a small department in the ministry of agriculture and farmers elfare. Union minister Amit Shah, who has been given charge of the newly-created ministry, on Saturday said that the government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered. To a query on the Uniform Civil Code, Pawar said, “I can’t comment on it till the central government takes a decision. We are waiting for the central government’s take on it. Once they clear it, only then we can say something.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtras-co-op-movement-will-not-be-affected-by-new-ministry-sharad-pawar-101626025598576.html
12-07-2021||Pune||Covid-19 infected mums likely to transfer antibodies to unborn babies, claims study by Pune hospital||A study conducted by paediatricians on Covid-19- positive pregnant women showed that the post- delivery, the children tested positive for antibodies in 75% of the cases sampled.The babies tested positive for IgG positives, exhibited neutralising potential, suggestive of protection in early life. The study also confirmed increased preterm deliveries in mothers with the Sars-CoV-2 infection. Doctors also found that in rare cases there was vertical transmission of the infection per say.At Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, a team of eight doctors conducted a study on 57 pregnant women with Sars-CoV-2 and 59 neonates born between June and September 2020, when the city was facing its first wave. The study found that 10 out of the 57 Covid-19 positive mothers were symptomatic. The duration between Covid-19 diagnosis and delivery was less than seven days in 82.4% of the cases. The study also found that it was rare, in 3.6% cases, based on samples collected from the nasal swab and blood, vertical transmission of the infection or antigens were found. With regards to antibodies, which provide protection against infections, the study found that in 21.6% of the cases IgG anti-Sars-CoV-2 was found to be present, providing protection for the child in the long term. Predominant asymptomatic Sars-CoV-2 infection during pregnancy led to an effective transfer of antibodies in 51% neonates. Close to 75% of the IgG positives exhibited neutralising potential, suggestive of protection in early life. For the control group, the study sample also included 39 neonates born to Covid-19 negative mothers, in which 20 (51%) were positive for IgG-anti-SARS-CoV-2 and none for viral RNA. Transfer of maternal antibodies was studied using ELISA and PRNT.The study also showed that the preterm deliveries were higher in Covid-19 positive mothers than in Covid-19 negative mothers. Respiratory distress at birth was higher among neonates of Covid-19 positive (20 of 59 babies which is 33.9%) than Sars-CoV-2-RNA-negative mothers (3/39 which is 7.7%)The study was published in the peer-reviewed European magazine, “Infection’” on July 7. The authors of the study included Dr Nandini Malshe, Dr Suprabha K Patnaik, Dr Sanjay Lalwani, Dr Pradeep Suryawanshi, Dr Ruta Kulkarni, Dr Suhas Mhaske, Dr Akhilesh Chandra Mishra, and Dr Vidya Arankalle. Dr Pradeep Suryanvanshi said, “We will now take this study further by including more samples from all strata of societies. Also this a small number to generalise anything, but before these cases were reported about vertical transmission and babies testing positive for antibodies, there was no study per say. This study indicates that there is evidence of transmission of antibodies from the mother to the baby which is higher among asymptomatic mothers than symptomatic mothers. Further research will help understand why it is so. Also to know that if vaccinated mothers can help pass on the protection to the unborn baby we need more such studies.” Dr Suryanvasnhi also said that it is rare, for only three of 100 babies born to Covid1-9 positive mothers that the baby faces fetal inflammatory response syndrome. He said, “The infection in the mother is passed on to the child in rare cases. However, in Covid-19, the transmission of antibodies is higher compared to other infections.” Dr Suryavanshi said, “Out of the 57 mothers who tested RT-PCR positive out of which 18 % saw preterm birth, 3% Neonate RT PCR Positive and 21% tested antibodies positive. This above mothers were compared with 39 RTPCR negative in the month of December. Even though they were RTPCR negative at the time of delivery - 51% babies had antibody, that means mother might be asymptomatic COVID during pregnancy.” Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the paediatric department, BJ Medical College said, “We had reported a similar case which was the first case of vertical transmission in the country, back in May 2020. In the case we had found that the baby had tested positive for antibodies, which we tested after the baby got serious post-delivery and needed to be admitted in the ICU. We could successfully treat and discharge the baby. The presence of IgG antibodies provides long term protection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-infected-mums-likely-to-transfer-antibodies-to-unborn-babies-claims-study-by-pune-hospital-101626025538658.html
12-07-2021||Other||128 fresh covid cases in Punjab||Chandigarh With 128 more Covid-19 cases, the infection tally in Punjab reached 5,97,598 on Sunday, while six more deaths took the toll to 16,186, according to a medical bulletin. Two fatalities were reported from Amritsar and one each from Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka and Sangrur.The death toll also includes three fatalities which were not reported earlier, as per the bulletin. Ludhiana reported 24 infections, followed by 20 in Fazilka and 15 in Amritsar, as per the bulletin. With 211 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,79,829, according to the bulletin. A total of 1.13 crore samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported six cases. The infection tally stood at 61,831, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Union Territory. The count also includes two cases which were not reported earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/128-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101626023017851.html
12-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Farmers manhandle BJP leaders, hold them ‘hostage’||Situation in Rajpura town remained tense since Sunday morning as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders faced the protesting farmers’ wrath. What started with the disruption of a district-level meeting in the morning culminated in a dozen BJP leaders being holed up in a house as farmers laid siege to it, not ready to relent.Deputy inspector general of police Vikramjit Duggal and Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit rushed to the spot to start a dialogue and defuse the situation, but stalemate continued till the filing of this report around midnight. In the morning, farmers protesting against the contentious agricultural laws disrupted the BJP meeting that was being chaired by state general secretary Bhupesh Aggarwal at the Bharat Vikas Parishad building near the new grain market. As the number of protesters kept increasing, more police force was rushed to the venue to rescue the BJP leaders. Aggarwal, district rural unit head Vikas Sharma and some other leaders were taken to an adjoining house, from where a panicked Aggarwal released a video claiming danger to his and party workers’ lives.Police managed to take him and others to further safety, but local councillor Shanti Swarup was not as lucky. In another video of the incident shared on social media, protesters could be seen chasing and manhandling him and even tearing his clothes, while he was being taken away by cops.The party leadership rushed state general secretary Subhash Sharma to Rajpura, who later addressed a press conference. Laying the blame on chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, he alleged that “Congress goons are trying to intimidate the minority Hindus in Punjab”.As farmers came to know about the press conference being held at the Lions Club, they reached the venue and began another demonstration. Police again managed to take Subhash Kumar to safety.However, later, Aggarwal made a statement that the BJP will hold a meeting in the area as planned. Following this, Aggarwal along with Subhash Sharma, Vikas Sharma, district president Harinder Kohli and half a dozen other local leaders gathered at a house in Arjun Colony for a meeting. Farmers reached there in large numbers and laid siege to it. Police was rushed to the spot and managed to surround the house to ensure security.In a video released from the house, Subhash Sharma alleged that the Congress had sent its workers to gherao the place. “It’s like terrorism days in Punjab. Police are not acting against goons,” he said.Farmer leader Prem Singh Bhangu said that Aggarwal had provoked farmers by using threatening language. He said that the morning incident started as Aggarwal’s bodyguard pointed a pistol at the peacefully protesting farmers. He demanded an apology from the BJP leadership.Meanwhile, the DC was holding parleys with both parties to defuse the situation. It is learnt the state BJP leadership has made frantic calls to the home department and senior police officials. Earlier in the day, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said: “This is an attack on democracy, and not BJP. There is complete lawlessness in Punjab, as police have become mute spectators.”Farmers have been targeting BJP leaders and events in the past few months. On June 30, Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, who had arrived at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bathinda, had to face the farmers’ wrath. Earlier, in Fazilka, clothes of a BJP legislator were removed, while the convoy of Ashwani Sharma was attacked in Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-manhandle-bjp-leaders-in-punjab-s-rajpura-101626016118310.html
