13-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to strengthen power generation capacity, transmission infra||By taking cues from the power outage in Mumbai in October 2020, the state government has chalked out a plan to strengthen its power generation capacity and transmission infrastructure for the power being injected into the city. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has appointed a task force for the speedy execution of the projects.Anticipating power consumption of Mumbai and its suburbs to rise to 5,000 megawatts by 2024-25, the state has planned to increase the embedded generation of the power by another 1,000 MW in addition to the existing generation of 1,877MW. Similarly, the cope with the demand for power, the state has also decided to lay down transmission lines to enable the import of the power from outside projects and the national grid. The government is also considering power generation through solar energy panels on rooftops of the buildings in the city.“As part of the strengthening of the project, the replacement of the HTLS conductors of Kalwa-Padghe circuits will enable us to increase the transmission capacity to 2,000 MW. State-owned Uran plant’s generation is aimed to increase to 8,00MW by building its capacity and completion of the Kharghar substation by 2024 are some of the measures in that direction. CM Thackeray approved these projects. He has also directed to tap the feasibility of generation of 1,400 MW power through solar energy generated through panels on rooftops of the multi-storey building in Mumbai,” a statement by chief minister’s office stated.Dinesh Waghmare, principle secretary, energy department, said that the state is also giving an extension to the Mumbai-based Tata and Adani projects. “Some of the units of the Trombay and Dahanu power generation plants need life extension as their agreements are on the verge of completion. Apart from it, capacity building of gas-based Uran plant will help to cater the additional supply to the MMR and especially in Navi Mumbai,” he said.The task force appointed under Waghmare will ensure technical and environmental clearances to the projects. “Meeting the rising demand in Mumbai and MMR is a herculean task, especially in Navi Mumbai in the wake of upcoming airport and industrialisation. After the power outage last year, the state government has undertaken projects to increase generation and strengthening the transmission infrastructure to cater for the demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-strengthen-power-generation-capacity-transmission-infra-101626200994613.html
13-07-2021||Other||Give representation to ABAP in RJB Trust: Giri to Bhagwat||: President of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) Mahant Narendra Giri met Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat in Chitrakoot, on Monday. In the informal meeting between the Sangh chief and ABAP president, discussion was held on the issues of religious conversions taking place in the country and representation of ABAP in the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. Giri, on behalf of ABAP demanded that ABAP should also be included in Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. He has demanded that two Jagatgurus and Shri Mahants of the three Ani akharas should be made ex-officio members of the trust. Along with this, he also demanded to include the president and general secretary of ABAP as members of the trust. “We also informed RSS chief Bhagwat that soon different groups of seers of ABAP would visit various parts of the country and spread awareness against religious conversions”, said Giri. “We have also demanded that a strong policy should be made to stop this evil of religious conversion following which, those who try to change their religion because of greed or under other influences should be stopped,” he added. According to Mahant Narendra Giri, the Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat has assured him that although there is no interference of the RSS in the trust, he would make sure that the demands of the Akhara Parishad will definitely reach the government. Other office bearers of the Sangh were also present on this occasion. Sangh leaders were at Chitrakoot having a week-long brainstorming session regarding upcoming works and missions of the Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/give-representation-to-abap-in-rjb-trust-giri-to-bhagwat-101626200937512.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Exempt fully vaccinated fliers from carrying negative RT-PCR report, Mumbai civic body urges state||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday sought permission from the Maharashtra government to exempt domestic passengers, who are fully vaccinated from carrying a negative RT-PCR report, upon arriving in Mumbai. Presently, all domestic passengers arriving in Mumbai need to carry a negative report of an RT-PCR test conducted 48 hours before commencing the journey.The civic body has also decided that vaccination for students and citizens travelling abroad, and for those travelling for Tokyo Olympics will now take place six days a week at seven dedicated vaccine centres, instead of three days a week. These centres will be dedicated for these beneficiaries on three additional days- Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, until August 31, BMC said in a statement on Friday. These seven vaccination centres are Kasturba Hospital, KEM Hospital in Parel, SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Dahisar jumbo facility, and Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi.In a circular issued on May 12 this year, the Maharashtra government had imposed restrictions on domestic flyers arriving in Mumbai. While these restrictions were earlier imposed only on passengers arriving from Gujarat, Goa, Delhi, Rajasthan and Kerala, they were applied to all passengers arriving in Mumbai from any part of the country.In a circular issued on Tuesday, BMC said, “The vaccination drives across the nation have been commenced and many citizens who are fully vaccinated, are requesting to waive off the condition with respect to carrying negative RT-PCR test report.” “Domestic passengers who are fully vaccinated may be exempted from carrying negative RT-PCR test report while arriving in the city of Mumbai,” read the circular. Meanwhile, the present rules for all international passengers arriving in Mumbai continue, as per the earlier circular issued by BMC on March 20. Fully vaccinated international passengers are exempted from institutional quarantine if they present their vaccination certificate but have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exempt-fully-vaccinated-fliers-from-carrying-negative-rt-pcr-report-mumbai-civic-body-urges-state-101626200936902.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fake call centre busted in Sultanpur, 26 persons duping US citizens held||Police on Tuesday said they arrested 26 persons, including five women, on charges of running a fake call centre and impersonating customer service providers of a leading e-commerce site (Amazon) to cheat US citizens of money. The call centre was running for the past seven months from a building in south Delhi’s Sultanpur near Fatehpur Beri. The mastermind of the racket is absconding, the police said.“On average, the fraudsters cheated six US citizens daily and accumulated nearly ₹4 crore (5,25,000 USD) from approximately 1,250 citizens during these seven months,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Additional DCP (south) Harsha Vardhan Mandava said they conducted the search after the special staff team received information that an illegal call centre was operating from a building in Sultanpur in south Delhi. After verifying the information, a search was conducted on Monday and an office set-up was found in the building. The employees were caught red-handed trying to dupe people on calls, he said.The people at the call centre were pretending to be employee of Amazon Inc and were using illegal techniques such as VOIP calling, to bypass the legal international long-distance gateways. A total of 26 people were caught, said the additional DCP.“The arrested persons were extorting Amazon customers based in the US by claiming that their Amazon IDs had been hacked and there were illegal transactions. They were tricking the customers into purchasing online gift cards in the name of resolving the issues with their ID. We are now looking for more people involved in the racket,” he said.This is the third major crackdown in the past 20 days on fake call centres that were targeting US citizens. In the past two searches, the police arrested 84 and 95 persons, respectively. The 84 persons, who were arrested from a call centre in Jagatpuri on June 24, also impersonated Amazon customer service providers. The 95 fraudsters arrested in the second search from fake call centres in Kirti Nagar and Mangolpuri were contacting US citizens posing as that country’s social security administration -- they were duping citizens of money by threatening to revoke their social security number (SSN).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-fake-call-centre-busted-in-sultanpur-26-persons-duping-us-citizens-held-101626200875095.html
13-07-2021||Other||RSS Chintan Shivir deliberates on third wave, assembly polls||The five-day ‘Chintan Shivir’ (brainstorming camp) of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), which Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat presided over, concluded in Madhya Pradesh side of Chitrakoot (in Satna district) on Tuesday. The camp had started on July 9. In the various sessions, the Sangh leaders discussed the response to the probable third wave of pandemic, upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls and construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.The Sangh also asked the government to prepare well for the third Covid wave. “Extensive arrangements should be made in the country to minimise the impact of the third wave of coronavirus,” said a press statement issued by the Sangh.Discussion was also held on the construction of Ram temple. People aware of the details claimed that Ram Mandir Trust secretary Champat Rai was warned and told that no wrongdoing would be tolerated.The issue of land deals came up for discussion at the meeting and Champat Rai met the Sangh chief over the construction of temple, said people privy to the details. Rai has been in a dock after allegations of irregularities in the purchase of land in Ayodhya. He was told to ensure complete transparency in the construction of Ram temple, they said.Rai in his meeting with Bhagwat sought to assure him that the allegations were baseless and the Ram temple would be built in the next three years, said Mahant Ram Hriday Dass, member of RSS National Guidance Committee.The Sangh leaders also discussed the new population policy the Uttar Pradesh government has launched. Entire leadership supported the policy and said it should be introduced before the UP assembly polls. The bill banning cow slaughter was also reviewed at the camp.“The Sangh supports the population control move by the UP government. This is quite an important development. Saints said this act needed to be replicated on the national basis,” Mahant Dass said.In addition, the Sangh made key changes in the responsibilities of office bearers, a crucial move ahead of the elections in five states, particularly in Uttar Pradesh. Dr Krishna Gopal, who was the Sangh’s pointsman in the BJP, was changed. He was replaced by Sah Sarkaryawah Arun Kumar, who would now coordinate with the BJP.At the same time, the Sangh has also made changes in West Bengal and at level of prant pracharaks. The exercise was based on social engineering as other castes, particularly the OBCs, were given representation, said people aware of the details.The Sangh leaders also gave hints of the inhouse social engineering it has set in motion and mood to emerge as a holistic nationalist body than a mere Hindutva body, they added.Discussions were held on the loss of West Bengal assembly elections as well besides the BJP’s performance in seven other states where it lost or barely clung back to power.Muslim outreach was deliberated upon and it was decided the Sangh would open shakhas (morning or evening assemblies) in Muslim pockets.Further, the Sangh would register a strong presence on the social media and establish a wing on lines of the BJP’s IT cell. The IIT pass outs would get the opportunity of setting up this wing. The Sangh has developed a liking for the Koo app, which it would extensively use.Bhagwat in his weeklong stay met a number of seers, including Jagadguru Rambhadracharya, and those associated with Akhara Parishad. The saints extended full support to the Ram temple construction. Jagadguru Rambhadracharya said he objected to Bhagwat’s “Hindu and Muslims have same DNA remark” and added that the RSS chief (during his meeting) listened to it but did not reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rss-chintan-shivir-deliberates-on-third-wave-assembly-polls-101626200816326.html
13-07-2021||Other||Thane district may reopen schools in 292 villages||With no new Covid-19 cases reported since a month in around 292 villages in Thane’s rural areas since June 25, Thane district authorities are now thinking of reopening schools in these villages. Among them, 166 villages do not have any instances of Covid deaths in the same time frame. As per the updated Government Resolution (GR), released on July 7, schools in zones with not a single Covid-19 case in the past one month will be allowed to restart physical classes for students from Class 8-12, after receiving the consent of parents. Since most cities are still recording Covid numbers daily, for the time being, this GR will be implemented in rural Maharashtra only. “Thane district has seven villages with not a single Covid case registered in the first as well as a second wave. In the past few weeks, around 292 villages have not recorded any new Covid case. If this continues for another week, we shall decide to reopen schools in these villages. There have been instances of school dropouts within rural areas as not everyone has access to online education. It would be beneficial if schools reopen at the earliest,” said an officer from the education department, Thane zilla parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-district-may-reopen-schools-in-292-villages-101626200815184.html
13-07-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai gets electric vehicle charging station||Minister of industries, mining and Marathi language Subhash Desai on Tuesday inaugurated an electric vehicle (EV) charging station in Navi Mumbai and inspected the area where a Maratha language sub-centre has been proposed. The EV charging station has been set up in Turbhe TTC industrial area, while the sub-centre has been proposed at Sector 13 in Airoli. The charging station has 21 AC/DC EV chargers for both two and four-wheelers. These include four DC fast chargers of 15 to 50 kW capacity and 17 AC chargers of 3.5 to 7.5 kW capacity. The vehicles will be charged in 45 minutes. There is also provision for vehicles requiring AC slow charging. Claiming that this was one of the country’s largest EV stations, Desai said, “Setting up EV charging stations is the need of the hour. Electric vehicles are an excellent alternative to petrol and diesel vehicles. Such stations must be encouraged to meet the demand of the future. The government will make efforts to increase their numbers on the road.” He added that the Turbhe EV charging station will be operational 24x7. All the chargers are controlled online and updated by Chargegreen App making them completely secure. Apart from the charging station, CIDCO, has today transferred around 3,000 sq m of land to the state government for the development of the sub-centre. The sub-centre on the leased land will be developed by MIDC. Desai informed, “The multi-purpose centre will be fully equipped with library, meeting halls, along with language-related and other offices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-gets-electric-vehicle-charging-station-101626200814651.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Corporates should buy vaccine from private hospitals, donate to govt: Chandigarh administrator||As takers of paid vaccines at private hospitals are gradually dipping, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday appealed to the corporate sector to purchase vaccines from private hospitals and donate them to the government sector for free inoculation of the public.While presiding over a war room meeting on Tuesday, Badnore said, “It is an appeal to the corporate sector to come forward for the purchase of vaccine from private hospitals on cost-to-cost basis, out of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, and donate the same to the government hospitals for further administering to the general public free of cost.”Witnessing a gradual shrinking in daily footfall, owners of the private hospitals in Chandigarh are worried about financial losses as they have already sourced vaccine stock, that has a shelf life of nine months.As many as 12 private hospitals are providing Covid-19 vaccines in Chandigarh apart from 79 government centres.“The centre government has earmarked a 25% quota for private hospitals, of the total vaccine supply to the UT. However, there are not many takers of the vaccine on payment basis and this is just an appeal to the corporate houses to purchase the vaccine from the private hospitals,” said Arun Gupta, principal secretary, health, UT.‘Appealing to corporations not a permanent solution’Meanwhile, Dr RS Sethi, former national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, said that the purchasing of vaccines by the corporate sector was not a permanent solution to improve vaccination coverage in the UT.“Instead of appealing to the corporations to purchase the vaccine, there should be a system in place wherein private hospitals are allowed to sell the vaccine to other private doctors, who cannot buy a stock of 10,000 doses from the manufactures. Many private hospitals wish to take small quantities of vaccines but they are not allowed to make small orders. Whereas those hospitals having sufficient stock have few takers. If the majority of the doctors in the private sector have doses, the percentage of vaccination will shoot up tremendously,” Dr Bedi said.At the war room meeting, Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, said that 71% of the eligible population had already been given the first dose and 17% were fully vaccinated.“At present, about 55,000 doses are available with government hospitals and 45,000 with private hospitals. Further, about 75,000 doses of vaccines will be received shortly. Health department is going to start door-to-door survey-cum-drive in Dadu Majra and Manimajra for encouraging vaccination among the left-out eligible population with the help of the municipal councillors of these areas.”Badnore also advised the hospitals to upgrade the health infrastructure for paediatrics cases and ensure that separate facilities fully-equipped with paediatric ventilators were created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corporates-should-buy-vaccine-from-private-hospitals-donate-to-govt-chandigarh-administrator-101626200760968.html
13-07-2021||Other||PMC standing committee okays plan for new design of flyover at SPPU chowk||PUNE The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given its nod for a new design for a multi-level flyover at the Savitribai Phule Pune University chowk. The committee has also agreed to share the cost for the underpass and grade separators.Earlier, the ruling BJP was reluctant to share the cost for the flyover, as it was decided that the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) would bear it.Recently, PMRDA asked for Rs268 crore for a proposed flyover but the standing committee rejected it.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “PMC will bear the cost of the underpass which is going from Shivajinagar to Aundh at Rs68 crore; the ramp cost for connecting Baner and Pashan roads at ₹25 crore; and two grade separators at the Harekrishna temple and the Shimla office chowk. Another grade separator is planned at Abhimanshree chowk.”Rasane said that the PMRDA had prepared a plan for the University chowk and i0t would help to solve the traffic problem on Ganeshkhind road.The PMC has also agreed to pay the outstanding electricity bills of the 23 merged villages. The standing committee approved Rs4.5 crore for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-standing-committee-okays-plan-for-new-design-of-flyover-at-sppu-chowk-101626200759646.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||7,711 electric vehicles bought by people in first half of 2021, 1,282 in Mumbai: Data||Maharashtra has witnessed an increase in the number of electric vehicles ((EV) this year. Around 959 electric vehicles were registered in the state in 2017, while 7,711 EVs have been registered this year, till July 13, according to the regional transport office (RTO) data. The total number of EVs in the state now is 38,293. Mumbai too has seen an increase in people buying electrical vehicles. While 85 EVs were registered in the city in 2018, 313 were registered in 2019, and 1,085 in 2020. In 2021, 1,282 EVs have already been registered in the city till July 13. Of them, 468 EVs were registered at Tardeo RTO, 319 at Andheri, 286 at Borivli and 209 at Wadala RTO.“There has been an increase in the number of electrical vehicles across the state throughout the financial year 2019-2020 and 2021. People are realising the benefits of electrical vehicles and are opting for them in Mumbai.” said an official from the state transport department.“With the new electric vehicle policy and the incentives that will be provided there will definitely be an increase in the number of electrical vehicles in the state. The demand and the created charging infrastructure will go hand in hand.” said state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne. Further, transport officials also stated that there has been an increase in the number of electrical vehicles in rural Maharashtra as well due to increase in fuel prices.“We have also witnessed an increase in electrical vehicles in rural Maharashtra. Not all electrical vehicles require registration, which is why we do not have the exact data on rural Maharashtra. We realised the increase in demand after speaking to vendors in different parts of the states.” said an official from the transport department. As per RTO data, of the 38,293 electrical vehicles that are in the state, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Mumbai have the highest. Around 5,875 EVs have been registered by Pune RTO, 3,886 in Pimpri-Chinchwad whereas, Mumbai has 3,408 EVs. With Mumbai, Tardeo RTO has the highest number of electrical vehicles with 1,127, followed by Andheri RTO with 955 vehicles, Borivli with 691 and Wadala with 635 vehicles registered.With the increase in electrical vehicles in the city, the demand for charging stations for the vehicles has also increased over the last two years. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) that operates electric buses in the city has set up charging stations at five bus depots in the city. The highest number of charging stations, 22 are at Dharavi bus depot which is close to Bandra Kurla Complex. The BEST plans to open the stations for private vehicles if demand increases.“With the increase in the number of electrical vehicles in the city the demand for charging stations has also been witnessed. We will be studying the demand and open charging stations for private vehicles in the city.” said a senior BEST official.Some builders as well as housing societies are also now setting up charging stations in the residential buildings. “Electrical vehicle charging points were provided to us on every level of the building. This was one of the things that were advertised to us by the builders. We presently have five electrical four-wheelers and two two-wheelers in the society,” said Pinky Parikh, resident of Veda Cooperative Housing Society in Parel.Further, companies are also setting up electrical vehicle charging stations in the city and Navi Mumbai. Magenta, an electric vehicle technology solution provider, on Tuesday, announced the setting up of India’s largest electric vehicle charging stations in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7711-electric-vehicles-bought-by-people-in-first-half-of-2021-1-282-in-mumbai-data-101626200758395.html
13-07-2021||Other||Yerawada jail’s trade sections post turnover of ₹3 crore in 2020-21||PUNE Yerawada jail’s in-house trade sections have posted a turnover of ₹3 crore in 2020-21, despite Covid 19 restrictions being in place in the prison. Inmates working in the woodwork, carpentry and textile departments have added to the revenue. The jail earned Rs5.81 crore in 2018-2019, according to an annual report released by the Maharashtra State Prisons Department. The report is published by the office of the additional director general of police (prisons department and corrections service), in Pune. Last year, the jail was the prison with the highest earnings in the state.Jail superintendent UT Pawar said, “Despite Covid-19 restrictions, the jail has been able to earn ₹3 crore from different trades. The authorities have been able to curb the spread of the outbreak amongst the inmates successfully. Carpentry and textile work drew a major portion of our revenues. Items like sofa sets, revolving chairs and memorabilia are in demand and fetch good revenue.”“The demand this year was less due to restrictions, but still we manage to earn as per our potential. Our items are sold to private parties, and social organisations, including government and semi-government institutions,” he said.According to jail authorities around 400 convicts lodged inside the jail serving life imprisonment are given skilled tasks on a rotation. Due to Covid, the bakery and saloon sections are currently shut down.The inmates also grow crops like wheat, rice, jowar, and soyabean in the open fields.A skilled prisoner is paid Rs61 as daily wages, a medium-skilled person gets Rs55, while a novice is paid Rs44 per dayMaharashtra currently has 60 jails and the jails manage to earn revenue by selling products made by inmates.Yerwada Central jailTotal number of inmates – 5,994Women - 254Total number of convicted inmates - 800Inmates on parole - 77||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yerawada-jail-s-trade-sections-post-turnover-of-rs-3-crore-in-202021-101626200759012.html
13-07-2021||Other||Delhi skill university announces exchange programme with Japan||New Delhi: The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) on Tuesday announced a skill-based exchange programme between youngsters of India and Japan which is expected to launch in October.“We have officially signed up with HI-NO-DE and Ichishin to be able to send students from India, especially Delhi to Japan,” said vice-chancellor Neharika Vohra at the MoU signing ceremony.Trainees selected under the Technical Intern Training Program (TITP) will get the opportunity to visit Japan, train in specific skills, and get paid internships in the country.“The TITP program is expected to be launched by October 2021. In addition to learning skill education, the students will also learn Japanese from instructors from Japan,” the Delhi government said in a statement Tuesday.On July 6, DSEU began accepting admission applications for its first batch of students. The university will offer 12 job-oriented undergraduate courses, six B. Tech courses, and 15 diploma courses. Initially, the university will admit 6,000 students of which, 4,500 will be enrolled in diploma courses and 1,500 in degree courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-skill-university-announces-exchange-programme-with-japan-101626200756499.html
13-07-2021||Other||PMC to scrutinise officials claiming 4-wheeler allowance, but still using official vehicles||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to scrutinise Class-I officials claiming a four-wheeler allowance, but still using PMC-provided vehicles.In such cases, the four-wheeler allowance will now be recovered from the official’s salary. In the PMC, there are 170 Class-I officials, including the commissioner, additional commissioner, zonal commissioners, heads of department (HoDs), superintendent engineers, assistant municipal commissioners, deputy commissioners, and assistant medical officers. Executive engineers are eligible to use four-wheelers only for field visits, but they have to take permission from an additional commissioner.The corporation pays ₹3,150 per month as a four- wheeler allowance to executive officers, and ₹4,200 per month for posts above the level of an executive officer.On Monday, additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal issued an order which stated: “We have come to know that some of the officers are taking travelling allowance as well as using PMC four-wheelers for officials (field) visits. As PMC Motor vehicle policy-2016, PMC provides four-wheelers to officials for official visits. However, it has been found that some of the assistant municipal commissioners and executive engineers are taking the benefit of both.”Agarwal, in her order, added, “Normally, PMC gives travelling allowance to officers for field visits and those officers should not use PMC vehicles. The PMC vehicle department has been directed to collect and provide information, so that changes in the salary of concerned officials can be made. The chief accountant has also been directed to submit a report about officials taking both benefits and to recover the travelling allowance from salaries.”Mahesh Doiphode, deputy commissioner of the motor vehicle department said, “We have given an order to the head of the department to provide information about vehicle and travelling allowance.”Another senior official of the motor vehicle department, on condition of anonymity, said, “If we provide a four-wheeler to an officer then s/he is not liable to take a travelling allowance. If some officer wants a vehicle for a field or official visit, s/he will have to take permission from the head of department.” He added, “For Covid-19 duties, we provided four- wheelers to most officials, where some officers are already taking a four-wheeler allowance. Now, we have started work to identify and scrutinise officials and submit a report to the IT and accounts’ departments.”Vivek Velankar, civic activist, said, “It is a criminal offence to use taxpayer money illegally. The corporation should file a criminal case against the culprits. It is the only way to punish them. A departmental inquiry should not be part of the action against these officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-scrutinise-officials-claiming-4-wheeler-allowance-but-still-using-official-vehicles-101626200757084.html
13-07-2021||Other||Helping hand pockets senior citizen’s ATM card||PUNE PUNE: The Pune police are looking for a man who took an old man’s card at an ATM under the false pretext of helping him, and then used it to withdraw cash from his account. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Kashinath Dhavare (61), a resident of Market Yard.The theft happened between January 25 and February 22 at multiple ATMs, including one in Camp.The man allegedly offered to help the elderly man with his ATM transaction and in the process saw the PIN used to access the card. While returning the card, he slyly changed it and gave a different card to the complainant, keeping the first card, which he now knew the PIN of, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Wanowrie police station.In June, a man was arrested in a similar case in Wanowrie when he duped a retired policeman in a similar way. When he was arrested, he was allegedly found to have been involved in 14 such cases, according to a police statement released then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helping-hand-pockets-senior-citizen-s-atm-card-101626200755906.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CNG to now cost ₹51.98 per kg, PNG ₹49.40||Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) has increased the price of compressed natural gas (CNG) and domestic piped natural gas (PNG) from Wednesday. The price of CNG has increased by ₹2.58 per kilogram (kg) and will be priced at ₹51.98 per kg, while the price of PNG has increased by ₹0.55 standard cubic meter (SCM). Earlier the CNG was priced at ₹49.40 per kg in the city.The PNG will be available at ₹30.40/SCM in slab one and ₹36.00 /SCM in slab two, respectively.The majority of autorickshaws and black and yellow taxis in Mumbai run on the CNG. A significant number of BEST buses and public transport vehicles such as app-based taxis also use CNG fuel.“MGL’s CNG offers attractive savings of about 67% and 47% as compared to petrol and diesel respectively at current price levels in Mumbai. MGL’s domestic PNG offers 35% savings as compared to the current price of domestic liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and delivers unmatched convenience, safety, reliability and environmental friendliness to consumers,” said an MGL spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicng-to-now-cost-51-98-per-kg-png-4940-101626200755105.html
13-07-2021||Other||Proposal for multi-storey jail for undertrials in Mumbai sent to state: ADGP Prisons||PUNE A proposal by the Maharashtra police prison department for a multi-storey jail for undertrials in Mumbai, has seen the light of the day as the proposal has been sent to the state government, according to Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (ADGP), Prisons, Maharashtra.The multi-storey building will be similar to the ones functional in Miami and Chicago in the US, according to ADG Ramamnand.“This new building will be for Mumbai. What’s happening is that Arthur road jail with a capacity of 800 has no more scope for extension. And the lease of that land is going to end in 2024. Therefore, there is an urgent need for another facility in Mumbai. A 15 acre plot owned by the Women and Child Development department near the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Chembur has been identified. The chairman of the committee is the home minister,” said ADG Ramanand.While announcing the jail tourism initiative in 2020, which is on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had said that he had proposed jail expansion in Maharashtra.FUNDING OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTIONThere are two methods of funding and undertaking projects, one where the proposal is sent to the government and the funding is provided by the government, and the other where a private entity is deployed called public-private-partnership (PPP). In the PPP method, the government will allow the private player to monetise prison assets in the non-jail areas in exchange for building the jail for free, according to the officer.“This will ensure bigger facilities with no monetary investment for the government. Although, the construction will be done using the Police Housing Corporation, but the private player will be allowed to monetise jail assets,” said ADG Ramanand.Jail assets including land, industries and skill of the inmates.“What remains to be seen is whether the government undertakes the AA or PPP method for these projects,” said ADG Ramanand.NEW PRISONSThe new facilities are in the pipeline at Mumbai, Gondia, Palghar, and Hingoli. A proposal for Pune is yet to be made, although there is no shortage of land for the prison department unlike in other regions.The proposal for Mumbai has been sent and is awaiting government response. The land in Hingoli is yet to be finalised while the land acquisition is pending in Palghar; in Gondia, the funding from the government is awaited.“There is an urgent need in Pune as well. But in Pune, the jail department already owns a huge piece of land. The process will be much easier for Pune and a jail with 5,000 capacity can be built,” said ADG Ramanand.VIDEO CONFERENCEThe ADG has claimed to have made an application to the department of justice, and other stakeholders, to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure to allow for recording of evidence through video conferencing.“Even without video conferencing, the production rate of prisoners in court is only 38%. Video conferencing will allow for evidence to be recorded virtually. The number of trails of cases has had major setbacks due to the pandemic. The undertrial population has skyrocketed because of this. In video conferencing, the inmate can also be allowed to interrupt or state his/her side,” said ADG Ramanand.He also mentioned that the pandemic has forced the machinery to lose the prejudice against online functioning, as online classes, lectures, and meetings have become a norm.CANTEEN FACILITY FOR INMATESThe prison department has proposed a canteen facility for inmates with multiple food and consumer product options that are found in a normal department store.Every inmate has an expenditure limit of ₹4,500 per month and is provided with a wage as per their category - skilled, semi-skilled, unskilled on a daily basis.Each inmate has a bank account in which their wages as well as money sent by their family members can be used.The canteen is a long shot but it will supplement food requirements of inmates beyond the food provided by the prison department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/proposal-for-multi-storey-jail-for-undertrials-in-mumbai-sent-to-state-adgp-prisons-101626200754553.html
13-07-2021||Other||Retired Army havaldar, in serach of job, duped of ₹12 lakh||PUNE A retired havaldar of the Indian Army has been duped of ₹12 lakh by two unknown persons, under the guise of giving him a job in Pune. A series of transactions were made between January 8, 2020, and May 20, 2020, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Lakshman Gavse (51), resident of Ganeshnagar in Dhayari, Pune.“He is a retired havaldar from the Indian Army. He was looking for a job post retirement and was using the online portals for job hunting. These people called him and offered him a job as a supervisor at a company,” said inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of Sinhagad road police station, who is investigating the case.Under the guise of giving him a job, the men took money for multiple made-up reasons from Gavse. A total of ₹12,59,000 was paid by Gavse through multiple online transactions to various bank accounts.However, when the two stopped responding, the complainant lodged a police complaint.A case under Section 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 34 (Common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at the Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-army-havaldar-in-serach-of-job-duped-of-rs-12-lakh-101626200696358.html
13-07-2021||Other||KDMC to vaccinate 15,000 autorickshaw drivers||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to vaccinate all the autorickshaw drivers in its vicinity. The civic body has asked the autorickshaw union to submit a list of drivers. As per the Konkan division autorickshaw-taxi union, there are 15,000 auto drivers in Kalyan-Dombivli. “We have started collecting the names of the auto drivers. Once the list is finalised it will be forwarded to the civic body. We have urged the drivers to come forward with their identity proofs to our office,” said Santosh Navale, representative of the union. Earlier the civic body had initiated vaccination for the differently-abled citizens, leprosy patients and students who want to travel overseas for studies.“Since the autorickshaw is one of the major modes of transportation in Kalyan-Dombivli, it is crucial to vaccinate the auto drivers. The auto drivers are more susceptible to the infection,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kdmc-to-vaccinate-15-000-autorickshaw-drivers-101626200694563.html
13-07-2021||Noida||Authority to open additional admin wing in Greater Noida West||Greater Noida The Greater Noida authority said on Tuesday that it will open an additional administrative office in Greater Noida West to decentralise the system and provide “better services” to the residents and property owners in the area.At present, the main administrative office of the authority is located in the Knowledge Park IV area, which is about 20 kilometres from Sector 1 in Greater Noida West. “We have decided to open a new office in Greater Noida West keeping in mind the ease of residents. They have to travel a long way for official purposes,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO), Greater Noida authority.The residents in Greater Noida West had been demanding for an authority office in the area for their ease. NEED a resident body quoteThe office will be set up at a government school, Balak Inter College. The officials said that about 10 staff from different departments of the authority will be present at the new office. The authority CEO will also attend to the visitors’ grievances related to civic issues from 10am to 1pm on Wednesdays. In the absence of the CEO, his subordinates such as the additional CEO or the deputy CEO will attend to the visitors’ complaints.“If anyone has a grievance related to broken roads, erratic water supply, or sewer choking, a hearing will be scheduled for the complainant and we will come up with a solution as soon as possible,” said an official of the Greater Noida authority, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/authority-to-open-additional-admin-wing-in-greater-noida-west-101626200695230.html
13-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to conduct antibody test for fully vaccinated beneficiaries||In a first, Ghaziabad will test 500 random people -- mostly health care and front line workers -- who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 to find out their levels of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“The tests will start this week and will target those who have completed at least 14 days after their second dose. It will determine the extent of development of antibodies among the different age groups and will also help the state in taking policy decisions,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.The survey is being conducted on orders from the Uttar Pradesh government that has already commissioned a similar survey in Lucknow. The officials said they would not consider whether the survey participants had been infected previously or not. The samples, taken from equal number of men and women and from different age groups, will be sent to King George’s Medical College (KGMC) in Lucknow for testing, they said.The health department said that the survey will also provide the government with an indicator of whether antibody levels had not developed in some people and the steps that would be required in case of another wave of infections.“The study will also reveal how long the antibodies last in the bodies of different age groups. The higher the antibody levels, the higher the rate of protection against the virus. We will be including primarily front line workers (medical staff, police and district officials) during the study,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.While Covishield has reported an efficacy of 76%, Covaxin recently reported its phase 3 trials to be 77.8% effective. According to experts, antibodies against the virus develop in the body two weeks after the second dose.Earlier serological surveys (determining the level of antibodies) were not exclusively for vaccinated people.In the first serological survey held in August last year in 11 UP cities, around 22% of people had antibodies, also called the prevalence rate. Ghaziabad, which was included in the survey, had a prevalence rate of around 25%. At the time, 1,500 people had been tested per city.In another survey that was held last month, 1,440 people had been tested in the city. “In the survey conducted in June, the state officials have indicated that the prevalence rate was about 60-70%. The report is yet to be made official,” said an official familiar with the development. “The rate of prevalence of antibodies was higher as the survey was conducted immediately after the second wave of infection’s peak that had infected a large number of people in a short span of time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-conduct-antibody-test-for-fully-vaccinated-beneficiaries-101626200635740.html
13-07-2021||Other||Covid-19 Cases declining, schools await Delhi govt directions to resume offline classes||New Delhi: Phased reopening of schools may be discussed in the upcoming parents teacher meeting of Delhi government schools scheduled to be held between July 19 and 31, heads of government schools have said.With the Covid-19 cases remaining below 100 for the past two weeks, and the positivity rate staying less than 1% for over a month, the heads of schools said they were waiting for directions from the state government to restart offline classes. To be sure, only the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is empowered to decide if schools should be reopened or not. The DDMA last week announced opening of school auditoriums for academic activities, but with up to 50% of their attendance capacity. Rakesh Semalty, head of a government school in West Jyoti Nagar, said it was necessary to call students back to schools in a staggered manner to avoid “serious repercussions”. “These children have been in their homes for around 16 months now... Since a majority of parents and school staff have been vaccinated, we can consider calling senior students back to school in a staggered manner while maintaining physical distancing. Parents have been approaching us, asking us to hold at least one or two classes a week so that there is some involvement for students,” he said. Semalty also said that lack of access to the internet and online devices is also a reason why several parents want in-person classes to resume.A senior education department official, requesting anonymity, said the Delhi government has already started taking feedback from principals and teachers who are connected to the parents through school management committees on the road map to resume in-person classes.“Consultation with stakeholders and conversation within the department on the matter (reopening of schools) has already begun. The agenda of reopening schools are on the table, and we are waiting for feedback from parents during the upcoming PTMs before taking any call. While cases have gone down, we have to take the confidence level of students and parents into account and find out whether they feel confident about returning to school or not,” the official said.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of a government school in Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8, said, “Along with counselling parents and sharing inspirational stories, we will be focusing on removing the fear around Covid-19 and mentally prepare children to return to schools, if needed. We will ask parents if they are willing to send their children to school and record data on the matter.”Many private schools have also received requests from parents over holding offline classes. Mena Mittle, vice-president of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said they are waiting for government directives on the matter. “We have been receiving queries from several working parents... Though there are concerns of safety, teachers and parents believe that students need to be allowed to come to school and connect with their teachers to break the cycle of isolation due to the pandemic,” she said.However, some parent groups also raised concerns over reopening of schools. Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents Association, said, “Only those parents who have issues with internet accessibility and devices or those who have to step out for work may be in the favour of offline classes due to their own helplessness. The collapse of the health infrastructure during the second wave and the possibility of children being affected during the third wave doesn’t instil confidence among parents to send their children to school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-cases-declining-schools-await-delhi-govt-directions-to-resume-offline-classes-101626200634532.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown effect? Number of potholes complaints in Mumbai go down, 239 since June||City has witnessed a 76% drop in the number of potholes during 2020-2021, as compared to 2019-2020, reveals a data based on Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s mobile application ‘MyBMC Pothole Fixit.’ Further, since June 1, 2021, a total of 239 potholes have been reported in the city, according to the data.In the city, the majority of potholes are reported during the monsoon following a heavy downpour. According to the data, between April 1 and July 12, 421 complaints of potholes were reported in the city, of these 239 were reported since June 1. Of the total 421 complaints in the ongoing financial year, 265 complaints have been attended and 255 complaints have been closed.To proactively report complaints related to potholes in the city, former municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had launched a seven-day pothole challenge. As per the contest, that started on November 1, 2019, the civic body offered a ₹500 cash prize to citizens for reporting potholes. The citizens had to take a selfie with the pothole and report it, and they would be eligible for the cash prize, in case the pothole was not fixed within 24 hours.In the same year, BMC’s mobile application received a total of 5,390 complaints between April 2019 and March 2020. Of these, 3,811 complaints were attended and 3,806 were closed. However, as the country and city went into lockdown by mid-March, the complaints relating to potholes went down in 2020-2021.According to the data, between April 2020 and March 2021, a drastic fall of 1,292 potholes-related complaints were reported in the city, of which, 885 were attended and 877 were closed.Shantanu Kulkarni, director of Probity Soft, whose company has developed the BMC mobile application, said, “The complaints have gone down because of the lockdown. The response after the BMC’s pothole challenge in 2019 was good, however, now as local trains services are not permitted for general public and citizens are working from home, the number of complaints have gone down.”Kulkarni added, “I strongly feel that the BMC like earlier should publicise the usage of their pothole reporting mobile application to get more data on the number of potholes that require to be attended.”The BMC maintains around 2,055km of roads in the city, and every major and minor road is repaired or resurfaced using asphalt or concrete cement from the existing paver blocks. The roads and traffic department were allocated ₹2,279 crore in the ongoing fiscal of 2020-21, which came down to ₹2,231 crore in 2021-22.While the budgetary allocation for the road department has remained almost the same in the ongoing fiscal compared to last fiscal, the BMC has reduced its road improvement and repair targets by almost 45% this year. According to estimates presented in the budget on Wednesday, the BMC proposes to improve the road network of 157km in the city and suburbs during 2021-22, which is less than the target of 289 km set in 2020-21.Meanwhile, corporators have slammed the BMC over the quality of roads in the city, Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC said, “There is no proper mechanism to track potholes and attend to them. Every year during the monsoon, the city has to face the same old civic issues that include potholes and waterlogging after heavy rainfall. Several roads are taken for repair and maintenance but the number of potholes on it shows how poor the quality is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-effect-number-of-potholes-complaints-in-mumbai-go-down-239-since-june-101626200635162.html
13-07-2021||Noida||Amid vaccine shortage, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar forced to curtail drive||The pace of vaccinations has slowed in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar with the Uttar Pradesh government not receiving enough vaccines to supply to the districts.While the vaccination drive had suffered during the second wave of infections, the numbers had picked up since June 21 when the central government took over the vaccine procurement drive and distributed it to the states. From July 1, the state government had mooted a mega vaccination drive to vaccinate 1 million people a day. However, at present the state is vaccinating only about 800,000 people a day.GhaziabadGhaziabad has been forced to scale down its Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) from nearly 100 in the last week of June to nearly 60 as the district once again suffered from a shortage of vaccines, officials said on Tuesday. Ghaziabad — which ranks third in the state on inoculations, after Lucknow (1,630,419 doses) and Gautam Budh Nagar (1,360,239 doses) — administered a total of 1,186,328 vaccine doses as of Tuesday morning. “Operations in nearly 30 centres in areas like Loni, Raj Nagar Extension, among others have been suspended temporarily due to vaccine shortage and low turnout. At present, nearly 65 to 70 vaccination centres are operational,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for vaccination in the district. “Nowadays, 8,000-12,000 vaccine doses are available per day.”The district had aimed to vaccinate at least 40,000 people a day.The shortage has hit Ghaziabad’s plan to initiate on-spot registrations for the cluster vaccination (close to home) for all adults. “We have the potential to administer nearly 30,000-40,000 vaccine doses per day, but the shortage has hampered the process. After receiving vaccines, we will scale up the regular vaccination,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad.The district has also reduced special CVCs that had seen low turnouts.“We have also converted four special CVCs — two exclusively for women and the other for parents — to general vaccination centres as the daily coverage at these centres ranged only between 45% and 60%. After the conversion, the turnout at these centres has increased,” said Dr Mathuria.The district now has eight special CVCs thatcater to officials of government departments like railways, post office, revenue department, and labour among others. Meanwhile, two special CVCs for women, and as many for parents of children aged below 12 were converted to general centres.According to data available on Tuesday (July 13), Uttar Pradesh reported 59 fresh Covid-19 cases, 149 discharges and four deaths in the past 24 hours.The active caseload in the state is at 1,479, with total discharges and deaths at 1,683,319 and 22,704, respectively.Gautam Budh NagarIn Gautam Budh Nagar too, the vaccine shortage has slowed the drive and forced the district to suspend walk-in registrations since July 1. The district had aimed to vaccinate at least 40,000 people a day too, which is now at around 6,000 to 9,000.Nearly 60% of the over 1.3 million doses of the vaccines against Covid-19 administered in Gautam Budh Nagar till Monday have gone to those below 45 years, while 25% went to those between 45 and 60 years of age, according to official data.GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, said that out of nearly 1.6 million people in the district, who are eligible for inoculation, over 70% had been administered at least one dose, while the rest of the beneficiaries were from outside the district. “Out of total doses administered in the district, 38% are women. Had the pace of vaccination not slowed in July, we could have given at least one dose of the vaccines to all the eligible population by the end of this month,” he said. “Due to state-wide paucity of vaccines, the near-to-home vaccination is unlikely to take off before the last week of the month in the district. For kicking off the mega vaccination drive, we need at least 100,000 doses in the first lot. Since at present, the state headquarters don’t have ample stock of vaccines, we have to carry on the vaccination drive with the available stock of vaccines.”Officials said that the shortage is likely to remain till July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/amid-vaccine-shortage-ghaziabad-gautam-budh-nagar-forced-to-curtail-drive-101626200574654.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Conduct senate polls immediately: Punjab to Panjab University||Flagging the delay in the senate elections, the Punjab government’s higher education department has asked Panjab University, Chandigarh, to conduct them immediately.The response from the state government came on Tuesday after the varsity had written to it, seeking permission to set up polling booths for the conduct of polls, which have been pending since August last year.In the letter addressed to the PU registrar, the higher education department has conveyed that the varsity has already been given the permission to set up booths at various colleges in Punjab on the condition that Covid protocol is strictly adhered to during polling. The Punjab government had flagged the delay in February as well.The polling booths of different constituencies of the PU senate are to be set up in Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. The university had sought permission from the states last month.While the Chandigarh administration has already given its nod, the varsity is yet to get the permission from other states to set up polling booths. However, sources said Haryana is in the process to give the permission.The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31, 2020. Elections were to take place in August 2020, but the varsity deferred them due to the pandemic.The polls were later scheduled in April this year after the high court pulled up the vice-chancellor, but the second wave again led to a delay. Last week, the HC had sought the election schedule from the varsity by July 16.PU senate elections: Candidates allege attempts being made to tinker with poll scheduleThe candidates who are contesting the senate elections of Panjab University (PU), including former senators, have alleged that the varsity was trying to tinker with the sequence of the poll schedule of various constituencies.Although the varsity is yet to announce the schedule, 19 candidates have written to the vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of PU, on Tuesday stating that a mala fide attempt was being made to tinker with the sequence of the poll schedule.The candidates, including Anu Chatrath, Rajesh Gill, Ashok Goyal, Harpreet Singh Dua, Keshav Malhotra, Ronki Ram, Jatinder Grover, Navdeep Goyal, Rajat Sandhir and others, have said that it has been an age-old practice to hold elections in the same sequence as announced twice in 2020 and 2021.The development comes after the high court on July 8 had directed PU to place on record the schedule of senate polls by July 16.“The registrar-cum-returning officer, who is supposed to act in an unbiased and objective manner while holding elections, is, reportedly, conniving with the vice-chancellor and his coterie, facilitating their attempts to manipulate the elections by diverting significantly from the age-old practice, violating all principles of morality and statesmanship,” states the letter to the chancellor. The candidates have requested the chancellor to issue instructions to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar that the senate election process may be executed as per the directions issued by the high court, without altering the past practices and sequence of the elections of various constituencies.Varsity officials did not comment on the matter and said that the issue of senate polls was subjudice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conduct-senate-polls-immediately-punjab-to-panjab-university-101626200457818.html
13-07-2021||Other||When means hold ability down - sans smart gizmos, bright kids unable to attend online classes||For the city-dwelling teen/child to possess a smartphone, sometimes even two, is nothing out of the ordinary. For the family to have more smartphones than there are members, is commonplace. However, the scene changes dramatically as we move from an urban to a rural setting, where having one phone – and not always a smartphone – being shared by a family of four or five people, is not completely unheard of.Forced by the pandemic and in a bid to keep students safe, schools and studies went online a year ago, and those with PCs, laptops and smartphones, or, blessed with the wherewithal to acquire them, graduated to learning through these gadgets.Imagine how children from rural backgrounds coped with classes and studies. Their participation in school activities has declined remarkably. To put things in perspective, here are a few case studies:A topper stumped by paucityLess than a year ago, Nazia, a Class 7 student of a government school, in Sarojini Nagar block of Lucknow, was the brightest child in her class. Now, she struggles to keep up with her studies only because her family cannot afford devices like a desktop, laptop or even a smartphone.The family of six lives in a single room with a makeshift kitchen and bathroom which they share with three other families in a dilapidated building.The 13-year-old calls up her teachers over the phone and asks them about homework and problems she encounters while studying. Shazia steals time from a busy routine of helping with housework and taking care of her youngest sister to study for a few hours every day and even teaches young children in her locality for free.Poor private school kidsIfra Huzoor Khan, student of St Anjani’s Public School, Rajajipuram, Lucknow, was studying in Class 12 March 2020. In school, she was one of the top rankers, actively participated in all extra-curricular activities, won prizes for her oratory skills and was made the Head Girl.She said, “Life changed, when, due to the lockdown, school started online classes. We had only one smartphone in the house which my father needed to run his shop.” It was a major source of grief that she could not attend any class on Zoom. “On days when my father didn’t need the phone, I called up my teachers to clear doubts. They were extremely encouraging and praised my efforts,” she said.Circumstance-shackled siblingsAnupama, 16, is a high school student at Kesar Vidyapeeth Intermediate College on Zero Road, in Prayagraj. Her younger brother, Mayank Kumar, 14, is a Class 9 student at the same school. However, they don’t have even one smartphone between them to attend online classes. Reason: Their father, Shivbhau Yadav, who is a churmura (roasted puffed rice snack) seller, earns just enough to survive.“We both relied on self-study and a few rare classes we could attend whenever my maternal uncle came to visit us from Kaushambi and lent us his smart phone. We both are desperately waiting for offline classes to begin,” she added. Their teacher, Lalmani Pandey, pays the school fee of the two children and takes care of their other small needs to allow them to continue with their studies. “Anupama is a bright student, always coming first in class. Even last year, when the pandemic forced closure of schools and she could not attend online teaching, she came first,” he said with a smile. An effort in the right directionPrateek Mishra, 13, is a Class 8 student of a government-run upper primary school in Berui village, in the Baharia development block of Prayagraj. His mother, Nirma Devi, is a Class 4 employee and earns ₹2,500 per month – the only earning member of the family. They reside on the campus of Raj Narayan Inter College in Baharia, where Nirma Devi is also employed. She supports her family that includes her three children, including Prateek, her eldest child. “When online teaching began on April 10, 2020, I was accessing it using our simple mobile phone at home. However, one day in mid-June it broke, and I was no longer able to attend online studies and access assignments,” he said. Nirma Devi said that Prateek is a bright student and she did not want him to miss out on his studies. With three months’ payments in her Jandhan bank account, some money that she had saved, she made a down payment to buy a smart phone. The remaining amount was paid over five months. Govt data says...A survey undertaken by the state education department in mid-2020 revealed that as many as 50% of the 1.8 crore students enrolled in government-run primary and upper primary schools spread across 75 districts of UP were unable to access online content during the pandemic-hit academic year. A recent control survey undertaken in 65 districts by the department involving 4,348 students established that despite all efforts just 50% of them were able to access online content. The survey revealed that half of all students were unable to access the content due to poor Net connectivity, lack of devices, or, due to there being just one smartphone in the house, which was needed for other purposes. In Prayagraj, over 2 lakh out of 4.16 lakh students enrolled in 2,477 government-run primary and 1,001 upper primary schools struggled to access online study during the pandemic hit year, concedes Vinod Mishra, district coordinator (training) of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. A key reason for this is believed to be the digital divide that exists in the state.The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER)-2018 showed that 91.7% families in rural UP had mobile phones but out of these, only 32.6% had smartphones and internet access. The study was carried out among 600 families each in 70 districts in rural UP. ASER-2019 which covered two districts from UP—Lucknow and Varanasi—showed 94.7% families had mobile phones, but only 48% had smartphones in the state capital. In Varanasi, 56% had smartphones of the 97% families who were covered under the study. Remaining 41% had regular phones without internet facility. The report covered 1,200 rural families in both the districts. Television was however available at 61.5% and 71% households in Lucknow and Varanasi respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/when-means-hold-ability-down-sans-smart-gizmos-bright-kids-unable-to-attend-online-classes-101626200456694.html
13-07-2021||Other||CBSE warns schools against violating Class 10 assessment policy||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday asked all its affiliated schools to stick to the assessment policy formulated by it for Class 10 results after the cancellation of the board exams, and warned action against institutes that inflate marks.CBSE cancelled the board exams for classes 10 and 12 this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and formulated alternative assessment policies for both classes. For Class 10, results will be tabulated based on students’ performances in unit tests, half-yearly examinations, and pre-board examinations conducted by schools. The board, however, said each school should watch against “inflation of marks”, and award scores in line with its best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years -- 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20. The selected year of the previous three, in which the overall pass percentage was the highest, will be the reference year for the schools, and the average marks of the school for 2021 should not exceed the school’s overall average in the reference year.In a letter addressed to all its affiliated schools on Tuesday, CBSE’s controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said: “Upon data analysis post uploading of marks by schools, it has been observed that while the majority of schools have followed the reference distribution, some schools have not done the same and bunched the marks in upper brackets of the given reference range. For instance, instead of distributing theory marks in the 70-80 range (as per reference year), marks have been bunched between the 77-80 range… This is unfair to the few actually deserving candidates, whose performance will fall in this range of marks.”Directing all such schools to comply with the tabulation policy, CBSE has given a final opportunity to all “defaulter schools”. “All defaulter schools who have not complied with the policy in its true spirit, and awarded marks to students on higher side are being given an opportunity to re-look the marks and redo moderation in accordance with historical performance and given reference range. Besides this, few schools have still not uploaded marks despite many extensions of the last date. Such schools are also being given the last opportunity to upload marks. In case it is observed that the schools do not follow the directions, CBSE, before preparation of result, will moderate the marks to bring the awarded marks as per policy and also initiate action against the schools,” the letter said.Schools can make changes in the online portal, which will remain open between Tuesday and Saturday. “It is also informed that the changes made by the schools in data will be recorded by CBSE. If it is observed that policy has not been followed, CBSE may initiate action against such schools as stipulated in the policy,” the letter added.Some schools, however, said that the CBSE’s formula in terms of reference year was “confusing”. “Due to the complete closure of schools, all internal exams were held in the online mode. The majority of the students have scored marks higher than the reference year set by the CBSE and that’s why it’s happening. Still, schools are trying to do their best in computing the scores,” said the principal of a private school in west Delhi who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-warns-schools-against-violating-class-10-assessment-policy-101626200155979.html
13-07-2021||Lucknow||New vehicle registrations fell in UP in last financial year||The registration of new two-wheelers (motorcycles and scooters) in Uttar Pradesh recorded a sharp decline by more than 35% and that of four-wheelers (cars) by around 11 % in the last financial year, a recent report prepared by the transport department shows. However, the sale of new bikes and cars was least affected in many so-called poor and backward districts of eastern and Bundelkhand regions of the state. Some of these districts even registered a positive growth in the registration of new cars and the decline in new registration of automobiles there was only comparatively lower.The report shows that against 29,06,104 two-wheelers registered in the state during 2019-2020, only 18,61,935 bikes and scooters were registered in 2020-21, the drop being 35.93%. The registration of cars was comparative better off at 2,59,412 in 2020-21 though it was less by 10.58% in comparison to the year 2019-2020 when 2,90,108 new four-wheelers were registered in the state.The sharpest fall in two-wheelers was recorded at 53.61% in the Sravasti district followed by Rampur (48.83%), Bahraich (48.15%), and Ayodhya (47.16%). Lucknow recorded 33.74% minus growth in registration of two-wheelers in 2020-21 vis-à-vis 2019-20. There were registered only 88,985 two-wheelers in the district during the last financial year compared to 1,34,287 new bikes and scooters registered in 2019-20.In the four-wheeler segment, Amethi recorded the sharpest fall at 29.05% followed by Gonda (28.85%) and Unnao (28.72%). The decrease in the number of registration of new cars in Lucknow was by 7.61%. A total 41,065 new cars were registered in Lucknow in 2020-21 against 44,449 new cars registered a year earlier. Lalitpur, Hamirpur Balia, Banda, Mau, Devaria, Sant Kabir Nagar Gorakhpur, Ghazipur, Varanasi and Badaun were probably the only districts in the state to record a positive growth in the registration of new cars. The growth was highest at 7.23% in Badaun closely followed by 7.03% in Sant Kabir Nagar and 4.65% in Balia. “Incidentally, most districts showing a positive trend even in the pandemic year were the poor and backward, and barring Badaun, hailed from the backward regions of eastern UP and Bundelkhand,” pointed out a transport official requesting anonymity. “None of the districts with positive growth was from the affluent NCR or western UP,” he added. These are also the districts where the fall in the registration of new vehicles is comparatively less than that registered by the most affluent districts. However, there was not a single district to show a positive growth in the registration of new two-wheelers in the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-vehicle-registrations-fell-in-up-in-last-financial-year-101626199915157.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Spas under police scanner over illegal activities, norm violations||The police on Tuesday constituted four teams to keep a check on spas after receiving several complaints of illegal activities at such establishments across the city.According to the police, over 20 owners and managers of spas were booked in the last 10 days for operating without permission, even before the government allowed their resumption on Sunday, for exceeding 50% capacity and operating beyond 8pm, in violation of the latest lockdown orders, and running prostitution rackets in the guise of massage packages.KK Rao, the commissioner of police for Gurugram, said that the teams have been formed to check illegal activities taking place in some spas. “We have asked spa owners to maintain records and not to indulge in any illegal activity, as some were found conducting illegal activities in the garb of spa business. Recently, spa owners and managers were booked for operating their centres even during the lockdown. With the new order to operate at 50% capacity, it is important to keep a close watch on their activities,” he said.All station house officers were asked to compile a list of spas in their area and to check their records regularly. They were also warned of strict action in case of laxity or cahooting with spa owners.As per the order issued on Sunday by Vijai Vardhan, the state chief secretary, spas have been allowed to open from 6am to 8pm, with appropriate Covid-19 safeguards, and operate at 50% of their capacity.The police will also check the verification status of staff deployed at spas and those found working without certification will also be booked, said Rao. Plainclothes personnel are also deployed near commercial complexes and areas where maximum spas are operational, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/spas-under-police-scanner-over-illegal-activities-norm-violations-101626199136402.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Khattar assures of special camps to vaccinate underprivileged||With the district health department struggling to hold vaccinations amid a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that vaccination camps will be held in the city to cover the underprivileged population. Khattar was in the city to address a grievance redressal session on Tuesday and made the statement while answering a query regarding the underprivileged population being missed out from the drive due to the ongoing shortage.First dose inoculations at government health centres have remained suspended for the past few days. On Wednesday too, only the second shot will be administered, as the health department will hold vaccinations at only six health centres. Officials said that 200 Covaxin doses will be given at five health centres, at Badshshpur, Tigra, Manesar, Chauma and Chanderlok, while 200 Covishield doses will be given at the Sector 31 polyclinic.“Vaccination progress of Gurugram is satisfactory as almost 15.5 lakh (1.55 million) have been administered vaccine out of the 25 lakh (2.5 million) population in the district. Despite the progress, for reaching out to the poor population, the chief medical officer will permit holding the vaccination camps,” said Khattar, while addressing the media after the grievance redressal meeting.Ravinder Jain, an advocate, raised the vaccination issue during the meeting, citing privileges being given to certain sections of society.It is for the first time in more than two years that a complaint regarding the health department was placed during the grievance committee meeting, which is held every month by the chief minister in the district to resolve issues related to land encroachment, industrial development and electricity supply, among others.Many people who work as daily wage labourers and servants have been facing difficulties in getting vaccinated over the past few days, as they are unaware of the vaccination schedule at health facilities. According to the chief medical officer for Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, the first dose inoculations will be suspended and second doses will be given only at a few sites. “Vaccination camps will be increased based on the supply of doses. The department was running a mobile vaccination van until last week to increase the coverage among the poor population,” said Yadav.The CM said that vaccines are issued to the state by the Central government based on the population count. Sputnik V inoculations have also started in the district and the supply will increase as more vaccine contenders will enter the market, he said.As per the data available with the health department, 1,587,152 doses of vaccines have been administered in the district. On Tuesday, about 17,187 vaccine shots were administered after the health department received around 15,000 doses of Covishield on Monday night. At least 12,180 doses were administered at government health centres, while 5,007 jabs were administered at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khattar-assures-of-special-camps-to-vaccinate-underprivileged-101626199135177.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Water shortage for 15 days but no resolution, say DLF-3 residents||Residents of DLF Phase-3 complained of water shortage for the past 15 days, due to which they are buying water from private tankers at exorbitant rates. They alleged that the problem occurs every summer, but that the authorities concerned have failed to provide relief despite repeated complaints over the past few years.Even as residents alleged that the issue has worsened this year due to an increase in population, the developer, DLF, and the civic agency concerned, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (DLF), denied allegations of short supply.Achal Malhotra, the president of V Residents Empowerment and Welfare Society, said that basic requirements are not being met due to a severe shortage of water. “We have to depend on private tankers for water supply as our pleas to the GMDA, district administration and the developer failed to elicit any response. The residents are told by GMDA that the problem is with local distribution, while the developer says the former is not supplying adequate water. We have nowhere to go,” said Malhotra.On June 25, the association wrote to the Gurugram district administration also in this regard. “The matter has been raised with DLF and the civic agencies. DLF blames Huda, GMDA etc for supplying insufficient water. The agencies concerned hold DLF responsible for inadequate storage facilities and flawed distribution system. In this process of blame game, it is the DLF residents who are suffering the most,” an excerpt from the letter read.A resident, requesting anonymity, said that residents of the area have held protests over water shortage every year since 2013. “The residents came to live in the colony to get away from the hustle and bustle of Delhi. They expected peace of mind and comfortable life, but contrary to that, poor infrastructure has made life difficult,” the resident said.Prem Chopra, another resident, said that people were finding it difficult to perform basic household chores for the past two to three weeks. “Living on water supplied from private tankers is not feasible,” he said.David Amalraj, the senior vice-president, DLF Estate Developers Limited, said that they have been supplying adequate water to residents throughout the year and there is no complaint of shortage. “It is only during peak summer that for a couple of days, shortage of water supply happens and that too, due to reduction in water supplied by the GMDA. If there is adequate water available, then there would be no shortage. We have also held meetings with the authority to resolve the issue,” said Amalraj, adding that the company arranges tankers.However, the GMDA officials denied a shortage in supply. “The amount of water fixed for the colony, as per the service agreement, is being supplied. There has been no problem with our supply system and adequate water is being supplied. The developer should look into their distribution system if there is a problem because we are supplying more than the stipulated amount,” said Abhinav Verma, executive engineer of GMDA, who is responsible for the area.Verma said that water from the Basai water treatment plant is pumped through the Sector 16 pumping station to the area.Members of the residents’ association said that the recent decision of the government to allow four storeys for constructions on a plot would adversely impact them, as infrastructure for water, power and sewage was already being stretched. “The city was planned and infrastructure laid for a population of 1 million and now, the numbers are more than 3 million. With the number of new apartments coming up due to this decision, the infrastructure is going to crumble,” a resident said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/water-shortage-for-15-days-but-no-resolution-say-dlf-3-residents-101626199015164.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Sohna gang-rape: Victim’s neighbour assaulted, paraded for supporting her||A day after the police booked four men in Sohna for allegedly raping a Dalit woman, henchmen of the suspects assaulted a neighbour of the victim for supporting her to file a case against the suspects and paraded him in a semi-naked state across the village on Monday. The police booked 40 men in connection with the incident.According to the police, the suspects threatened villagers against supporting the woman and dragged the neighbour, a 40-year-old man who runs a private school, from inside the school premises. They entered the school, assaulted him, undressed him and paraded him through the village while issuing threats to villagers, the police said.Based on the man’s complaint, a case was registered at Sohna police station under sections 147 (riot), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (assault), 379A (snatching), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation)of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act on Tuesday.On Sunday, four persons were booked for allegedly holding an 18-year-old Dalit woman hostage for nine days from June 30 and raping her. They allegedly injected her with sedatives every day, the police said, adding that the woman’s shoulders were swollen due to the jabs and she has been admitted to a hospital for the past two days.The 40-year-old man said that he fell unconscious during the attack and found himself locked inside the school when he came to his senses, after about an hour. “They left me thinking I was dead,” the man said, adding that the attackers also damaged the school.He received medical treatment and is currently stable, the police said.The complainant alleged that the suspects also threatened to sexually assault the women of his family. “Being a neighbour, I helped them (rape victim’s family), for which the accused assaulted me and issued threats,” he told the police, alleging that the group was trying to turn the case into one of caste divisions.Sandeep Mallik, the assistant commissioner of police (Sohna), said, “We are investigating it. Proper action will be taken against those who are guilty based on the facts.”Meanwhile, the four suspects in the gang-rape case remained untraceable, the police said. On Tuesday, the police constituted three crime teams to track them through CCTV footage from Ballabhgarh and Faridabad, after their locations were traced by a cybercrime team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sohna-gang-rape-victim-s-neighbour-assaulted-paraded-for-supporting-her-101626198775188.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Rain brings along waterlogging, power outages to Gurugram||Several parts of the city were waterlogged while a few localities suffered power outages following three hours of rainfall on Tuesday morning, as the first spell of the monsoon hit the Millennium City. Areas around Rajeev Chowk, Subhash Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, sectors 9A and 10, Shivaji Park and Basai Road were the worst affected.The underpasses in the city as well as the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, which were inundated following spells of rain over the past few years, largely remained unaffected.According to a weather report issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday evening, Gurugram received 51.6mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours. As per the district-wise season rainfall status of Haryana issued by the IMD, the normal rainfall range for Gurugram during the monsoon, till mid-July, is 110.8mm, which indicates that the district is still suffering from a 61% deficit in rainfall for the season. Officials of the IMD predicted that the rain will intensify over the weekend.Even as the rain started around 7am and subsided by 10am, accumulated rainwater in the affected areas receded only by 1pm. In Basai Road, Sector 10 and CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, water accumulated up to the knee level, with civic agencies scrambling to resolve the issue.Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) cited localised factors for waterlogging in these areas. “The problem with both Basai Road and Sector 10 is geographical, rather than an inherent drainage issue. They are among the lowest points in the city, due to which rainwater from higher points of Gurugram accumulates there in high quantities. Using motorised pumps and pressure machines, we were able to channel rainwater out of these areas in a few hours after rains subsided,” said Ramesh Sharma, superintending engineer of the MCG.Before the start of the monsoon, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), MCG and the district administration had identified 113 locations across the city that were susceptible to waterlogging. Sharma said that joints teams of MCG and GMDA officials were deployed at the waterlogging-prone points, with motor pumps, suction tankers and bucket machines, to ensure that rainwater recedes within 30 minutes after rainfall subsides.At Subhash Chowk, opposite the Sadar police station, the carriageway leading to Bakhtawar Chowk was also heavily inundated. A team of MCG officials could be spotted opening a manhole at the spot, after which rainwater receded quickly.The civic agencies, in their joint drainage plan, had identified problem areas for both Rajiv Chowk and CH Bakhtawar Singh Road. At Rajiv Chowk, especially near the Mini Secretariat area, there is an absence of a proper drainage outlet and temporary pumps have been installed in the area to mitigate waterlogging, said officials, while at CH Bakhtawar Sing Road, estimates for the proposal for laying stormwater drain between CH Bakhtawar Singh Road and Sohna Road is under process.The GMDA and MCG, in their report, stated that they will take up the engineering work in September after the monsoon.“I could see heavy rainwater accumulation along CH Bakhtawar Singh Road from my house and decided to use Sohna Road instead to head towards Delhi. However, even at Rajiv Chowk, there was rainwater accumulation. Fortunately, I was able to pass the stretch without my vehicle stalling,” said Anand Rungta, a resident of Sector 47.Officials of the GMDA said that waterlogging was reported only from a few places in the city, with water receding from the roads within 15-20 minutes after the rain. “We a received a complaint of waterlogging only from Sector 9A on Tuesday and that was also because of an issue in the sewerage line. There is a sewage treatment plant in that area, where an electrical failure was reported, due to which the sewage line was shut for over an hour. Due to this, sewage water was overflowing, but stormwater was drained out within 15-20 minutes after the rain stopped on Tuesday morning,” said a senior official with the infrastructure-II division of GMDA.The Gurugram traffic police issued alerts on social media, cautioning commuters about waterlogging on CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Basai Road and at Rajiv Chowk, and advising them to avoid these stretches.“Around 1,100 traffic police officials were deployed across the city, with a focus on waterlogging points. All our staff were at their respective locations before the rains started. Due to the low volume of traffic, following the second Covid-19 wave, we were able to divert traffic without much hindrance and there were no major snarls anywhere in the city,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).Power outages were also reported in several parts of the city, including sectors 40, 48 and parts of Old Gurugram, where residents alleged that supply was cut from 7am till noon. “As soon as it started raining, there was a power outage. We were informed that a local transformer had developed an issue due to which power supply had been cut. Electricity only returned around 2.45pm,” said Akshay Yadav, a resident of Sector 48.A senior official of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), said, “A tree had fallen on the 11kv overhead power line in Sector 40, while in Sector 48, a private agency was carrying out cable work and the underground electric cables were affected. Both of these were fixed by early afternoon and power was resumed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rain-brings-along-waterlogging-power-outages-to-gurugram-101626198716315.html
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Rainfall brings down mercury levels in Gurugram||A three-hour spell of light rainfall in Gurugram from 7am on Tuesday brought down the mercury level in the city. The maximum temperature was recorded at 30.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, which was five degrees below the normal, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 23.1 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below the normal. This was the first spell of rain in the city this monsoon and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced the arrival of monsoon in Delhi-NCR. Officials of the IMD said that rain will intensify in the city from July 17 and an alert in this regard has already been issued. According to the weather warning issued by IMD, a “yellow alert” requesting authorities to be prepared has been issued for July 17, with predictions of thunderstorms and lightning at isolated locations. AK Singh, the director of the meteorological centre at Chandigarh, said, “On Tuesday, monsoon advanced to Delhi-NCR and remaining parts of Haryana and Punjab. At present, there is a light rain forecast for Wednesday, after which rain activity will increase after July 17. An alert has also been issued so that authorities concerned are prepared.” The IMD, in a statement on Tuesday morning, said, “In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since past four days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the southwest monsoon has further advanced into remaining parts of the country including Delhi, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Thus, the southwest monsoon has covered entire country on 13th July, against the normal date of 8th July.” According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely from July 14-17. Over the next few days, the maximum temperature is expected to remain between 32°C and 35°C, and the minimum temperature is likely to be around 24°C. Meanwhile, the rainfall ensured that the air quality in Gurugram was in the satisfactory zone for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with an air quality index of 63. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the satisfactory category over the next five days, according to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi weather bulletin issued on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rainfall-brings-down-mercury-levels-in-gurugram-101626198715012.html
13-07-2021||Other||Al-Qaeda module busted in Lucknow: Terror suspects were working on attack plan for 6 months, say police||LUCKNOW The two terror suspects, Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen, allegedly linked with the al-Qaeda module busted in Lucknow on Sunday, had been working on a plan to carry out serial blasts in Lucknow and other parts of UP before August 15 for the last six months. The duo had received funds from their Pakistan-based handler through ‘hawala’ network to arrange explosives and other things for this purpose, said police.UP ATS officials had earlier claimed that the two terror suspects were in touch with a Pakistan-based handler through a special messenger application after being radicalised online. A senior police official said the initial probe hinted that the duo arrested from Lucknow and their accomplices were getting funds through different sources. As many as 11 bank accounts of different people were under the scanner for allegedly being used for transferring funds to these suspects, he said. Though the two terror suspects visited Kanpur, the report regarding four Kanpur residents funding them was found fake. The ATS team was now tracking the money trail, said the official. “The reason behind their Kanpur visit is yet to be ascertained. The sources and the amount of money received by them are also to be confirmed,” he emphasised. On Tuesday morning, the ATS had taken custody of Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen for 14 days to interrogate them about the source of funds and their other accomplices. The duo will be in custody till July 26. They will be taken to Kanpur to extract more information about their visits to the city, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alqaeda-module-busted-in-lucknow-terror-suspects-were-working-on-attack-plan-for-6-months-say-police-101626198654508.html
13-07-2021||Other||Ayurvedic intervention useful in Covid mgmt, shows study||Lucknow Ayurveda can be helpful for management of mild Covid-19 patients, shows a randomized open label parallel group study, carried out in a Lucknow-based level 2 Covid hospital (Lokbandhu Hospital). The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of Ayurvedic interventions in the management of asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients. The study was approved by the Hospital Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) and was funded by the State Programme management unit of AYUSH, National Heath Mission, Uttar Pradesh. Dr Adil Rais, MD and PhD in Ayurveda , Dr Major DS Negi , Dr Amita Yadav, chief medical superintendent Lokbandhu Hospital, , Dr Himanshu Arya , Dr Ramji Verma, Dr R Ghalib , Dr Absar Ahmed, Dr Mahendra Kumar Yadav and Dr PN Ahirwar, medical superintendent, Lokbandhu Hospital conducted the study on 120 patients with mild or moderate symptoms of Covid. “The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Ayurveda in the management of mildly affected Covid -19 patients,” said Dr Adil Rais. “It was an open label randomized 10-day study. A total of 120 asymptomatic and/or mild Covid-19 positive patients were divided in three groups. RT-PCR ttest of all the patients was done on 5th, 7th and 10th day respectively. Eighty-seven patients were men and 33 women, 77 were in the age group of 25 to 40 years, 16 in the age group of 40 to 50 years and 27 were between 50 and 60 years.” Patients aged above 25 years and below 60 years were included in the study. Patients below 25 years and above 60 years of age were excluded from the study. Patients tested positive for COVID 19 virus, asymptomatic or with uncomplicated upper respiratory tract infection, having mild symptoms like fever, cough, sore throat, nasal congestion, malaise and headache were included. Patients were randomly grouped into Group A, Group B and Group C,, with 40 in each group. The first group A of patients was given Vyaghryadi Kashaya (50 ml) twice a day with 250 mg of Pippali powder on an empty stomach morning and evening. Two tablets of Samshamani vati were also given twice a day. Group B was given fine powder of Shunthi (zingiber officinale Rosc.) 2 gm twice a day with warm water, along with paste of Rasona (allium sativum L.) kalka 1 gm once a day. Group C was given paracetamol 500 mg and vitamin C 500 mg twice a day. On the fifth day, in the RTPCR test, 92.5% patients of group A, 87.5% of the patients in group B and 57.75% patients in group C tested negative. On the 7the day, 100 % patients of group A tested negative, while 97.5% patients of group B and 72.5% patients of group C tested negative. The study had proved the efficacy of Ayurveda in a disease like corona, said Dr Amita Yadav. She said if used judiciously, AYUSH medicines would help in improvement and recovery from Covid as was observed in the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayurvedic-intervention-useful-in-covid-mgmt-shows-study-101626198294367.html
13-07-2021||Other||Now, Taj Mahal opens for tourists at 6 in the morning||Agra As the night curfew has been relaxed by two hours, tourist can now catch a glimpse of the Taj Mahal soaked in light of the rising sun. Monuments, including the Taj Mahal, are now to open at 6 am with entry permitted for tourists till 6.15 pm. “The corona night curfew used to end at 7 am but now the timings have been relaxed and it would end at 6 am, allowing opening of Taj Mahal an hour earlier,” informed Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle. “Monuments all over the nation open with sunrise and get closed at sunset but till recently the night curfew stalled this. Now that the night curfew ends at 6 am, the tourists can get inside the monument an hour earlier,” said Swarnkar. “However, because of weekend curfew monuments would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday and open only for five days a week,” he said.. Taj Mahal remains closed on Friday also because of weekly closure. So tourists get opportunity to view it only for 4 days i.e. from Monday to Thursday. Replying to a question about demand for offline ticket also at Taj Mahal, the ASI official clarified that tickets would be available online only as sale of offline tickets might lead to assembling of tourists at ticket window. “We have made QR Code available at standees placed all through the route from parking to monument for booking of online ticket. Beside this, a system manager is stationed at the entrance of the Taj Mahal to help those unable to book ticket online,” he said. Tourism related bodies in Agra are demanding opening of Taj Mahal on week end, when most people coming through Agra-Noida and Agra-Luckn||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-taj-mahal-opens-for-tourists-at-6-in-the-morning-101626198114372.html
13-07-2021||Other||SIT constituted to probe ex-army man’s torture, state govt tells HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The state government informed the Allahabad high court on Monday that a special investigation team (SIT) had been constituted to investigate the alleged humiliation and brutal torture of a retired armyman by the Uttar Pradesh Police. The state government also informed that SIT would investigate the FIR lodged by the ex-soldier and further action, including arrest of the accused police officers, shall be effected if in the preliminary inquiry, they are prima facie found to be guilty. While keeping the submissions made by the state government on record, a division bench comprising justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Gautam Chaudhari directed to put up this case on July 16for further hearing. As per direction of the court dated July 8, the UP DGP filed a counter affidavit on Monday. The state counsel on the basis of the counter affidavit informed the court that some action ha been taken against the accused police officers, including sub-inspector Sunil Kumar Sharma and investigation officer Ram Naresh Singh and a preliminary inquiry was also being conducted. The state counsel further stated that up to date status of the matter would be placed before this court on the next date fixed and on which date Advocate General of UP would also appear before the court. Earlier, on July 8, after taking into account the injury reports and FIR filed by ex-soldier of Indian Army, the court had observed that “prima facie, it shows a very sorry state of affairs, police atrocities and a breach of fundamental rights of the petitioner by the accused police officials.” Emphasizing that the matter was serious and required serious consideration of the court, it had directed the UP DGP to file a counter-affidavit by means of his personal affidavit, indicating the action taken in the matter. To recall, on May 2, Resham Singh, along with his mother and two sisters was going from Pilibhit to Lakhimpur Kheri when they were stopped by the police officials at around 9 am. The police then asked for the papers of the car in which they were travelling. Allegedly, since it was taking some time to sort out the papers, the police officials abused the victim and his mother and two sisters. The victim asked the police officials to not abuse them and also informed that he was a retired army personnel. This infuriated the police who threatened the victim and his family members and then started abusing and beating the victim with lathis. Allegedly, the police officials also beat his mother and sisters and took them to the police station without any woman police officer. At the police station, the victim was disrobed and tied on a cot and brutally beaten up by the police officials for two continuous hours. They also gave him third degree torture only to satisfy their ego, the petitioner alleged. Thereafter, he lodged an FIR against the erring officials and took treatment in the army hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-constituted-to-probe-ex-army-man-s-torture-state-govt-tells-hc-101626197874380.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Allow fully vaccinated flyers enter Mumbai without RT-PCR report: BMC to state||The Brihanmumbai Municipal corporation (BMC) has requested the Maharashtra government to exempt fully vaccinated domestic passengers arriving at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport from carrying RT-PCR test reports. “The vaccination drives across the nation have commenced and many citizens who are fully vaccinated, are requesting to waive off the condition with respect to carrying negative RT-PCR test report,” BMC commissioner IS Chahal said in a letter to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, according to reports.“There are many passengers who are taking up the journey to Delhi or other business places in the morning and they are returning on the same day or the next morning, in such cases conducting RT-PCR test and getting the report becomes impossible,” Chahal said.Maharashtra tightened rules for travel into the state in May, making the RT-PCR test report, obtained 48 hours before entry, mandatory after the surge in the daily Covid-19 cases across the country.Also read | Maharashtra reports 7,243 new Covid-19 cases, 196 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi, Punjab and Chandigarh and other states have also said that travellers can enter without an RT-PCR test.Meanwhile, BMC has extended Covid-19 vaccination for people travelling abroad for higher studies or work and athletes and support staff going for the Tokyo Olympics to six days. It was restricted to three days a week before this. The extension of three additional days will be applicable till August 31, the civic body said in a release.Before this, people travelling abroad for higher studies or work and athletes bound for the Tokyo Olympics were allowed to get their Covid-19 vaccines only from Monday to Wednesday at the seven designated vaccination centres in the city and suburbs. The seven walk-in vaccination centres in Mumbai are Kasturba hospital in Chinchpokli, KEM hospital in Parel, Seven Hills hospital in Andheri East, Cooper hospital in Vile Parle West, Shatabdi hospital in Govandi, Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar and Dahisar Jumbo Covid-19 Centre.Also read | Vaccination awareness in rural Maharashtra: From art, street plays to priestsPeople in these categories can now get their jabs on any day between Monday and Saturday, the BMC said. BMC has also reduced the gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine for students going abroad and brought it down to 28 days from 84 days.According to BMC on Tuesday, Mumbai reported 441 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest after February 9, and eight deaths.Mumbai's Covid-19 tally now stands at 728,615 and its death toll 15,644, BMC data shows. The city is now left with 6,950 active cases.Tuesday is the second consecutive day when Mumbai recorded less than 500 cases and less than 10 fatalities. Mumbai reported 478 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Monday. Mumbai's average case doubling rate now stands at 925 days whereas the average growth rate of cases between July 6 to July 12 was 0.07 per cent. The case recovery rate is 96 per cent, the civic body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-fully-vaccinated-flyers-enter-mumbai-without-rt-pcr-report-bmc-to-state-101626196982437.html
13-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 861 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 861 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. Two days in a row, the district has reported less than 100 new Covid cases. This took the progressive count to 1.070 million of which 1.035 million have recovered, 17,782 deaths and 16,663 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 42,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 428 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 317,413 and with four more deaths the death toll stood at 5,993. Pune city reported 253 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 498,763 and reported five new deaths on the day the toll stood at 8,553 while PCMC reported 180 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 253,905 and with no new deaths reported the toll stood at 2,989. Pune also saw 42,878 vaccinations on the day as per Co-Win dashboard and totally 5,296,113 vaccines have been administered totally, including 4,122,516 first dose and 1,173,597 are second dose. A total of 357 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 233 are government and 124 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-861-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101626194334159.html
13-07-2021||Patna||PNB organises campaign in Patna for extending credit facility||Punjab National Bank (PNB), Patna circle, organised a ‘meet and greet’ campaign to provide credit facilities to doctors, firms related to healthcare services, traders and small industries.Addressing the customers on Monday, zonal manager Sanjay Kandpal stressed on credit requirements to overcome Covid-19-triggered business loss. He said, “As unlock process has begun in the state and business activities are getting back to normal, demand for credit is expected to increase for braving the loss suffered by businesses.”Underlining the importance of micro, small and medium enterprises in employment generation and economy, Patna circle head Abhijit Sinha said, “Our bank is making all efforts to provide credit facility to MSME sector according to the guidelines and it will continue in the future as well.”The campaign will conclude on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pnb-organises-campaign-in-patna-for-extending-credit-facility-101626193734671.html
13-07-2021||Patna||CUSB to conduct open book exam from July 14||Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) will conduct Open Book Examination (OBE) in online mode from Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday. The examination will be taken by even semester students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses.The decision was taken owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed on conducting exams in conventional mode. CUSB on Tuesday organised an online interactive session to make students aware of all the modalities of OBE to avoid inconvenience during the exam.The varsity’s controller of examination Rashmi Tripathi said, “OBE exams are being conducted for even semester students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The examination will conclude in the first week of August, as per a phase-wise exam schedule.”Online viva voce will be conducted after OBE, Tripathi said. “If any student is unwilling to participate in OBE, exams will also be conducted in the conventional mode after normalcy returns,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cusb-to-conduct-open-book-exam-from-july-14-101626193674633.html
13-07-2021||Other||West Champaran: Circle officer flouts Wildlife Act rules, keeps monkey at residence||In gross violation of the Wildlife Act, a circle officer (CO) in West Champaran district reportedly kept a baby monkey tied to a rope at his official residence in Gaunaha block of the district. The revelation came to the fore on Tuesday after a man wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar in this regard.Monkeys are a protected species under Section II of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.In his letter dated July 13, 2021, one Sudist Kumar Khatayit, a resident of Salempur village of Gaunaha block, apprised the chief minister of the alleged atrocities committed on animal ill treatment meted out at the hands of CO Amit Kumar.“When I could not contact the CO after doing the rounds of his office for past one month , I approached him at his residence. Instead of resolving my issue, he threatened to make me dance like the monkey he had held captive,” Khatayit wrote in his letter, a copy of which is with HT.When contacted, the Gaunaha CO admitted to having kept a monkey with himself. “The monkey was brought and stayed with me for about an hour. All this was done to take a picture with the animal,” said the CO, refusing to divulge identity of the person he brought the monkey from. He, however, said that he got the animal “from a tribal living near a temple”.Wildlife conservator and field director of VTR, HK Rai, said, “The Wildlife Act prohibits from domesticating monkeys, a protected species.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-champaran-circle-officer-flouts-wildlife-act-rules-keeps-monkey-at-residence-101626193674031.html
13-07-2021||Patna||Farmers to get financial aid for crops damaged by Cyclone Yaas||Farmers in Bihar, who lost their standing rabi, maize and garma seasonal crops during the recent Cyclone Yaas, would be compensated for the damage as a proposal of ₹99 crore has been prepared by the state agriculture department after carrying a crop damage survey. The cyclone had hit the eastern Indian states, including Bihar, from May 26 to 30. The agriculture department’s survey report has assessed that thousands of farmers lost their standing crops in 73,000 hectares of land spread in 16 districts. Sources said the proposal has been sent to the disaster management department for vetting and would be put before the cabinet soon for approval. “Our field officers in 16 districts affected by the cyclone carried the survey to assess crop damage. A proposal has been sent to the disaster management for compensation worth ₹99 crore. It is under process and will get approval soon,” said, agriculture department secretary N Saravana Kumar. Under the compensation package, each selected farmer would get ₹6,800 per hectare for non-irrigated land against crop damages while ₹13,500 per hectare would be given to selected farmers who suffered crop damages on irrigated land. As per norms, the damages should be minimum of 33% of standing crops to qualify for the compensation. The total number of farmers to be benefitted from the compensation package is still unknown as the list of beneficiaries is under process. “Once the approval of the compensation proposal comes, we will start the disbursements to farmers immediately,” said a senior official. Officials said the cyclone had caused extensive damage to standing garma crops, mainly pulses, besides some varieties of paddy and maize. The garma crops are sown during March and harvested by June between the main Rabi and Kharif seasons. Certain medicinal plants are also sown during garma season. Meanwhile, the agriculture department has started giving fresh seeds to farmers who suffered damages of seedlings of paddy and other Kharif crops in the floods in four districts, including the Tirhut region. “We are carrying the assessment of damage to seedlings of paddy and other crops in four flood-hit districts and started giving fresh seeds to affected farmers for alternative crops,” said the secretary, agriculture. He also said that the department has started assessing damages to sugarcane crops in districts like Muzaffarpur and East Champaran, where floods have affected some areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/farmers-to-get-financial-aid-for-crops-damaged-by-cyclone-yaas-101626193614123.html
13-07-2021||Patna||Ban obnoxious display of women in vulgar videos: Sushil Modi to state govt||Former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi has reacted sharply against the obnoxious videos created in Bhojpuri and Magahi languages and asked the government to ban such materials to maintain the dignity of women in the state. In a tweet, Modi has also asked the government to stop the vulgar display of women in the caged vehicles during wedding proceedings and the firings during celebrations. “A large portion of the population in the state has been using Bhojpuri and Magahi languages and people are emotionally attached to their mother tongue. However, these languages are reportedly being used in vulgar videos in the name of promoting regional culture. It’s quite shocking and needs to stop,” Sushil Kumar Modi said. People who have been using these languages must be feeling ashamed of the videos with obnoxious content. Women too must have been feeling embarrassed, he added. “Government in the state has already been maintaining zero-tolerance regarding the violation of women’s rights and dignity and liquor was banned here mainly because of these reasons. Why can’t these kinds of video productions be banned?” he asked. The former deputy CM said apart from the vulgar videos, there have also been reports of obscene displays of women during the wedding processions. “How can this be allowed? Baaratis or processions have been a traditional part of weddings in our society, but putting women into cage-like vehicles for entertainment of guests cannot be justified,” he said. There must be a provision of strict action against all those who indulge in a vulgar display of women during marriage processions and in creating vulgar videos, Modi said. Meanwhile, appreciating the former Deputy CM’s reactions over vulgar videos, Patna-based folk singer Lokesh Kumar Singh said that the trend of creating sizzling videos in Bhojpuri has picked up momentum in the last few years. “Video makers create the content and upload it on social media. There’s no tension of censorship or other restrictions. While the production cost is low, viewership is quite high,” he said. Though there have been resentments among some people, video makers hardly bother for these things, he added. Shashi Yadav, state secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association, said, “We do know where to complain. Earlier, women activists used to protest even against the vulgar posters put on display in the city. However, we are yet to find a platform to protest against the vulgar videos,” she said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ban-obnoxious-display-of-women-in-vulgar-videos-sushil-modi-to-state-govt-101626193434124.html
13-07-2021||Other||Seemanchal Muslim MLAs support Nitish’s views on population control policy||Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s emphasis on educating girl children to curb population growth instead of legislation has evoked applause from non-NDA leaders in Seemanchal. Muslim MLAs of Seemanchal, who sharply reacted over the new population policy of Uttar Pradesh, have extended their support to the Bihar chief minister.Araria Congress MLA Avidur Rahman while appreciating Nitish Kumar’s stand over the issue said “We too want to tackle the problem through education and not through legislation.” However, he admitted that the rising population is a problem for the country.Bihar president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) Akhatarul Iman said, “There should be a nationwide debate on whether the rising population is a boon or bane for India to feel the pulse of the common people in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seemanchal-muslim-mlas-support-nitish-s-views-on-population-control-policy-101626193374105.html
13-07-2021||Patna||Differences in Bihar NDA over need of population law||The NDA in Bihar seems to be a divided house over the need for a population law in the state after its neighbouring state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced to bring in a law.The two major alliance partners of the NDA, the BJP and the JD(U), hold a diametrically opposite view on the issue. Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday had said that laws alone can’t help check the population. “It was found after a lot of research that the rate of reproduction comes down effectively if women are educated. Bihar has experimented with it by promoting education among the girls and achieved success. If it continued, the state would have negative growth in population after 2040,” said Kumar and gave the example of China to support his point. “In China too, a decision was taken regarding one to two children, now see what is happening there. The biggest thing is that when women are fully educated and aware, then the fertility rate will automatically decrease,” he said.Bihar’s Panchayati Raj Minister Samrat Choudhary put CM Nitish in a dock by saying that the CM has made the law applicable in municipal bodies. “It is very clear that population control law should be implemented in this country. In Bihar, this law is already applicable in the municipal body. Now is the time that it should be implemented in Panchayats also,” said Choudhary. “Now the time has come that the two-children norm should be introduced in panchayat elections,” he said while underlining that “any such provision could be introduced only from next rural local bodies polls to be held in 2026 if there is a consensus,” he added.Bihar’s deputy chief minister Renu Devi and other party leaders do not agree with Kumar’s views and vociferously demanded a law to check the population. “For population control, there is a need to make men aware than women because there is a lot of fear among men about sterilisation. In many districts of Bihar, the rate of sterilisation is only 1%,” said the deputy CM.Union minister Giriraj Singh too rejected Nitish Kumar’s theory. “Population policy is the need of the country. Caste, religion is not an issue of politics. The way population is becoming a hindrance in development, in this situation population control law is necessary. The population control law of the Yogi government is a big step,” said Singh at Lakhisarai. Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai, who is on a tour to Bihar said that demand for the law is coming from various corners. “The government is studying all aspects,” said Rai. The chief minister, who found himself cornered by the BJP and his party workers, got the support of Congress. Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathod said that the party agrees with the words of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Population control in the country should be done with awareness.Incidentally, this is not the first time that the BJP and the JD(U) have differed on issues. Earlier, after objecting to CAA, the party voted in favour of the government. The RJD attacked the chief minister. “If he is opposed to BJP’s stand, he should leave the party immediately,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/differences-in-bihar-nda-over-need-of-population-law-101626193314053.html
13-07-2021||Pune||Pune’s contact tracing rate lower than state average||Pune: With 12.92 contacts traced for every new positive Covid-19 case, Pune district’s average contact tracing is lower than the state average at 15.28 contacts for every new case. Despite a rising positivity rate in the district compared to the previous week, the administration has brought down its contact tracing ratio. Earlier, the state administration had asked to maintain a ratio of about 20 contacts for every new Covid case. From July 5 to July 11, Pune district traced 1,044,550 which was about 98.2% contacts to be traced and 22,767 or 1.8% is pending to be traced. Of the total contacts traced, 3,788,573 were high-risk contacts which includes those who came in close contact with the Covid positive patients which was about 3.55 high-risk contacts for every positive case and 10,004,941 low-risk contacts were traced which is about 9.37 low-risk contacts for every positive case. This ratio for the state is 5.85 high-risk contacts for every positive case and 9.43 low-risk contacts for every positive case. Contact tracing is essential to break the chain of infection through timely isolation and treatment. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid advisor to the state, said, “Contact tracing is essential and administration must ensure that every contact especially the most vulnerable ones are traced on time which will lead to isolation of the patient so that the infection stops spreading and also early intervention could lead to timely treatment which also brings down to case fatality rate. At least 20 contacts must be traced and tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for every new Covid-19 case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-contact-tracing-rate-lower-than-state-average-101626192894022.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 7,243 new Covid-19 cases, 196 deaths in last 24 hours||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 7,243 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the cumulative tally in the state reached 6,172,645, a bulletin showed. Also, 196 people lost their lives due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the death toll climbed to 126,229, the latest data showed. Meanwhile, total recoveries reached 5,938,734 in the day as 10,978 more patients were discharged from hospitals following their recovery.The capital city of Mumbai logged 454 new infections and eight more fatalities in the last 24 hours. So far, 728,644 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and the death toll stood at 15,644.The active caseload in Mumbai was recorded at 6950, as of date, an increase of 170 cases from the 7120 reported previously on Monday, a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Tuesday showed. The recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 96 per cent while the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the city is currently 925 days, the bulletin further showed. As many as five active containment zones were in effect within the city.Also read | Don't take Covid third wave predictions as 'weather update', says govtThe daily new infections in Maharashtra have been declining since the last few days with 8992 new cases reported on Friday (July 9), 8296 on Saturday (July 10), 8535 on Sunday (July 11) and 7603 fresh infections on Monday (July 12).Medical workers in the state tested 196,664 more samples on the day for Covid-19 as the cumulative test coverage reached 44,383,113 samples, according to the latest data. Meanwhile, 30,100 tests were conducted in Mumbai in the last 24 hours and so far, 7,592,501 samples have been tested for the disease in the city, the BMC bulletin showed.Data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed that 23,973,514 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, including 20,157,526 first doses and 3,815,988 second doses, have been administered to people in the state as of 7am on Tuesday. The ministry also said that 8,737,844 first doses and 375,386 second doses have been administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-7-243-new-covid-19-cases-196-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101626189716378.html
13-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: CRPF pays tribute to sniffer dog killed in IED blast||A sniffer dog was killed while its handler, a CRPF jawan was injured on Tuesday in an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast during an anti-Maoist operation under Kurumgarh police station in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, police officials said. CRPF thanked the dog for his bravery and sacrifice, which helped save a team of CoBRA commandos from the powerful blast. “His selfless sacrifice will be never forgotten and will always be remembered as an ACT OF VALOR. Shaheed DRONE was cremated with guard of honour and as per laid down procedure of the force,” a statement from CRPF said on Tuesday.Officials said the incident happened at 7 am when a joint team of the 203 Cobra Batallion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Jharkhand police was conducting an operation following specific information about Maoists movement in the forested mountainous pocket.The security forces had killed a suspected member of the CPI (Maoists) in the same area on May 31 and recovered arms and literature, officials said.“A specific operation was being conducted on Tuesday morning in the same area by the joint forces along with the dog squad and the bomb disposal and destruction squad (BDDS). During the operation, the team came under [the] impact of an IED [blast] in which swan Drone was martyred while its handler Vishwajit Kumbhkar got injured. The injured jawan was evacuated immediately and airlifted to Ranchi for medical aid. He is currently under treatment at a private hospital,” a statement from the Jharkhand police headquarters said.Aged 6 years and 9 month, Drone was a male Belgian Shepherd (malinois), who was deployed in elite 203 CoBRA unit on 27th of December 2015 and diligently served the battalion by participating in 83 operations in almost all parts of Jharkhand state. A CRPF release said that Drone had found 4 containers of 40 kgs explosive each during an operation in Parasnath area in April 2016. The cache also contained detonators, cortex, mobile phone, walky talky, GPS. His efforts helped in avoiding any mishappening and saved valuable lives.Forces like CRPF have been using sniffer dogs to detect minefields and explosives during anti-insurgency operations.Officials said the area where the incident happened is riddled with IEDs planted by the CPI (Maoists). On several occasions in the past, innocent villagers as well as animals have been killed or injured due to these planted bombs in these forest areas, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-crpf-dog-drona-killed-handler-injured-in-ied-blast-in-anti-maoist-operation-101626189534464.html
13-07-2021||Pune||College of Engineering Pune’s annual regatta fest goes virtual||It turned out to be a different journey for the students of the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) as the annual regatta fest went virtual this year. The students who tend to run from pillar to post on the event day every year had a different schedule in the last 15 days as they were busy compiling the audio and video clips and the event premiered on July 11.“Initially, we had planned to conduct the regatta offline, like every other year. We were ready for the event, but just a week before, restrictions were imposed and all our plans seemed to go in vain. We didn’t want to break the legacy of 92 years and hence decided to go online. Since regatta had never been virtual before, we had no idea how to go about implementing it,” said Siddhi Walunj, secretary, regatta.“I think the biggest challenge we faced was figuring out how to incorporate the shows, all of which we had never imagined being conducted online, without losing the essence of the festival. Realising that regatta will be incomplete without any boats in the water, we chose to carry out the passes of boats representing each show. Recording these and arranging the inaugural ceremony in the presence of dignitaries, following the Covid-19 restrictions, took around 14-15 days. All the efforts put into compiling the clips by our team finally bore fruit,” added Walnuj.The inaugural ceremony was hosted on July 2 with a limited number of guests and participants.Members from the event organising team said, “The unforeseen Covid-19 situation made it seem nearly impossible to host the regatta at first. While nothing replaces the feeling of practising together for the fest, social distancing measures sort of deprived the students of their beloved boat club. But it was indeed an acid test of the team’s managerial skills as well as the flexibility in decision-making. With the support of our well-wishers, we were able to pull off the regatta with massive success amid the crisis”.The event saw the presence of the chief executive officer (CEO) of Amphenol India and the chief guest of the fest, Robert John, president of Boat Club, Dr BB Ahuja, the vice-president of Boat Club, Dr NA Hedao, regatta in-charge Dr VK Haribhakta and other faculty members.Regatta’s title sponsor this year was ‘Amphenol Interconnect’ with the Associate Sponsor ‘Bhate & Raje Construction Co Pvt Ltd.’Undoubtedly, Regatta is a visual treat for its audience, but there are some other perks to it too.It is a wonderful opportunity for the students to get introduced to water sports like rowing, kayaking, and canoeing and pursue them at a professional level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-of-engineering-pune-s-annual-regatta-fest-goes-virtual-101626187074542.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||NGT asks Punjab chief wildlife warden to probe Faridkot parrot deaths||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the chief wildlife warden (CWW) of Punjab to look into a plea alleging the death of 400 parrots due to the spraying of a chemical in Faridkot. Seeking directions to prevent the death of parrots, advocate and social activist HC Arora alleged that on June 11, nearly 400 parrots died in the compound of the office of the Faridkot deputy commissioner due to a chemical having been sprayed on jamun trees. Also read: NGT can’t ‘short shrift’ health hazards posed by plastic bottles: Supreme CourtHe said that such deaths have been taking place every year since 2017and this has been reported in the media but no remedial action has been taken. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel in its July 9 order observed that from the material filed, it is difficult to give a clear finding as to why the death of the parrots is taking place. “However, the reason for the death of such a large number of birds may need to be looked into. Accordingly, we direct the chief wildlife warden, Punjab, in coordination with the environment department or any other expert, to look into the matter and take remedial action,” the order reads. A copy of the order has been sent to CWW, Punjab, and the environment secretary of Punjab by e-mail for compliance. The district administration claimed that the parrots died due to a sand storm and not because of any chemical spray. Arora refuted the claim saying that nowhere else in Faridkot town was any parrot found dead except under jamun trees at the DC office. “On the basis of the records maintained by Shankar Sharma, a bird lover of Faridkot, the death of a large number of parrots has been taking place in Faridkot town for the past five years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-asks-punjab-chief-wildlife-warden-to-probe-faridkot-parrot-deaths-101626178914360.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Vaccine doses near end, Delhi might shut centres tomorrow||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that with just over 168,000 doses of Covid vaccine left in stock, vaccination centres will have to be shut from Wednesday. “We have the capability to administer 300,000-400,000 doses a day. But there is a shortage of vaccines. We have received a small stock of 150,000 Covishield doses on Monday night; we have around 168,000 doses which will not last beyond Tuesday or half of Wednesday. We have to close vaccination centres because of lack of vaccines,” he said. The vaccination drive had picked up pace after the policy change June 21 onwards where 75% of the vaccines manufactured in the country was being purchased by the Centre and distributed to states as opposed to states buying the doses at a differential, higher pricing for those between the ages of 18 and 45 years. Also Read | Gurudwaras in Delhi to follow orders, DDMA asks to restrict entry of visitorsTaking a dig at neighbouring Haryana government, who the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been blaming for the current water crisis in the city, Jain said, ““We can’t function like Haryana and slowly vaccinate people to hoard on stocks. We are vaccinating the maximum number of people as and when we are receiving the vaccines.” Delhi had administered about 125,000 doses till Tuesday evening, according to CoWIN dashboard. Talking about the low number of Covid-19 cases – 45 cases reported on Monday, the lowest in the last fifteen months – the minister said people must continue to take precautions. “Covid-19 cases have come down sharply in Delhi but I still urge people to take complete precautions and wear masks at all times. We saw a similar situation back in January-February...These are not the times to assume that cases have gone down so they won’t spike again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-doses-near-end-delhi-might-shut-centres-tomorrow-101626178613736.html
13-07-2021||Bangalore||Parts of Bengaluru to face power outage till July 17. Check areas to be affected||Several areas of southern and south-eastern parts of Bengaluru would face power outage till July 17, an official release by the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) stated. These areas of the city reportedly come under the Jayanagar substation, and will face power outage due to maintenance works undertaken by BESCOM.The power outage begun on Monday in many parts of the city, as the BESCOM release had alerted, and will continue between 10am and 5.30pm till July 14, as per a Deccan Herald report. The areas include HSR Layout, Electronics City, Krishna Layout, Nanjappa Layout, Vinayaka Nagar, Wilson Garden, Begur-Koppa Road, and L&T South City, among others.On the other hand, certain parts of the city and their surrounding areas will also see load shedding between July 15 and 17. These areas reportedly include Bank Colony, Wilson Garden, Rose Garden, Koramangala 8th Block, Girinagar police station, HK Halli, and JP Nagar Phase 6, among others. According to the Deccan Herald report, HSR Layout 5th Main, Adugodi police quarters, etc, and their surrounding areas will also face power cuts during the aforementioned days.Power cuts are currently in place at , Srinivasa Colony, Canara Bank Colony, KSRTC Layout, and Arehalli, among others, don’t have power supply. In a Twitter post at 4pm, BESCOM said that power supply will be restored in these areas at 5.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/parts-of-bengaluru-to-face-power-outage-till-july-17-check-areas-to-be-affected-101626174792368.html
13-07-2021||Bangalore||Lighthouse I The changing dynamics of BJP in Tamil Nadu||There is a subtle push for the change of governor for Tamil Nadu. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seriously reviewing its strategy after the massive victory of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in the 2021 assembly elections. The BJP is finding it hard to reconcile itself to having little access to proxy control of running the state administration and wants a more aggressive tactician as a governor. The elevation of Annamalai, an erstwhile police officer, as the president of the state BJP unit and the appointment of L Murugan as minister of state (MoS) are intended to consolidate caste and sub-regional identities with a long-term gameplan of divide and rule in Tamil Nadu politics. During the last five years, BJP has enjoyed the reign of proxy rule in Tamil Nadu with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in power and the complete turnaround in the politics of Puducherry through the office of lieutenant governor.Also Read | Kanimozhi dismisses reports of TN divisionThe office of governor in Indian politics has always been an instrument of coercive influence for the ruling party at Centre. The relevance of this office has also been debated in recent decades. We may not be able to do away with this institution given the colonial nature of political education that our ruling elites have imbibed and the useful negative functions of this office comparable to the role of viceroy between the colony and the empire. The BJP has gone further to fill this office with former party veterans and pracharaks (propagandists) from the RSS.According to the Indian constitution, the primary function of the governor is to preserve, protect and defend the constitution and the law as incorporated in their oath of office under Article 159 in the administration of the state affairs. All their actions, recommendations and supervisory powers (under Article 167C, Article 200, Article 213, Article 355, etc.) over the executive and legislative entities of a state shall be used to implement the provisions of the constitution. It is necessary to observe that the governor is not permitted to take any decision on his own without the state cabinet’s advice when an elected government is in charge under the provisions of Part VI of the constitution.The political functions delivered by C Vidyasagar Rao as additional charge of Tamil Nadu besides being the governor of Maharashtra during the critical period of Jayalalithaa’s illness and her passing away were of pure political opportunism, exploiting the circumstances of chaos, confusion and uncertainty within the AIADMK, choking the DMK as an active opposition through backhand checkmates and consolidation of control for the BJP in Tamil Nadu politics by keeping the AIADMK government on ventilator through subversion and sabotage of legal and constitutional procedures.The role and office of governor, after the demise of Jayalalithaa and under the leadership of Edappadi Palanisamy, has been applied for everything under the sky from bridging the factions within the AIADMK to forging allies in local politics. The governor has emerged as the first and last word from high appointments at the universities to managing party and political crisis for the ruling party under the eagle eyes of the BJP key state unit members and RSS stalwarts in the state. The BJP has picked a handful of at least five state universities through the privileges and prerogatives of the governor as the chancellor, including the prestigious University of Madras and the Anna University (for Engineering and Technical Education). After Rao, Banwarilal Purohit has been facilitating the penetration for the BJP in Tamil Nadu with the critical access and movement for the party inside the corridors of power in a state, where it did not have a single member in the state legislature until recently or control over any local bodies.The BJP in Tamil Nadu, under the solemn presence of the governor, has been conducting itself like a parallel government and political opposition to raise its stakes in the eyes of the people in the state, until the recently concluded assembly elections. Neither is this proxy rule likely to extend with the return of DMK in power nor is the BJP is set to reconcile with enormous inroads it has made in the state politics. The governor’s address to the state legislature is a measure of MK Stalin-led DMK government’s determination to define the agenda. The BJP will try to make a Puducherry out of Tamil Nadu by appointing a governor who will not shy away from running like a bull into a china shop. It will, however, be a gross underestimation of the Tamil Nadu government and the political culture of the state.Prof. Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative “Multiversity”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lighthouse-i-the-changing-dynamics-of-bjp-in-tamil-nadu-101626174833621.html
13-07-2021||Dehradun||DMs to be responsible if Covid situation worsens: Uttarakhand issues fresh SOP||Influx of tourists to hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh has raised serious concerns among the authorities as fears of an imminent third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease lingers. With weekend crowds on the rise, the Uttarakhand government has now made district magistrates responsible to ensure the situation in tourist spots does not worsen. According to an official order issued by chief secretary Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, if the situation worsens in the tourist places of Uttarakhand, the district magistrate will be held responsible.A standard operating procedure (SOP) on the matter has also directed the DMs to ensure that tourists mandatorily follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour vis-à-vis wearing of masks, maintaining social distance, and sanitising hands. “They (DMs) have been authorised to take decisions regarding the crowds on weekends,” the SOP read.In the order, Sandhu said the percentage of tourists to be allowed to move or visit a tourist place will be decided on the basis of its capacity for “crowd control and the geographical conditions,” or else the DMs will be “free to decide whether to impose any restrictions”. According to an ANI report, DMs have also been given the charge to take strict action against any individual who flouts the Covid-19 norms.The Uttarakhand police sent back as many as 8,000 vehicles during the weekend from popular tourist locations of Nainital and Mussoorie. Check-posts have also been set up at the state borders to control the tourists’ rush.ALSO READ | Uttarakhand: 8,000 tourists on their way to Mussoorie and Nainital sent backOver the last few days, images of tourists roaming around in Mussoorie without masks and maintaining social distance had gone viral on social media. While locals have raised concerns over the matter and feared a possible arrival of the third Covid-19 wave, the ICMR had called the visuals “frightening”. During his meeting on Tuesday with the chief ministers of northeastern states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also called the tourists’ rush in hill states as a “matter of concern”.The Uttarakhand government has extended the Covid-induced lockdown till 6am of July 20. The state administration has also made Covid-19 negative report of a maximum period of 72 hours mandatory for entering the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dms-to-be-responsible-if-covid-situation-worsens-uttarakhand-issues-fresh-sop-101626173494106.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Learning the ropes of WhatsApp diplomacy||As I begin to write this piece in the Notes of my phone, I struggle to swipe away the ding-ding of WhatsApp messages lest the train of thought derails. The number of WhatsApp messages is directly proportional to the number of groups one is embroiled in. Greater the number of affiliations, greater the ding-ding intensity. It’s simple math! I was a reluctant participant on WhatsApp, initially. It was a tectonic shift from the iconic texting via the Blackberry messenger. The exclusivity was that only Blackberry phone holders could text each other. However, WhatsApp worked on all phones so it engulfed the Blackberry. It was quite the leveller. Blackberry phone or not, now literally everyone is just one text away. Parents, siblings, grandparents, siblings’ spouses, friends, friends of siblings, cousins -- you name it, we were all on the same platform. Everything was hunky dory till a wise one felt the need to connect on WhatsApp as a group. Logistically, of course it made sense. Announcing the baby’s first toothless picture in one family group, rather than buaji, tauji, chachaji, mausi separately, one big family group made life far easier. Similarly, having a college reunion group made it far simpler to stalk people one didn’t necessarily want to communicate with. Their display pictures gave a fulfilling peek into their personal lives. “Kids already!”, “Still single”, “Same picture for years. Too secretive or too boring”, these deductions were the result of the few hundred pixels next to the name of the person on WhatsApp. Then there came the work group. Irrespective of whether this bunch genuinely wanted to interact after 5pm or not, work-people too had their own WhatsApp group! Intriguingly, souls have no notion of time on WhatsApp. They will continue to send jokes bereft of humour, and you will have to continue to respond based on your subordination level. There also exist enthusiastic groups run by entrepreneurs. More often than not, there’s only one enthusiastic person, the entrepreneur himself armed with a thousand jewellery/clothing/crockery/whatnot designs. He will share pictures of all of them, all at once, each day religiously. Without you knowing, he will guzzle phone space as you wonder in horror how the phone memory got full! Over the last few months, my affiliations have grown, and as a result the WhatsApp activity and ding-dings have considerably increased. I have managed to get entangled in groups within groups. I wouldn’t deny though that these WhatsApp groups have been a lifeline during the grim times. Besides giving a constant barrage of information and providing social connectivity, these groups teach crucial diplomacy lessons. Allow me the liberty of doling out some recently acquired gems. One, you cannot choose to reply to one person in the group and ignore others. Either you instantly reply to each member, or you maintain stoic silence. At worst, they’ll think you’re snooty. At best, they’ll accuse you of being too busy. Two, if your political leanings are different from the others in the group, no amount of videshi articles, cumbersome journals or persuasive videos can change the mind of others. So, limit yourself to sending only a subtle text once in a while, only as a reminder that you are your own person despite the common last name. Three, always adhere to diplomacy protocol in WhatsApp groups. What you say to a person over the phone has to be layered and sugar-coated when written in a group. So, authenticity is a no-no. Four, there is no escape. You cannot exit a group without bruising a few hearts. Hence, brace yourself for this asphyxiating labyrinth of texting. At best, it’ll improve your writing skills. At worst, it’ll teach you a thing or two about diplomacy. Quite rarely, it’ll give you an opportunity to write a piece about WhatsApp diplomacy! seeratsandhu25@yahoo.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor.Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/learning-the-ropes-of-whatsapp-diplomacy-101626173993481.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Gurudwaras in Delhi to follow orders, DDMA asks to restrict entry of visitors||The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Vasant Vihar in the national capital directed officials of gurudwaras to strictly follow the DDMA order stating "no visitors" to be allowed in religious places.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) fresh orders issued on July 10, "religious places shall be permitted to open, but no visitors will be allowed."The order issued by the SDM further states that "strict penal or criminal action" against officials of the concerned gurudwara as well "as against the individual" will be taken incase of any violation.".. all the president/secretary/joint secretary/sewadar of respective gurudwara are hereby directed to strictly follow the above guidelines; incase any violation is found during visit of higher authorities strict penal/criminal action shall be taken against president/secretary/joint secretary/sewadar of the concerned gurdwara, as well as against the individual, and the premises shall be sealed forthwith," read the order issued by Ankur Prakash Meshram, SDM (Vasant Vihar).The order, which was confirmed by the SDM to PTI, was questioned by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa for singling out only the gurudwaras."Shocked to read Ankur Prakash's circular which concerns all religious places but mentions only Gurudwara Sahibs to remain closed for visitors. Why are other religious places not given a specific mention? Why such a harsh tone agnst Presidents/Secretaries & Sewadars of Gurudwaras?," he tweeted."We condemn this biased attitude of Delhi Disaster Management Authority either this order should be revoked or the circular must mention all religious places," Sirsa said.The national capital on Monday recorded 45 Co-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in over a year, and three deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gurudwaras-in-delhi-to-follow-orders-ddma-asks-to-restrict-entry-of-vistors-101626171507100.html
13-07-2021||Pune||In my opinion: 150th death anniversary of James Thomas Molesworth, editor of Marathi-English dictionary first published 1831||Tarkateertha Lakshmanshastri Joshi, among the greatest Indian linguists, paid rich tributes to James Thomas Molesworth thus: “…both, the Marathi language and Maharashtra, owe him a tremendous debt which they can hardly afford to forget”. This is how the Tarkateertha concluded his 1975 foreword to the corrected reprint of the Molesworth’s Marathi-English Dictionary published way back in 1857. Molesworth had begun the dictionary project as an employee of the British East India Company in 1831. His team of seven Shastris and three English scholars collected Marathi words, phrases, idioms, and sayings and translated these into English. His team included twin brothers George and Thomas Candy, and Reverend John Wilson who later founded the Wilson College in Mumbai and became vice-chancellor of the Bombay University. The team’s work began with a compilation of a simple list of Marathi words for a glossary, for the benefit of British officers and staff of the East India Company. By 1857, when the dictionary’s second edition was published, it had amassed a huge collection of 60,000 Marathi words with their English translation. James Molesworth was son of a viscount in England. He did not know a word of Marathi when he reached India at the age 16, for a job. He started as a lowest commissioned officer in the infantry in 1812 and, in due course, was promoted to higher posts. As per his job requirement, he started studying Marathi, Hindustani, Sanskrit and Persian. While posted at Solapur around 1818, he along with a colleague, Thomas Candy, started working on a glossary of Marathi words necessary for translations. This led Molesworth to conceive the project of a comprehensive Marathi-English and English-Marathi dictionary. Bouts of ill health made him move to different places such as Bombay, Pune, Solapur, Dapoli, Mahabaleshwar and Bankot. All of these were small places those days in the 19th century. He struggled and fought all the odds to learn lexicography that was unheard of in the Bombay region then. Even after the manuscript of the dictionary, was ready, there was the problem of type for the press in Bombay. The type had to be procured from a foundry in faraway Calcutta (Kolkata) for the second edition in 1857. Until 1975, copies were sold gradually, and there was none available in the book depots. Sharad Gogate of Pune-based Shubhada Saraswat Prakashan says he ventured to reprint the dictionary in 1975. It was indeed a “heavy” job: 951 pages of a Royal Quarto (9½ inches x 12 2/3 inches), hard bound, weighing about two kilogrammes. He re-printed it 10 times till the Nirali Publications took over the book business over 20 years ago. In this era of print-on-demand technology, this dictionary continues to be sold, says Nirali publisher’s Jignesh Furia. But the Molesworth dictionary story does not end here. Computers, internet, the Unicode fonts, and funding agencies have made it possible to introduce digital dictionaries. National libraries and other funding agencies have pooled resources for the Digital Dictionaries of South Asia (DDSA) programme. They have joined in an initiative for the Digital South Asia Library. The Molesworth Dictionary is funded as a part of this programme. It is available for free use to anybody. The Journalism and Mass Communication Department of the Pune-based Vishwakarma University has decided to publish a paper to pay tribute to Molesworth on his 150th death anniversary, on July 13, 2021, on behalf of Marathi-speakers. As the Tarkateertha said, we do owe him a tremendous debt which we cannot forget. The writer is professor Emeritus, department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Vishwakarma University. He can be reached at drkiranthakur@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-150th-death-anniversary-of-james-thomas-molesworth-editor-of-marathi-english-dictionary-first-published-1831-101626173467780.html
13-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan man beats father to death for slapping his son||A man killed his father for slapping his son in Kushalgarh area of Banswara, Rajasthan. He has been detained by the police. On Sunday night, 50-year-old Vesta slapped his 8-year-old grandson, who was allegedly misbehaving. Jayanti Lal, the boy’s father, had returned on Saturday from Ahmedabad, where he works as a daily wage labourer, and was outside when the incident took place.The boy then asked their neighbour to call his father, said Pradeep Kumar, circle inspector, Kushalgarh.  Jayanti Lal confronted his father Vesta at home, fought with him, and beat him with a stick. Also Read | Rajasthan teen abducted by 4, then raped in moving car: CopsKumar said Vesta collapsed after the fight. Jayanti Lal told the police that he wanted to take his father to the hospital the next morning, but he had died by then. Kumar said that the body has been sent for an autopsy and the report is awaited, and Jayanti Lal has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-man-beats-father-to-death-for-slapping-his-son-101626171533477.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Arlekar sworn in as 28th governor of Himachal Pradesh||Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, 67, took oath as the 28th governor of Himachal Pradesh at a simple ceremony at Raj Bhawan in Shimla on Tuesday. Acting chief justice of the Himachal Pradesh high court Justice Ravi Malimath administered the oath of office and secrecy to him. Also read: Rain effect: Hotel occupancy falls by 35% in Himachal PradeshChief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Arlekar’s wife Anagha were present as the governor was given a guard of honour. Later, Arlekar told reporters that he will take the initiatives of the state government forward. “I will work in coordination with the state government and give whatever support it needs in development. We will work together for the protection of the rich environment of the state.” The governor said that he was impressed by the hospitality of the people of the state. He said that many people from Himachal Pradesh had contributed to the Goa Liberation Movement and Shri Ram Singh was one of them. “I will try to meet his family,” he said. Arlekar has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) since childhood and joined the BJP in 1989 before holding several posts in the Goa unit. When Manohar Parrikar was roped in as the Union defence minister in 2014, he was in the running for the chief minister’s post. He is credited with making the Goa assembly paperless. Suresh Bhardwaj, the Himachal urban development minister, Govind Singh Thakur, the state education minister, Dr Rajiv Saizal, the state health minister, justice PS Rana, the chairman of the state human rights commission, Narender Chauhan, the chief information commissioner, Ajay Sharma, the chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission, mayor Satya Kaundal, and state director general of police Sanjay Kundu were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arlekar-sworn-in-as-28th-governor-of-himachal-pradesh-101626170033249.html
13-07-2021||Indore||'Catch me if you can': Pakistan-based hacker hacks Indore Police site||The official website of Indore Police has been hacked allegedly by a Pakistan-based hacker, prompting the department to block a section of the page. Indore Police Crime Branch has registered a case and started an investigation into the matter and deployed a team of cyber experts to recover the page, according to multiple reports on Tuesday.Several media outlets cited Guruprasad Parashar, the additional superintendent of police of the Crime Branch, as saying that a team is working to trace the IP address from which the website was tampered with.According to reports, the hacker wrote “Hacked by Mohammed Bilal team PCE - Free Kashmir, Pakistan Zindabad,” in place of tnames of senior police officers including that of the director general of police (DGP) of Madhya Pradesh and the inspector general of police (IGP) of Indore. The hacker placed the national flag upside down on the website, the reports said. "Catch.if.you.can@hotmail.com," the hacker also wrote on the website of the Indore Police.Before this, Mohammad Bilal hacked the website of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Delhi unit in November 2019. In April 2018, Bilal hacked the website of Andhra University and in October of the same year, he was also involved in the hacking of the BJP's Goa unit website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/catch-me-if-you-can-pakistan-based-hacker-hacks-indore-police-site-101626169264743.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Pankaja Munde pacifies supporters, says time not right to quit||Upset over her sister and Parliamentarian from Beed Pritam Munde Khade not getting a ministerial berth in the Cabinet expansion carried out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, national Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secretary Pankaja Munde on Tuesday told her supporters in Maharashtra that it was not the time to fight a “Dharmayuddha” (war fought over principles) and a decision in that regard would be taken at an appropriate time. She added that she was upset with the party’s state leadership and had full faith in the Central leadership.“Time is the solution to everything. This is not the time to take any extreme decision. Why should we leave our own house which has been built with our hard work. We will see if the roof comes crumbling down on us in the future,” she said.Pankaja is daughter of late Gopinath Munde, considered one of BJP’s most influential Other Backward Caste (OBC) leaders, who helped build the party in Maharashtra. After her father’s death, Pankaja has been fighting to retain his legacy in state politics. Over the last few days, more than 75 of her supporters offered to quit from local bodies of Beed and Ahmednagar in protest against MP Pritam Munde’s exclusion from the Cabinet. It is widely believed that Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad was instead inducted in the Union ministry to promote a new OBC leadership by passing Pankaja Munde’s family’s claim.Pankaja Munde’s supporters gathered in large numbers outside her Worli office on Tuesday seeking to protest against the party decision. Pankaja, however, told them that it was not the right time to quit the party and blamed her “detractors” in the state for trying to sideline her.Munde said that she was marginalised for saying that people, in their minds, considered her the chief minister, but what about those dreaming to become the prime minister.“I never said that I wanted to become the CM, it was the wish expressed by the people. Some say that I was deliberately pushed to the walls for talking about the post. But what about the people who say that they want to become the prime minister? They keep talking about the posts and ministerial berth I got, but conveniently forget about what was snatched away from me,” she said.Munde, who was accompanied with her family members on the stage, also hinted that many leaders in the state unit of the party were upset with the leadership at the state and were in touch with her. “Even the lieutenants of Kauravas in Mahabharat were not with them emotionally. They were with the Pandavas,” she said in a wielded attack on leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis.Munde said that she has full faith in the party’s Central leadership and they will never let her down.“Prime minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and party’s national president JP Nadda are our leaders and I have full faith in them. They have treated me with full respect. In our meeting with the Central leadership on Monday, I told Naddaji about the discontent among the party workers. He has shown full faith that I will convince you to calm down. This is a short pause in our political journey,” she said.Political analyst Hemant Desai said the incident was a show of strength by Pankaja Munde. “Though BJP’s central leadership never gives in to the pressure tactics, it may take a different stand in Pankaja’s case as she is a OBC face and enjoys following in Marathwada. She can dent the BJP if she decides to walk out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pankaja-munde-pacifies-supporters-says-time-not-right-to-quit-over-cabinet-expansion-101626169853284.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||IIT undergrads to return to hostels; excited to come back after a year||It has been more than a year since most outstation students, in different institutes, have stayed put at their homes. Waiting desperately for things to get normal, most have been wanting to get back to their colleges, or at least hostels; even if the classes continue to be conducted virtually. And now their pleas have been seemingly heard, at least those of the undergraduate students at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. Recently, a mail from the authorities pleasantly surprised most of the undergrads; as it informed them that the hostels were finally reopening their doors. Until now, only those students were allowed to stay on IIT campus who needed to use the lab and were pursuing their PhD. But this new mail allows students, pursuing the undergraduate courses, to be back on campus. “We got a mail informing us that the boarding facility will also start for undergrads, and we were so happy. I’m desperately waiting to be back on the campus, even if it’s just the hostels that are reopening for now,” shares Suhani Jain, a final year student of BTech in Electrical Engineering.Considering the fact that most of the college students, across the country, have been struggling with offline campus, Kartikeya Gupta, a third year computer science student confesses that it’s tough to attend classes from home. “At times the electricity goes out, or someone comes into the room. A few days back, I was giving a test and the electricity went off. Hence, the WiFi went off, too. I didn’t even have my phone with me, since I appearing for a test, and thus had to rush out of the room to get my phone and then quickly connect my laptop through a hotspot. But when I came back online, my professor started asking me as to where I went,” he says. The youngsters are stoked at the idea of the return, but apparently the parents don’t seem to be comfortable with the thought of on-campus accommodation, just yet. Gupta explains how his parents were initially hesitant, too. “I’ve been showing them mails, which we are getting from campus regarding the precautions that they are taking to ensure the safety of everyone against Covid-19. And now they have finally agreed upon allowing me to go back to the hostel mid of next month. Of course, the institute has told me that if there is a third wave or increase in the number of cases, then I will not be going back,” he says. “Once we rejoin campus, we’ve been asked to serve a two-week quarantine period; where they are even not allowed to leave their rooms,” says Maria Sandalwala, a final year student, adding, “My friends are very excited about this. Even the meals will delivered in the room. And they are being issued student IDs, to help them leave the hostel and use the library or other areas on campus.”Gupta adds, “My roommate is coming and so are my friends. So even if we are quarantined for a while, at least we will all be together. We all have got the first dose of our vaccination, and the second one can be taken at the institute itself. We’re pretty kicked about this.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iit-undergrads-to-return-to-hostels-excited-to-come-back-after-a-year-101626167650476.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rain effect: Hotel occupancy falls by 35% in Himachal Pradesh||Heavy rain across Himachal Pradesh for the past two days has triggered flash floods and landslides at several places and also led to a dip of 35% in the number of visitors to the hill state. Himachal Pradesh had been seeing a heavy tourist influx from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR since the middle of June when the Covid-19 restrictions were eased as the number of positive cases declined and there was a need to rev up the economy, particularly the hospitality and tourism sectors. Such was the rush of visitors from the scorching plains that the Centre had to caution the Himachal Pradesh government to ensure the visitors adhered to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Also read: At Covid review meet with northeast states, PM shows concern over tourist rush“Occupancy in hotels is now dropping as are the bookings for the future, mainly because of the rain. There was a lot of tourist rush from North India. We are hopeful that the weather will be pleasant in the plains too after the rains there,” state tourism director Amit Kashyap said. “There is a 35% decline in hotel occupancy. The flash floods have triggered the drop,” said Sanjay Sood, the president of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurateurs Association. Hotel occupancy in Shimla, which had shot up to 80% last weekend, would normally drop to 40% on weekdays, but this week many planning holidays in the hills had also cancelled their bookings, he said. Gajendra Thakur, the president of the Manali Tourism Stakeholders Association, said, “There was a rush of tourists in Manali for a few days but it wasn’t as much as was being projected on social media. There is a drop now, especially since the last two days.” Till June this year, about 18 lakh tourists had visited the state, including 2,744 foreigners. More than 1.64 lakh tourists visited Mandi alone, while 1 lakh visited Kangra, known for its temples. The disregard for Covid-appropriate behaviour had forced the police to deploy more personnel to implement safety guidelines in the key destinations of Dharamshala, Kasauli, Shimla, Dalhousie, Kullu and Manali. Shimla police had launched a special drive to distribute masks to tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-effect-hotel-occupancy-falls-by-35-in-himachal-pradesh-101626167033974.html
13-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad woman gives birth to not 1 but 4 children via IVF; family overjoyed||A woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad has given birth to four children together at a private hospital in the city. Among them, three are boys and the fourth is a girl, according to an Aaj Tak report.This comes only days after the Uttar Pradesh law commission formulated a proposal on “two-child policy” that bars people from getting government benefits if they have more than two children.Doctors who performed the surgery on the woman said that both the mother and her four children were healthy, the report mentioned. The children were born using the in-vitro fertilization (IVF) technology.Dr Shashi Arora, one of two doctors, who performed the surgery on the woman, said that the couple had been hoping to have a child for several years. The woman was unable to bear a child, and was even receiving treatment, as per the Aaj Tak report. She gave birth to the four children following two years of treatment. The woman and her family are overjoyed at the news of welcoming four children at once.What is in-vitro fertilisation (IVF)?Mayo Clinic defines IVF as a medical procedure that is used to aid with fertility issues or prevent genetic problems. In IVF, matured eggs are collected from ovaries and then fertilised by sperm in a lab. The fertilised egg or eggs are then transferred to a woman’s uterus, thereby assisting in conception of an embryo for women who have difficulty to do it naturally.Several factors come into the play to determine how likely a woman is to deliver a healthy baby using IVF technology. These include her age and the reason behind infertility. Among many aftermaths of IVF technology, one is multiple pregnancies – similar to the Ghaziabad woman, wherein more than one embryo is transferred to the uterus, leading to multiple births.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-woman-gives-birth-to-not-1-but-4-children-via-ivf-family-overjoyed-101626161292873.html
13-07-2021||Kolkata||Encouraged since the 1970s, bodies continue to be donated in Bengal||When Saikat Pal, 41, a guest lecturer at a Kolkata university, died of Covid-19 related complications in June, his father, Saroj Pal, a retired Reserve Bank of India employee, chose to donate the body for medical research instead of cremating it.Corpses of 13 people, including nine who succumbed to the pandemic, have similarly been donated in West Bengal over the last two months. The donations coincided with reports of dumping of the bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients in rivers in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Hundreds of corpses have been donated in Bengal since some leaders in the Left Front government, which ruled the state for 34 years from 1977, began encouraging such donations for organ transplantation and research. Bodies of top Communist leaders such as former chief minister Jyoti Basu, Benoy Choudhury, and Anil Biswas were also donated.Also Read | India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reportedSaroj Pal said his son was treated at a reputable private hospital where doctors did their best, but Saikat Pal’s lungs were badly damaged. “When he failed to respond to standard respiratory support systems, I took him to Bangur Hospital where he passed away. I hope the autopsy helped doctors identify what the coronavirus can do to the organs of patients with similar medical history. I have pledged to donate my corneas,” said Pal.The body of Brojo Roy, a communist who founded Ganadarpan to promote the donation of bodies, was among the corpses donated this year.Sudipta Saha Roy, who succeeded Brojo Roy as Ganadarpan’s general secretary, said it was founded in 1977 as a cultural organisation. “Ganadarpan got its registration certificate in 1980. On November 5, 1986, (Brojo) Roy and 33 of his friends pledged to donate their bodies. Since then, 3,000 bodies have been donated, including that of (Brojo) Roy who died on May 13 at the age of 84.”The body of one Sukumar Hom Chaudhury was the first to be donated on January 8, 1990, as part of the campaign.Sudipta Saha Roy said a parallel campaign started in Bangladesh where, in 1985, the body of Araj Ali Matubbar was the first to be donated to the Barisal Medical College. “He was a farmer with little formal education but great interest in science.” He added that more people have overcome their taboos and the campaign needs to get more organised. “For example, besides collecting corneas, skin from a human body can be used for grafting. Eardrums can be used too. For all this, infrastructure in hospitals in Bengal needs to be upgraded.”Dr Kalyan Kar, who heads the surgery department at a Kolkata hospital, said body donations help medical students a lot. “Dissection and analysis help them understand the human anatomy much better. The movement contributes to medical studies.”The state health department encourages people to donate organs through its State Organ Tissue Transplantation Organisation. In August 2020, the liver and lungs of a man, who was declared brain dead at a Kolkata hospital, were flown to Hyderabad for transplantation. His skin and corneas were transplanted at two hospitals in Kolkata. In November 2018, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital became the first state-run hospital in Bengal to successfully transplant a heart. Two private hospitals in Kolkata conducted four heart transplant operations before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/encouraged-since-the-1970s-bodies-continue-to-be-donated-in-bengal-101626157492328.html
13-07-2021||Kolkata||Covid negative report, vaccination mandatory for Bengal tourist destinations||Authorities have made it mandatory for tourists to carry either RT-PCR negative test reports or Covid-19 vaccine certificates for stays in hotels at popular beach destinations such as Digha and Mandamani in West Bengal’s Purba Medinipur district“We issued a notice on Monday directing hotels not to allow tourists if they do not carry either Covid-19 test reports issued 48 hours earlier or certificates of Covid-19 vaccination,” said AM Hirani, an official in Purba Medinipur.The move comes following the Indian Council of Medical Research and Union health ministry’s warnings against complacency amid the waning second Covid-19 wave. The warnings came amid a rush of tourists to places such as Manali, Kullu, Shimla, and Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh.Also Read | India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reportedTourists have also started flocking to popular beach destinations in South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore as West Bengal relaxed some of the Covid-19 restrictions.“The crowds have again started swelling in some of the popular beach destinations. The state-run hotels are almost full on the weekends. At Bakkhali in South 24 Parganas, another beach destination, there no rooms are available in the coming weekend, at the state-run tourist lodge,” said a tourism department official.Bipradas Chatterjee, joint secretary of Digha Hoteliers Association, said, “Times are tough due to the pandemic situation. We would, however, follow the government rules. We will have a meeting of our association members to discuss the issue.”Authorities earlier issued a similar direction for tourists visiting Birbhum, where some popular tourist destinations and important religious sites are located.“Initially, we issued instructions that tourists coming to Santiniketan, Kankalitala and Tarapith would need to carry Covid negative RT-PCR test reports or certificates of double vaccine doses. Rapid antigen kiosks were also set up to test tourists not carrying the documents. Later, hotels were also directed not to allow any tourists without these documents,” said a Birbhum district official.The Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic peaked in the state on May 14 (20,846). The cases have since come down steadily and dropped to 885 on July 12. The number of deaths dropped to 11 on July 12 compared to 136 on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-negative-reports-vaccination-mandatory-for-tourist-destinations-in-bengal-101626156952382.html
13-07-2021||Patna||NIA team back at Darbhanga station for probe in parcel blast case||A seven-member team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached Darbhanga station in Bihar on Monday in connection with ongoing investigation into parcel packet blast case here on June 17.The team talked to people at the station, such as, those at the parcel office, GRP officials, and vendors, about the incident, said a volunteer of Childline at the station. They also recorded the statements of about a dozen people, said another source.Also Read | Chirag Paswan dials Lalu Prasad, revives family linksSources said this was a follow-up after two of the arrested men, Nasir and Imran, made their statements. An NIA team had already visited the station on June 25.A low intensity blast took place on June 17 when a parcel of clothes was being moved from the luggage van of the special train that had reached Darbhanga from Secunderabad. Following a preliminary probe, the investigation of the case was handed over to the NIA.The agency arrested siblings Nasir and Imran Mallick from Hyderabad, and Haji Salim and Kafeel from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nia-team-back-at-darbhanga-stn-for-probe-in-parcel-blast-case-101626156832223.html
13-07-2021||Other||IIT Madras researchers develop model to detect cancerous mutations||Researchers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, have developed a machine learning model that can use genome sequencing data to detect cancerous mutations in the body. Cancer is caused by mutation or growth of cells in the body. While cell mutation is a common phenomenon, only some mutations cause cancer. They are called driver mutations. Other mutations, which are a majority of all mutations, are benign and are called passengers. The study by three researchers from the Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (RBCDSAI), IIT Madras, found that the neighbouring gene sequences of driver mutations are significantly different from that of passengers. The researchers further designed NBDriver, a mathematical model based on artificial intelligence, to identify the pathogenic variants of mutations that can cause cancer. The study, funded by the Department of Biotechnology, government of India, was published in the peer-reviewed journal Cancers in May this year.Also Read | This protein may prevent tumour cells from spreading“One of the major challenges faced by cancer researchers involves the differentiation between the relatively small number of ‘driver’ mutations that enable the cancer cells to grow and the large number of ‘passenger’ mutations that do not have any effect on the progression of the disease,” said B Ravindran, co-author of the study, head of RBCDSAI and professor in the department of computer science and engineering.The model developed by RBCDSAI will identify these driver mutations by looking at genome data around the mutations. “Think of it like looking for a spelling error in a sentence. We are feeding a sentence into the model and by looking at the words before and after a word, the model can identify the erroneous word,” said RBCDSAI member Karthik Raman, co-author of the study, associate professor at the Bhupat and Jyoti Mehta School of Biosciences and co-ordinator of the Centre for Integrative Biology and Systems Medicine at IIT Madras.While global researchers have developed computational methods for distinguishing between driver and passenger mutations, limited literature exists on using raw nucleotide sequences surrounding a particular mutation as potential features for building predictive models.The researchers at IIT Madras aimed to discover patterns in the DNA sequences – made up of four letters, or bases, A, T, G and C, surrounding a particular site of alteration. “The underlying hypothesis was that these patterns would be unique to individual types of mutations – drivers and passengers. Therefore, these patterns could be modelled mathematically to distinguish between the two classes,” said Raman. The performance of NBDriver was tested on several open-source cancer mutation datasets. “Our model could distinguish between well-studied drivers and passenger mutations from cancer genes with an accuracy of 89%. Furthermore, combining the predictions from NBDriver and three others commonly used driver prediction algorithms resulted in an accuracy of 95%, significantly outperforming existing models,” said Ravindran.Raman added, “Interestingly, NBDriver could accurately identify 85% of the rare driver mutations from patients diagnosed with Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM), a particularly aggressive type of cancer affecting the brain or spine.”NBDriver is available publicly and can be used to obtain predictions on any user-defined set of mutations. Mumbai-based data scientist Anirvan Chatterjee, who was not a part of the study, said, “Multigenic disorders like cancer pose a significant challenge in understanding the effect of several hundreds of mutations in their contribution to the final disruption on cell repair.”“In this study, the researchers have initiated a significant new direction in our ability to use massive scale genomic data to understand the heuristic relationship between causal mutations and effect mutations. Exploring the analytical framework suggested here by various research groups globally can potentially bring a ‘crowd-sourced’ high predictive mutation list which can potentially be triangulated with other interpretive methods, and create a robust catalogue,” said Chatterjee, who is also the founder of HaystackAnalytics—a healthcare startup incubated under the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT Bombay. “The tool can be used to identify the likelihood of a mutation being cancerous. Medical professionals can run a genome sequencing on the tool and trace the culprit mutation. This will help design specific treatment strategies for patients,” said Raman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-madras-researchers-develop-model-to-detect-cancerous-mutations-101626155694577.html
13-07-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19 toll: Madhya Pradesh adds 1,478 deaths as backlog||The Madhya Pradesh government added 1,478 deaths as backlog to the official data of Covid-19 deaths released on Monday night.According to the daily bulletin released by the health department, 762 backlog deaths were reported by private hospitals, and 508 by government hospitals in different districts, while 208 people died in home isolation. Till now, 10,506 deaths have been reported from MP, where the death rate is 1.33%. Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “The deaths were reported late as health officials were focussing on providing treatment to infected people. With decrease in positivity rate in the state, the health officials conducted death audit and found backlog. It is nothing wrong that we focussed more on saving lives than counting deaths.”Also Read | India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reportedOpposition leaders and experts have been attacking the state government for hiding deaths due to Covid-19 in April and May and later adjusting the numbers in June.“In June, the death rate increased to 8%. The crematorium and burial ground data, which showed higher number of deaths in April and May as compared to data shared by health department exposed the lie of the state government. In many districts, more than five deaths have been reported in a day but no cremation and burial was done as per Covid-19 protocol,” said SR Azad, a health activist. Opposition leaders alleged the BJP-led state government wanted to hide data and that’s why they didn’t share break-up of deaths district-wise. “The state government wanted to hide that in Bhopal and Indore, people died in large numbers in the absence of oxygen beds and ventilators. Adding backlog of deaths has proved that they hid the data, but still there are many deaths which have not been added in the list. We will raise this issue in the monsoon session as we have real data,” said PC Sharma, a Congress MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-toll-madhya-pradesh-adds-1-478-deaths-as-backlog-101626155392149.html
13-07-2021||Patna||Rain deficit stalls paddy transplantation in Bihar’s Kishanganj district||Bihar’s Kishanganj district is known for heavy rains. However, a huge rain deficit this year has environmentalists and farmers worried. Government data shows that Kishanganj received a total of 310.26mm rainfall in June which is 42% of last year’s rainfall during the same period--the district recorded 725.11mm rainfall in June 2020.“This year, monsoon arrived earlier but the deficit rainfall in Kishanganj is not a good sign,” environmentalist TN Tarak said, adding, “We can overcome the deficit of rains through plantation drive.” Also Read | Chirag Paswan dials Lalu Prasad, revives family linksFarmers are worried about the adverse effects of deficit rainfall during the peak season of paddy transplantation. “It is not possible to plant paddy without rains,” 55- year-old farmer of Kochadhaman Md Imtiyaz Alam said.“We are still waiting for rains so that we can ensure a timely transplant of our paddy,” Kumar Ashish Ranjan, a farmer of Tulsiya village under Bahadurganj block of the district, said.Reports from various areas of the district suggest very few farmers had done paddy transplantation till June. Against 83,000 hectares of the coverage area, transplantation had been done on only 5,340 hectares till June.Rain deficit is also reported from other districts of Seemanchal where over 90% people depend on agriculture. Seemanchal, comprising the districts of Araria, Purnia, Katihar besides Kishanganj, has a population of over 12 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rain-deficit-stalls-paddy-transplantation-in-bihar-s-kishanganj-district-101626153712134.html
13-07-2021||Dehradun||U’khand may hold another meeting on Kanwar Yatra; saving lives priority, says CM||Still undecided on whether to hold the Kanwar Yatra this year, the Uttarakhand government may hold a high level meeting on the issue, said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami late on Monday, while insisting that saving lives was the top priority for him. Dhami had just returned from Delhi where he had gone to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, minister of home Amit Shah, minister of defence Rajnath Singh and other Union ministers after becoming the CM of state.“Kanwar Yatra does not relate to Uttarakhand alone. It involves neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi also. Uttarakhand just plays the role of the host. It is also not an issue pertaining to just 1-2 million people but also their religious beliefs. However, our first priority is saving lives as God Himself wouldn’t want people to lose their lives on this pilgrimage amid the pandemic,” said Dhami.Also Read | Check guidelines issued by Uttarakhand govt for touristsHe said the government has held a meeting on the issue and “if needed, we would soon hold a high level meeting to take a decision on it. But our first priority is to ensure the health and safety of the people of state.” Uttarakhand had earlier cancelled the yatra but decided to review the order last week after a request from UP. Both states are scheduled to go the polls in 2022.Uttar Pradesh announced that the yatra – in which Shiva devotees walk hundreds of kilometres to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages – will begin from July 25.Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government on Monday issued the standard operating procedures for the Covid curfew extended till July 20.On Monday, the state reported 51 new cases of Covid-19 with two deaths, taking the total death toll to 7,341. The number of active cases is 932.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-may-hold-another-meeting-on-kanwar-yatra-saving-lives-priority-says-cm-101626153172070.html
13-07-2021||Other||Overnight rainfall lashes Kashmir, mercury plunges by 4-5 degrees Celsius||Overnight rains lashed Kashmir for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with Mercury plunging by 4-5 degrees Celsius in many parts of the region.The weather office said Tuesday morning that 7.6mm of rainfall was recorded in the past 24 hours in the Valley’s Qazigund, 7.2mm in Gulmarg and 6.7mm in summer capital Srinagar.The Indian Army said that a flash flood hit a border village in north Kashmir’s Baramulla.“A flashflood in border village Kurali caused severe damages to the road connecting tehsil headquarter Boniyar & villages at LOC. Indian Army carried out quick assessment of damages & put in tireless efforts to repair the damaged stretch, employing military & local resources, “ Chinar Corps said in a tweet.Also Read | Moderate rain in Mumbai today, heavy showers only in isolated locationsThe traffic authorities said that one-way traffic from Jammu to Srinagar on the national highway is allowed to ply subject to fair weather and road conditions.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a highest of 17.2 degrees Celsius on Monday, while Pahalgam recorded 19.6 degrees Celsius. Srinagar witnessed temperature of 25 degrees Celsius - five degrees below normal.Monsoon rains had drenched Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, triggering flash floods and bringing down scorching temperatures.The monsoon had reached Jammu region on Sunday after lower level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal had further extended northwestwards.The weather office has cautioned that the precipitation may lead to temporary disruption of traffic on Jammu- Srinagar Highway and Mughal Road.“ Landslides and shooting stones may occur at vulnerable spots of Jammu- Srinagar and Srinagar-Leh National Highway,” it said in a statement.“Respite from the current scorching hot and humid weather is expected during the next few days,” said deputy director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/overnight-rainfall-lashes-kashmir-mercury-plunges-101626152752066.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Moderate rain in Mumbai today, heavy showers only in isolated locations||Mumbai received about 12.4mm of rain through the course of the night, clocking in a total 55mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Tuesday, according to the automatic weather station in Santacruz -- which is representative of the entire city. Several other parts of the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (including in the eastern and western suburbs, Thane, and Navi Mumbai) witnessed similarly intense spells, seeing between 40mm and 70mm of rain. Mira Road received as much as 196mm of rain in the past 24 hours.As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), “moderate rain in city and suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places” is likely over the next few hours. The city is expected to receive sparser precipitation initially in the morning, with a slight uptick in intensity through the afternoon, accompanied by westerly and southwesterly winds of speeds between 10 to 13kmph, gusting at about 15kmph. Also Read | Rainfall likely in multiple states today as flash floods, lightning wreak havoc. Details hereMumbai has been placed under a yellow category storm warning on Tuesday, and orange category on Wednesday and Thursday.“Westerly winds have been able to resume, bringing clouds that were depositing rain off shore into the city. Doppler radar images show intense rain bands over MMR, so chances of heavy rain cannot be ruled out till Thursday at least. The intensity of showers is expected to reduce considerably Friday onward,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Mumbai has so far seen 1164.7mm of rain since June 1, which is about 37.5% in excess of the seasonal normal. However, in the first 12 days of July, the city recorded 148.3mm of rain, which is -55% of the normal (332.9mm). Officials said the deficit may be made up to a large degree during this week.As per official forecasts, the maximum temperature over the next two days is expected to hover around 29 degrees Celsius (down from around 31.5 degrees Celsius on Monday) and the minimum temperature at 24 degrees Celsius -- down from 25 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/moderate-rain-in-mumbai-today-heavy-showers-only-in-isolated-locations-101626150231813.html
13-07-2021||Other||Mother-son duo arrested for allegedly running illegal kidney racket in Assam||Police in Assam’s Morigaon district have arrested a mother and son duo for allegedly running an illegal kidney racket, officials said on Monday. The two were arrested on Sunday, following a complaint from a person whose kidney was sold as part of the racket. The man was allegedly promised a sum of ₹6 lakh for his kidney, but was paid only ₹50,000 after he underwent an operation last month to get his organ extracted. “We have come across at least six other persons who have been duped by this racket. There could be more such victims. Investigations are on to nab others involved in the racket,” said a district police officer on condition of anonymity. Also Read | 2 Assam cops attacked by Karimganj trader for shutting shop during Covid curfew: PoliceThe woman allegedly used to lure persons with promise of large sums of money if they “donated” their kidneys to a Kolkata-based organisation with which she was involved . Buying and selling of kidneys and other human organs is prohibited in India by the Transplantation of Human Organs Act. However, they can be transplanted from living donors (who are close relatives of the patient or non-related persons after proper authorisation by the government) and from brain-dead patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/motherson-duo-arrested-for-allegedly-running-illegal-kidney-racket-in-assam-101626147051558.html
13-07-2021||Other||Telangana CM to hold cabinet meeting today. Here's what's on agenda||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) will chair a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday where discussions are expected to take place omnthe the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, news agency ANI reported. The meeting will take place at Pragathi Bhavan at 2pm.Apart from Covid-19 situation, the cabinet is likely to also discuss issues related to agriculture, and Palle and Pattana Pragathi programmes, among others, ANI reported.In June, the Telangana government had announced the lifting of the lockdown entirely after a KCR chaired state cabinet meeting. In an official statement, the government said that that decision was taken after “examining reports submitted by the state medical and health department officials,” which revealed that coronavirus cases and positivity rate of Telangana had declined significantly.The lockdown in Telangana had been in force since May 12, with the state government only providing periodic relaxations to the citizens. On June 9, the state government announced a 12-hour relaxation from 6am to 6pm for 10 days, which had ended on June 20 – the day the lockdown was completely lifted.According to the state health bulletin data, as many as 465 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Telangana on Monday, thereby taking the overall tally of the state to 631,683. With 869 new recoveries, the state’s total number of recovered cases has reached 617,638. Four fatalities were reported on Monday after which the death toll of Telangana stands at 3,729, the bulletin data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-cm-to-hold-cabinet-meeting-today-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101626145888141.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra demands 30mn Covid vaccine doses a month; 37mn administered so far||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 7,603 new Covid-19 cases. Although the state inoculated 490,283 people on Monday, it has almost run out of stock.“We are working below our capacity. It is literally a hand-to-mouth situation,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. Maharashtra has been claiming it has the capacity to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily. Tope further said 7,000,000 doses were received three days ago, and would be almost exhausted by Monday evening.Maharashtra has administered 37,017,471 vaccine doses so far. The Assembly passed a resolution demanding 30 million doses per month to vaccinate maximum population within the next three months.Also Read | PM Modi to review Covid situation in N-E states todayDr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital at Byculla, said, “Vaccines tend to reduce the rate of infection which means mild symptoms. This will ultimately translate to less stress on the medical infrastructure and also significantly reduce the mortality rate.”Mumbai on Monday recorded 496 new cases along with nine deaths, with its toll reaching 15,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-demands-30mn-covid-vaccine-doses-a-month-37mn-administered-so-far-101626146271489.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees light rainfall; IMD announces arrival of monsoon||Parts of Delhi received light rain early Tuesday, marking the much awaited arrival of monsoon in the city. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officially announced that monsoon has advanced over Delhi.IMD data shows that till 8.30am, the Safdarjung weather station recorded 2.5mm rainfall, Palam recorded 2.4mm, and the Lodhi Road observatory recorded 19.4mm rainfall. As the temperature dropped slightly after the early morning showers, the light rain led to an increase in the humidity level in the city. The minimum temperature recorded in the morning was 23.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s normal.Met officials said that even though conditions have been favourable for the onset of monsoon in Delhi, since there was no rainfall, the announcement of its onset was being deferred for the last three days. “Parts of the city have started receiving rain, and the monsoon is likely to cover the remaining parts in the next few hours,” said a senior IMD official on Tuesday morning. Also Read | Rainfall likely in multiple states today as flash floods, lightning wreak havoc. Details hereThe official, however, said that the intensity of showers will be light till July 16, which will keep the humidity levels high. The rainfall intensity is likely to pick up after July 16. Delhiites have been waiting for the arrival of monsoon for nearly a month, as the IMD first forecasted the arrival of monsoon for June 15, which would have made it the earliest onset of monsoon in Delhi. “Finally Monsoon Rains over Delhi! Even though monsoon conditions were prevailing last 2-3 days, Met department was waiting for these rains to declare monsoon onset. Last two days it rained everywhere surrounding Delhi, except Delhi,” tweeted Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, Union ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-light-rainfall-imd-could-announce-arrival-of-monsoon-later-today-101626145371404.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR receives light rain, IMD predicts drop in temperature||Delhi on Tuesday morning witnessed light to moderate intensity rain in several parts of the city. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature in the city today will be 25.0 degrees Celcius, while the maximum temperature is unlikely to go beyond 33.0 degrees Celcius."The monsoon has arrived in Delhi," senior IMD scientist K Jenamani confirmed after a spell of rains drenched parts of South Delhi Tuesday morning.Finally Monsoon Rains over Delhi! Even though monsoon conditions were prevailing last 2-3 days, @Indiametdept was waiting for these rains to declare monsoon onset. Last 2 days it rained everywhere surrounding Delhi, except Delhi.@DrJitendraSingh @moesgoi pic.twitter.com/6xqtGEBdRfThe IMD had earlier predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain over south-west Delhi, south Delhi and parts of NCR and adjoining areas. "Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and winds with speed of 20-40 Km per hour would occur over and adjoining areas of few places of South-West Delhi, South Delhi, NCR (Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh), Rohtak, Meham, Jhajjar, Farukhnagar, Nuh, Sohana, Palwal in Haryana and Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh during next 2 hours," the IMD tweeted on Tuesday morning.Jenamani had informed that the weather conditions continue to remain favourable for the arrival of monsoon in the national capital. He said that IMD will study why the arrival of rainfall was delayed in Delhi despite favourable conditions.There is a 7 per cent rain deficiency over the country since June 1 and a 67 per cent deficiency over Delhi. The normal date for monsoon onset over Delhi is June 27.After the previous prediction about the monsoon proved to be wrong, the IMD did not announce any further date for the arrival of monsoon in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-receives-light-rain-imd-predicts-drop-in-temperature-101626144179699.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Two get bail in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to two people who were arrested for allegedly being involved in the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day this year. Chief metropolitan magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar granted relief to Boota Singh and Gurjot Singh who were granted bail last week in another case related to the violence. The court said, “There is no specific role attributed to the accused in violence or other offences qua which the present FIR was registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-get-bail-in-republic-day-violence-case-101626138702000.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Water supply to be hit in western suburbs of Mumbai today. Details here||Many areas in Mumbai will see a disruption in water supply on Tuesday due to a repair work carried out by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body had earlier mentioned the "technical difficulties" in some areas of the city's western suburbs, necessitating the repair work.The areas where water supply will be cut or provided at low pressure are: Juhu, Vile Parle, Santa Cruz, Khar and Andheri.“On July 13, from 10am to 10pm, water supply will be cut off in some areas, or will be done at low pressure. This one-day change is being made to streamline the water supply in these areas. We humbly request citizens to cooperate,” the BMC said in a tweet on Sunday.On July 13, from 10am to 10pm water supply in some areas of Juhu, Vile Parle, Santacruz, Khar, Andheri will be cut off or will be done at low pressure. This one-day change is being made to streamline the water supply in these areas.We humbly request citizens to cooperate !🙏💐 https://t.co/6qbBg47joEIn the notice accompanying the tweet, the BMC said that it will replace the valve (which it calls the butterfly valve) due to which the water supply will be affected. "Replacing the valve to make the water supply smoother. It will help us provide various civic services to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation area. It will also help Mumbaikars get clean and pure drinking water," the BMC said in the notice.The civic body further said in the notice that it keeps undertaking such maintenance work from "time to time".The BMC has asked the people of the city to store water and use it sparingly.The task to replace the 1200mm diameter valve at the Bandra outlet of Part 2 of Veravalli Reservoir 3 will be done in 12 hours due to which the water supply will be affected from 10am to 10pm, according to the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-western-suburbs-of-mumbai-today-details-here-101626136817597.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||MCDs sealing shops, asking for ₹2 lakh to reopen them, says AAP||Leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party-run municipal corporations were sealing shops and asking traders for ₹2 lakh per unit to remove the seal.Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said, “The BJP has demanded ₹2 lakh per unit from the traders to remove the seal. This case is from the Sonia Vihar area of Karawal Nagar where the National Green Tribunal had constituted a committee of the MCD, Delhi Pollution Board, and police to conduct an inquiry and seal shops causing pollution.”He added: “BJP leaders then became greedy and cancelled the trade licences of several traders citing land disputes. If there was a land dispute, why did the BJP validate their trade licences in the first place?”Spokespersons of the Delhi BJP did not respond to requests seeking comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-sealing-shops-asking-for-rs-2-lakh-to-reopen-them-says-aap-101626135858267.html
13-07-2021||Bhopal||MP unlocks further: Cinema halls to open, markets to function till 10pm from today||Madhya Pradesh will see more relaxations in the Covid-19 curbs from Tuesday. According to the latest order by the state government, the cinema halls have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent strength and restaurants with the full capacity. The curbs have been eased due to dip in the state's Covid-19 caseload, with health minister Narottam Mishra calling the situation under control on Monday.Until now, cinema halls remained closed and restaurants were being operated with 50 per cent capacity. "Coronavirus cases fell to 18 while active cases stand at 296. There are no Covid-19 cases in 44 districts of the state. Now on, a maximum of 100 people will be allowed to attend wedding ceremonies while 50 people can attend funerals," Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.Cinema halls can now function with 50 per cent capacity while restaurants can utilise full seating. The markets too can now be opened till 10pm, according to Madhya Pradesh government order.Until now, a maximum of 20 people were allowed to participate in funerals and 50 persons in marriage ceremonies, officials said. The markets were allowed to open till 8pm.Chouhan held a review meeting with officials during which he told them to be alert on the projected Covid-19 third wave. "The cases are not coming down in Maharashtra and Kerala. The cases are also rising in southern and northeastern states. It is suspected that the cases may rise in the month of August. But we are committed to flattening the third wave," he added.Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 18 fresh coronavirus cases, which pushed its infection tally to 7,90,193, state health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-unlocks-further-cinema-halls-to-open-markets-to-function-till-10pm-from-today-101626132839847.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The man who sold school bags||Nothing has changed for him. So much has changed for him. Such are the clashing complexities that define Muhammed Khurshid Alam these days.He started his career in Delhi as a pavement seller a decade ago. He continues to be a pavement seller. For nine of these years, he was selling school bags. Last year, with the arrival of the coronavirus pandemic, he entirely shifted his business to selling masks.“It’s not me alone—everyone on the footpath is selling masks,” says Mr Alam while arranging his stall one late afternoon, under a tree, on a pedestrian path in central Delhi’s KG Marg. His assertion is not entirely correct. The stall next to him is selling freshly fried cocktail samosas. Another pavement business, close by, deals with locks and keys. “I mean many sellers have turned to masks,” he says absentmindedly.Almost every mask in Mr Alam’s stall is black, and neatly packed in plastic, as if to assure a potential buyer that it hasn’t been touched by any germs before. Mr Alam gets the masks from a wholesaler in Sadar Bazaar. He would source his school bags too from the same market. “The school bags used to sell in very good numbers, and were priced higher… they would bring me good money, that was a better business,” As the coronavirus hit the city, he says, schools shut down indefinitely and nobody bought his schoolbags any longer. “I then walked through many markets to see how other hawkers were coping.” Many of them were turning to masks, he says.“While you see people with masks nowadays, I’m, however, not able to sell many,” he says in a puzzled tone.A slow but steady stream of pedestrians is passing by his stall, but nobody is stopping.Perhaps he can go back to his village in Sitamarhi, Bihar, and start something afresh. The middle-aged Mr Alam looks at the traffic on the road, saying, “My village… there’s nothing to earn there.” But it has his wife and four kids. “I’m able to send them only ₹500 or so every month.”God knows how his family is surviving, he mutters. At 6, Mr Alam would close his stall and return to his room in Nabi Karim, where he lives alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-man-who-sold-school-bags-101626130353191.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Govt withdraws Janpath Market closure order, tells traders to take responsibility||The Delhi government on Monday morning withdrew an order issued late Sunday night directing the popular Janpath Market to be shut over violations of Covid-19 protocol. The withdrawal of the order came after discussions between traders and New Delhi district authorities, who warned retailers that they will shut shops if distancing norms and masking guidelines are flouted.The market, as a result, opened as usual on Monday morning, and enforcement teams went around monitoring that safety protocols were followed.Traders in the market, which is among the city’s popular shopping destinations, have been directed to ensure social distancing in the market, limit the number of salespeople and customers inside shops, issue ID cards to hawkers, apart from a host of other conditions. The Delhi Police and traders’ associations will monitor the footfall in the market, officials said.The revised directions were issued by the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) of Chanakyapuri after a meeting with various stakeholders, including the five traders’ associations from Janpath market.Delhi authorities, in recent weeks, have cracked down on, and temporarily shut other popular markets, including in Lajpat Nagar, Sadar Bazar and Laxmi Nagar, after a surge in crowds and violations of distancing and masking protocols.The New Delhi district authority late on Sunday night issued an order informing all agencies concerned that Janpath market will remain closed till further orders for violating the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) guidelines on Covid-appropriate behaviour during the weekend.But the revised order issued on Monday morning said: “The Director (Enforcement), NDMC and SHO [station house officer], Connaught Place are hereby directed to enforce the order with immediate effect and submit a compliance report. This is issued with the approval of the district magistrate, chairman, DDMA, New Delhi district.”Toni Chawla, general secretary of the Janpath Traders Association said, “All shop owners have been following Covid norms and ensuring distancing inside the shops. The problem on Sunday was because of the hawkers in the mini market.”Manoj Kumar, secretary of the Janpath Old Mini Market Association said, “All the shops have been open since morning. There is slightly more rush on the weekend. We had a meeting with the district officials today (Monday_ morning, where all the issues regarding Covid norms were discussed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-withdraws-janpath-market-closure-order-101626126802051.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||HC extends benefits of welfare plan||The Delhi high court on Monday held that the benefit of the Chief Minister’s Advocates’ Welfare Scheme shall be extended to all lawyers registered with the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), whose names and credentials are verified, irrespective of whether they are registered as a voter in the Capital.Calling the exclusion of lawyers registered with BCD but residing in the National Capital Region (NCR) as discriminatory, justice Prathiba M Singh said the scheme was announced to recognise the contribution of advocates in bettering the lives of the citizenry of Delhi and not for advocates who constitute the electorate. The judge ordered that a new scheme shall be announced by September 30 by the Delhi government after consultation with BCD and insurance companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-extends-benefits-of-welfare-plan-101626125829319.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||5 more held for Bara Hindu Rao shooting that left two passersby dead||Five people, including the man who planned an alleged attack on a local builder and his nephew in north Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao on Thursday, were arrested after an exchange of fire between them and a team of the special cell at Shamshan Ghat of Wazirabad on Sunday night.The attack on Thursday night left two passersby dead after at least four men opened fired at Haji Naeem, a local builder, and his nephew Muneeb at Filmistan near Bara Hindu Rao. Police said the attack on Naeem and his nephew was planned by Feroz, and his business partner Danish. Police said the two are local builders in Old Delhi.Police said 30 bullets were fired during the shoot-out on Sunday and the five men were shot in their legs. A sub-inspector, meanwhile, was shot in the shoulder, and another officer was hit on his bulletproof vest.On Sunday, a team from Bara Hindu Rao station announced the arrest of four men – Feroz, Rahul alias Charlie, Himanshu and Mehtab — all of whom were held from Delhi and Chandigarh between Saturday and Sunday. So far, nine people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-more-held-for-bara-hindu-rao-shooting-that-left-two-passersby-dead-101626125241015.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Allow BSES to exit agreement, power regulator writes to Centre||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has written to the Union power ministry asking that share of electricity allocated to the Capital from the Dadri-I thermal power plant be given to other states.According to senior power department officials, despite the expiry of the agreement to buy power from the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), which owns the Dadri plant, BSES discoms continue to pay around ₹35 crore per month as fixed charges to NTPC.They explained that since NTPC refused to discontinue the power purchase agreement (PPA) with the BSES discoms, the power companies approached the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC), which ruled in their favour.On July 1, the CERC issued an order stating that the discoms are eligible to terminate PPAs after 25 years of operations, thereby allowing BSES Yamuna Power Ltd to exit the contract.The 25 years of the agreement ended in November 2020.In its letter to the power ministry, the Delhi electricity regulator said discontinuing the purchase agreement will lower the burden of fixed charges, which have to be paid even without any consumption, on the distribution companies (discoms) and consumers.“You are once again requested to permanently reallocate on urgent basis entire Delhi’s share of Dadri-I Generating Station of NTPC Ltd to other needy states with effect from December 1, 2020, to avoid the burden of fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allow-bses-to-exit-agreement-power-regulator-writes-to-centre-101626124490844.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Man attacks 16-year-old girl with axe in South Delhi||A 16-year-old girl on her way home was attacked with an axe on her head allegedly by a 20-year-old man in South Moti Bagh on Monday afternoon. Police is yet to uncover the motive behind the attack which was allegedly carried out by Praveen, identified by a single name in the police file, who is currently absconding.The attack was reported to the police control room at around 1.20pm by a passerby who witnessed the incident.The girl, who received a deep cut on her fore head, was admitted to Safdarjung hospital, where she is currently undergoing treatment.Deputy commissioner of police (south west) Ingit Pratap Singh, said police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the attacker in the current case.Police are probing if Praveen, a resident of a slum in South Moti Bagh, was stalking her, with some unverified reports claiming that he had threatened the teenager once before.The victim studies in class 11 in a Delhi government school and her father works as a fruit seller in south Delhi.The incident happened nearly a kilometre away from the pedestrian footover bridge on Ring Road near Moti Bagh, where a Delhi University student, Radhika Tanwar, was shot dead by her stalker in March 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20yearold-attacks-minor-girl-with-axe-in-delhi-s-south-moti-bagh-101626122990659.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman killed, 10 missing as flash floods, landslides hit Dharamshala||Dharamshala A woman was killed and about 10 people were reported missing in landslides triggered by heavy rains in Boh village (45km from Dharamshala) of Shahpur sub-division of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Monday. Also, about a dozen vehicles were swept away and many buildings either gave in or were damaged in flash floods in various parts of Kangra district as bad weather also led to the closure of the Gaggal airport. A drain near Bhagsunag in upper Dharamshala, adjoining McLeodganj, changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away about 10 cars and bikes, video clips showed. A government school building at Bhagsunag was also damaged and adjacent hotels there were inundated, it showed. All rivers and rivulets in Dharamshala and Palampur besides Kullu were in spate as rain lashed the region since Sunday night. Manjhi rivulet that was flowing dangerously close to settlements damaged three houses and some shops were damaged in Chetru and Bagli area near Dharamshala. People whose houses are on the riverside have moved to safer places. Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan confirmed that a woman’s body was recovered from the debris. “We don’t have exact information of causalities. Exact figures regarding loss of life and property will be known in the coming days,” he said. Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said Boh village was cut-off due to the landslide. “Given the heavy rain forecast, a five-day alert has been issued. All the department heads have been directed to remain available on phone round the clock. People have been advised to not to leave their houses. People may call the district disaster management authority on toll-free number 1077 or phone numbers 01892-229050, 229051, 229052 in case of emergency,” he said. DDMA training and capacity builder coordinator Bhanu Sharma said, “The DDMA has sent a requisition to the Indian Air Force but aerial rescue will not be possible at present due to the bad weather.” Jindal said, “All the tourists visiting Dharamsala have been instructed to postpone their tour so that they do not face any kind of inconvenience.” He said the tourists who have already arrived in Dharamsala and its surrounding places have also been advised to stay where they are as roads etc. have also been damaged due to heavy rains, which may cause problems in their movement.” Shahpur was the wettest place in the state, recording 264 mm or rainfall, followed by Dharamshala with 211mm, Palampur 162mm, Kangra 148mm, Laman 125mm, Baijnath 78mm, Joginder Nagar 76mm, Mandi 60mm, Dalhousie 50mm and Kufri 31mm. The meteorological department has issued an orange weather warning of heavy to very heavy rain in the middle and low hills for Tuesday. There is a yellow weather warning for July 14 and 15. The higher reaches may get a fresh spell of snowfall. Shimla weather office director Manmohan Singh said landslides and uprooting of trees may occur due to the incessant rain. NDRF teams dispatched: Amit Shah Union home minister Amit Shah said National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams were heading to the affected areas. “I have spoken to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur about the natural disaster due to heavy rains. NDRF teams are reaching for relief work. Home ministry is regularly monitoring the situation. Centre will provide all possible help to Himachal,” he tweeted. Jai Ram said: “I have sought report from the concerned district authorities. Locals and tourists are requested to take all precautions and do not venture near the rivers and water streams,” he wrote on his Facebook page. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the state government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas.” Highways blocked Pathankot-Mandi highway has been blocked for traffic due to landslide at several places and minor damage to a bridge near Manali. Mandi-Manali highway was also closed due to landslide. The traffic was diverted via Kataula for some time but even that route was also closed in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-killed-10-missing-as-flash-floods-landslides-hit-dharamshala-101626122990200.html
13-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 24 test +ve for Covid, 2 deaths added to tally||As many as 24 patients in the district tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday. The health department also included the names of two patients in the list of Covid casualties. The two had died recently but their Covid status came to fore only after their death. The district’s toll has now climbed to 2, 090.The district did not witness any new mucormycosis (black fungus) cases on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-24-test-ve-for-covid-2-deaths-added-to-tally-101626122930378.html
13-07-2021||Other||Five who shot dead 2 passersby in north Delhi last week held after shoot-out, 9 arrests so far||Five people, including the man who planned the alleged attack on a local builder and his nephew in north Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao last Thursday, were arrested after an exchange of fire between them and a team of the special cell at Shamshan Ghat of Wazirabad on Sunday night. Police said as many as 30 bullets were fired during the shoot-out and the five men were shot in the leg. A police sub inspector suffered a bullet injury in his shoulder. Another officer was hit on the chest guard of his bullet proof vest. On Sunday afternoon, a team from Bara Hindu Rao police station announced the arrest of four men – Feroz, Rahul alias Charlie, Himanshu and Mehtab -- all of whom were held from Delhi and Chandigarh between Saturday and Sunday. So far, nine people have been arrested in the case. On Thursday night, two passersby were killed when at least four unidentified men opened fire at local builder Haji Naeem and his nephew Muneeb at Filmistan near Bara Hindu Rao. Police said the attack on Naeem and his nephew was planned by Feroz, and his business partner Danish. Police said the two are local builders in Old Delhi. Police said Danish was the mastermind, who brought in the contract killers and planned the shoot out. Apart from Danish, the special cell said on Monday, among those who were arrested are Shoaib Siddiqui (26), Sharafat Ali (53), Sonu (32), and Satender Rocky (30). Sanjeev Yadav, deputy commissioner of police(special cell), said Danish and Feroz nursed a grudge against Muneeb over a disputed property. To settle scores with their rivals, they had come together to eliminate their target at Bara Hindu Rao. While the four assailants were unable to execute the attack on their target, two passersby who were walking under the Rani Jhansi flyover were shot. The two men later died at the Hindu Rao hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-who-shot-dead-2-passersby-in-north-delhi-last-week-held-after-shoot-out-9-arrests-so-far-101626122929314.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC refuses to stay new excise policy||The Delhi high court on Monday refused to stay the New Excise Policy 2021, approved last month, after a plea was filed by the retail liquor vendors who contended that it will “completely eliminate” their operations.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Lieutenant Governor, Delhi government and excise commissioner on the plea which questioned the excise commissioner‘s right to fix the price of the liquor in the new policy.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the retail liquor vendors, said that the new policy divides the city in 32 zones, with 9-10 wards in each zone, for the purpose of issuance of liquor licence.Noting that the Delhi government has introduced a new category of zonal licence, 1-7Z, for retail vends, he argued that the 1-7Z licence for each zone requires the licence holder to mandatorily run 18 retail vends.“This scheme has completely eliminated the existing retail vendors,” he contended, asking for a stay.The court refused to stall the policy and posted the matter for further hearing on August 9.Government officials, on condition of anonymity, said that the high court’s refusal to stay the liquor policy is a major blow to the liquor lobby.They said that had the high court stayed the order, it would have caused a revenue loss of ₹3,500 crore to the Delhi government.“This amount of ₹3,500 crore, that will be collected through excise duty, will enable the funding of many government social welfare schemes. This would help many, who have suffered during the coronavirus pandemic,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-refuses-to-stay-new-excise-policy-101626122869266.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Killing of Kitty Kumarmangalam: Third suspect in Vasant Vihar murder case held||Suraj Budhe, one of the suspects involved in the murder of Kitty Kumarmangalam, wife of former Union minister PR Kumaramangalam, at her house in Vasant Vihar last week has been arrested from Madhya Pradesh, the Delhi Police said on Monday.PR Kumaramangalam was the Union minister of power between 1998 and 2000 during the first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.The police earlier arrested two people — Raju Lakhan Kanojia, 24, and Rakesh Raj, 34 — in the case. The three suspects went to Kitty’s house in Vasant Vihar’s Block A on the evening of July 6, where they smothered her to death, robbed the house of cash and valuables, and strangled Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila, who survived the attack. She then informed the police, afterwhich Raju, who ran a laundry, and his accomplice Rakesh Raj, a driver, were arrested within 24 hours of the crime.Investigators said they tracked down a driver, who drove 36-year-old Budhe to Jaipur in his cab. “Budhe left Delhi the morning after the murder. We identified the driver who took him to Jaipur. That man is now our key witness. He told us Budhe purchased a cell phone in Jaipur,” said a police officer.The investigating team then checked the SIM card and IMEI number of the phone which Budhe bought in Jaipur. Deputy commissioner of police(south west) Ingit Pratap Singh said that on July 10, police identified the user of that phone as one Chhotu Adiwasi, a resident of Tikamgarh district in Madhya Pradesh.“We learnt that he is Budhe’s brother-in-law. On further analysis, we found that the user was in Tikamgarh. A team was sent there and, with the help of the local police, raided the accused’s hideout, where Budhe and his wife and children were staying,” DCP Singh said, adding that Budhe was arrested from the spot. Police also recovered about 520gm of gold and 400gm silver ornaments, and a stolen phone from his possession.Police personnel claimed that Budhe confessed to them that he joined the other two in committing the crime due to losses in his business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vasant-vihar-third-suspect-in-the-murder-of-former-union-minister-s-wife-arrested-101626122749233.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees no deaths after 3 months||Jammu and Kashmir reported 155 fresh infections, the lowest single-day tally in 112 days, and no virus-induced death for the first time in 90 days on Monday. Since June 25, the UT has recorded single-digit fatalities, with one death reported on Friday and Sunday and two deaths on July 3, 4, 6 and 10. The last time, the UT had recorded no deaths was on April 12. So far, 448 people have recovered. There remain 2,709 active cases in the Valley. The highest active caseload of 52,848 was recorded on May 13.There were 113 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 42 infections. On Saturday, the UT had witnessed 185 cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,11,782, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.78%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,18,848 and the death-toll to 4,357.Officials said 52,449 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. With 33 cases , Srinagar has the highest number of new infections, followed by 14 in Kulgam. Thirteen districts had no or single-digit cases.At 1,138, Jammu has the highest number of fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 832 deaths. June saw 25,197 Covid cases and 416 deaths.Acute vaccine shortage in Jammu: Cong 
13-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt outlines policy to identify street children||The Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has come up with a policy to define street children, and asked 10 of its agencies to identify and rehabilitate them. The policy, called SAMPARC (sustainable approach for multi-faceted progress aimed at reclaiming childhood) could impact nearly 70,000 children in the Capital, according to estimates by the WCD department.Delhi’s WCD minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said the new guidelines, for the first time, attempt to define street children.“Children who have run away from their family and are living on the streets, or living with a family on the streets; or children who work on the street and go back to a family after work, are to be considered street children. The Arvind Kejriwal government believes in proper education and development of all children. I have also ordered the officers to ensure children living in shelter homes get good facilities and that no child’s education suffers due to lack of resources,” Gautam said.The policy, a copy of which is with HT, empowers child welfare committees (CWCs) to take legal action against parents who are making their children beg, with criminal or commercial intent. It also directs district administrations to identify such children who have turned 18, train them, and induct them in the government’s civil defence volunteers force.“It will not only provide such vulnerable children respectable employment, but owing to their street experience they can assist many other children who come from similar backgrounds,” said the document.Though there has been no thorough survey till date, estimates with the WCD department suggest that Delhi, on any given day, has 60,000 to 70,000 children surviving in “street-like” situations. The number includes those who live with families on roadsides or in temporary huts.Rashmi Singh, director of the WCD department, said the government has also floated an expression of interest (EOI) to authorise NGOs and civil society organisations to identify and profile vulnerable children, map resources, and match their needs.Specific roles have been assigned to different government agencies. For example, the health department and the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) have to bring the street kids under the health safety net with mohalla clinics, Ayushman Bharat scheme, and so on. The labour department will ensure skill and vocational training, and the municipal corporations have to ensure that births and deaths are properly recorded and linked with the WCD data.“As the nodal department, we have solicited the active role of all departments concerned so that we can have a coordinated approach. We are also inviting more civil society participation, apart from NGOs already partnering with us, to run open shelters for such children,” Singh said.The state has 26 child care institutions (CCI). Additionally, the WCD department financially supports nine open shelters run by NGOs for street children.Data seen by HT showed that till June 30, 842 children were living in the government-run CCIs as against the sanctioned capacity of 2,075 — a clear indication that there is a greater necessity to identity more such children and put them under institutional care.The policy states that in case it is found that the custodians of a child are not his/her biological parents or guardians, the department will request a police investigation to prevent illegal adoption or trafficking. To increase the network of agencies and officials working on identifying and rescuing such vulnerable children, the policy also proposes to constitute the District Child Protection Convergence Committee (DCPCC) in each of the 11 districts.Once identified and rescued, such children are to be produced before a child welfare committee to decide on whether to allow adoption or foster care or to put them in institutional care.Sudarshan Suchi, CEO of NGO Save the Children said, “These guidelines need to go hand-in-hand with capacity building and training of all child protection staff to ensure adequate delivery [of the programme].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wcd-outlines-policy-to-ensure-welfare-of-street-children-in-delhi-101626122690258.html
13-07-2021||Other||Common test up in the air, DU considers entrance options||With no clarity over the central universities common entrance test (CUCET) yet, officials at the Delhi University (DU) said they are exploring different ways to conduct undergraduate admissions this year in case it has to go ahead with the merit-based enrolment process. Officials said the university is trying to come up with a method to bring all education boards at par since they have adopted different evaluation methods this year following the cancellation of Class 12 exams after the second wave of Covid-19 gripped the country. DU vice-chancellor (acting) P C Joshi said the university is still hopeful that the Centre will announce the conduct of the CUTET this year because of the unprecedented situation. “There is still a possibility of holding CUCET. However, in case it doesn’t happen and the university feels that the assessment criteria adopted by some boards are more lenient than others, we will have to come up with some policy to bring students at one level. It will be challenging but we cannot do injustice to students. We are working on it and are likely to announce something by the end of this week,” said Joshi.The University may start the registration process for admissions by the end of this month.A senior official at the university, who wished not to be named, said the varsity is exploring the possibility of adopting the ‘percentile’ method for admissions in case there is a substantial difference between the results of some education boards. A percentile is the percentage of students above whom he or she stands on the merit list. For instance, if a student’s score is in the 90th percentile, that means he/she has scored better than 90% of the candidates who took the exam. The same criteria are used for admission in several other courses in India, including engineering and business administration.“We are trying to see the possibility of adopting the percentile system. We will have to think of other options to moderate the marks of students in case there is a huge difference between the results of different boards. There is a high possibility that this situation may arise since different education boards have opted for different evaluation methods,” said the official. This year, while the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) decided to evaluate students based on their performances in classes 10, 11, and 12 in 30:30:40 ratio, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) is considering students’ performances in classes 9 to 12. Different state boards have also opted for various assessment methods. For instance, even as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh boards consider marks of classes 10, 11, and 12 like CBSE, their weightage criteria are different. While Haryana is giving 60% weightage to class 12 performance, UP has fixed it at just 10%. The Odisha board will award marks to Class 12 students based on their performance in Class 10.Officials said due to the difference in evaluation methods of education boards, it will become very challenging for the university to admit students based on their absolute score. “It will be really challenging to set the cut-off this year as well since a majority of the boards are likely to award higher scores. So, the cut-off is expected to remain high,” said the principal of a north campus college. Last year, the highest cut-off was announced by the Lady Shri Ram College at 100% for three courses.Despite several attempts, officials at the UGC and ministry of education did not respond to calls and texts seeking comment on CUCET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/common-test-up-in-the-air-du-considers-entrance-options-101626122629819.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||Set up Covid care centre at JNU in 2 weeks, HC tells Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Monday pulled up the state government over the delay in setting up a Covid care centre at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), despite the varsity earmarking an area in the campus, and gave the state two weeks to put the facility in place.Justice Rekha Palli said the Delhi government “cannot be wasting time like this” when the cases are low and should have set up the Covid care centre long back.Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Rizwan told the court that the proposal has been sent to the health department and sought two weeks to complete the process. “We have already sent the proposal on June 11. Give me just two weeks, most probably the approval will be given,” he said.“What is the Delhi government doing? When things are in bad shape, then you land in soup and start blaming left, right and centre,” the bench remarked.It granted two weeks to the Delhi government to finalise the proposal and set up a Covid-19 facility at the campus after petitioners – JNU Teachers Association, JNU Students Association and two faculty members – moved court in May this year seeking direction to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic situation at the varsity.The matter will now be heard on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcpulls-up-delhi-govt-over-delay-in-setting-up-covid-care-centre-inside-jnu-101626122629263.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||300k labourers on file, Delhi aims for 1million by the year-end||The Delhi Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board registered at least 200,000 new workers and labourers in the last six months, and has set a target of one million registrations by next year, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday, adding that the state’s efforts to disburse financial aid to the city’s workers resulted in the spike in sign-ups.“The Delhi government has set a target to register all the 1 million construction workers in Delhi by next year,” he said.However, with the government facing difficulties in disbursing one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to registered workers due to incomplete bank details, the administration has started a camp from July 12 to 17 to correct the account information of construction workers.These camps will be held at the labour offices in Ashok Vihar, Jhilmil Colony, and Pushp Vihar.“The Delhi government is fully committed to the betterment of labourers. The goal of these camps is to update the data of all the construction workers so that the assistance provided by the state reaches all the construction workers in time,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s labour minister.“Due to all these crucial reforms, the number of registered construction workers has increased from about 100,000 in December to over 300,000 today (Monday),” he added.The Delhi government estimates there are at least 1.5 million construction and labour workers in the Capital.Till June 23, the Delhi government disbursed ₹5,000 each to 217,039 construction workers as Covid relief disbursement this year. In addition, the government last month announced a relief package of ₹10,000 to workers found to have been worst hit by the pandemic induced lockdown.Meanwhile, the board has started an online verification system for workers.“Workers do not need to go to the labour office to get their registration done now. The entire process is online. Online verification of workers will also be done through live photo capturing and online payment. This will make sure that workers will not have to leave their work and stand in long lines at offices. They will be able to register themselves at any time according to their convenience,” said a government spokesperson.“With these new reforms, workers can now make all their claims online on the e-district portal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-registers-200k-more-construction-workers-sets-1-million-target-by-next-year-101626122570381.html
13-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC general house meet today||The municipal corporation (MC) in its general house meeting on Wednesday will be deliberating upon shifting of dairy units situated in Haibowal and Tajpur Road Dairy Complex outside the MC limits and impose a complete ban on single-use plastic in the city.In total, 29 resolutions will be tabled during the meeting which will be held at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan. The resolutions include filling of vacant posts of staff in different branches of MC through outsourcing, giving proprietary rights of the land to the slum dwellers in different parts of the city under Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020, and composition fee charged from street vendors for allowing roadside vends, etc.The house will also formally approve the proposal to take over maintenance of water-sewer lines in the colonies of Ludhiana Improvement Trust(LIT). The MC had already taken up the work around a month back after mayor Balkar Sandhu approved the same.The project to shift the dairy units situated at the banks of Buddha Nullah out of city limits has been hanging fire for a long time. There are over 500 dairy units situated in the Hiabowal and Tajpur Road dairy complexes. The civic body has been struggling to find a location for shifting the dairy units outside the MC limits. The house will also be deliberating upon changing the land use of dairy complex land to commercial land.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Special Task Force (STF) constituted for cleaning the nullah had also directed the MC to shift the dairy units in the past as the owners have been dumping the dairy waste and cow dung in the Buddha Nullah, adding to the pollution there.Further, the house will also be deliberating upon imposing a complete ban on plastic carry bags and single-use plastic in the city. The state government had banned the use of plastic bags in the state in April 2016, but the civic body has failed to impose the same in the city till now.Mayor Sandhu said that all the resolutions will be discussed in detail.Mayor holds all-party meet ahead of house meetingWith the issues of hiked water-sewer tariff and failure of the municipal corporation (MC) to come up with proper solid waste management in the city, expected to rock the general house meeting, mayor Balkar Sandhu organised an all-party meeting with the leaders of opposition parties at his camp office on Monday evening.The BJP has been lambasting the MC for increasing the water-sewer tariff in the city and revocation of exemption given against the houses with an area up to 125 sq yards. Facing flak, the mayor had announced the resumption of the exemption but the hiked tariff was not rolled back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-general-house-meet-today-101626122569942.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||HP guv-designate Rajendra Arlekar gets rousing reception||Himachal Pradesh designate governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was given a rousing reception on his arrival in Shimla on Monday evening. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary, chief secretary Anil Khachi, director general of police Sanjay Kundu, vice- chancellors and other senior officers of the state government and prominent persons of the state welcomed him at the Raj Bhawan. The CM honoured him with a Himachali cap and shawl. Arlekar will be sworn-in as the 28th governor of Himachal Pradesh on July 13, 10 am. CM gives warm send off to guv Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur along with his Cabinet colleagues also gave a warm send off to the governor at the Raj Bhawan on Monday.Earlier, The Raj Bhawan staff gave an emotional farewell to governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who said he had received immense affection, respect and recognition from the people of the state in the last two years, which he will always remember. Former secretary to the governor, Rakesh Kanwar, who relinquished charge on Monday, highlighted the work done by the governor in different fields. Priyatu Mandal, secretary to the governor, who also took charge on Monday was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-guv-designate-rajendra-arlekar-gets-rousing-reception-101626122449705.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD’s transport wing gheraos Amarinder’s Patiala residence over fuel price hikes||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s transport wing on Monday gheraoed the residence of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Patiala city over frequent hikes in petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices. The party workers, led by senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra and transport wing chief Parmjit Singh Fazilka, handed over the keys of trucks, buses and other vehicles at the New Moti Mehal as a mark of protest.Earlier, the demonstrators carried out a protest march in the CM’s hometown which culminated at YPS Chowk. Chandumajra said the BJP-led Centre and the Congress government in Punjab were directly responsible for manifold increase in prices of petroleum products. “While the Centre is not reducing custom duty on these products, the Amarinder-led government in the state has imposed the country’s highest VAT on them. The VAT and custom duty together are ₹55 per litre tax on petroleum products. Both the governments should slash these taxes by 50 percent so that people can get a respite up to ₹30 per litre,” he added. He said the Amarinder government dissolved the truck unions in the state after coming to power and later reduced loading charges, thus destroying the transport business. “More than 40,000 trucks and 65,000 taxis were sold in scrap in the last four-and-a-half years of the Congress rule in the state,” he claimed. Parmjit Fazilka said the Amarinder government was regularly pursuing destructive policies for the transport sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sads-transport-wing-gheraos-amarinder-s-patiala-residence-over-fuel-price-hikes-101626122391498.html
13-07-2021||Other||‘Library Langar’: 4 lakh books distributed among govt school students in Ludhiana||The state education department’s ‘Library Langar’ project proved to be a hit among the city students as Ludhiana schools on Monday set up stalls at gurdwaras, temples, Rose Garden, and on their campuses to hand over library books to students inculcate the habit of reading among them. Out of a total of 9,00,330 library books of government schools, 4,15,819 were distributed among students. Parents and students reached the school premises to collect the books and have been asked to return them to the school library on July 30. The education department had instructed schools to encourage children to read books on science fiction, historical fiction, mystery, adventure, real-life stories, environment, sports, plays, besides their textbooks, to widen their horizons. As per the directions, teachers had also shared posters of books and videos to motivate students. They have even asked the students to write a review or prepare short videos, sharing their views on the books they have read. The school authorities of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, handed over 12,000 library books to students. The school had set up stalls at Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib and outside Shani Dev Mandir. Parents and students went there and collected books. Government Model Senior Secondary School, Panjab Agricultural University, had set up two stalls, one inside the school premises and another one at the Rose Garden. Over 3,900 library books have been handed over to the parents today by the schoolteachers. School principal, Sanjeev Thapar, said, “We have followed the instructions and informed students regarding the books available in the library.” Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan, abided by the Covid norms as it handed over around 485 books to parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/library-langar-4-lakh-books-distributed-among-govt-school-students-in-ludhiana-101626122389886.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 Punjab districts on alert as Ravi water level increases due to rain||The district administrations in Amritsar, Pathankot and Gurdaspur are on an alert after a sudden increase in the level of the Ravi river due to a heavy rainfall across the northern parts of the country.The water level of the river, which flows along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, increased on Monday creating a worrisome situation for the villagers living in its catchment area with the threat of flood looming large there. The farmers whose fields are situated near the river are apprehending destruction of their crops.The river flows through the three districts of Punjab. Ajnala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Deepak Bhatia said, “The situation has turned grim this time due to a heavy rain in Jammu and Kashmir. We are on an alert so that the situation could be managed. We have also alerted sarpanches of the villages in the river’s catchment area to be ready to tackle the situation.” “Presently, 2.5 lakh cusecs water is flowing in the river which is above the normal level. The water level up to 3 lakh cusecs water causes no destruction. This water was not released from the Madhopur headworks,” he added.If there are floods, those living in the villages situated between the river and Indo-Pak border get cuts them off from the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-punjab-districts-on-alert-as-ravi-water-level-increases-due-to-rain-101626122031384.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab lifts power curbs on industry as demand down due to rain||Heavy rain across northern parts of the country on Monday brought relief to the distressed Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) as the demand for electricity in the state went down by 4,000 megawatts.Also, a 660 MW unit of the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), which had gone completely out of operation, started generating power on Monday.With slight improvement in the power supply situation, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced to relax the restrictions on industry imposed since July 4. “All restrictions have been lifted and the industry can operate as routine,” said the CM.The rain brought the demand down to 8,500 MW against 13,000 MW till recently. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said all industries have been allowed to resume operations with immediate effect. Due to an unprecedented rise in power demand, the PSPCL as a temporary measure ordered restrictions on industries to provide continuous supply to domestic consumers and 8-hours electricity to the agriculture sector for paddy sowing.Due to an unprecedented rise in demand of power, the PSPCL had as a temporary measure ordered restrictions on industrial consumers across the state to provide continuous power supply to domestic consumers and 8-hour electricity to the agriculture sector for paddy sowing. The power department, despite high demand for consumption had not imposed any restrictions on small and medium industries like rice shellers, cattle feed units, call centres, mushroom farms, food processing units and other essential Industries/services, a department spokesperson said. Prasad said that despite the failure of TSPL plant, the PSPCL met the highest ever energy demand of 3,066 lakh units on July 1. The day’s demand had surpassed the earlier single day record of 3,018 lakh units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-lifts-power-curbs-on-industry-as-demand-down-due-to-rain-101626122030166.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest at Dhanaula against BJP leader Grewal’s ‘derogatory remark’||Scores of farmers, including women, held a massive protest on Monday to oppose BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal’s alleged statement at his native town Dhanaula. The protesters, who were holding an indefinite protest against the three agriculture laws at the Barnala railway station, assembled at Dhanaula grain market and held a march in the city markets. They raised slogans against Grewal who allegedly was labelling the protesters as terrorists, goons or anarchists.If there is any disruption in the peaceful atmosphere, the BJP will be directly responsible, they added. The farmer leaders claimed that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will fight against the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the Modi government till the three ‘black laws’ are repealed and a law ensuring guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) is passed.Local SKM leader Balwant Singh Uppli said that Grewal has been speaking against the farmers from day one since they started opposing the controversial agriculture laws. “We have reached his town to give him a message that he should stop making such remarks,” he added.Grewal said that he never used derogatory language against farmers but he defended his party’s policies. “These people damaged paddy crop in my fields. A true farmer never does that. It is my right to support my party’s policies and I will stand by our government,” added Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-at-dhanaula-against-bjp-leader-grewal-s-derogatory-remark-101626121971115.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Previous SAD-BJP govt didn’t hold proper probe into sacrilege: Sidhu||Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday raised the issue of the 2015 sacrilege incidents, targeting the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government for not holding a proper probe into the matter. Sidhu, who has been particularly critical of his own party’s government and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for handling of the sacrilege and the police firing cases, kept the focus on the Badals. The tweets spared the Congress government amid efforts by the party leadership to resolve the rift in the state unit. In a series of tweets, the Amritsar (East) legislator posted, “Pertinent questions of People of Punjab on Beadbi isues to Badals: 1. Why no proper inquiry by Badal Govt into theft of “Bir of Guru Granth Sahib Ji” at Village Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, which led ot Sacrilege, followed by protests and firing in October 2015?” (sic). He also asked about the action taken against officers who falsely implicated two brothers for sacrilege and why no action was taken by then Badal govt in the sacrilege cases before the 2017 elections, despite the Justice (retd) Zora Singh Commission inquiry report and SIT led by Ranbir Singh Khatra pointing needle of suspicion to Dera Sacha Sauda followers. “Have asked every relevant question on Beadbi issue to everyone who should be held accountable over the past few months and in the last 6 years…What is the point in repeating but questions must be asked to the real Culprits, the Badals! (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/previous-sad-bjp-govt-didn-t-hold-proper-probe-into-sacrilege-sidhu-101626121970031.html
13-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Two days after verbal spat, 20-yr-old hacked to death||A group of assailants hacked a 20-year-old kabaddi player to death with sharp-edged weapons on Sunday over a spat at a wedding party two days ago. Then, they fled after dumping the body on the roadside in Machhiwara. The accused have been identified as Kuldeep Singh alias Kenny of Rajgarh, Binda Nihang of Bhattian village, Laddi and Indra from Gehlewal village, Jaggi of Bhamma village, Sadiq of Samrala and their seven accomplices. The victim has been identified as Amandeep Singh of Indira Colony, Machhiwara. He worked as a salesman at a local bookstore. The victim’s kin staged a protest outside the Machhiwara police station on Monday, seeking the arrest of the accused. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Samrala) Jaswinder Singh Chahal told them that the accused will be arrested in the next two days, after which they lifted the protest. An FIR has been lodged based on the complaint of Manpreet Singh, the victim’s brother. He said that he received information on Sunday that his brother met with a road mishap and was lying injured on the roadside. He rushed his brother to civil hospital, from where he was referred to Ludhiana, but he died on the way. Manpreet added that the injuries on his brother’s body appeared to be inflicted by sharp edged weapons. He said that his brother had got into a verbal spat with the accused at a wedding function two days ago and they had threatened to kill him. Inspector Rajesh Thakur, station house officer at Machhiwara police station, said that a murder case has been registered and special teams have been formed to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-two-days-after-verbal-spat-20-yr-old-hacked-to-death-101626121910256.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Brother-sister from Amritsar among those killed in Jaipur lightning||A 29-year-old man, Amit, and his sister Shivani (24) from Bhalla Colony of Chheharta area in Amritsar were among the eleven people who were killed by lightning in Jaipur on Sunday. According to the family members, the siblings had gone to Jaipur to meet their maternal aunt on July 8. On Sunday, they were at Watch Tower when the lightning struck. “Amit called us and informed that Shivani had died due to lightning at the Watch Tower. After fifteen minutes when we called him back, his number was unreachable. Then we were informed by our relatives in Jaipur that Amit too was killed in the lightning,” said Amit’a cousin brother Gagan. The family members said the two had gone to Jaipur on a motorcycle. They are survived by their father Gurbachan Lal, mother Renu and younger sister Pratisha. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brothersister-from-amritsar-among-those-killed-in-jaipur-lightning-101626121849823.html
13-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Man crushed by tipper, angry kin hurl stones at cops, SHO hurt||Furious over the death of a 25-year-old man who was crushed under a tipper near Gehlewal cut on Rahon road, kin blocked the road with the body on Monday morning and pelted stones on the police party that had come to lift the blockade. Meharban station house officer, sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur sustained injuries on her face as a result of the stone-pelting incident, and had to be rushed to the hospital for treatment. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary also suffered minor injuries. Police had to use mild force to disperse the crowd. Victim was trying to cross the road on his bike As per information, the mishap took place around 8.15am, when the victim, identified as Kimti Lal of Mangat village, left for work. He used to work as a trainee at a saloon. Eyewitnesses said that Lal was trying to cross the road on his motorcycle and had signaled the tipper driver to give way, but the latter ignored him and continued to speed. As a result, the victim came under the wheels of the tipper and died. The speeding vehicle allegedly dragged his body for over 50metres, eyewitnesses claimed. The tipper driver, who was later identified as Arvinder Singh of Phillaur, fled the spot after the incident, leaving the vehicle behind. Area residents immediately blocked the road and vandalised the tipper. They even tried to torch the vehicle. When the police intervened, the protesters started pelting them with stones and bricks. The protesters, however, claimed that the stone pelting only started after police started cane-charging them. Police, however, managed to pacify the agitators and sent the body to the civil hospital for post-mortem. The blockade was lifted around 3.30pm. ACP Davinder Chaudhary said the stone-pelting was done by some miscreants and that the family members of the victim were sitting near the body. He added that stern action will be taken against the miscreants. He also informed that an FIR has been lodged against the tipper driver and police will trace him down soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-crushed-by-tipper-angry-kin-hurl-stones-at-cops-sho-hurt-101626121731459.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cars tossed around like toys in gushing waters in Himachal||Shimla/Dharamshala
13-07-2021||Other||Tough day for Ludhiana residents as multiple protests erupt in city||Commuters had a harrowing time on Monday as protests by political parties and unions disrupted traffic movement in several parts of the city.SAD protests for LIP chief’s arrestThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) staged a protest outside the office of police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, demanding the arrest of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjeet Singh Bains for allegedly raping a woman. The party leaders met Agrawal and gave him a 24-hour ultimatum to arrest Bains. They threatened to launch a stir outside the residence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu if the police failed to do so. SAD leader Harish Rai Dhanda accused Ashu of protecting the LIP chief. Senior leaders Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Hira Singh Gabria said Bains’ Vidhan Sabha membership should also be annulled. SAD workers also blocked the Ferozepur road leading to massive traffic jams. BJP stir against attack on its party leadersThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on the other hand, staged a protest against the state government at the mini-secretariat over the attack on its leaders in Rajpura. BJP state general secretary Parveen Bansal said, “The goons who attacked the BJP leaders enjoy the support of the ruling Congress government.”District president Pushpinder Singhal, meanwhile, had to be rushed to the hospital as he complained of chest pain during the protest. His condition is stated to be stable.Anganwadis stir for long-pending demandsWhile the cops were busy handling protesters outside the mini-secretariat, nearly 600 anganwari workers reached the office of child development and protection officer, demanding that the state government should pay up its share for increasing the workers’ wages. They said state government was not willing to pay its share due to which their salaried were hiked to only ₹900, against the promised salary of ₹1,500 for workers and ₹1,250 for mini-workers. Besides, they also want that children aged between 3 to 6 years must be sent to anganwadi centres instead of government schools for pre-primary classes. AAP’s outrage over outagesThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led by its youth wing president and MLA Meet Hayer, reached the mini-secretariat to protest against the ongoing power crisis in the state. AAP MLA Garhshankar Jai Kishan Singh Rouri said the government should compensate the industry and farmers for the losses they suffered due to the unending power outages. Rouri said that due to the power cuts, farmers had to use diesel-operated generators to water the paddy crop, which added to their costs and burnt a hole in their pockets amid the skyrocketing fuel prices. Traders launch stir against PSPCLMeanwhile, traders protested outside the Focal Point sub division of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), demanding the rollback of heavy penalties imposed on them. They said the corporation imposed fines on several businessmen over the past one year for using more than the sanctioned load in their factories.They also said more protests will be conducted in Model Town subdivision on July 19, and CMC subdivision on July 26, City West subdivision on August 2, Aggar Nagar on August 9, Sundar Nagar on August 16, and City Centre subdivision on August 23.Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association president Jaswinder Singh Thukral said, “The protests will continue until the PSPCL waives off the penalties imposed on the businessman. Due to Covid-19, the industry is already reeling under losses and is not able to pay these hefty fines.”Caught in traffic, commuters fumeThe arterial roads and narrow streets including Sham Singh Road, Gurdial Singh Road, Ashok Nagar witnessed heavy traffic jam. Commuters stuck in the jam were seen honking restlessly. Many even decided to walk in order to reach the destination.Surjit Singh, a commuter, said residents have to bear the brunt of many of these “politically motivated” protests.Anil Kumar, another commuter, said that due to the construction of a flyover on Ferozepur road, the city is already reeling under traffic jams. “These protests have added to our troubles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tough-day-for-ludhiana-residents-as-multiple-protests-erupt-in-city-101626121196886.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||MBA grad, aide arrested for cloning ATM cards in Mohali||The cyber cell and local police have arrested two men for fraudulent bank transactions after cloning ATM cards. ₹6.9 lakh in cash, a card skimming device, a micro camera, a laptop, two mobile phones and a smartwatch was recovered from the accused Savej Kumar and Rajiv Kumar, both residents of Jalandhar, Punjab.Rajiv is an MBA (finance) graduate from a Hisar university, while Savej holds a BCA degree from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.“By cloning ATM cards, they have duped around 100 people in Mohali. One more accused is at large,” said Gurjot Singh Kaler, superintendent of police (SP), cyber crime, Mohali, while addressing the media on Monday. Modus operandiKaler said the duo mostly targeted ATM kiosks without security guards. They would attach the skimming device and micro camera to old ATM machines. As unwary customers withdrew money, they would copy their card and PIN information. They would transfer this information to a new card and withdraw money from ATMs in Jalandhar, said the SP.“They are part of Telegram and WhatsApp groups run by similar fraudsters. They have been duping people since December. With their arrest, we have solved over 100 cyber complaints in Mohali area,” the official added.He said during interrogation, the accused also revealed the name of their third accomplice, Bimal Mehra, who will be arrested soon.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the Information Technology Act has been registered against the accused at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mba-grad-aide-arrested-for-cloning-atm-cards-in-mohali-101626121011398.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment of 7,416 cops: HC upholds SAD govt’s decision in 2016 to not hold interviews||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld the then Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government decision in 2016 to do away with the interviews for the recruitment of 7,416 cops in Punjab ahead of assembly polls in the state. The advertisement to recruit 7,416 constables in the district police and armed police cadre was put out on May 31, 2016. Over 200 petitions were filed challenging the recruitment on various grounds, including marking system, not holding interviews and not following reservation norms. The high court bench of justice Arun Monga upheld the government decision of not holding interviews, which could have impacted the entire selection as joining letters were issued on the condition that the same will be subject to the HC decision. Justice Monga observed that it is best left to the wisdom of the competent authorities to decide the educational qualifications and other requirements, including a decision for or against holding of interview carrying weightage and formulae to determine merit for selection to the posts, consistent with the nature and level of the job. “Considering the level and nature of job of a police constable, I find no justification for holding of interview cum-personality test and/or weightage of marks obtained therein to be kept as an essential requirement for selection,” justice Monga said. He further recorded that the interview-cum-personality test was dropped as a policy measure to bring more transparency and eliminate chances of subjective and erroneous assessment in awarding marks for the interview. “That apart, the decision had also the obvious merit of eliminating any possibility of the selection being influenced for extraneous considerations through any unethical, unscrupulous and unfair means,” he added. Justice Monga also said politicisation of recruitment in view of the then-forthcoming assembly elections in 2017, cuts at its own roots and goes against the petitions as it brought more transparency and eliminated chances of subjective and erroneous assessment. As of issue of wrong measurement of height in the case of some candidates, the high court has said that those petitioners who were aggrieved against the wrong measurement of their height would be given one chance for re-measurement of their height and they should approach authorities within 30 days. As of challenge laid to violation of reservation norms, the court separated such petitions and said that the issue will be decided separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recruitment-of-7-416-cops-hc-upholds-sad-govt-s-decision-in-2016-to-not-hold-interviews-101626121010203.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Long wait ends, monsoon finally drenches Chandigarh||With 21.5mm rain between 6.30pm and 11.30pm in the city, monsoon officially revived in the city on Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed.More rain is likely on Tuesday as well, but its intensity will be lower. After the day remained cloudy, showers arrived on Monday evening, causing the mercury to drop from 33°C at 5.30pm to 25.8°C at 8.30pm.Since its onset on June 13, monsoon had brought along only 128mm rain before Monday, 47% short of the 239.8mm rain considered normal.With Monday’s rain, the shortfall is down to 38%. Before this, July saw rain only on the third, when 12.2mm showers were recorded.IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “Monday’s rain was part of the monsoon movement strengthening and covering the region. Monsoon has now covered most parts of Punjab and Haryana.”Last year, 920.1mm rain was received in the monsoon period, higher than the average of 845.7mm. Against 302.6mm rain in July 2020, this year only 33.7mm rain has been recorded.Monsoon’s arrival on June 13 was the earliest since 2008, when also it was declared on June 13.Right after its onset was declared, the monsoon got subdued as a low pressure area that had formed over the Bay of Bengal dissipated and easterly winds stopped blowing in the region. Two heatwaves were also declared in the city during this duration, with maximum temperature crossing 40°C on June 30, July 1, and July 7, July 8.While IMD had predicted rain on July 9, July 10 and July 11, monsoon finally returned to the city on July 12. Even in June, after the monsoon was declared, it was said that rains will start after a few days, but the date was pushed forward eventually to July.On this, former director of Chandigarh IMD, Surender Paul, who is now IMD director in Shimla, said, “While IMD is going over the data to avoid such errors in the future, monsoon is also becoming erratic and even the lockdown had an effect on it, with air becoming much cleaner than previous years.”He added that the cyclonic activity before the monsoon as well as Western Disturbances had also made predictions harder. In the coming days, it is expected that dry spells like earlier won’t continue and the city will receive light to moderate rain as scattered showers are expected in the region. The spells won’t be daily, however maximum temperature is unlikely to cross 40°C again.Meanwhile, the city’s maximum temperature went down from 37.5°C on Sunday to 34.1°C, one degree below normal, on Monday. The minimum temperature went up from 26.7°C to 29.1°C, five notches abovenormal.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 34°C, and the minimum temperature will hover around 28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/long-wait-ends-monsoon-finally-drenches-chandigarh-101626120770682.html
13-07-2021||Delhi||IMD issues orange alert for Raj, J&K; yellow for many North Indian states||The India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir, and yellow alert for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh for Tuesday with warning of heavy rainfall. Red alert has been issued for Konkan and Goa, and central Maharashtra, while an orange alert warning has been issued for Gujarat, parts of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Assam, it said.The IMD has four colour-coded warnings based on the intensity of an extreme weather event and issues them in the ascending order of green, yellow, orange and red. The IMD said that yellow alert has been also issued for Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, parts of West Bengal and Kerala.After revival of the southwest Monsoon, on Sunday, several parts of the country have been experiencing heavy rainfall while some witnessed thunderstorms and lighting. The IMD said heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over Konkan and Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam and Meghalaya on Tuesday.Heavy rainfall is also expected over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Vidarbha in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Kerala and Mahe on Tuesday, the IMD said. Isolated places over Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, coast Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Yanam, and Telangana could witness thunderstorm and lighting, it added. On Sunday, flash flood triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots as bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Himachal Pradesh. At least 18 people died in Rajasthan and 10 in Uttar Pradesh, according to reports received on Sunday night, and the toll could go higher. Six people were also killed due to lightning in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-raj-j-k-yellow-for-many-north-indian-states-101626120469955.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||College unlock plan: Chandigarh admn starts vax camps for students||The education department started Covid vaccination camps at three city colleges for students and staff members from Monday. This includes Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), Sector 26, and Postgraduate Government College, Sector 46. The administration has proposed opening colleges in August with several riders in place. For both students and staff, at least a single dose of vaccine will be mandatory to attend classes.UT secretary education Sarpreet Singh Gill, said, “Students are more comfortable in an environment they are familiar with, which is why we started these camps. We will start a fourth if needed.” At CCET, around 90 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday. Principal Manpreet Singh Gujral, said, “We are planning to vaccinate maximum students at the earliest, so that colleges can be started in hybrid mode. We will run the camp for a week and continue after that if we get a good response.’At PGGC-46, around 200 beneficiaries registered till afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/college-unlock-plan-chandigarh-admn-starts-vax-camps-for-students-101626120412157.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong took funds from firms running thermal plants: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday accused the ruling Congress of not scrapping the faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed with private companies during the previous SAD-BJP government as it had received funds from them for the party. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann claimed that the Congress had taken ₹15.35 crore as party fund from the three private companies running power plants in the state. “This is the reason why the Congress has not cancelled power purchase deals,” he alleged at a press conference here. He also accused the Akali leaders of having financial stakes in power projects. Taking a dig at Congress leader and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s tweets on the controversial PPAs, the AAP leader asked him to put out a post on Twitter on the funds received by the Congress party from power companies. “He (Sidhu) has been tweeting a lot. Let’s see if he puts out a tweet on this or not,” he said. On the Delhi government’s petition in the Supreme Court seeking closure of thermal power plants causing air pollution, Mann said the AAP had moved the court, seeking upgrade of thermal power plants. “The guidelines in the plan of the central government for private power plants are clear on this, but the previous SAD-BJP government while signing agreements with power companies did not include these guidelines. It is necessary to upgrade the power plants to curb air and water pollution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-took-funds-from-firms-running-thermal-plants-aap-101626120229719.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||194-kg heroin seizure in Feb 2020: House owner’s interim bail cancelled||A local court on Monday quashed the interim bail granted to former member of Subordinate Service Selection Board (SSB) Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure of 194-kg heroin in Amritsar in February 2020. The special task force (STF) of the Punjab Police had recovered the contraband from a house rented out by Masih on the disclosure of one Sukhbir Singh alias Happy, who was arrested with 6-kg heroin in Mohali. With the raid on the house, the police had also arrested seven people, including Masih and an Afghanistan national. During the investigation, many more people were named in the case, including the racket’s kingpin Simranjit Singh alias Sandhu. The heroin was smuggled from Pakistan via a Gujarat port, the investigation had found. The Afghan national was helping the other accused in processing the contraband. “The accused would adulterate the heroin with other ingredients to increase its volume for more gains,” police had said, adding that besides heroin, suspected 38.2kg dextromethorphan powder, 25.9kg caffeine powder and a laboratory, along with six drums of chemicals, were recovered from the house. Masih had given his house on rent to the other accused. “Masih had filed a plea for regular bail on medical grounds in a local court around seven months ago. But, the court had granted him interim bail. On Monday, the court of additional district and sessions judge Pushpinder Singh cancelled the interim bail and instructed Masih to report to the jail in seven days,” said a senior STF official, who didn’t wish to be named. He said, “Masih was booked under section 25 of the NDPS Act. Our investigation had found that Masih was aware of accused drug smuggling while giving his house on rent for ₹80,000 per month. He had also not followed the law while renting out his house to the accused.” Deputy superintendent of police (DSP-STF) Vawinder Mahajan, who is investigating the case, confirmed the development, but refused to make any comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/194kg-heroin-seizure-in-feb-2020-house-owner-s-interim-bail-cancelled-101626120109688.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||OPD services in Mohali hit as doctors go on strike||Medical services remained affected in Mohali as government doctors went on a strike on Monday, opposing the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations of delinking non-practising allowance (NPA) from the basic pay.The decision to boycott health and veterinary services from July 12 to 14 was taken by the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC), which constitutes members of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) and is supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association.All OPD services, operation theatres, laboratories, blood banks, and X-ray departments remained closed throughout the day in all the government hospitals of the district, leaving patients in the lurch.Apart from the urban hospitals of Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi and Banur, there was a complete strike in the health centres of Boothgarh and Gharuan, where doctors and the health staff jointly organised protests.While addressing the media, Dr Manohar Singh, general secretary of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, criticised the state government’s decision to reduce the non-practising allowance of Punjab government doctors.He said, “State government is playing delaying tactics by not taking the matter seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opd-services-in-mohali-hit-as-doctors-go-on-strike-101626120050214.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flash floods hit Kathua, Samba, 1 dead in Rajouri||Rain drenched Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, triggering flash floods in some areas and bringing down temperatures.The rain and the mild cloudbursts triggered flash floods in a few areas of Jammu division and Kashmir valley’s Ganderbal district. The weather office said that Jammu district saw the highest rainfall (150mm) in the region in the past 24 hours till 8.30am, followed by 76mm in Katra and 28mm in Kashmir’s Khanbal.Flashfloods were reported across Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts. Several localities were marooned and a vital bridge was damaged disconnecting densely populated Gadigarh area in Jammu city. One person was killed when a retaining wall of Government Medical College collapsed on Sunday in Rajouri due to heavy rainfall. Nine families were evacuated from Kalka Colony of Jammu city after their houses were partially damaged in flashfloods. A police post in Gadigarh and government primary health centre and tubewell were also submerged. “In a major rescue operation in Jammu city, around nine families were shifted to safer areas when their houses were inundated at Kalka Colony,” said deputy commissioner, Jammu, Anshul Garg. Janipur, Domana, Gadigarh, Kalika Colony, Bhagwati Nagar, New Plot, Amphalla, and other places in Jammu City also reported waterlogging. However, the water level receded after rainfall subsided before noon. In Kathua district, three women at Shabe Chak were rescued from the flooded Ujh river by the Raj Bagh Police and SDRF teams in an operation. “In some of the areas, the water level had increased in low-lying areas and Ujh and Tarna Rivers had also crossed danger level. However, there was no loss of life,” said the deputy commissioner, Kathua, Rahul Yadav. Some people were rescued from the Ghati area by the SDRF. “Ten buffalos were also caught in a flash flood at Chabe-Chak and two mud houses were also damaged,” he said. Eleven people were rescued following flash floods in Kathua where heavy rains disrupted normal life and inundated several areas, officials said. People belonging to a nomadic community were stuck in flash floods in Ujh river in the Rajbagh area and were rescued by police and SDRF personnel, they said. The district administration in Kathua and Samba sounded a flood alert. Traffic movement was disrupted on the Pathankot-Jammu highway. (With inputs from Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flash-floods-hit-kathua-samba-1-dead-in-rajouri-101626119989688.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Municipal library in Ambala’s British-era building to get a makeover||Till 1949 there existed a rest house-cum-memorial named after the British Queen Victoria.Later, the then Punjab chief minister of the combined state, Dr Gopi Chand Bhargava, and the then district collector, MS Randhawa (ICS), had inaugurated the renovated heritage building converted into a public library on May 8, 1949, named after the tenth and final Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh.Now, the place nurtures thousands of dreams under its roof, where students come with ambitions to clear civil services or to settle abroad.On Monday, mayor Shakti Rani Sharma visited the library near the city railway station to inspect the problems faced by the students and staff. The building, maintained by the municipal corporation (MC), still preserves legacy with large doors, portrait paintings, high ceilings and other structures.Main motive to add more study tables: MayorSharma said that she will get the building renovated and that it urgently needed a whitewash, more tube-lights and a gardener. “We should be proud that such buildings exist and we have to maintain the legacy. I spoke to the students who apprised me of the problems that will be rectified at the earliest. The main motive is to add more study tables for students, so that social distancing is maintained,” the Haryana Jan Chetna Party leader said.Library staff said that on average, 150 students visit the place daily and spend most of the day studying here. The place opens from 9am to 9pm, and remains packed with students preparing for competitive exams.In a separate reading room dominated by elderly residents, newspapers in different languages are available; in another are available hundreds of books and magazines of different genres.The mayor said that almost a decade ago, when her husband Venod Sharma was a local MLA, she had tried to improve the place by adding a number of facilities. “An amphitheatre also exists behind the main hall. We’ll plan to organise theatre and cultural activities to restore the lost glory of this heritage building,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/municipal-library-in-ambala-s-british-era-building-to-get-a-makeover-101626119749723.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University governance reforms: YAD, SOI protest suggestions by high-level committee||Members of the Youth Akali Dal and Students Organisation of India (SOI) held a protest outside Panjab University (PU) vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office on Monday over the reforms in the governance structure of PU proposed by a high-level panel of experts.The panel was constituted by the vice-president of India and PU chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu and in its report, it suggested downsizing of senate and syndicate and that colleges situated in close proximity of PU in Mohali and Ropar may be affiliated to it, while colleges far away can be affiliated to other universities.The protesters raised slogans against the V-C and said that the democratic character of the senate and syndicate and PU’s territorial jurisdiction should not be tinkered with. They demanded that no college affiliated with the varsity in Punjab should be disaffiliated and also said that elections of the senate and syndicate should be held immediately.YAD president Parambans Singh Romana said, “We cannot afford to be silent. The high level committee, which does not include a single member of the senate or syndicate, had recommended limiting the territorial jurisdiction of the university due to which colleges in Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur and Moga districts, can be disaffiliated.”SOI leader and former president of Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC) Chetan Chaudhary, said, “PU is a part of our heritage and culture and its structure should not be changed.”AAP opposes changes in democratic structureSenior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and the leader of opposition in Punjab legislative assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, on Monday said that the party firmly opposed the move to destroy the democratic structure of Panjab University (PU).Addressing the media at the party headquarters on Monday, Cheema said that PU was one of the oldest universities of the country, and that every possible struggle would be fought by them to save the heritage of Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-governance-reforms-yad-soi-protest-suggestions-by-high-level-committee-101626119694408.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran police bid adieu to sniffer dog Victor with gun salute||The Tarn Taran police on Sunday bid an emotional adieu with three gun salutes to their sniffer dog Victor, a trusted friend who performed various sensitive duties during his seven-and-a-half-year service in the force. Eight-and-a-half-year-old Victor was brought by the border district’s police after he completed his one-year-long training from Maharaja Ranjit Singh Police Academy in Phillaur. While Tarn Taran police remember Victor, a white Labrador, for helping in solving many sensational crimes, his handler knows him as an aggressive, possessive but playful dog. Victor was laid to rest at Tarn Taran Police Lines with full honours. A team of Punjab Police comprising superintendent of police (SP-headquarter) Gurnam Singh and deputy superintendent of police (DSP-headquarter) Dilbag Singh were present at the time of the funeral. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale shared a video of the funeral on his Facebook and Twitter accounts saying: “Your contributions to Punjab Police have been immense and tremendous. Yesterday late night, we lost #Victor, our Sniffer Explosives Dog due to aging illness. Victor had performed various sensitive duties with Tarn Taran police in huge public gatherings including VVIP functions. And it was his extraordinary skills, No terrorist activities took place during his times (sic).” As a respect and gratitude to our fallen K-9 officer, we performed his last rites with full funerary honours with ‘Salaami’ in presence of Gazetted officers! It is painful but Goodbye, my friend! Salute to your services.” Talking to HT, Nimbale said, “We had been relying on Victor during our VVIP duties. Victor had more sensing powers then our technical teams. During Victor’s tenure, no untoward incident had happened in any VVIP duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-police-bid-adieu-to-sniffer-dog-victor-with-gun-salute-101626119690509.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Couple held with pistols used to home-deliver weapons: Chandigarh Police||The couple that was arrested for supplying arms to gangsters used to provide home delivery of weapons after striking deals on social media platforms like Facebook, the police said on Monday.On July 11, the operations cell of Chandigarh Police had arrested Heena and her husband Rahul, alias Shabu, both 24-year-old and from Sector 25, with two country-made pistols and 10 live cartridges. The couple is under a five-day police remand. The police had arrested them when they were on their way to supply weapons.“They used to bring weapons and deliver them to mostly houses, sometimes hotels or any place of convenience of the customers,” said a senior police officer, not willing to be named.As per the police, Rahul has two cases of rioting registered against him. No criminal case against Heena has been found to be registered prior to being arrested on Sunday. A case under the Arms Act was registered against the couple.Used social media to get in touch with buyers Police said that Rahul used to get in touch with gangsters and their gang members through Facebook. The deal was done online and then they used to deliver weapons at the agreed rate.“The accused were not only supplying weapons to gangsters but even small-time criminals and people looking for illegal arms. They used social media to strike deals,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP).He added, “Rahul’s wife accompanied him for deliveries to dodge checking by the police.”Weapons were brought in from UP, MPRahul used to bring the weapons from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, to be supplied further in Chandigarh and areas nearby.The couple used to purchase the weapon for about ₹15,000 and then sell it for any price ranging between ₹25,000 to ₹30,000 depending on the weapon.Bansal said, “Though the couple has been into supplying weapons for a long time, they had never been arrested before.”Meanwhile, on the couple’s disclosure, the police arrested one Naveen with a country-made pistol. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-held-with-pistols-used-to-home-deliver-weapons-chandigarh-police-101626119629637.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s real estate flourishing, ₹233 crore collected as stamp duty||Despite the pandemic, the real estate sector in Mohali district witnessed a major boost as the revenue department collected ₹233 crore in stamp duty between April and June against the target of ₹232 crore. Stamp duty is collected on registration of properties. Mohali city had the highest collection of ₹114.99 crore in the first quarter of the 2021-22 fiscal, against the target of ₹112.83 crore ( ₹37.61 crore per month). Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that for the 2020-21 fiscal, the revenue department had collected ₹895 crore in stamp duty, which was the highest in the state. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Komal Aggarwal said, “We have already achieved 101.91% of the target despite the slump in the real estate sector. We are poised to achieve the target well before the fiscal ends.” In April this year, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) saw nearly 25 % of its properties, both commercial and institutional sites, finding buyers via e-auction. As many as 11 of the 44 sites on auction were sold and the authority earned ₹301 crore against the total reserve price of ₹452 crore. In the auction held in February, GMADA earned ₹544 crore against ₹794 crore and in December last year, only 10 of 78 properties were sold for ₹134 crore. Paras Mahajan, director of Landchester Group, Mohali, said the maximum boost for real estate, which picked up in past few months, came from Aerocity and New Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-real-estate-flourishing-233-crore-collected-as-stamp-duty-101626119571481.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLA Raja Warring opens another front against Manpreet||Two-time Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday demanded disciplinary action against Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal for favouring the Akali leaders over the Congressmen. Warring tagged former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Twitter, urging him to take note of Manpreet’s anti-party activities and demanded his removal from the state cabinet. Endorsing Warring’s political outburst against Manpreet who represents Bathinda assembly segment, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Kulbir Singh Zira re-tweeted the post. Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Randhawa also retweeted to state “Congress can never have any understanding with Akali Dal which has destroyed Punjab from roots. Still, if there is any perception, it should be broken (sic)”. For the last one month, Warring has been taking potshots at his political bete noire Manpreet whom he had defeated in 2012 from Gidderbaha that was earlier a bastion of the Badal family. To buttress his accusation of ignoring Congress workers, Warring on Monday posted photos on his Twitter and Facebook pages of a Youth Akali leader Charanjit Singh Lohara receiving a cheque for some development work from Manpreet. Lohara’s photographs with Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former minister Bikramjit Singh Majithia were also posted by Warring to back his claim. Warring said Lohara is an active Akali leader in Gidderbaha segment and FM’s act gives a wrong message to the Congress cadre. SAD’s in-charge of the Gidderbaha segment Hardeep Dhillon Dimpy said Lohara is among the most active Akali members of the constituency. “It is ridiculous that Manpreet or any other Congress minister has favoured Akali workers. Warring is dragging Charanjit’s name for his political benefits,” said Dhillon. In his social media posts, Gidderbaha MLA stated Manpreet gained entry into the Congress party (ahead of the last assembly polls) under a political conspiracy. Warring cautioned Congress leaders and workers against Manpreet’s anti-party political designs. “Even after joining the Congress, Manpreet Badal still has a soft corner for his former party, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Congress accorded due space to Badal but he is backstabbing the same party by being soft to the Akali leadership,” he stated on social media. Later, Warring said he has apprised chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the state party president Sunil Jakhar that Manpreet is interfering in Gidderbaha to weaken him. “While paying tributes to his maternal uncle, Manpreet Badal on July 4 announced a grant of ₹30 lakh for Mandhir to lay sewer pipes in the village. Mandhir falls in my constituency and the development work was announced on the demand of Akali workers. Congress workers are demoralised as the development works demanded by the area MLA is ignored and Akali activists get heard easily,” he said. Manpreet refuses to comment Manpreet Badal’s media coordinator Harjit Sidhu said the minister has refused to offer any comment on charges levelled by Warring. Lohara said being president of the urban estate welfare society, Phase-4 in Bathinda city, he had received a grant of ₹10 lakh from the minister for the development works in the colony. Lohara’s photograph with Manpreet that Warring had shared were taken recently in Bathinda, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mla-raja-warring-opens-another-front-against-manpreet-101626119509608.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||NIA arrests 3 IS members in Kashmir valley||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday said they had arrested three people affiliated with the Islamic State from south Kashmir who were allegedly using the cyber space to spread propaganda through the online magazine “The Voice of Hind(VOH).”The agency identified them as Umar Nisar, Tanveer Ahmad Bhat and Rameez Ahmad Lone, all residents of Achabal in Anantnag district.In a statement the NIA said a large number of ‘incriminating documents, multiple digital devices and T-shirts with ISIS logo’ had been recovered from their possesion.“Preliminary examination of the seized material and examination of the accused persons revealed that they are active cadres of ISIS and have been using the cyberspace to propagate inciting material by the online magazine –VOH,” it said. After examination of the trio the agency said it led to more searches at two places in Anantnag on Monday. “A number of digital devices and other materials have been seized,” it said.On Sunday, the NIA conducted multiple raids in Kashmir’s Anantnag district and Srinagar districts in connection with the alleged conspiracy to spread the Islamic State (IS) propaganda through its online magazine ‘The Voice of Hind’, the agency said.“In order to execute its nefarious plan, an organised campaign has been launched over the cyber space which is supplemented by on ground terror financing activities... In this connection, an India-Centric online propaganda magazine ‘the Voice of Hind’ ( VOH) is published on monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalize impressionable youth by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred,” the NIA had said.There were also reports of the agency raiding a religious seminary in Srinagar’s Old City, following which its head was detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-arrests-3-is-members-in-kashmir-valley-101626119389963.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rajpura hostage drama: BJP protests outside CM house, Capt assures action||The Punjab BJP on Monday held a dharna in front of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s official residence against the brutal attack on its workers by farmers in Rajpura. The delegation led by state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma later met the chief minister and brought to his notice the frequent attacks on BJP leaders by members of some farmer unions, demanding strict action against such “miscreants”. Initially, the delegation had announced to stage dharna in front of Punjab DGP’s office, but changed the plan later. During their meeting with the chief minister, the BJP leaders blamed that in the past one year, the BJP workers and leaders were being harassed and intimidated by “miscreants” who had political protection. “The police are playing a mute role. We have gone and met the SSPs of the districts concerned where such ugly incidents had taken place, but not a single arrest was made,” said the state BJP chief. Sharma also asked the chief minister to withdraw security of all BJP leaders if the party workers have to face harassment at the hands of “miscreants who call themselves farmers”. Sharma said the chief minister promised that he will personally look into the matter and even talked to DGP Dinkar Gupta with directions to ensure strict action in all cases of attack on political (BJP) functionaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajpura-hostage-drama-bjp-protests-outside-cm-house-capt-assures-action-101626119329651.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||The Kolhapur paradox: District with highest daily caseload has the most 45+ vaccinations||Experts are mulling over the curious case of Maharashtra’s Kolhapur district, which has vaccinated the most number of people in the age group of 45 and above among the state’s 36 districts, but is still registering the highest daily caseload in the state for the past three weeks. Kolhapur has administered 1.47 million vaccine doses to date. Of these, nearly 400,000 people have got both the doses or are fully vaccinated. According to data of the state public health department on July 4, Kolhapur ranked first in vaccination coverage of the 45+ population with nearly 70% having received at least one dose. In contrast, only 1.6% of the age group of 18 to 44 years had received at least one dose – the lowest in the state. This has led experts to conjecture that Kolhapur’s surge is being driven by the unvaccinated, active, younger population. “The younger population in Kolhapur is the most vulnerable and the infections are higher among them,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “There is also a lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate protocol and a need to strengthen the contact tracing and containment measures in the district,” he said. “Crowd management has been a problem in the district, particularly in market areas. People are also not following strict home quarantine norms leading to entire families testing positive. For instance, recently a 24-year-old tested positive and was asymptomatic but eventually, all 11 members of his family also turned positive,” a local health official said. According to state officials, the epidemic curve in Kolhapur also looked different compared to other districts. While most districts began to record a surge between February and March, Kolhapur’s surge began in April. For instance, when most districts had started recording cases in hundreds in March 2021, Kolhapur’s daily caseload hovered between 20 and 60. On April 7, the district recorded 233 cases, which steadily increased -- 393 cases on April 15 and 1,012 cases on April 30. On Monday, the district recorded 1,947 new cases; it currently has over 11,794 active cases, the second highest in the state after Pune (16,925). “Due to the late surge, the peak in the district came later too,” said Kolhapur’s district health officer Dr Yogesh Sale. To be sure, the number of tests in the district has also gone up. In May, the district was carrying out an average of 3,000 tests daily. The testing numbers now are between 15,000 and 18,000 daily. Nearly 60% of these tests are RT-PCR. “Our positivity rate has now come down to 10% compared to 15% to 17% in the past few weeks,” said Dr Anil Mali, the civil surgeon in the district. A declining positivity rate indicates that the spread of the disease is stabilising. However, a test positivity rate of less than 5% alone means that the pandemic is under control. The district administration will also send 100 samples to Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in Delhi, part of the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG), which was set up in December 2020 to monitor genomic variations of the Covid-19 causing coronavirus. The results of the 286 samples sent by the district authorities in May and June are yet to come. According to data released by the Union health ministry last month, the Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 was a major contributor to the second wave of infections that peaked in April and May. The new Delta plus variant (AY 1) has been detected in the samples from 10 states already, including Maharashtra, and experts said that it is also highly transmissible especially among vulnerable groups (unmasked and unvaccinated). “We randomly select samples from the pool of samples received for testing, extract RNA and send it to IGIB for genome sequencing,” said Dr Smita Deshpande, the nodal officer for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) testing in the district. “We have not been informed about any variants as yet.” According to Joshi, the Delta variant that is predominantly in circulation in Maharashtra is likely the main variant in Kolhapur too. “The Delta variant is the more concerning strain, fittest to survive and spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-kolhapur-paradox-district-with-highest-daily-caseload-has-the-most-45-vaccinations-101626118849129.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination scam fallout: civic bodies tighten SOPs, housing societies turn more vigilant||The vaccination which came to light last month, in which over 4000 people were administered saline water in fake vaccination drives across the city, has left many residents of high rise housing societies wary even as civic bodies have issued new guidelines to ensure greater vigilance. Housing society members of Royal Heights in Vartak Nagar, Thane, are exercising extreme vigilance before conducting a vaccination drive. “There were multiple questions on the authenticity of the vaccine raised by our residents as a result of the vaccination scam. So we have to ensure that we are dealing with reliable people to provide the vaccine doses. We are in touch with the civic body and hospitals,” said Anand Rao, chairman of the housing society. The society, which is in touch with a private hospital for conducting the drive, sought confirmation from the Thane Municipal Corporation that it was a valid vaccine provider. The TMC’s protocol, prepared on July 8 states that any society or private establishment that conducts a vaccination drive needs to inform the civic body. “If any private vaccination drive is being organized within Thane city we find out about those providing vaccine doses. We also send a team of officials to check the details and formalities related to the drive this includes the authenticity of the vaccine doses. Only after all this is checked do we give a go ahead to any private vaccination drive,” said Dr Amol Gitte, incharge of the private vaccination facility within TMC jurisdiction. A similar approach is being followed by Mumbai’s ward officers. “We have mandated that the private vaccination centres should inform the ward office before organising the drive. Our doctors and field staff visit the location before the arrangements for the vaccination drive are made,” Dr Nitish Thakur, a medical officer in P-South ward said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s first set of guidelines for private vaccination centres and housing societies were issued on May 7. On June 14, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal issued a second circular reiterating the requirements including the need for a Memorandum of Understanding between the housing society and the private vaccination centre or hospital providing the vaccines. On July 1, the civic body circulated a revised set of guidelines that said that the ward’s medical officer and police should be intimated prior to the vaccination drive. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC said that the new guidelines direct housing society committees to demand copies of bills and receipts of purchase of vaccine from the private centres. Housing societies have also been asked to destroy the labels on the vaccine vials to prevent misuse. Ajitkumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner of N Ward said that two queries were registered in the ward, which includes Ghatkopar, in the past few weeks. “Our medical officers and other field staff immediately visited the spot to verify. Because of the widespread news about the scams, the housing society members are now more alert while negotiating with private centres,” he said. The medical officer and field staff did not find any discrepancies and the vaccination drives were carried out thereafter. Mumbai has administered over 6 million doses so far, of which nearly 2.5 million doses have been administered at private vaccination centres. In Thane, of the 600,000 vaccinations that have taken place till date, 180,000 have been at private vaccination centres. Last month, residents of Hiranandani Heritage in Kandivli complained to the authorities about a suspicious vaccination drive held in their housing society on May 30 and June 1. Some of the 390 residents who were vaccinated received certificates from different hospitals, and with the wrong date. It emerged that they were victims of an elaborate scam, allegedly masterminded by Dr Shivraj Pataria, wife Neeta – who run Shivam Hospital in Charkop -- and associate Dr Manish Tripathi, who runs a training centre for medical staff in its premises. At least 14 people have been booked. The BMC on Monday said that it sought guidelines from both the state and the Centre on vaccinating the victims of the scam. Officials said that the police investigation revealed that none of the victims received genuine vaccine doses and remained vulnerable to the pandemic. “To vaccinate them we will need a set of guidelines from the state or central government. Many of the victims also have been issued certificates. These certificates will have to be nullified and fresh certificates will have to be issued after genuine vaccination,” Gomare said.This comes in the backdrop of reports about a resident of Hiranandani Park in Kandivali where the vaccination scam was first reported testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-scam-fallout-civic-bodies-tighten-sops-housing-societies-turn-more-vigilant-101626118789037.html
13-07-2021||Other||Petrol price crosses ₹107-mark in Mumbai||The price of petrol crossed ₹107 in Mumbai on Monday and reached ₹107.20 per litre. Diesel price did not witness a surge and remained stable at ₹97.29.On Sunday, the price of one-litre petrol was at ₹106.93.Fuel prices in the city have been on an increase since May 3, with petrol crossing the ₹100-mark in Mumbai on May 29.In Maharashtra, Parbhani had the costliest petrol on Monday at ₹109.50.At Thane, petrol was priced at ₹107.32 after a surged of 27 paise. Transporters have stated that the rising fuel prices are having an effect on the rates of essential commodities. They have urged the government to reduce the excise duty and value added tax (VAT) on fuel prices.“There is a dire need to provide immediate relief to the transport sector which is on the verge of a collapse. The situation is getting worse by the day due to low demand and the rising fuel prices, and ever-rising operating costs. The rising fuel prices also have a cascading effect on the prices of commodities and inflation is at an all-time high. Even the oil companies have suggested that the government reduce excise duty to provide relief to citizens as well as cut down on inflation in the country, but it seems that the arrogance is at an all-time high,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-price-crosses-107-mark-in-mumbai-101626118729004.html
13-07-2021||Other||Pune woman killed after car hits trailer on expressway||A 30-year-old woman from Pune died after her car rammed into a stationary trailer on Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Monday. Her husband, who was at the wheel, also suffered injuries and is admitted to a private hospital. According to the police, Prasanna Falak, 38, and his wife Karuna were on their way to Mumbai in their car. As they were crossing Kon village near Panvel around 10 am, their car crashed into the trailer. “The trailer had developed some technical glitches and hence, the driver parked it on the side of the road and was repairing it. Prima facie, it appears that Falak lost control of his car and then it rammed into the trailer. The couple suffered severe injuries in the accident and was rushed to a hospital. However, his wife succumbed to her injuries after some time. Falak is still under observation at the hospital,” said a police officer. “We don’t know the purpose of the travel and where the couple was headed to. We have contacted their family and are now trying to get those details,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-woman-killed-after-car-hits-trailer-on-expressway-101626118669758.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||NEET-UG schedule out: Exam on September 12, registration starts from Tuesday||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for undergraduate medical aspirants (NEET-UG) will be conducted across the country on September 12. The Union health minister made the announcement on Monday, days after the National Testing Agency (NTA) declared dates for Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) Mains and Advanced for engineering aspirants.“NEET-UG 2021 will be held on 12th September, 2021 across the country following Covid-19 protocols. The application process will begin from 5pm on July 13 through the NTA website,” education minister Dharmendra Pradhan posted on Twitter.The announcement has calmed lakhs of medical aspirants who were clueless about the entrance exam for some months now. “With no exam dates in place, we were getting frustrated because we’ve been preparing for this test for couple of years. We are glad the exam date has been announced and registrations will begin soon,” said Navjyot Ahuja, an MBBS aspirant.Recently, the National Medical Commission (NMC) released a circular stating rescheduling of dates for examinations for the current and next academic years. While a previous circular had mentioned that exams for the 2021-22 batch will take place in August 2022, the latest circular stated that these exams will be rescheduled, hinting at a delayed examination season due to the delay in the start of the current academic year.“The schedule announced earlier on the website is not applicable anymore. Rescheduled dates will be announced soon,” stated the latest circular. Approval for new institutes as well as courses for 2022-23 has also been delayed, said NMC.Even with exam dates announced, students and parents are still worried that this delay in conducting exams will lead to delay in admissions as well. “This year, admission is likely to follow last year’s schedule and cut-off dates. Year after year admissions are eating into the academic calendar and this is a worrying trend,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of a medical student.Admissions to most professional courses was delayed by a few months in 2020 due to Covid restrictions and admissions to UG medical and dental colleges went on till January and February 2021, respectively. Students as well as institutes have shared concerns about this delay leading to a shorter academic year, which leaves students at a loss. While NEET-UG dates were delayed due to delay in Class 12 results, NEET-PG (postgraduate) aspirants are still waiting for their exam dates after it was postponed due to rising Covid cases in the second wave of the pandemic.Students still have queries and doubts about the admission process, which they hope will be cleared by NTA soon. “If the exam is held in September and results are out by October, medical institutes will end up conducting admissions till the end of this year. We hope NTA as well as state admissions authority share the admissions schedule soon as well,” said Anindita Chakraborty, another NEET-UG aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neetug-schedule-out-exam-on-september-12-registration-starts-from-tuesday-101626118669047.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination awareness in rural Maharashtra: From art, street plays to priests||Even though Maharashtra has vaccinated more than 36 million people— the highest in the country, the state’s hinterlands are far behind when it comes to immunisation. To encourage people to get the jab, local public health authorities are employing creative ideas to spread awareness through wall graffiti and street plays. In fact, some districts are inoculating hakims (physicians who use traditional remedies) and pujaris (priests) in a bid to gain people’s trust about the efficiency of Covid-19 vaccines. Viswanath Koli, 62, a local activist, was one of the first beneficiaries from Govindpur, a village in Gadchiroli district, to get fully immunised in June. In April, when he took the first shot, he developed a fever with body pain which is common after any immunisation. Though he recovered within two days, fake news had started spreading among the villagers that he contracted Covid-19 post vaccination. “During vaccination, the nurse had warned me of such minor side effects. But people started spreading false information about my health. After I recovered, I had to inform the sarpanch (village head) who then made an announcement in the village about providing correct information,” he said. Govindpur has a population of around 1,200 people with a literacy rate of 72.23%, as per 2011 Census. But so far, only 71 villagers have been fully vaccinated. The situation is similar in most districts, significantly affecting the mass immunisation programme which is already suffering due to shortages of doses. Districts like Hingoli, Palghar, Nandurbar, Parbhani, Jalgaon and Gadchiroli have recorded less than 5% full vaccination among its residents. An analysis of the data provided by the state health department shows Hingoli, where 84.82% of the population live in rural areas, has recorded only 3.4% full vaccination. Nandurbar which has 83.29% population in villages has been able to fully vaccinate only 4%. Parbhani with 63.2% population in rural areas has fully immunised only 4.9% of its people. Jalgaon and Gadchiroli with 68% and 89% population in rural areas recorded 4.1% and 4.4% full immunisation, respectively. Similarly, Palghar has provided both jabs to only 3.78% of the residents.“In Maharashtra, almost 55% of the population consist of rural people. To gain success in the ongoing mass immunisation programme, it is imperative to attain at least 70% full vaccination among rural districts. For that, there is a need to start door-to-door awareness programmes,” said Dr Ravikant Singh from Doctors for You, an NGO that works in rural Maharashtra. Districts use art and ‘village docs’ Saraswati Vijay Gaikwad is one of the many health volunteers from Bori Shikari, a village in Hingoli, who has been given the responsibility to arrange for local artists to paint graffiti on walls with messages on vaccination. “Most hospitals have already posted paintings which emphasise the importance of vaccination. Now, we have been instructed to paint nearby walls with graffiti to sensitise people about vaccination,” said Gaikwad. She is also assisting ASHA and Anganwadi workers with door-to-door awareness drive.In addition, public health officers are trying to raise awareness among people through street plays. Some districts like Gadchiroli and Hingoli are also organising puppet shows. “Villagers often get scared when volunteers go to their houses. Presuming they will be forcefully inoculated, they often run away or do not open the door. So, we have decided to hold street plays in villages which help spread the information to a large audience,” said Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi, Palghar district health officer.Officers said villagers have the false belief that vaccination will kill them due to the spread of false information on social media platforms. To help villagers overcome their fear, district health officers are requesting local ‘doctors’ like hakims and pujaris to take the vaccine to motivate the people around them.Gadchiroli district health officer Dr Shashikant Shambarkar said once they vaccinate local hakims and pujaris, villagers follow suit. “The villagers strongly trust pujaris and hakims. So, it is essential that we vaccinate them first. We are reaching out to small hamlets like Dewada and Korkuti,” he said. “Local politicians who have good popularity need to come forward and need to raise awareness through door to door visits, just like the way they do during elections campaigns,” said Dr Singh.Medical teams are also being sent to the Maoist hotbed of Abhujamadh along the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-awareness-in-rural-maharashtra-from-art-street-plays-to-priests-101626118609024.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 7,603 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 7,603 Covid-19 new cases. Although the state inoculated 490,283 people on Monday, it has almost run out of stock. “We are working below our capacity. It is literally a hand-to-mouth situation,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. Maharashtra has been claiming it has the capacity to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily. Tope further said 700,000 doses were received three days ago and would be almost exhausted by Monday evening.Maharashtra has administered 37,017,471 vaccine doses so far. The Assembly passed a resolution demanding 30 million doses per month to vaccinate maximum population within the next three months. Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital at Byculla, said, “Vaccines tend to reduce the rate of infection which means mild symptoms. This will ultimately translate to less stress on the medical infrastructure and also significantly reduce the mortality rate.”Mumbai on Monday recorded 496 new cases along with nine deaths, with its toll reaching 15,636. The total number of Covid-19 patients has now reached 6,165,402 of which Mumbai’s share is 728,190. A total of 175,899 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 15,277. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 108,343, while the toll has now reached 126,024. Currently, there are 108,343 active patients across the state. The death toll has now reached 126,024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-7-603-new-covid-cases-101626118549046.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||BYL Nair Hospital starts clinical trial of Zydus Cadila’s Covid vax on those aged between 12 and 17||BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central has become the first civic-run hospital to start the phase 3 clinical trial of indigenous vaccine ZyCoV-D on children in the city. A total of 50 children between the age 12 and 17 will be enrolled for the trial. Half of the volunteers will be given placebo, a false replica of the vaccine. Ahmedabad-based drug maker Zydus Cadila has manufactured ZyCoV-D — a plasmid DNA vaccine, which is the first-of-its-kind that uses a genetically engineered DNA molecule known as a plasmid which is coded to generate spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It elicits an immune response against it and develops antibodies. On July 1, in a statement, the manufacturer declared that they have recorded 66.6% primary efficacy in their interim analysis.The primary objective of the clinical trial reads, “To demonstrate the efficiency of ZyCoV-D in the prevention of virologically-confirmed symptomatic Covid-19 cases as compared to placebo.”The enrolment of volunteers has begun at the hospital. “The volunteers have to be healthy, without severe comorbidities. We are looking to select children with educated parents as they will have to maintain a diary of daily health updates and submit to the hospital for consultation,” said a senior doctor. Along with written consent, audio-visual consent will also be taken from the parents of the children. “The parents will also have to agree that during the course of the trial, they would not get their children vaccinated,” said the doctor. As part of the trial, three doses will be administered to the volunteers. After the first dose, the second and third dose will be given after a gap of 28 and 56 days.“In the second wave, we have seen that a large number of children contracted Covid-19 infection. If this vaccine proves to be effective among children then it will be a great relief for parents, since there is no vaccine available in the market for children as of yet,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. “As seen in BMC’s sero survey, almost 50% surveyed children had antibodies, which indicates that a large number of children had contracted Covid-19 but remained undiagnosed. Hence, there is a need for a vaccine for children especially when cities are planning to open schools. This can save children from not only getting infected and but will also prevent the infection from being transmitted among the elderly population in their families,” said Dr Bela Verma, paediatrician from Sir JJ Hospital.ZyCoV-D is an intradermal vaccine, applied using a needle-free injector. Zydus claims that the needle-free system can lead to a significant reduction in side effects. “The plug-and-play technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based is ideally suited for dealing with Covid-19 as it can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring,” reads the statement. The vaccine can be stored at a temperature between two and eight degrees Celsius, and has shown good stability at 25 degrees Celsius for at least three months. The manufacturer has recently applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of the vaccine. Once Zydus receives approval, ZyCoV-D would become the fifth anti-Covid vaccine authorised for use in India, after Covishield, indigenous Covaxin, Sputnik V and Moderna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byl-nair-hospital-starts-clinical-trial-of-zydus-cadila-s-covid-vax-on-those-aged-between-12-and-17-101626118429575.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Antibody cocktail shows promise: Analysis by SevenHills Hospital doctors||The experimental monoclonal antibody cocktail, which was administered to former United States President Donald Trump, has shown good results in 199 Covid-19 patients admitted to civic-run SevenHills Hospital. Persistent fever in patients resolved within 48 hours and there was an overall reduction in days of hospitalisation, doctors have observed. The cocktail drug used at SevenHills Hospital included two monoclonal antibodies — Casirivimab and Imdevimab. Monoclonal antibodies are artificial antibodies injected into a patient to mimic the action of the natural antibodies. So far, 212 patients at SevenHills Hospital have received the cocktail drug, but doctors have analysed the data of only 199 patients. “We did not record any mortality in the 199 patients that were studied, and their recovery was quicker,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, an officer on special duty at the hospital. “We currently have the drug for nearly 700 patients. Our analysis will continue as we administer it to more patients,” he said. The patients who received the drug were aged between 18 and 94 years. At least 74 patients had one or more comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease among others. At the time of administering the cocktail drug, 179 patients had persistent fever, 158 had a cough with or without fever, and four patients required oxygen support. All the patients were categorised as mild to moderate. The analysis, conducted over the past four weeks, by the team of doctors further states that the average hospitalisation period for such patients is around 13 to 14 days while for those who received the antibody cocktail, it came down to five to six days. While the patients were fit for discharge, they were kept in the hospital for monitoring. Only one patient’s condition deteriorated and required oxygen support.“It is crucial to use the drug at the right time,” said infectious disease expert Dr Vasant Nagvekar, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. He has administered the cocktail drug to nearly 20 patients so far. “The drug has shown promising results in all patients. I have not seen any adverse effects so far,” he said. The drug comes in a pack of two vials containing monoclonal antibodies. One vial can be used for two patients. “The cost of the drug is around ₹1.2 lakh, but we use it in pairs so the cost for each patient is around ₹60,000,” said Nagvekar. The civic body has procured the drug through an initiative by the National Health Mission and is administering it to patients free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antibody-cocktail-shows-promise-analysis-by-sevenhills-hospital-doctors-101626118429024.html
13-07-2021||Other||Centre earned ₹25 lakh-crore from taxes on fuel: Mallikarjun Kharge||Alleging that the Central government has earned ₹25 lakh crore from taxes and duties on fuel, senior Congress leader and the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said that Narendra Modi failed to keep the poll promises he had made before becoming the Prime Minister (PM). Kharge said that Congress would corner the Modi government over inflation in the monsoon session of the Parliament, slated to from July 19.Kharge said that his party has been fighting the battle against inflation on roads, but it will now take it to the floor of both the Houses during the monsoon session.Kharge said that the Modi government increased fuel rates 326 times during his tenure as PM, even as the past two months have seen 38 price revisions. “During the Manmohan Singh government till 2014, the Central taxes on fuel were just 9.48%, which had not gone beyond ₹32.90 per litre. Despite the crude oil price being $111 per barrel, the price of petrol was ₹71 per litre as compared to today’s rate of ₹107, though the crude oil price in the international market is $44 per barrel. The Modi government has amassed ₹25 lakh crore in the past seven years. Similarly, the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) subsidy has come to zero when the price per cylinder is ₹834. Modi had said that the direct benefit transfer system will save ₹15,000 crore a year. We want to ask the Centre why the amount saved through it is not being spent on the citizens,” he asked.Kharge also said that the rates of pulses have increased by 12.72% as compared to last year. Citizens are directly hit because of the inflation and even farmers are not benefited from it, he said. “The Singh government could push 27.1 crore citizens above poverty line. But the Modi government’s tenure has resulted in 23 crore people slipping below the poverty line. Around 133,000 people lost their jobs over the past one year, while the per capita income has dropped by ₹10,000 in just one year,” he said.BJP spokesperson Vishwas Pathak said, “The Congress-led governments in the past use to play trick by asking the oil companies raise the money through oil bonds to keep the oil prices in control. Modi government had to shoulder the responsibility to repayment of the oil bonds raised by the previous government. Similarly, the Modi government did no increase direct taxes and reduce indirect taxes to 16% from previous rate of 23%. By introducing GST, the government could raise the budget size to ₹34 lakh crore from ₹14 lakh crore seven years ago. If the Congress wants the fuel prices in Maharashtra to reduce, it can ask its government to remove the state taxes which are a third of the selling price. The Central taxes are equal to one third of the selling price and of that too, 40% is given to states through devolution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-earned-25-lakh-crore-from-taxes-on-fuel-mallikarjun-kharge-101626118368955.html
13-07-2021||Other||Cooperation ministry: Amit Shah is not above law, says NCP||A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said that the creation of the new Union cooperation ministry would have an adverse impact on Maharashtra’s cooperative sector, his party on Monday said that no one is above the law be it cooperation minister Amit Shah or anyone else and any attempt to destroy the sector will be opposed by them.From the formation of the cooperation ministry and Shah –the Union home minister – assuming its charge, there are apprehensions in the state’s ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition that the cooperative sector in the state may turn into a new battleground between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the NCP-Congress, with the former trying to end the monopoly of the two parties in the sector. Maharashtra has a strong network of cooperative bodies, which also forms a significant support base for NCP and Congress.NCP’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that BJP leaders are making irresponsible statements as Shah was given the responsibility of the cooperation ministry.“Since Shah took charge of the ministry, a few BJP leaders have been making statements; some of them are even threatening that the leaders and bodies working in the cooperative sector would be in trouble. We would like to tell them that it is a state subject and only multistate cooperative bodies come under the purview of the Centre,” Malik said during a media interaction held on Monday at NCP headquarters.“We also want to inform BJP leaders that no one is above the law, be it Shah or anyone else. It is untrue that if a person becomes a minister then they get all the powers. We want BJP leaders to make comments responsibly,” he added.Malik said the cooperative sector was given the maximum autonomy by bringing the 97th Amendment in the Constitution, when Pawar was the agriculture minister.“The 97th Amendment was made to restrict all types of political and government interferences, and maximum autonomy was provided to the cooperation sector. Moreover, five years’ tenure of an elected body, election process, board of directors etc. everything was clearly defined. Not only this, an election body on the lines of the Election Commission of India (ECI) was also set up for impartial polls. Now if someone wants to strengthen the sector, NCP will support them. But if someone wants to destroy it, then we all will rise against them,” the NCP leader said.Speaking to reporters at Baramati on Sunday, Pawar had refuted apprehensions that the newly formed ministry of cooperation may be used to “hijack the cooperative movement” in Maharashtra.The NCP chief had said that while the concept is not new, forming a ministry at the Centre cannot interfere with the cooperative sector in Maharashtra, which has a strong network of such institutions, with politicians from the Congress and NCP relying on these networks to retain their clout.“As per the Constitution, cooperative institutions registered in a state come under the [jurisdiction of that respective] state,” Pawar said, days after leaders from Congress and NCP were suspicious of the move.He said the ministry is all about multi-state cooperative institutions. “A state cannot control a cooperative institution registered in more than one state, which is called multi-state institution, and the Central government has control over it.”Last week, deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar had said, “The intention of the Central government is yet to be clear, but they may have something in their mind. It will be known only after the new legislations are introduced for the sector, just like the three contentious farm laws over which farmers are now protesting for the past eight months.”Madhav Bhandari, vice-president, state BJP unit, said that those who have done something wrong are making noise against the formation of the cooperation ministry. “No BJP leader ever tried to threaten anyone through their statement. Whatever statements were made were only to welcome the formation of the cooperation ministry. Those who have done nothing wrong are quiet. Why are only NCP leaders are making so much noise,” Bhandari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cooperation-ministry-amit-shah-is-not-above-law-says-ncp-101626118068989.html
13-07-2021||Other||5 ICICI Bank officials, firm booked for cheating Mumbai hotelier of ₹120-cr||The banking (fraud) unit of Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has registered a cheating case against five senior executives of ICICI Bank and an assets reconstruction company (ARC) for allegedly causing wrongful loss of ₹120 crore to a hotelier. The case is registered on the basis of a complaint lodged on Saturday by Vishal Sharma, 48, director of Hotel Horizon Pvt Ltd, located at Juhu Tara Road. “The five senior ICICI Bank executives were then working on the posts of group executive, general manager, deputy general manager and relationship manager and assistant relationship manager at the bank’s BKC (Bandra-Kurla Complex) headquarters,” said a senior EOW officer.” Sharma has alleged that the accused bankers, ARC and others caused the loss of ₹120 crore to him since 2011, when he had first applied for a loan of ₹351 crore. EOW officers said Sharma tried to avail the loan by mortgaging properties worth ₹1,200 crore. “The bank’s management committee needed the credit committee’s sanction for discussing the loan amount. The management committee had, however, not informed the credit committee about the hotelier’s loan requirement. Instead, they allegedly made changes in the loan proposal and placed it before the credit committee, and kept Sharma in dark about it,” said an EOW officer. Sharma had alleged in the complaint that the accused bankers informed him that his loan was sanctioned, and that the amount would be disbursed in phases. Though he was informed of getting of ₹25 crore in the first phase, the bank deducted ₹15.5 crore from the loan amount as processing fees and Sharma only received ₹9.5 crore. “The said officials also allegedly showed a profit (which the bank was supposed to gain by sanctioning the loan) in the bank’s records and audit. They allegedly did this without processing the mortgaged properties and disbursing the entire loan amount to the applicant,” an EOW officer said requesting anonymity. The bank failed to disburse the entire loan amount to Sharma on pretexts such as non-compliance of all the terms and conditions mentioned in the loan agreement, the officer added. Sharma followed up on the matter with the bank for years. The accused bankers then started coercing Sharma for a final settlement and asked him to pay ₹45 crore as the final settlement amount which would include the interest on the loan amount disbursed to the applicant and also the final settlement amount. This was done so that the bank could close Sharma’s loan file, the police said. The bank then allegedly sold the loan to the private asset reconstruction company ARC, which Sharma was not aware of. He learnt about it after ARC initiated recovery proceedings against him by staking a claim of ₹120 crore on the mortgaged assets. Sharma then decided to approach the police a few months ago to initiate criminal proceedings against the bank and ARC. The banking (fraud) unit-2 had conducted a preliminary inquiry into Sharma’s complaint and after it prima facie established that a cognisable offence can be make out from the allegations registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at BKC police station and took over the investigation on Saturday. “We will soon summon the accused and other witnesses to record their statement. We have already written to the bank, seeking documents pertaining to the said loan file,” another EOW officer said. An ICICI Bank spokesperson alleged, “The company is a defaulter to the Bank. The previous complaints by the company on the same matter were rejected not only by the EOW but also by the Banking Ombudsman. We will continue to co-operate with the investigating authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-icici-bank-officials-firm-booked-for-cheating-mumbai-hotelier-of-120cr-101626117888963.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||NCP slams Yogi Adityanath, says Maharashtra has two-child norm for the past 21 years||The Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) slammed Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his “much hyped” two-child policy. The ruling party in the state said Uttar Pradesh chief minister is making a lot of noise over the policy which is not new for Maharashtra. The policy has been in place in the state for the past 21 years.On World Population Day, Yogi Adityanath launched a population policy with an aim to incentivise couples who do not have more than two children. The UP law commission that has formulated a population control bill said the policy would be voluntary and nobody would be forced to follow any rule. However, if any person decides on his or her own to not have more than two children, they will be eligible for government schemes, while those who do not follow the policy, will face restrictions in government jobs, availing ration, and other benefits.Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister, said that Maharashtra has had this policy for the last 21 years. “Yogi Adityanath is making a lot of noise about the policy, which has been implemented in Maharashtra since 2000. Those who have more than two children are not allowed to contest any of the local body elections in the state. Also, they are not allowed to take benefits of government welfare schemes for more than two children,” he said.“Adityanath should also make a policy for Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who are in favour of producing more children (in order to increase Hindu population),” he said, referring to remarks made by right-wing leaders in the past about increasing Hindu population. Apart from Uttar Pradesh, the BJP-ruled Assam is also pushing for a similar move with its chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stating last week that population norms will be slowly implemented for government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-slams-yogi-adityanath-says-maharashtra-has-two-child-norm-for-the-past-21-years-101626117768963.html
13-07-2021||Other||Case against Anil Deshmukh: HC says corruption paralyses system, full-fledged probe needed||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), while arguing against the petition filed by former home minister Anil Deshmukh petition – that sought quashing of the first information report (FIR) – in the Bombay high court (HC), has submitted that the plea is against the Constitution as it is trying to stifle the issue of corruption which the law mandates should be dealt with severely. CBI further submitted that the principles of honesty and accountability were being violated and if the investigation is stalled, as sought in the petition, it would shake the confidence of the public. The court reiterated that apart from Deshmukh the other officers involved could not escape their responsibility and they should be probed to uphold public confidence. “Corruption is the root cause of what paralysed the system and hence, we want a full-fledged investigation,” the court observed. CBI assured HC that it would investigate all persons involved in the criminal conspiracy which has been alleged by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar that was hearing the case was informed by additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi – representing CBI – that Deshmukh’s petition was trying to revisit the April 5 HC order, wherein a preliminary inquiry was ordered. He added that as the order was affirmed by the Supreme Court, such an attempt was unwarranted. Lekhi also countered the claim by Deshmukh’s counsel Amit Desai who had said that the allegation that Deshmukh had directed former Mumbai assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect money from bars and orchestras in the city were merely whispers in the corridor of the then commissioner’s office and hence, could not be relied upon. Lekhi submitted that what Vaze disclosed to Singh was not hearsay. The court, thereafter, queried that if that was indeed the case, why did the highest officer not investigate or register an FIR, and reiterated that the role of all those involved should be investigated. “In any department, one individual cannot do it [corruption] alone. As long as everyone is happy, no one complains. But the moment there is a transfer, then someone speaks,” remarked the bench. The court then sought to know who the main collector was. If it was Vaze, then the question of his reinstatement arises, said HC. Lekhi responded that there were more than one individual involved and hence it was a conspiracy. Lekhi concurred and stated that as it was a case of alleged corruption and it needed to be detected and eradicated at the earliest, the petition aimed to stifle the investigation and hence it should not be allowed as CBI had found mandatory facts which needed to be probed. While arguing in rejoinder to CBI’s submissions, Desai questioned why the names of the police personnel were not mentioned in the FIR if it was registered to instil public confidence. He submitted that by intentionally leaving out the names of police officers and naming Deshmukh, there was an attempt to besmirch the ex-minister’s name while saving the cops involved. He added that as CBI had failed to unearth anything in Singh’s complaint it included other issues which were not considered in the April 5 order. After hearing all the submissions, the court asked CBI to submit a report on the progress of investigation in a sealed envelope and reserved its judgment. The court has reserved its judgment in the case and will pronounce it in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-against-anil-deshmukh-hc-says-corruption-paralyses-system-full-fledged-probe-needed-101626117649544.html
13-07-2021||Other||There is no other way but to join politics: Charuni||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday reiterated that the farmers should join active politics to have a say in the policy-making process.“The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has launched Mission Uttar Pradesh to ensure defeat of BJP, but defeating the BJP will not help until pro-farmer leaders are elected,” Charuni said, during his Panipat visit.The BKU president and member of SKM added that these are his personal views and has no association with the SKM. “If people with criminal backgrounds can fight elections and loot the public money, why can’t farmers enter politics for their rights,” he said.He said the agitation will continue until the anti-farm laws are withdrawn and farmers will intensify the protest.Reacting to the attack on farm leader Ram Singh Kundu, he slammed the state government for increasing crime rate in state. He urged BKU leaders and farmers to hold protests in a a democratic way and not indulge in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/there-is-no-other-way-but-to-join-politics-charuni-101626117590629.html
13-07-2021||Other||Governor has not respected advice of council of ministers on MLCs: Maharashtra govt to HC||The state has informed the Bombay high court that governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has not communicated his decision on nomination of members to legislative Council (MLCs), although 12 names had been submitted to him on November 6, 2020. The state submitted that though the council of ministers had provided the aid and advice as per the relevant article of the Constitution of India, the governor had not respected the same and had kept his decision on the proposal pending for over eight months now. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Ratan Soli was informed by senior advocate Aspi Chinoy that by not taking a decision the Governor had acted contrary to the principles of constitutional democracy. Chinoy submitted that though the governor could not be made a party in the case, his actions and inactions could be subjected to a judicial review, which was appropriate in this case due to the inordinate delay on his part to decide. Senior counsel Rafique Dada for the state submitted that the governor should have accepted or rejected the recommendations of the council of ministers but could not have a third option which was illusionary or non-existent. After hearing the submissions the court sought to know from the petitioner as to whether the judicial review was possible in the present case and also sought a response on the maintainability of the petition and posted hearing to July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/governor-has-not-respected-advice-of-council-of-ministers-on-mlcs-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-101626117591182.html
13-07-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole kicks up new row, irks all 3 Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi parties||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole has once again kicked up a controversy by alleging that he was kept under surveillance by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Dilip Walse-Patil. He said that the reports about his movements and chats are monitored by the leaders from two other parties as they cannot swallow the fact that the Congress was growing rapidly. His remarks led to strong reactions from Congress’s alliance partners in Maharashtra and embarrassed other Congress leaders who chose to avoid reacting to it.While addressing party workers in Lonavla on Saturday, Patole said that Congress’s revival in Maharashtra was not going down well with other two ruling parties. He alleged that he was under kept under surveillance by Thackeray, deputy chief minister Pawar and home minister Walse-Patil. “They (CM,DCM and home minister) receive report from intelligence department at 9am every day. Who is protesting where, who is talking what and every update about us. They even know what I do daily,” he said. The remarks sparked unrest within the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) after the video clip of his speech went viral on Monday.While Shiv Sena and NCP were irked by Patole’s remarks, other Congress leaders found it difficult to defend him. Deputy chief minister Pawar reportedly spoke to CM Thackeray over phone and expressed his anguish. He reportedly said that the remarks by Patole in the past five months since he took over as Maharashtra Congress chief have been creating cracks within the MVA. The DCM has believably demanded with the CM to take up the issue to senior leaders from the Congress.The remarks irked even other Congress leaders who chose not to defend Patole. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said: “I do not know what he wants to say and you should ask him about it.”A section of Congress leaders took up the matter with the party’s central leadership and complained that Patole’s comments are creating an unnecessary rift between Congress and its allies in the MVA. Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and All India Congress Committee’s general secretary HK Patil were in Mumbai on Monday. State leaders have reportedly expressed their disapproval of Patole’s remarks.“HK Patil is holding a review meeting with party’s senior leaders, ministers in MVA government and other party senior leaders on Tuesday morning. The issue is expected to come up again on during the meeting,” said a senior Congress leader.NCP reacts sharply to Patole’s remarks Minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that the allegations by Patole have come out of ignorance. “A special cell of police keeps watch on the programmes, meetings, protests by all political parties and leaders and this happens under any government. The information thus collated goes to the home department. If Patole is unaware about it, he should take the information from former chief ministers from his party Ashok Chavan, Sushilkumar Shinde and Prithviraj Chavan. If Patole does not want police protection for the leaders and ministers from his party and police presence during political events, he should make an application to the home minister,” he said.Patole’s remarks became public a day after NCP chief Sharad Pawar ridiculed the former, saying he was not a significant leader to take cognisance. Pawar said on Sunday that Patole was “a small leader whose comments do not warrant a response”. Pawar was reacting to Patole’s remarks on Saturday at Lonavla in the same meeting with the party workers. He had criticised Ajit Pawar for not releasing the funds for the bodies controlled by Congress and not giving nod to the works initiated by Congress. He had said that Shiv Sena and NCP “backstab” Congress when it comes to treating the party as a ruling partner.Patole on Monday said that his remarks were blown out of proportion. “When I said that I was under constant watch, I was not referring to the state government. It was meant for the central government. Collating the report about the political leaders is a constant process and its done by state as well as central agencies. The information collected by the agencies is shared with the state and central governments. There is no rift within MVA and we are doing well as an alliance. The BJP is trying to divide us by spreading false rumours,” he said.This not the first time that Patole stirred a controversy by his remarks. Last month, he publicly announced that his party would go solo in all the forthcoming elections including local bodies and Assembly. The remarks led to the strong reaction from NCP and Sena. CM Uddhav Thackeray later snubbed Congress for the announcement and said that it was not time to play politics when the pandemic was at its peak. The two parties are also upset over the way Patole resigned as Assembly speaker without taking them into confidence.Sena leader and urban development department minister Eknath Shinde downplayed the issue and said that there were no differences between the ruling parties and the alliance government will complete its term.BJP leader and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has reacted on Patole’s comment by saying that Sena and NCP are scared ever since Patole announced to go solo in the elections. “Patole’s announcement has sent shivers down their spine and it must have compelled them to keep the Congress leader under surveillance. However, the CM and DCM should clarify what made them keep Patole under watch,” he said.(with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-kicks-up-new-row-irks-all-3-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-parties-101626117348942.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana logs lowest ever weekly Covid case count||Haryana logged the lowest ever weekly coronavirus infection count during a period of decline recording 376 cases last week (July 5-11). Last week’s count also happens to be an all-time low surpassing 525 infections reported the week before (June 28-July 4).The downward trajectory of the virus which continued for a consecutive ninth week has prompted the government to ease restrictions including opening of educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls and uncapping number of persons allowed for indoor and outdoor congregations.Health officials said they now fear that the viral infection will start making a gradual climb. A similar trend was witnessed in February first week when the weekly case count had dipped to 534 and the subsequent weeks saw an increase, officials said.“Is this the culmination of flattening trajectory? That’s our worry. Since the restrictions are gone, we are keeping our fingers crossed,” said a health analyst citing the trend prior to the devastating second wave.As on Monday, there were only 900 active cases with 15 districts having 50 or less active cases. Only Hisar and Panipat districts have over 100 active cases. The weekly number of fatalities due to the contagion also came down to 64 last week.VACCINATION CLOSING IN TO 10-MN MARKHaryana is close to administering 10 million vaccine doses (including first and second dose) having inoculated about 99.27 lakh individuals by July 12.Statistics showed that about 81.51 lakh persons in state have been vaccinated with the first dose and about 17.76 lakh have got both the doses.About 36.64 lakh in the 18-45 age group have been vaccinated with the first dose and about 1.63 lakh have been vaccinated with both the doses.About 21.09 lakh individuals in the 45-60 age group have got the first shot and about 5.51 lakh have got both.In the 60+ category, about 18.87 lakh people have been inoculated with the first dose and about 7.60 lakh with both doses.REWARI, AMBALA CLOSE TO EXITING CRITICAL CATEGORYAs the cumulative positivity rate continues to fall, Rewari and Ambala districts are close to exiting the critical category.Positivity rate of more than 6% is regarded as critical. Five districts – Rohtak, Palwal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Kaithal have already exited the critical category. Nuh is the only district with a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.While fifteen districts still in the critical category have also seen reduction in the positivity rate, experts said the high cumulative positivity rate is indicative of the virulence of the contagion during the second wave and will take its time to come down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-logs-lowest-ever-weekly-covid-case-count-101626117169494.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, dial 112 for emergency services in Haryana||Now dial 112 if you need ambulance, help from police or the fire department in Haryana.This round-the-clock emergency response support system (ERSS) will function from the state emergency response centre (SERC) in Panchkula. The state-of-the-art centre can function at uninterrupted speed even in the absence of power supply for four consecutive days.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched the dial 112 control room at SERC in the presence of state home minister Anil Vij and Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta.Haryana 112 is an integrated emergency response system, established to provide emergency services to people in distress anytime and anywhere across Haryana.The SERC has been digitally connected to the police control rooms at district level and suitably located emergency response vehicles.The toll free number in Hindi, English, Punjabi and Haryanvi promises to respond to people in distress within 15-20 minutes and will be operational from Tuesday morning.Khattar also flagged-off 630 emergency response vehicles equipped with mobile data terminals to all 22 districts. He said 300 more emergency response vehicles will be added so that the target of deploying 10 vehicles per assembly constituency is achieved.The SERC has been integrated with the mirror centre in Gurugram and disaster centre in Hyderabad so that the data remains secure all the times.Every call on Dial 112 will be recorded. The data will be completely secure and will not be deleted under any circumstance.Officials said in case of technical failure at the SERC, the service will continue to run uninterrupted through the mirror centre in Gurugram. If the services stop working at both places, even then the system will run smoothly and the data will be safe due to integration with the disaster centre in Hyderabad.Additional director general of police (ADGP) AS Chawla, who is also nodal officer of the toll free Haryana 112, said there will be no border restriction or police station jurisdiction limits for processing complaints received under dial 112. The nearest vehicle staff will be informed of the complainant’s location from the control room, who will immediately reach out to them to provide necessary help.‘HISTORIC STEP’Khattar said this ERSS is a historic step taken towards empowering citizens of Haryana with round-the-clock emergency assistance. He said ensuring people’s safety is utmost priority of the government.He said Dial 112 was started by the Union ministry of home affairs to provide a single number for all emergency services across country.“The service is designed to ensure immediate availability and accessibility of police in emergency situations. The system is an important step towards reducing police response time,” said Anil Vij.KHATTAR UNVEILS BOOK ON ‘UNTOLD’ STORIES OF HARYANA POLICE AMID COVIDKhattar also unveiled a coffee table book titled ‘Untold stories’ of the Haryana Police in the presence of Vij and other dignitaries on Monday.The book showcases the extraordinary work of Haryana Police during the Covid pandemic. It pays tribute to the 49 cops who succumbed to the contagion during the course of duty.The book features ‘karamveers’ of the police department who went beyond the call of duty in enforcing the lockdown, providing assistance to the public, or making them aware of Covid safety measures.Prologue of the book, penned by Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava, gives an overview of the role of police.“The human side of policing,” the DGP said, “came to fore in these trying times as 50,000 strong force worked round-the-clock to combat the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-dial-112-for-emergency-services-in-haryana-101626117050338.html
13-07-2021||Other||Farmers’ numbers rising at protest sites after ‘clashes’ with cops||The farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws is getting new pace in hinterlands of Haryana’s Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri after recent episodes of farmers’ clashes with cops during BJP leaders’ meetings.The gatherings at toll plazas in these districts had been reducing, but the recent clashes have led to rise in number of farmers at these sites.On Sunday, Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car was targeted in Sirsa when he had gone to take part in BJP meeting. Haryana state minister for cooperatives Banwari Lal and Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal had also faced the farmers’ wrath in Fatehabad on Sunday.Farmers broke through the barricades amid heavy police security and tore posters put by BJP workers in Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Sirsa.Two days ago, BJP Haryana unit chief OP Dhankar had faced farmers’ protest outside Guru Jambheshwar University where farmers waved black flags and raised slogans.BKU Jind district president Azad Singh Palwa said the farmers’ agitation has picked pace after recent clashes with cops during BJP leaders’ meetings.“Despite hot summer, farmers from 15 villages are taking part in protests at Khatkar toll plaza. Farmers have also been camping at Delhi borders on a rotation basis. BJP leaders’ recent meetings in Jind and other areas where farmers held protests gave a new momentum to the stir,” he added.Dayanand Punia, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said the agitation will expand in the state in August and will start sending people from villages to Delhi borders.“After the Covid crisis, the farmers’ number had decreased but it is gaining momentum since July after BJP started sending its leaders across state to hold meetings with party workers to convince people in favour of the farm laws,” he added.Last week, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan, threatening of starting a ‘pucca morcha’ in Hisar, had given an ultimatum to the Hisar administration to revoke criminal cases filed against 350 farmers for protesting against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the second wave of Covid-19.“We will continue to protest against the farm laws until they are repealed,” he added.Two farm leaders, pleading anonymity, said many farmers were worried about the fate of the agitation after BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni asked farm leaders to take part in the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab.“After SKM denied forming a political outfit, the farmers’ number started rising at toll plazas. The numbers at Tikri and Singhu borders are less but will increase after a change in the weather conditions,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-numbers-rising-at-protest-sites-after-clashes-with-cops-101626116931282.html
13-07-2021||Lucknow||SP, other oppn parties ‘siding’ with divisive elements: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at opposition parties for casting doubts over the arrest of two suspected terrorists from Lucknow’s Kakori area who the state’s anti-terror squad (ATS) claimed could be operatives of an Al Qaeda-linked terror module. “The opposition raised voice against surgical strike carried out by the army against terrorists from across the border. Now, they are casting doubts after the arrest of terrorists suspected to be part of a global terror network,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev told media persons here on Monday. Expressing displeasure over SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s “don’t believe BJP government and its police” statement, the UP BJP chief said: “The SP leader must explain why he doesn’t trust the country’s army and the state’s police. And, then, he must also explain why his government tried to drop cases against terrorists. It appears that the SP and in fact the whole of opposition appears to side more with anti-social, divisive elements.” “This is not the SP rule when even buffaloes got stolen,” Swatantra Dev said. The “buffalo” reference was over the fact that during the SP rule buffaloes of SP leader Azam Khan had got stolen and traced later by police. “This is Yogi Adityanath government under which the police are acting freely against terrorists and not busy tracing VIP buffaloes. This government doesn’t engage in appeasement on issues linked to country’s security. It would have been nicer had the entire opposition supported the police’s action against terrorists in one voice,” Dev said.“In Congress time, there were leaders who reportedly wept when police killed terrorists in encounter and in SP regime cases against terrorists were sought to be withdrawn,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-other-oppn-parties-siding-with-divisive-elements-bjp-101626115369791.html
13-07-2021||Other||With animal markets shut, goat vendors take to roadsides ahead of Eid||PUNE Ahead of the Muslim festival of Eid Al Adha, colloquially known as Bakri Eid, goats, sacrificed on the occasion are being sold on road-sides in the Cantonment, Yerwada and Kondhwa areas.The state health department and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had shut down all the “goat markets” because of the Covid-19 situation in the city.The “bakra mandi” (goat market) concept had become popular in Kondhwa over the past decade, with vendors setting up the animals on open plots in the area for sale. This year complaints were lodged by residents of Kausarbaug in Kondhwa, citing the markets as being a possible source for the spread of Covid-19, given the crowds the markets normally draw. Complaints were made to Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police and Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister, after which concerned government agencies issued advisories to all plot owners to refrain from allowing the sale of goats there.The Kondhwa police station also issued notices to the plot owners to stop the goat markets, citing Covid-19 restrictions. However, now the vendors have taken to the road-sides. Amir Shaikh, a goat vendor operating on the main road near Jyoti Hotel, said, “Since the markets have been discontinued due to Covid 19 restrictions, we have no option but to sell our animals on the road. Here limited people come and social distancing rules are followed. Also, we ensure that people wear masks while they come to see our goats. It is difficult for us, but we have to do it to earn our living.” Another goat vendor Mateen Khan said, “The road is the only platform for us to sell the goats. We are taking steps to complete the transaction in the deadlines set by the PMC and the police and try our best to avoid overcrowding and violation of Covid-19 rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-animal-markets-shut-goat-vendors-take-to-roadsides-ahead-of-eid-101626114651887.html
13-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 831 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths in 24 hours||PUNE Pune district, on Monday, reported 831 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths in 24 hours. This takes the district’s progressive count to 1.069 million, of which 1.034 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 17,772, with 16,925 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 420 new Covid-19 cases, taking the progressive count to 316,985. With five more deaths, the death toll stands at 5,989. Pune city reported 207 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 498,510. The city reported no deaths on Monday, so the toll stands at 8,548.PCMC reported 204 new Covid-19 cases, with which the progressive count went up to 253,725. No new deaths were reported, so the toll stands at 2,989.Pune also saw only 38,896 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard. A total of 5,251,609 doses were administered, of which 4,099,096 were first doses and 1,152,513 were second doses. A total of 316 sites conducted vaccinations, of which 195 were government sites and 121 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-831-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-five-deaths-in-24-hours-101626114651223.html
13-07-2021||Pune||0.17 million aged below one year eligible in Pune as PCV inoculation begins||On Monday, Maharashtra began administering the pneumococcal conjugate vaccination (PCV) as part of its routine immunisation, for the first time. Under this initiative, Pune district now has 0.173 million children aged below one year eligible for the inoculation annually. Health minister Rajesh Tope said that this will help bring down the infant mortality rate in the state further. As per the district health office, Pune district has 173,338 children to be vaccinated in 2021-22, which is 14,445 to be vaccinated monthly. The most number of eligible children are from the rural areas of the district. Tope said on Monday, “In addition to BCG, Rubella, Pentavalent, Rotavirus, DPT and Polio, now PCV will help protect children from multiple infections. This will be included in the routine immunisation programme.” Dr Pradeep Vyas, chief secretary, health department, said that this vaccine will help bring down the infant mortality rate. He said, “Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria causes severe pneumonia in kids aged below 2 years. This will surely bring down the infant mortality rate even more.” Dr Dilip Patil, immunisation officer, said that right now this vaccine is available for free at government hospitals and health centres and soon, will be available at private hospitals too, at a cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/017-million-aged-below-one-year-eligible-in-pune-as-pcv-inoculation-begins-101626114588784.html
13-07-2021||Pune||34,000 Covid MPJAY beneficiaries from Pune; 0.5 million in state to date||A total of 0.5 million Covid-19 patients have benefitted from the state government’s flagship Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MPJAY) as of April 1. The scheme was extended for Covid-19 patients till March 31, 2021. Of the 0.5 million, Pune has highest number of Covid-19 patients who have benefitted from the scheme, with that number at 34,000.The United India Insurance Company, the insurer for the flagship health insurance scheme, in reply to an RTI query, stated that a total of 507,188 Covid-19 claims were settled under the MPJAY scheme until March 31, 2021. The total amount of these claims is ₹1,031 crore. As of March 31, 2021, a total of 2,812,980 Covid infections were recorded in the Maharashtra, with 54,649 Covid deaths. Between April 1 2020 and March 31, 2021, 507,188 Covid patients have benefitted from the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana in Maharashtra, as per information obtained under the RTI.Pune district, which had the highest number of infections in the state, saw 34,045 claims settled. The district currently has 536,262 Covid-19 infections and 8,374 deaths.On the other hand, Mumbai, which had 423,419 infections and 11,708 deaths on April 1, 2021, saw 29,664 claims settled under MPJAY. The most number of claims settled under MPJAY is in Ahmednagar, at 34,867. Ahmednagar has recorded 95,000 infections and 1,221 deaths. A total of 34,574 in claims have been settled in Kolhapur.The insurance company has refused to reveal the total amount of premiums paid by the Maharashtra government. The RTI revealed that the rejection rate of claims is 4.4 % of a total of 616,927 applications received.Activist Jeetendra Ghadge of The Young Whistleblowers Foundation who filed the RTI, said, “Government has declared that all types of ration cards will be eligible under this scheme, but many families in Mumbai have paid lakhs of rupees for Covid treatment. Hospitals forced citizens to pay bills and avoided implementing the scheme, action should be taken against such hospitals besides a third-party audit should be compulsory to check if hospitals have passed on the benefits of the scheme to the citizens.” “Private hospitals are reluctant to enrol in the scheme. It should be made legally binding for them to implement the scheme,” he added.A total of Rs1,031,01,90,692 has been paid to hospitals across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/34000-covid-mpjay-beneficiaries-from-pune-0-5-million-in-state-to-date-101626114589344.html
13-07-2021||Pune||Pune tree authority members dispute tree felling decision by PMC||Pune: The Pune Tree authority members and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) tree authority committee are at loggerheads over permission granted to fell trees in Deccan. The social organisation has decried the decision taken by the PMC committee. The trees in question are two historic ‘umbryachi’ trees standing tall in front of the Central Bank of India, Deccan branch, which is on lease from the board of trustees, Deccan Gymkhana, just along the wall of the building. The Central Bank of India has written several times to the Ghole road ward office asking permission to cut trees citing danger of falling and damaging the bank building. However, tree authority member Manoj Pachpute said the decision is ill-thought and will lead to an old grown tree to be felled. “I have written my objection to the permission granted by the committee to Ghole road regional office tree authority to cut down two very tall flourishing trees on Deccan Chowk on the false pretext that the security of the bank is in danger. The main reason is that there are two billboards of the bank, which are hidden by these trees. The tree houses many nests of birds. Did PMC conduct any structural audit test that states that the bank wall is in danger?” Pachpute said. Pachpute raised questions on the commissioner giving permission without verification. “Since there are many proposals, the commissioner signs them without looking at them, so such a proposal is approved. The commissioner may not know that such a proposal is wrong. Hence, I have submitted a letter stating that these trees should not be uprooted or felled,” he said. Guruswami Tumale, assistant tree authority officer, Ghole road said, “The Central Bank of India has been constantly writing to us for permission to remove the tree as it is posing a hazard and could be dangerous and fall in a letter dated April 7, 2021 and also had sent an attachment of the police FIR of theft of air conditioning unit from their premises due to the trees on June 11, 2021 and on July 8, 2021. After we sent out the advertisement for suggestions and objections notice, we followed up with a structural audit which stated that the roots around the building have penetrated inside the building, it will cause danger to the building by weakening the plinth, walls and foundations.” Ajit Gijare, structural engineer, wrote in his report that it is suggested to cut the roots of the tree outside the building, so building remains structurally stable. Tumale said, “It is a naturally grown tree and it has grown from within the sides of the wall and then into the flower bed in front of the bank, hence we will be uprooting it this week.” “As per order issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) application number 157, March 16, 2017, the tree authority has to follow due process for granting permission for any tree trimming only if the tree is dead, or diseased or wind fallen or it constitutes danger to life or property or obstructs traffic as per Section 8 of the Tree Act. Therefore, under no circumstances permission can be given by the tree authority for cutting, trimming of branches for any other reason,”an environmentalist, on condition of anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tree-authority-members-dispute-tree-felling-decision-by-pmc-101626105828348.html
13-07-2021||Patna||Chirag Paswan dials Lalu Prasad, revives family links||Lok Janshakti Party leader and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, upstaged by a coup led by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras who was recently sworn in as union minister, on Monday spoke to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad and his son and leader of opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav, in New Delhi over phone.Paswan, who has been on “Aashirwad Yatra” in Bihar, returned to Delhi on Saturday. “Yes, he had a talk with two leaders,” LJP leader Ashraf Ansari said.“He will again return to Bihar on Thursday or Friday to resume his tour,” said Raju Tiwary, state president of LJP’s (Paswan faction).Paswan’s move to reach out to Lalu Prasad comes days after the Delhi high court dismissed his plea challenging Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise Paras as the LJP leader in the House.Chirag Paswan, whose father and former union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan founded LJP in 2000, is locked in a bitter dispute with Paras over the control of the party. Paras enjoys the support of five of the six of LJP’s Lok Sabha MPs. Both factions have claimed to be the real LJP and the Election Commission of India is yet to rule on the matter.Earlier on Monday, former minister and RJD leader Shyam Rajak also went to meet Chirag Paswan’s mother at their New Delhi residence. Asked whether Chirag is welcome in RJD, Rajak said, “All those who want to take forward the ideology of Lohia and Ambedkar are welcome, be it Chirag Paswan or anyone else.”Chirag Paswan (38) also faces the formidable challenge to retain his father’s legacy as a Dalit leader at a time when other Dalit faces in Bihar — Jitan Ram Manjhi, Meira Kumar, Shyam Rajak and others — are past their prime.“It is a golden opportunity for him. If he handles the legacy of late Ram Vilas Paswan and builds on the strength by mobilizing youths, no doubt he will become the face of the youth and Dalits. For this, he has to take himself out of the revenge politics and show statesmanship,” says D M Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies.“Paswan, with age on his side, can truly become a champion for the community but he has to prove his mettle. He must maintain a safe distance from RJD and JD (U),” said BJP leader Sanjay Paswan.Chirag Paswan, who embarked on a statewide tour earlier this month, visited his ancestral village Saharbani in Khagaria district and and took blessings form late Paswan’s first wife. He also paid visits to his step sisters in the state capital in an effort to win over the support of the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-dials-lalu-revives-family-links-101626105108964.html
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana defers Khelo India Youth Games to 2022||The Haryana government on Monday applied brakes on its earlier decision to hold Khelo India Youth Games-2021 in November-December and has now decided to organise the sports show in February 2022, in view of the possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic.The state government had announced to hold fourth edition of the Youth Games in Panchkula, Ambala, Shahabad, Delhi and Chandigarh from November 21 to December 5. Various sports activities in the under-18 category will be held in the Games.The government had also announced that BRICS Games-2021 will be organised during Khelo India. The BRICS countries include Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.“On Monday, the state government decided to defer the event during the first meeting of the organising-cum-coordination committee held under the chairmanship of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar,” a government spokesperson said.Khattar said the director of AIIMS, New Delhi and other experts have predicted the possibility of third wave of Covid-19 in October-November.He said talks should be held with Union sports minister Anurag Thakur about this programme, to explore possibilities of organising some events of the games in Himachal Pradesh.During the meeting, director (sports and youth affairs) Pankaj Nain gave a presentation on the salient features of Khelo India Youth Games-2021.He said around 8,500 players are likely to participate, of which 5,072 will be athletes (2,400 females and 2,672 males).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-defers-khelo-india-youth-games-to-2022-101626104448182.html
13-07-2021||Pune||Pune airport site not yet finalised, says Pawar||Pune: The locals from Purandar and Baramati tehsils met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday at his residence in Baramati to highlight their opposition to the proposed international airport project at Purandar. The representatives of the anti-airport protest committee from the reported affected villages met Pawar and said that they do not want the airport project at the cost of their agricultural lands. According to the committee members, Pawar assured them that the project has not yet received a green signal from the central government and without the latter’s clearance no site can be said to be final. “He said that no injustice will be done to land owners and claimed that the said current site of the project is not final. We haven’t received any notice from the government, but according to media reports our villages will be affected if the plan is cleared. So, we are meeting political leaders and highlighting our opposition to the project. Our fields are fertile agricultural lands and we will lose everything if those are taken away from us,” said Ganesh Mulik, president, anti-airport protest committee. Last month, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state government has sent a proposal to the Centre for clearance for the airport at Purandar. The anti-airport committee has members from villages Rajouri, Rise, Pise, Naigaon, Pandeshwar in Purandar tehsil and from the villages Bhondawewadi, Chandgudewadi and Ambi in Baramati tehsil. Since the reported developments of change of site for the international airport project, land owners of villages have taken steps to oppose it. Many village-level meetings are being conducted by the locals to oppose the project, besides writing to local representatives in assembly and the parliament. Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar had said that the state has forwarded the project to the Centre last month and awaiting the latter’s reply. “Pawar sir told us that three more sites are in consideration and the Centre will decide on the basis of technical feasibility of the sites,” said Mulik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/locals-meet-pawar-claim-pune-airport-site-not-yet-finalised-101626098327661.html
