16-07-2021||Other||Trains forced to halt as drunk assst station master passes out||KANPUR: Many trains, some of them premium passenger trains, came to a grinding halt a little before the Kanchausi railway station in Auraiya between 12.10 am and 1.30 am, as they did not get the signal from the assistant station master. Reason: Assistant station master Aniruddh Kumar drank liquor heavily on duty and passed out in his chamber, leaving the rail movement to fate. “It has come to light that the assistant station master was drunk, since he was not in condition to perform his duties. He was suspended on the spot and another station master was arranged to allow the train movement,” said chief spokesman, North Central Railways, Shivam Mishra. On Friday morning, Kumar underwent medical examination for confirmation of working in an inebriated state at the railway hospital in Tundla, said station superintendent, Dibiyapur Vishambhar Dayal Pandey. Kanchausi is a home signal point and the trains failing to get the clearance halted at the outer one by one between 12.10 and 1.30 am, said a person familiar with the case. The trains included Magadh Express, Farakka Express, Vaishali Express, Sangam Express and several goods trains. The Phaphoond and Jhinjhank railway stations informed the rail traffic control-room about the trains stuck near Kanchausi and not moving ahead. The information caused a flutter in the rail traffic control, which swung into action and informed station superintendent Pandey, who tried to get in touch with Kumar but failed. He rushed to Kanchausi railway station and found him sleeping. Pandey poured two buckets of water on him to wake him up. Nothing worked, said another person. Pandey said while he was trying to get Kumar on his feet, he smelled liquor. “I informed about this to the rail traffic control and took charge, allowing the trains to proceed further,” he said. The train started moving at around 2 am. In the morning, station superintendent Phaphoond Arjun Singh reached Kanchausi to oversee the train movement. On his information, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) took Aniruddh Kumar to Tundla by Bhagalpur-New Delhi Express for medical examination. According to officials, apart from suspending him, NCR has served a charge-sheet and ordered elaborate inquiry into the case. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trains-forced-to-halt-as-drunk-assst-station-master-passes-out-101626460153594.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||ED attaches Anil Deshmukh’s Worli flat, properties in Uran||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached properties worth ₹4.20 crore of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The properties include the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s flat in Worli.“The attached assets are in the form of one residential flat valued at ₹1.54 crore located at Worli and 25 land parcels of book value ₹ 2.67 crore at Dhutum village in Uran of neighbouring Raigad district,” said an ED officer.The properties, according to ED officers, are held in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd.With regards to the Worli flat, ED officers said their investigation has revealed that the flat was purchased by the NCP leader in 2004 by paying entire consideration in cash and the same was registered in the name of Aarti Deshmukh, but the sale deed for the flat was registered in February 2020 after Deshmukh became home minister. According to ED officers, Deshmukhs acquired 50% ownership in M/s Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd including its assets, ie land and shops, “totally valued at approximately ₹5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying ₹17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap.”ED has initiated money laundering investigation against Deshmukh and his family members on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for allegedly “attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of his public duty for collection of funds to achieve the target of ₹100 crore per month from various bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai.”CBI had registered the FIR on April 21 followed by a detailed preliminary enquiry as ordered by the Bombay high court (HC) on April 5. The HC order came on a bunch of petitions including one filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh who had levelled allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. In his letter to the chief minister and others, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh not only interfered in policing matters but also summoned some Mumbai Police officers directly at his official bungalow and informed them that he had target of collecting ₹100 crore per month from Mumbai. Singh had further alleged that Deshmukh had even provided the officers with a list of bars in Mumbai, suggesting collection of ₹3-4 lakh per month from each of them.ED’s investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 has revealed that Deshmukh had, while acting as Maharashtra home minister, received illegal gratification of approximately ₹4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners. The amount was purportedly collected by dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran.ED’s probe has further revealed that Deshmukh’s family allegedly routed about ₹4.18 crore of the tainted money through Delhi-based dummy companies as donations to Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an educational trust at Nagpur which is controlled by Deshmukh family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-attaches-anil-deshmukh-s-worli-flat-properties-in-uran-101626460034136.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives scare: Sachin Vaze applies for default bail||Dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has questioned the extension granted to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file a charge-sheet against him in the Antilia explosives scare case and connected murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran. Vaze has sought bail citing the federal agency’s failure to file a charge sheet against him in a stipulated time of 90 days from the date of his arrest. The court has posted the application for hearing on July 22.Court sources said Vaze has recently sent an application from jail directly to the special NIA court seeking bail.Vaze was arrested on March 13 and acting on a plea filed by NIA, the special court had on June 9, granted the federal agency two more months to file a charge sheet against the accused.The sources said Vaze has also questioned this grant of extension to NIA to file a charge sheet against him.NIA has responded to Vaze’s plea that since the extension has already been granted by the special court, Vaze’s plea was not maintainable.Vaze was arrested on March 13 after in connection with an explosives-laden Scorpio found near Antilia, south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and subsequent murder of the owner of the SUV, Thane based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the explosives case but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-scare-sachin-vaze-applies-for-default-bail-101626460033488.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress-NCP bickering on as Praful Patel taunts Nana Patole||The bickering among Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies continued on Friday as senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Praful Patel slammed state Congress chief Nana Patole over his remarks. Patel said they give importance to what Maharashtra Congress in-charge HK Patil says as he is a direct representative of the Congress leadership and speaks facts. He added that they do not want to talk about what Patole has said as he keeps saying something or other on a daily basis.Patole had declared that the Congress would contest upcoming elections in the state on its own. He also alleged that he was put under surveillance by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and that his movements and chats were being closely watched.His remarks in the past two weeks have upset the NCP and Shiv Sena leadership. Following this, Patil along with state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan met Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar to control the damage and ensure their relations as ally was not strained.“I would prefer what HK Patil says as he is a direct representative of the (Congress) high command. Also, he speaks based on the factual situation… We don’t think it is right to counter the state Congress chief’s (Nana Patole) statements which he is making on a daily basis. Pawar saheb has already said whatever he had to say on this issue. HK Patil and Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan have also met Pawar and CM Thackeray, and you can understand the hint behind their meeting,” Patel told reporters in Nagpur on Friday.After Patole’s announcement that the Congress would contest the upcoming elections on its own, Patel had said that all were free to do whatever they want to. “This is a coalition but we have not tied anyone’s hands. People are free to do what they want to,” the former civil aviation minister said.He also stressed that the NCP chief is the founder of MVA and enjoys a different stature in Maharashtra politics, adding that the state government is running under the leadership of Pawar and Thackeray.Targeting the NCP, Patole on Wednesday said, “We have to be prepared so that we do not face betrayal like we had to in 2014.” He also justified his announcement about the Congress going solo in the next Assembly elections in 2024. His jibe at the NCP came in less than 24 hours after a group of senior Congress leaders including Patil, Chavan and Thorat met the NCP chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-ncp-bickering-on-as-praful-patel-taunts-nana-patole-101626459973533.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Centre to clarify if governor can exercise discretion in duties||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday sought presence of the Solicitor General of India to assist it in a case which seeks a declaration of the court that the inaction by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in not nominating 12 members of Legislative council (MLC) whose names were suggested by the council of ministers was illegal. The court was prompted to seek assistance of the Centre after it was informed that as per the Constitution and the Government Business Rules, the governor was bound to take a decision on the list of candidates either way but he had failed to do so. The Centre is expected to clarify whether the governor is duty bound by the proposal or can exercise his discretion. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Nashik resident Ratan Soli Luth, was informed by senior counsel Rafiq Dada, for the state, that the governor could not use his discretion and had to accept the recommendation by the council of ministers to nominate 12 persons as MLCs in normal situation. Dada added that though the positions had fallen vacant in September 2020 and the recommendation of the council had been provided on November 6, 2020, the state was yet to receive a response from the governor. In an earlier hearing, the state government had stated in an affidavit that the governor had not respected the recommendation and caused a delay, depriving citizens of benefits of such persons for healthy democracy and maintain rich traditions.“The governor cannot just sit tight on the file and not do anything. There is a mandate of the law where he is required to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. Is a complete inaction open to a governor? He has no discretion,” Dada submitted, adding that the failure of the governor directly affected constitutional democracy. He said the court was the only organ which could ensure that democracy functions properly by conducting a judicial review of the inaction of the governor.The bench observed that the petition could have some repercussions on other provisions of the Constitution, and therefore, it wanted the Central government to address the question as to whether any discretion was available to the governor not to nominate MLCs on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. HC also questioned as to whether in 75 years of independence of the country, there was a ruling through which any court had passed directions and taken judicial review on alleged inaction of the governor of a state on the proposal of council of ministers for nomination of legislators. The bench allowed the petitioner to make the Central government a party to the case and posted further hearing on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-centre-to-clarify-if-governor-can-exercise-discretion-in-duties-101626459974152.html
16-07-2021||Other||HC pulls up Centre for not filing reply to plea seeking to de-seal Nizamuddin Markaz||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday pulled up the Centre for not filing its reply on a plea by Delhi Waqf Board seeking to de-seal the Nizamuddin Markaz building where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Do you want to file or not?” justice Mukta Gupta said.The court noted that the Centre had earlier filed only a short status report on the opening of the Bangley Wali Masjid for the month of Ramzan.Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, said he would file a short reply to the petition. The court granted three weeks to the Board to file its rejoinder to the reply. The matter was listed for further hearing on September 13.The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after Unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the Markaz -- comprising the Bangley Wali Masjid, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up.It has further contended that even if the premises is part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock as an out of bound area” was a “primitive method” of enquiry.On April 15, the court had allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship.The court allowed namaz to be offered on “first floor above the basement” of the mosque, making it clear that it has to be “strictly in accordance” with the DDMA’s April 10 notification and other standard operating protocols.Several FIRs have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the Markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the Covid-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcpulls-up-centre-for-not-filing-reply-to-plea-seeking-to-de-seal-nizamuddin-markaz-101626459793573.html
16-07-2021||Other||SSC results delayed, evaluation unfair, claim students||After waiting impatiently for five hours, 16-year-old Chaitanya Katkar received his result at around 5:30pm. He scored 99.20% and got the second-highest score in his school, Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar. However, an anxious Katkar, who was unable to log in, reached the school around 3pm and waited for another two and a half hours. “Our exams were postponed twice and the evaluation was done based on our previous test performances. More than CET and the results, I feel that it was unfair that despite working hard, we were assessed based on our last academic year’s performance as well,” said Katkar, who want to pursue science to study engineering. “I have started preparations for the forthcoming tests and admission process as well.”After facing uncertainty all through the academic year and the cancellation of SSC board exams, Friday’s results attracted mixed reactions from Class 10 students. Faced with a delay in getting their results, students, principals and parents were both anxious and worried about the ambiguity related to the students’ future given the current situation.For Reyansh Dutta, 15, including Class 9 marks in the evaluation was a disappointment. “There were no exams conducted in the final year of Class 9, and we were struggling to adjust with the new online class system in the initial few months of Class 10. I had worked very hard this year and was confident of scoring above 90% if the exams were conducted the regular way,” said Dutta who scored 84%.He was among the few who managed to check his score around 1pm before the website crashed.Parents also feel that students could have performed better if not for the uncertainties related to the evaluation process. “They (board) have included Class 9 marks as well, however, this batch did not appear for final exams in Class 9 due to the pandemic and lockdown. This is a bit unfair, but owing to the current scenario there was no other option,” said Shriram Samant, father of 15-year-old Chinmayee who scored 80% studying in Sane Guruji Vidyalaya English Medium School, Shivaji Park, Dadar. Samant added, “However, instead of postponing the exam schedule time and again, they could have taken a decision earlier and not make the students anxious and stressful,” Principals also expressed their displeasure with the manner in which this academic year progressed for the students as well as the school. Rupa Roy, Principal, Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar, said, “This academic year has been a huge disappointment for the children, starting with the pandemic, then struggling with online classes, followed by uncertainty about the exams, which was postponed twice and in the end, evaluation was based on both last year’s as well as this year’s performance.”Roy added, “The children have worked extra hard this year but despite that, evaluating last year’s performance as well, is unfair. Moreover, just when the students expected things to settle with the results, the website crashed, it just seems that their waiting period is endless. For 16-year-old’s all this is not less than a nightmare.”“Students are in a dilemma, the current situation has put students under stress as well. Facing all this at this age will surely make the students stronger and prepared to face adverse situations. These students have not appeared for a public exam, it is the onus of the school on how they are preparing the students for external exams as they have to appear for entrance tests for Class 11 admissions,” said Kshama Valanjoo, assistant Headmistress, VPM Vidyamandir, Dahisar. The delay in restoring the website led to many students rushing to their school to find out the results.Meanwhile, some schools are also making efforts to prepare the students for the CET exams to ensure they manage to get admissions to colleges of their choice. Balu Dhawale, Principal, Saraswati High School, Ghodbunder Road, Thane, said, “It is the onus of the school to prepare students accordingly, we had counselling as well as teaching conducted online to ensure that the students can cope with the current situation. Even after the results are out we continue to conduct online classes to prepare them for entrance exams. These are some ways to ensure that the students are prepared to cope with the circumstances put before them in current situations.”Students’ anxiety continues despite the announcement of results as they have yet to appear for their CET which will be the basis of their admissions. Moreover, there is no reference point for such an entrance exam for these students as they wait for the announcements related to their CET and admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssc-results-delayed-evaluation-unfair-claim-students-101626459493500.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||What’s next? Students await clarity on CET||Results for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams were announced by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Friday afternoon. While students were still struggling to access individual results till late evening, more are now worried about what lies next. With the stress of the common entrance test (CET) scheduled to be held on or before August 21 looming over their heads, students, as well as schools and colleges, are waiting for an official notification from the government to clarify all doubts. “Past few weeks we’ve been studying hard to prepare for CET. But both the exam paper pattern and syllabus is so new to us that we aren’t sure which chapters to focus on and which topics to exclude. The past year has been a rollercoaster ride with several ups and downs and this journey still doesn’t end with our results,” said 16-year-old Riddhi Parikh, who scored 94.2%.In the last week of June, nearly a month after school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that admissions to the first-year junior college courses will be based on a CET following which a government resolution (GR) was released.According to the GR, an optional CET exam based solely on the SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted. This exam will be open to first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants from all boards. Those who don’t want to opt for the physical entrance exam will be marked according to their performance in the internal assessment of class 10 results, irrespective of the education board. “Students appearing for the optional CET exam will be given first preference during admissions to FYJC. After these admissions are completed, the remaining vacant seats in junior colleges will be allotted to those students who do not appear for the entrance exam,” said Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister. The decision to conduct a CET exam for FYJC aspirants was taken to bring about uniformity and comparability in class admissions, Gaikwad had added. Earlier this year, all school education boards including the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decided to scrap their Class 10 exams due to increasing Covid-19 cases. Instead, the boards decided to grade these students based on their internal exam performance for the current year and their performance in the previous academic year. Many, however, are still unsure if the CET exam based on the syllabus of a single education board is fair to all students. “Whenever admissions are based on anything except class 10 marks, chaos has followed. The CET exam might be a good way to gauge a student but it is unfair to students of other school education boards who will now have to study a new syllabus altogether to be able to score well in the exam. After the debacle of result announcement by the state board, will they be ready to conduct a CET exam for lakhs of students within the next five weeks?” asked the principal of a south Mumbai college on condition of anonymity.City junior colleges at present are also busy updating the internal marks of Class 12 students. “We have no time to think about class 11 admissions amidst all the work that is going into bringing out the Class 12 results. Teachers are reporting to duty almost every day to ensure results are announced soon,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. She added that to date, neither the school deputy director’s office nor the state board has not approached any college with information on how admissions to FYJC courses will be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whats-next-students-await-clarity-on-cet-101626459433551.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||CET syllabus: ICSE, CBSE students irked||Despite assurances from the state school education department that the reason for conducting a common entrance test (CET) for admission to first-year junior college (FYJC) is to bring parity among Class 10 students of various school education boards, those from non-state board schools echoed a different opinion. On Friday afternoon as Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students were struggling to access results, those from ICSE and CBSE boards are still awaiting their results from their respective boards as some clarity over the CET exam. “How can the state call this parity, when the syllabus for the CET exam is based only on state board curriculum? ICSE syllabus for subjects like social sciences, maths and science is very different from what is taught in state board schools, so how are our children supposed to compete with state board students when they haven’t studied the same curriculum?” asked Sharmin Poonawala, mother of a class 10 student from ICSE board. Last month, an ICSE student approached the Bombay high court questioning the state board’s decision to conduct a CET exam for class 11 admissions based on the state board syllabus only. In this petition, the student has stated that as per rules of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), a class 10 student of the board can drop subjects like Maths and Science and instead choose from a variety of additional subjects like Technical Drawing, Commercial Studies among others. “ICSE students don’t even study the same subjects as SSC students, and even the same subjects like History and Geography cover the different syllabus. How can the state board expect non-SSC board students to study and ace the subject for their CET exam? This is clear discrimination,” said the mother of another ICSE student. Recently, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) directed affiliated schools to reassess and re-evaluate the marks given to class 10 students this year. Avnita Bir, director principal, Podar Education, said, “The results this year and the evaluation process are very unusual, most of us schools have been asked to re-evaluate class 10 assessment by the board. This could be one reason that the SSC results are much better this year, and efforts are being taken by CBSE to ensure that the outcome is not skewed in any way because there are many students who want to shift to the state board. We don’t want results to be another cause of concern for the students.”Several CBSE and ICSE schools in the city believe that due to the uncertainty surrounding results and admissions to junior colleges, many students have already decided to continue their Class 11 and 12 education on the same board. “I doubt the high scores of SSC students or CET exam will impact students from non-SSC boards. Most of these students have already taken admission for Class 11 in their respective boards. Moreover, CBSE evaluation includes the last three year’s performance which is fair enough and an overall good evaluation process. This will ensure that the students are assessed based on their overall performance,” said Jyoti Nair, Principal, New Horizon Scholars School, Thane. Many parents said this ambiguity has left students more anxious, especially those waiting to bag a seat in Mumbai junior colleges. “My daughter dropped subjects like Maths and Science in class 9 and 10 in order to focus on subjects like economics so her overall class 10 score gets better and she finds a seat in the Arts stream at a college of her choice. By forcing such students to now suddenly either study maths and science or forgo their seat in the top colleges is unfair and biased,” said Anjana Purohit, mother of another ICSE student. “What’s worse is that ICSE and CBSE schools have already completed admissions to their class 11 batches, leaving students like my daughter feeling left in the lurch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cet-syllabus-icse-cbse-students-irked-101626459313506.html
16-07-2021||Bangalore||'Plant 4000 trees to compensate axing of trees for Nagavara-Gottigere metro line' Karnataka HC to BMRCL||The Karnataka high court directed the Bengaluru Metro Railway Corporation Limited (BMRCL) to plant 4,000 trees along the Nagavara-Gottigere route where the new metro track would be laid.The direction has opened up the chances of the Nagavara-Gottigere metro line being laid after being stalled for two years since 2019, according to a report in Kannada Prabha. The metro line project could not take off due to possible environmental damage that its construction would have caused.The BMRCL had applied to the forest department to fell over 2,000 trees alongside the proposed track. While on the other side, Bengaluru Parisara Samithi, a leading social service organisation had appealed to the high court questioning the need to cut so many trees for the metro line.The special bench headed by the Chief Justice of Karnataka Justice A S Okha and Justice Suraj Govind Raj took up the matter for hearing on Thursday.The bench ruled that the BMRCL must compensate for the damage done to the environment by planting as many as 4,000 trees. BMRCL should further nourish them and report to the court about the action taken on this matter.Senior advocate Uday Holla, who argued on behalf of BMRCL, stated that due to the halt in the construction, the BMRCL was going through losses and escalation of cost. He said the BMRCL has agreed to plant 3,500 trees as per the directions of the tree officer of the BBMP forest department.The court also advised the BMRCL and the tree officer to plant trees only endemic to the area after testing the soil. Soil testing would help in achieving full growth of the trees. The court has directed the Tree officer to give a report on this matter in two weeks.It also directed the deputy conservator of forests to cooperate with the tree officer in planting the trees and overseeing the survival of the trees, by taking proactive measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/plant-4000-trees-to-compensate-axing-of-trees-for-nagavara-gottigere-metro-line-karnataka-hc-to-bmrcl-101626455889283.html
16-07-2021||Kolkata||Truck mows down tea stall in Bengal; 4 dead, 2 critically injured||Four men were killed and two were critically injured when a stone-laden truck crashed into a roadside tea stall at Khargram in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Friday morning, police said. The deceased, identified as Prakash Marjit (29), Ujjal Sheikh, (18), Alamin Sheikh (65) and Hefajul Sheikh (65) were having tea at the shop. Two of them died at the spot. The injured men were also sitting there.Locals rescued the injured people and took them to the Khargram rural hospital where two men were declared dead. The injured men were shifted to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore town.“The driver of the truck apparently lost control of the vehicle,” an officer from the local police station said on condition of anonymity. The driver and his assistant managed to flee. Police seized the truck.Rejaul Sheikh, who witnessed the accident, said, “The truck was coming from Rampurhat in Birbhum district. It was travelling at a high speed. The condition of the state highway near Bhalkundi road intersection, where the tea stall is located, is bad. The driver apparently lost control of the vehicle.” Locals said overloaded goods vehicles come to Murshidabad from Birbhum and pass through Bhalkundi throughout the year. They demanded the deployment of traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/truck-mows-down-tea-stall-in-bengal-4-dead-2-critically-injured-101626456555117.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rajinder Gupta reappointed as chairperson of PEC board of governors||Trident Group chairperson Rajinder Gupta was reappointed as chairperson of the reconstituted Punjab Engineering College board of governors on Thursday Gupta, who has been honoured with the Padma Shri, has been holding the office since 2018. The reconstitution of the board was approved by Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore as per a notification of the ministry of human resource development, department of secondary and higher education in line with the bylaws of PEC University of Technology Society.The newly constituted board of governors includes PEC alumni and prominent industrialists Praveer Sinha, CEO and MD Tata power Company Limited; Amit Syngle MD and CEO Asian Paints Limited and Gurpratap Singh Boparai Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Limited, professors Siby John and Uma Batra, and members of the outgoing board Kiran Malhotra and Arun Kumar Grover.The board of governors is constituted for three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajinder-gupta-reappointed-as-chairperson-of-pec-board-of-governors-101626455114430.html
16-07-2021||Other||Web series shooting stopped in Lucknow after 5 test +ve for Covid||LUCKNOW: The shooting of the web series ‘Chuna’, starring Jimmy Shergill in the main lead, was stalled in Lucknow after five of 90 members in the unit tested positive for Covid. The entire crew was on Friday quarantined in four hotels, after five members tested positive on their arrival in Lucknow the previous day, said officials. Those who tested positive were isolated from the other crew members. “The crew has been quarantined in the hotels they are staying and these have been sanitized,” said Dr Milind Vardhan, deputy chief medical officer. These hotels are located in Gomti Nagar, Chinhat, Charbagh and Hussainganj. “As per protocol, the members were tested on arrival at the production house on Thursday. Five of them comprising spot boys and loaders tested positive. Government officials got the entire team tested again, out of which 32 people (including actors) staying in a hotel in Gomti Nagar tested negative and the remaining reports are awaited,” informed line-producer Aroon Singh Dicky. The crew shot at a location on Thursday. Lead actor of the series, Jimmy Shergill, is currently in Mumbai while actors Vikram Kochhar, Atul Srivastava and Namit Das amongst others are in Lucknow for the shooting. The series is being directed by Pushpendra Nath Misra, a Lucknowite, who shot ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ in Lucknow in 2019. Currently, Arbaaz Khan’s film ‘Rosie: The Saffron Chapter’ is being shot in the city and three more OTT series are lined up for shoot. During the day, the health department took samples of 26 crew members who had tested negative (through antigen test). In all, 200 people have been listed for contact tracing. Till Friday, no other person among the crew or their contact list tested positive for Covid. Some of OTT series crew members came by air and some by train. Those who were tested via antigen method had been tested again with RT-PCR method. The hotel staff that served the web series crew was also screened. The health department decided to send samples of Covid positive members for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/web-series-shooting-stopped-in-lucknow-after-5-test-ve-for-covid-101626454753343.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh writes to Sonia Gandhi; objects to Navjot Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief: Reports||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has reportedly written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing his reservation over the appointment of disgruntled leader Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state unit chief, according to news agency PTI.Also Read | Manish Tewari’s tweet fuels speculation over power tussle within Congress’ Punjab unitIn his letter, Singh is believed to have warned Gandhi that appointing Sidhu as the president of the Punjab Congress could have an "adverse" impact on the party's prospects in the assembly elections which are likely to take place early next year. The possible elevation of Sidhu would amount to ignoring the old guard, Singh reportedly wrote in the letter.Also Read | Based on a ground survey in Punjab, Congress devises a compromise formulaIn recent days, reports have emerged that the former cricketer-turned-politician could be tasked with heading the Punjab unit of the Congress in a bid to pacify him, thus bringing to an end a long-running feud which has only escalated in recent days, and has also seen both leaders appear before a three-member panel in Delhi to present their respective case.On a related note, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, one of the three members on the panel, and in-charge of the Congress' affairs in Punjab, is likely to meet Singh in Chandigarh on Saturday. Senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge and former MP JP Aggarwal are the two other members of the Gandhi-appointed committee.Also Read | Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish RawatIn the 2017 assembly elections, the Congress, led by Singh, returned to power by winning 77 seats in the 117-member Punjab legislative assembly, displacing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition government from power. In the process, the party also increased its tally from 46 seats in the 2012 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-objects-to-navjot-sidhu-as-punjab-congress-chief-reports-101626451772759.html
16-07-2021||Patna||16 die in Bihar after consuming spurious liquor; 5 detained||Sixteen people died in Bihar’s West Champaran district after allegedly consuming spurious liquor, police said. Eight of these deaths were reported on Friday while eight others died since Wednesday. The police on Friday picked up at least five people, including two women, for interrogation in connection with hooch deaths. The sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016. Kundan Kumar, district magistrate (West Champaran), said eight people died in three separate villages - Deurawa (4), Jogiya (3) and Bagahi (1) - over the past two-three days. A press release issued by the West Champaran district administration late on Friday evening said eight other deaths were reported from the same area on Friday. “In the course of the investigation, the family members of four deceased accepted the death occurred owing to the consumption of spurious liquor. However, family members of four other deceased denied liquor consumption. They, however, did not furnish any medical documents about any ailments either,” the release stated. Late Thursday evening, police registered a case in which two people, identified as Thug Sah and Suresh Sah, were made named as accused. “Accused Thug Sah’s son, Sumit, has been arrested, while two local chowkidars have been suspended,” said a press release, issued by the district administration. Bagahi superintendent of police Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav, who is also currently in charge of Bettiah police, said, “Their interrogations are underway. We have also pressed a dog squad in the search operation and raids are being conducted. No seizure has been made as yet.” The DM, however, said families of the eight denied they had consumed liquor. “One of those who died in Bagaha village was on dialysis, other at Deurawa village died following a heart attack,” he said while describing the other deaths as suspicious. “Causes of other deaths could not be known immediately as the last rites on the bodies had been performed. The matter is being investigated further,” said the district magistrate. “We have deployed medical teams at Deurawa and Bagahi villages to facilitate treatment for anyone with any symptoms,” he said. Top district and police officials visited Deurawa village on Thursday evening after the reports of deaths. “We took statements of about 40 people, including the family members of those who died, but all of them denied consumption of liquor. However, one of the two persons undergoing treatment confessed to having been served liquor,” Lalan Mohan Prasad, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Champaran range, said. However, villagers at Deurawa said sale and consumption liquor was rampant in their village. “My brother fell sick after consuming liquor which is being openly sold despite prohibition,” said Bhola, cousin of Mumtaz Ansari who confessed to having consumed liquor before falling sick. Meanwhile, the incident evoked a sharp reaction from opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). In a tweet, party supremo Lalu Prasad said, “In Bihar, thousands of people are dying every year from spurious liquor under good governance. Under the garb of prohibition, ruling party people are running a parallel illegal economy of ₹20,000 crores in Bihar. Lakhs of Dalits and poor are lodged in jails in the name of prohibition. Police have become corrupt and tyrannical.” Birendra Gupta, CPI-ML (L) legislator from Sikta assembly constituency, termed the deaths as state-sponsored and demanded compensation of ₹4 lakh for the families of the deceased. He also accused the district administration of hushing up the matter. “The family members of the deceased are under pressure...they earlier accepted that the deaths occurred due to consumption of illicit liquor,” said Gupta, who visited the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/16-die-in-bihar-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-5-detained-101626453674858.html
16-07-2021||Pune||1,124 new cases, 32 deaths in Pune||Pune district, on Friday, reported 1,124 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths in 24 hours. This takes the progressive count to 1.073 million, of which, 1.038 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 17,867, with 17,096 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. Pune also saw 65,000 vaccinations on Friday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 624 new Covid-19 cases, which took the progressive count to 319,239. With eight deaths reported on Friday, the death toll stands at 6,005. Pune city reported 291 new Covid-19 cases, putting the progressive count at 499,758. With 18 deaths reported on Friday, the toll stands at 8,595. PCMC reported 209 new Covid-19 cases, with which the progressive count went up to 254,550; six deaths were reported on Friday and the toll stands at 3,009. Pune also saw 65, 463 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard. Totally, 55,20,905 vaccines have been administered, including 425,893 first doses and 1,261922 second doses. A total of 415 vaccination sites conducted vaccinations on Friday, 274 government and 141 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1124-new-cases-32-deaths-in-pune-101626453133290.html
16-07-2021||Other||Darbhanga: Car transporting illegal liquor crushes jawan to death, 6 held||A car smuggling liquor crushed a police jawan to death on Thursday night in Darbhanga district, police said on Friday, adding that six persons were arrested in this connection.Those arrested include four car passengers, officials said.The incident took place when a police patrolling team tried to stop the vehicle, that bore registration number of New Delhi, officials said. A case has been lodged in this connection, SHO of Keoti police sation Jitendra Choudhary said.Police said the deceased, identified as Safiur Rahman, tried to stop the vehicle while holding on to the bonnet. He was dragged by the car for nearly 200m and sustained grievous injuries. The deceased was a native of Pathan Kabai village under Manigachchi police station of the district.Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar. Earlier this month, a police inspector posted in the state capital was suspended for alleged links with illicit liquor mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-car-transporting-illegal-liquor-crushes-jawan-to-death-6-held-101626453075121.html
16-07-2021||Other||Ex-Munger DIG faces EOU probe for graft charge||PATNAThe Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar Police has started a probe against Munger’s former deputy inspector general (DIG) Shafiqul Haque who was accused of corruption by a junior officer, officials familiar with the matter said. Haque was shifted from Munger to state police headquarters on June 19 and is currently waiting for a posting.According to sources, Harishankar Rai, a former additional superintendent of police in Munger and currently posted at Jehanabad, had alleged that a person claiming to be close to Haque approached him and demanded a bribe while promising to help him in a departmental inquiry initiated by the state police headquarters for his alleged failure to file a charge sheet against two accused in the case of recovery of 22 AK-47 rifles smuggled from the Central Ordnance Depot (COD) in Jabalpur in September 2018. Rai also provided an audio clip to back his claim. On June 17, two days before his transfer, Haque had recommended departmental proceedings against Rai for his alleged failure to file a charge sheet in the case that led to the two accused being granted bail. On Friday, the EoU summoned several police officers posted in Munger, including assistant sub-inspector Mohammad Irafan who was earlier posted in the DIG office, in connection with the probe, officials said.Irafan, who has since been transferred to Madhepura, is under the scanner, officials said.  Haque is not the first police officer to have recommended action against Rai. Manu Maharaaj, Haque’s predecessor as Munger DIG, too had recommended departmental proceedings against the then additional SP. The gun smuggling gang was busted in 2018 and a case registered against 32 named accused and some unidentified persons by the police before the National Investigation Agency took up the case for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmunger-dig-faces-eou-probe-for-graft-charge-101626453074423.html
16-07-2021||Patna||ASI ‘dies by suicide’ in state capital||A 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector’s (ASI) body was found hanging from a ceiling fan on Friday morning at his rented accommodation in Mandiri area under Buddha Colony police station in Patna, police officials said. The deceased was identified as Devendra Kumar Yadav (57). He hailed from Munger, and was posted at Gandhi Maidan police station in the capital city since 2019.According to the police, Devendra “died by suicide” between Wednesday and Thursday.“Prima facie, ASI Devendra died by suicide after hanging from the fan, as he was not well. Police are searching his cell phone that was also found switched off. No suicide note was found and the exact reason behind his extreme step is being ascertained,” SHO of Buddha colony police station, Nihar Bhushan said, adding that his family was informed about the incident.His body was sent to PMCH for postmortem examination, police said.The incident came to light when locals informed the police about a bad smell emanating from inside the locked room. “A police team rushed to the spot, broke open the room and found Devendra hanging from the ceiling fan,” a police official said.An FSL team arrived at the spot and collected evidence. “His room has been sealed for further investigation,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/asi-dies-by-suicide-in-state-capital-101626453073838.html
16-07-2021||Other||Darbhanga blast: Two accused sent to judicial custody till July 23||PATNATwo accused arrested earlier for the June 17 Darbhanga station parcel blast and remanded to the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) were on Friday sent to Beur jail in judicial custody by a special court in Patna, the public prosecutor in the case said. On July 9, Imran Malik and Nasir Khan were remanded to eight-day custody of the NIA, which ended Friday.Public prosecutor Manoj Kumar Singh said, “Malik and Khan have been sent to judicial custody till July 23. The NIA will also produce two other arrested accused, Haji Salim and Kafeel, on the same date.” The NIA had arrested four persons in the case. On June 17, a minor blast took place inside a parcel of clothes at Darbhanga railway station. No one was injured. The consignment was booked from Secunderbad railway station.Malik and Khan were arrested from Nampally in Hyderabad on June 30 while Kafeel and Salim were taken into custody from Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh on July 2.The NIA has claimed they have terror links and had planned to detonate a blast on the moving train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-blast-two-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-july-23-101626453073222.html
16-07-2021||Patna||Bihar to have three new varsities with CM as chancellor||The state will have three separate universities to regulate functioning and academic activities of engineering, medical and sport streams. Once the new universities are functional, all medical colleges, engineering colleges and sports-related colleges will be delinked from traditional universities and get affiliated to the new ones.This was among the 21 policy-related issues discussed and approved by chief minister Nitish Kumar at the Cabinet meeting here on Friday.Officials concerned refused to divulge details of the upcoming universities, as the government will make a formal announcement after the state universities Act is amended by the state legislature during the Monsoon session, commencing July 16. Unlike conventional universities, the new universities will have the chief minister as their chancellor. Currently, the Governor functions as the chancellor of universities.In another important decision, the state government has decided to release prisoners, whose jail term is due to complete in next six months. The state government swung into action after the Supreme Court earlier this month directed all state governments to decongest prisons in wake of outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.The Cabinet also approved release of ₹54,000 crore to north and south Bihar power distribution company for installation of transformers and cables near medical colleges and hospitals and other important government healthcare institutions to run and maintain oxygen storage facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-have-three-new-varsities-with-cm-as-chancellor-101626453014647.html
16-07-2021||Patna||Centre clears ₹1,721-cr Covid package for Bihar||The central government has approved an emergency Covid-19 response package of ₹1,721 crore for Bihar to strengthen its immediate health care needs amid lurking fear of a third wave of the pandemic affecting children. The Centre will give ₹1,032.87 crore (60%), while the state will contribute ₹688.58 crore (40%) towards the ₹1,721.45 crore resource package for Bihar under phase two of the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package (ECRP), said executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar on Friday. The Centre has asked the state to send its detailed proposal by July 21, according to a letter dated July 14 by Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare. “We have received the Centre’s letter extending support to the state towards emergency management of Covid-19. We will send our proposal by July 21,” said Kumar. The efforts under ECRP-II, being implemented from July to March, 2022, are aimed at strengthening district and sub-district capacity for effective and rapid response to the pandemic, said Kumar. The Centre’s support will be available under eight broad categories. Among them is creation of paediatric units in all districts, establishing paediatric centre of excellence for providing tele-ICU services, mentoring and technical hand-holding to the district paediatric units. Augmentation of ICU beds in public healthcare system, out of which 20% will be paediatric ICU beds, is also a target area. The Centre will support in adding beds at existing community health centres (CHCs), primary health centres (PHCs) and sub-health centres (SHCs) by creating prefabricated structures and to establish bigger field hospitals (50-100 bedded units) at tier-II and tier-III cities and district headquarters. Funds can also be used to install liquid medical oxygen storage tanks with medical gas pipeline system; augment the existing fleet of ambulances to ensure at least one advance life support ambulance in each block; engage final year MBBS students, interns, postgraduate residents and final year B.Sc and general nursing midwifery nursing students for effective Covid management. “Test, isolate and treat” being the national strategy for effective Covid-19 management, support will be available to the state to maintain at least 21.5 lakhs tests per day. It will also lend flexible support to districts for meeting the requirement of essential medicines for Covid-19 management, including creation of buffer stock. The ₹23,123 crore Covid-19 Emergency Response & Health System Preparedness Package, phase-II, is a Centre-sponsored scheme with some Central sector components being implemented from July 1 to March 31, 2022. It aims to accelerate health system preparedness for early prevention, detection and management of Covid-19, with focus on health infrastructure development, including paediatric care.Headline: A shot in the armIntro: The assistance is under phase two of the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package Total amount: ₹1,721.45 crore Centre’s share: ₹1,032.87 crore State’s share: ₹688.58 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centre-clears-1-721-cr-covid-package-for-bihar-101626453013945.html
16-07-2021||Other||W Champaran ‘hooch’ death toll climbs to 16||The death toll due to suspected consumption of spurious liquor in Bihar’s West Champaran district climbed to 16 on Friday even as the police made the first arrest in the case and detained five others, including four women, for questioning, district officials said. “Two village chowkidars have also been suspended,” said a press release issued by the district administration.Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016.Bagaha superintendent of police Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav, who is also currently in-charge of Bettiah police, said, “Raids are being conducted. We have also pressed into service a dog squad . No seizure has been made as yet.”Late Thursday evening, police had registered a case in which two persons, identified as Thug Sah and Suresh Sah, were made named accused. On Friday, Thug Sah’s son Sumit was arrested. Kundan Kumar, district magistrate (West Champaran), said families of the deceased had denied they had consumed liquor. “One of those who died in Bagahi village was on dialysis, other at Deurawa village died following a heart attack,” he said, while describing the other deaths suspicious. “Causes of other deaths could not be known immediately as the last rites on the bodies had been performed. The matter is being investigated further,” Kumar said. “We have deployed medical teams at Deurawa and Bagahi villages to facilitate treatment for anyone with any symptoms,” he said. Top district and police officials visited Deurawa village on Thursday evening after the reports of deaths. “We took statements of about 40 people, including the family members of those who died, but all of them denied consumption of liquor. However, one of the two persons undergoing treatment confessed to having been served liquor,” Lalan Mohan Prasad, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Champaran range, said. However, villagers at Deurawa said sale and consumption liquor was rampant in their village. “My brother fell sick after consuming liquor which is being openly sold despite prohibition,” said Bhola, cousin of Mumtaz Ansari who confessed to have consuming liquor before falling sick. Meanwhile, the incident evoked a sharp reaction from opposition RJD . In a tweet, party supremo Lalu Prasad said, “In Bihar, thousands of people are dying every year from spurious liquor under good governance. Under the garb of prohibition, ruling party people are running a parallel illegal economy of ₹20,000 crores in Bihar. Lakhs of Dalits and poor are lodged in jails in the name of prohibition. Police have become corrupt and tyrannical.”Birendra Gupta, the CPI-ML (L) legislator from Sikta assembly constituency, termed the deaths as state sponsored and demanded the compensation of ₹4 lakh for dependent of each of the family of deceased. He also accused the district administration of hushing up the matter. “The family members of the deceased are under pressure...they earlier accepted that the deaths occurred due to consumption of illicit liquor,” said Gupta, who visited the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/w-champaran-hooch-death-toll-climbs-to-16-101626453013306.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Sec 144 clamped at tourist spots in Pune||Pune: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Friday issued an order to impose Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) at tourist destinations across seven talukas in Pune district to prevent Covid-19 spread. The talukas include Maval, Mulshi, Haveli, Ambegaon, Junnar, Bhor and Velhe. The prohibitory orders were issued after the local administrations were unable to control public movement at the popular places despite ban on visitors. As per Section 144 of CrPC, four or more persons are not allowed to assemble in one area. Vehicular entries are banned near waterfalls. “The restriction order will keep visitors from coming to the places like Lonavla and Khandala in groups,” said Dilip Pawar, senior police inspector, Lonavla city. The district administrator has ordered to keep strict watch on people movement near waterfalls during the monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sec-144-clamped-at-tourist-spots-in-pune-101626452593222.html
16-07-2021||Pune||PMC to invite PM Modi to inaugurate Pune metro||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch the city’s metro service.The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation has started trials on two priority sectors, which are almost complete.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), currently in power in the PMC, is looking to start commercial operations on these two routes before the date of the municipal elections is announced. Leader of house in PMC Ganesh Bidkar said, “The Pune and Nagpur metro was completed in record time. The Pune Metro will launch very soon. As the central government has given funding for the project, we would like to invite Prime Minister Modi to launch the metro.”The Nationalist Congress Party’s city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “When Pune Metro’s ground breaking ceremony happened, we were ruling in the PMC and we invited Prime Minister Modi and then chief minister. Now, we will ask the ruling BJP that they should invite the Prime Minister, along with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.”Maha-Metro states that these priority lines, Pimpri to Agriculture college and Vanaz to Garware college are ready. The PMC elections are scheduled to be held end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-invite-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-pune-metro-101626452113317.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Institutional quarantine compulsory for patients living in smaller homes: experts||Following experts recommending making institutional quarantine compulsory for those living in smaller homes, including a one BHK apartment, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday issued instructions to civic commissioners and collector to ensure that the recommendations are implemented. State advisors have recommended this measure to avoid the spread of infection within family members. Based on the recommendation given by Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid19 advisor to the state government that institutional quarantine must be compulsory for all those living in smaller spaces where they have shared bathroom and toilets deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “Dr Salunkhe following his two days visit to Sangli found that people living in shared space like a one bhk where they have to share toilets, bathroom and a wash basin are found to be infecting other family members. While those who live in large apartments like two or three bhk flats and have a separate toilet or bathroom can isolate the patient properly, for those who cannot I have issued instructions to the civic commissioners and district collector to ensure that they are institutionally quarantined.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been shutting down its covid care centers which were reserved for asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms Covid19 patients as the number of active caseload has been going down. As of now Pune district has over 9,632 active Covid19 patients of which 4,250 patients are isolated at home which is 44 per cent of the active patients as per the information from the district information office. As of Friday, Pune district has 219 covid care centers reserved for asymptomatic Covid19 patients or those with mild symptoms out of these PMC has 63 CCC’s, PCMC has 55 and Pune rural has the highest with 101 CCCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/institutional-quarantine-compulsory-for-patients-living-in-smaller-homes-experts-101626450973300.html
16-07-2021||Pune||PMC floats unseasonal tender of removal of hyacinth from river and lakes||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated two tenders to remove hyacinth from two lakes and Mula-Mutha river in the monsoon. Normally, hyacinth removal work is done in the pre-monsoon season. During the monsoon, hyacinth flows along with water. Now, civic activists have raised questions about this untimely tender for the removal of hyacinth. Every year in the month of February to May, residents along Mula-Mutha face the problem of hyacinth. Residents complain of an increase in mosquitoes and bad odour. Earlier, the PMC made provision of around ₹54 lakh to remove hyacinth through lakes and Mula-Mutha. However, the PMC has allocated a budget of around ₹2 crore to remove hyacinth from Mula-Mutha and two lakes. The tender was also floated before the monsoon despite the peak of the problem being in summer. However, the PMC has floated unseasonal tenders of removal of hyacinth in the month of monsoon season when hyacinth flows along with water. Shreedhar Yeolekar, executive engineer, sewerage and maintenance and repair department said, “We have floated a tender to remove hyacinth from two lakes (Pashan and Katraj), Mula and Mutha rivers. The tender is ₹50 lakh for lakes and ₹1 crore for the rivers.” He said, “Actually, the removal of hyacinth starts from December onwards. However, we started the hyacinth removal process from April onwards because earlier the work was carried out by the health department. From this budget (2021-22), the work has been handed over to the drainage department. So, it takes time to float tenders. Now onwards, the drainage department will tackle hyacinth problems. This tender has a period up to March-2022.” One of the senior officials of the PMC sewerage and maintenance and repair department said, “Last year, the health department was fully engaged to handle the Covid-19 pandemic and hyacinth problem was not addressed well. However, we removed around 70 per cent of hyacinth so far during the April to March period. Now, there is a break of monsoon. The problem has arisen once again as water is steady. Normally, water flows in monsoon season and hyacinth flows along with water.” Kaka Kulkarni, a civic activist said, “The PMC doesn’t have a fool proof plan to clear hyacinth. Every year, people register complaints and the PMC starts work. It is a long pending problem. PMC should have to make time bound problems to avoid hyacinth problems. It is really surprising that PMC floated tender in monsoon season when hyacinth problem is not an issue.” Pune city faces more hyacinth problems as compared to Khadki cantonment and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). There are two confluences of rivers Mula-Mutha at Sanagamwadi area and Mula-Pavana river comes together at Sangvi. Therefore, hyacinth flows from Mula and Pavana comes to Pune jurisdiction. Of the 15 ward offices, Mula-Mutha river is passing through the seventh ward offices area. However, Aundh and Warje are the most affected areas of water hyacinth. Bopodi, Mundwa residents have faced maximum problems. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) pushes hyacinth in the PMC area. Bopodi is adjacent to the PCMC limit. So, they face more as compared to other ward offices. Normally, PMC was using JCB to remove hyacinth from Mula-Mutha Rivers. Since 2013, PMC has been using Spider machines. The machine is mounted on a truck. It revolves around 360 degrees. It picks up the hyacinth from the water surface and clean surface||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-unseasonal-tender-of-removal-of-hyacinth-from-river-and-lakes-101626450373177.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Fire breaks out at IISER chemical lab||A fire broke out inside the Indian Institute of Science and Research (IISER) on Friday afternoon that left a student with minor injuries. According to the central fire brigade officials, the fire broke out in the chemical laboratory but the cause of the incident could not be ascertained. According to the fire department, the fire took place between 12.30 to 1 pm and was brought under control in half an hour. Five water tenders and over two dozen firemen were deployed at the spot to put out the fire. A student escaped with minor injuries was given first aid and sent to private hospital for further treatment. PMC chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said, “The fire took place on the third floor where the chemical lab is located. The storage of organic chemicals and solvents caught fire and destroyed the entire building. We immediately rushed the fire tenders and water tankers. The fire was brought under control within half an hour. The extent of damage and cause of fire is being assessed.” Fire officials who were on duty said that the lab was reduced to ashes and the entire building was burnt due to chemical induced fire which raged due to solvents catching fire. However, nobody from the institute was injured except a fireman who had sustained a cut in the hand while carrying out firefighting operations. The IISER at Pashan is one of the seven IISERs established by the union government at Berhampur, Bhopal, Kolkata, Mohali, Thiruvananthapuram and Tirupati to integrate and promote interdisciplinary science education and research. Over the years IISERs have been successfully attracting talented young minds. An overarching goal of the IISERs is to enable students to shape the nation by inventing and implementing sustainable solutions for societal problems through research in science. In a short span of time IISERs have generated an incredible amount of intellectual property in the form of publications and patents. Fire broke out at laboratory number 180 of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), in Pune at 1.45pm on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-breaks-out-at-iiser-chemical-lab-101626450253226.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Wife arrested for killing husband||The Khadak police have arrested a wife for allegedly murdering her husband and later hanging him onto the roof ceiling. The crime came to light after their daughter confided about the gruesome murder and hanging to the relatives at the time of cremation. According to the police, the murder took place at their residence on July 12 at around 11 am when Deepak Dalvir Sonar (36) was strangulated to death after being bashed on the head with a bat by his wife identified as Radhika. Police inspector Sheehari Bahirat said that Radhika and deceased, who was security guard, quarrelled over a number of issues as he was a drunkard. He doubted her character which left her enraged. On the night of the murder, he came home drunk and picked up a quarrel after which she got angry and hit him on head with a bat leading to his death. A case of murder has been registered, he said. The FIR states that she left her house for next two days and travelled outside. Their daughter confided to the relatives about the incident after which they approached the Khadak police and an FIR was lodged leading to her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wife-arrested-for-killing-husband-101626450193209.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar vouches support for the development plan of 23 villages||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar vouched his support for the Development Plan (DP) for 23 merged villages by PMRDA (Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority). Pawar was in the city to attend the weekly Covid -19 review meeting. When media reporters asked him about the ongoing controversy over the Development Plan (DP) for merged villages, he replied, “The state government had the right to take decisions about the development plan.” Pawar also added that in democracy, opposition parties and citizens have the right to oppose or condemn any decision. Meanwhile, Pawar on Friday early morning visited the new Covid-19 hospital which was erected by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at Baner. This is the second Covid jumbo hospital in Baner. The second Covid hospital has a capacity of 209 beds. Among them, 147 are oxygen beds and 62 are ICU beds. Pawar visited the hospital at 7 am in the morning along with municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and city engineer Prashant Waghmare were present at the time. He visited the hospital and checked the progress. PMC got this multi-storey building free of cost under reservation. With the help of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, PMC erected the new hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-vouches-support-for-the-development-plan-of-23-villages-101626450073185.html
16-07-2021||Other||Cows, buffaloes in focus in budget speech of Assam’s first woman finance minister||Four days after Assam’s BJP-led government tabled a Bill in assembly proposing regulations on the slaughter of cows, sale of beef and transportation of cattle, the state’s first woman finance minister on Friday gave prominence to cows and buffaloes in her maiden budget speech. “It is a proud moment for us as the state’s first woman finance minister presented her maiden budget today. I would like to congratulate Neog for a people-friendly tax-free budget that also focuses on our key election promises,” said chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Presenting a tax-free budget, Ajanta Neog, a former Congress minister who joined BJP just ahead of the assembly polls this year, also indicated how the government planned to fulfil the party’s poll promise of waiving off microfinance loans and creating 100,000 jobs. The minister mentioned that Assam would now introduce the use of sex-sorted artificial insemination to increase births of female calves in cattle and buffalo farms in order to benefit dairy farmers. “It would control the birth of scrub bulls as 80% to 90% of all births would be female calves. It shall help meet the ever-increasing demand for milk in the state,” said Neog. This year, the government proposed to cover 50,000 cattle and buffaloes with the use of 125,000 doses of sex-sorted semen procured from reputed sources across the country. “With a 30% conception rate, at least 12,000 female calves are expected to be born in the first year itself. The scheme will be continued by inseminating 50,000 animals annually for the next four years. Due to this, milk production will get a massive boost and will have a positive impact on the economy,” she said. The government also proposed to buy 1500 Murrah buffaloes, support 10 dairy entrepreneurs and provide seed money to 200 dairy cooperative societies with a budget outlay of ₹4 crore. On Monday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tabled the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021 which sought to ban the transport of cattle within the state from other states to Assam and the other way round. It also proposed a ban on the sale of beef in areas where non-beef eating communities are in majority and within a radius of 5 kilometres from temples and other Hindu religious institutions. Friday’s budget earmarked a sum of ₹7,500 crore to fulfil the BJP’s election promise of providing relief to around 2.6 million borrowers who had taken loans from microfinance institutions. Neog also gave details of how the government proposed to provide 100,000 jobs promised by the BJP in its election manifesto. Most of the jobs would get created in the police (nearly 28,000), education (28,000), health (9,000) and animal husbandry and veterinary (7000) departments. The government also announced an increase of monthly financial benefit provided to women from ₹830 to ₹1,000 as part of the Orunodoi, the biggest flagship beneficiary scheme of the state that covers over 2 million households. It was also decided to increase the number of beneficiary households under the scheme by another 636,000. “We have nearly 6.5 million households in the state and Orunodoi would cover 2.6 million or nearly 40% of them. I have earmarked ₹1,800 crore for the scheme this year,” Neog said. The budget earmarked ₹100 crore for the newly created department of indigenous faith and culture which will seek to preserve and propagate the unique languages, cultures, religious customs and rituals, attires, food habits, folk beliefs and traditions of indigenous communities and ethnic groups. Thirteen new roads as part of Asom Mala, repair of 1,000 kilometres of the nearly 4500 kilometre-long embankments along rivers meant to prevent floods, setting up of 1,000 new models ‘Anganwadi Kendras’ are part of the budget plans along with mobile phones to nearly 800,000 needy students to help with their studies. The budget also announced the formation of a new district at Tamulpur, support to children who lost their parents to Covid-19 and also to women who lost their husbands to the disease. Setting up of 5 new medical colleges and 10 commando battalions are also included in the budget. Neog announced a financial assistance of ₹1 lakh each to the next of kin of all those killed due to Covid19. Till Friday, the state had recorded 4961 deaths due to the disease. Assam’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) in 2015-16 at variable prices was ₹227, 959 crore. It increased to ₹351,318 crore during 2019-20. The percentage growth during the period was 11.22%. Of the ₹99,418 crore budget outlay in 2019-20, ₹82,488 crore was spent, which was an expenditure of 83%. The budget estimate of 2021-22 shows a receipt of ₹107,317 crore under the consolidated fund of the state. After adding receipt of ₹182,253 crore under the public account and ₹200 crore from the contingency fund, the aggregate receipts amount to ₹289,770 crore.The aggregate expenditure for the year is estimated at ₹289,367 crore. Though the estimated transactions in the year are expected to result in a surplus of ₹403 crore, due to an opening deficit of ₹969 crore at the start of the year, the budget deficit is expected to be ₹566 crore at the end of the year. Neog informed that during 2020-21, the state collected ₹14,645 crore in taxes as against ₹14,967 crore during the previous year. During the first quarter of the current fiscal, the state had collected ₹3501 crore against ₹1920 crore during the same period last year. “We are totally disappointed with the budget as it neglects the sufferings of millions affected by Covid and the poor state of the economy,” said former minister and senior Congress MLA Rockybul Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cows-buffaloes-in-focus-in-budget-speech-of-assam-s-first-woman-finance-minister-101626449894444.html
16-07-2021||Pune||ACB arrests PMC admin officer for accepting ₹50,000 bribe||An administrative officer posted at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was caught red handed accepting a bribe of ₹50,000 by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Friday. According to the ACB, the accused identified as Shivaji Mormare is currently holding the post of an assistant administrative officer with the education department. He demanded ₹50,000 as bribe from the complainant to get the work. The complainant approached the ACB and a trap was laid wherein he was arrested accepting the amount red-handed. The state (ACB) on June 14 had arrested the chief legal officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹50,000 for processing a file pertaining to transfer of development rights (TDR). Idhate (56) was arrested by a team of the ACB while allegedly accepting the bribe from the complainant, who had moved an application for receiving TDR in the PMC limits. The ACB has appealed to the citizens to approach them in case where public servants were demanding bribe for official work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/acb-arrests-pmc-admin-officer-for-accepting-rs-50-000-bribe-101626449893149.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Farmers, meat industry suffer losses due to hotel timing restrictions||With hotel businesses functioning at only half capacity, the agriculture producers and the meat industry, primarily chicken and mutton is suffering losses in the city. The Pune Agriculture Market Committee’s trader association officially requested the state government and the administrator of the committee to allow hotels to run until evening as there are no buyers for the agriculture produce in the market committee. APMC traders’ association president Vilas Bhujbal and secretary Rohan Ursal said, “For the last whole week, the agriculture arrival is more in the market committee but there are less buyers. The bulk buyers are hotel operators but as the hotels are only running until 4pm, they are purchasing very less.” The traders’ association demanded the administrator to request the state government to allow the hotel business till late evening as it is linked to agriculture produce. Meanwhile, chicken, mutton and fish sellers are also complaining that the business has come down by almost half as hotels and bars not allowed in the evening. Taru fish sellers located at Dhankawadi said, “The main hotel business is in the evening. Even our sale is getting affected in the evening but as the hotels are running only till 4pm, the sale comes down by 50 per cent and only domestic customers are purchasing.” The APMC traders said, “As the agriculture produce is not getting sold, it is getting damaged. Farmers and traders facing loss by considering that the state government needs to think about increasing hotel timings as they are bulk purchasers.” Traders also demanded to allow the hawkers to sell vegetables in the evening. As the local administration is not allowing hawkers to sell vegetables in the evening, the retailers are also buying less. As there is enough arrival and not much demand, the rates for vegetables are very less in the wholesale market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/farmers-meat-industry-suffer-losses-due-to-hotel-timing-restrictions-101626449773268.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Fire will not hamper Covid-19 testing or genome sequencing: IISER||A major fire was reported on Friday morning at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune (IISER). No one was reported to be injured in the fire. The institute also confirmed that the fire would not hamper the ongoing Covid-19 testing or genome sequencing work going on at the institute. The fire was reported at the chemistry lab while the sequencing work happens at the Biology lab or the adjacent laboratory under CSIR-NCL, both IISER and NCL are part of the INSACOG, a consortium of labs to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2. In a press statement issued by IISER the institute stated that the fire broke out in a chemistry laboratory on the second floor of the main building of IISER at around noon time. Fire tenders rushed in by 12.45 pm and by 2:30- pm the fire was under control. “The building was evacuated immediately after the fire broke out. There are no casualties. A student sustained minor injury on his hands and has been attended to with first-aid. The student is doing fine. The extent of damage to research labs is being assessed. The institute shall appoint a committee to investigate the incident,” read the statement. The institute is part of the 28 national laboratories to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 which causes Covid19. INSACOG is a multi-laboratory, multi-agency, pan-India network to monitor genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 by a sentinel sequencing effort. The network carries out whole genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 virus across the nation, aiding the understanding of how the virus spreads and evolves, and provides information to aid public health response. The labs are also involved in identifying the various strains of the virus including delta variants which is a variant pf concern. Officials From both IISER and NCL confirmed that the fire would not hamper the sequencing work. Prof LS Shashidhara, co-founder of Pune Knowledge Cluster, which is coordinating genome sequencing efforts in Pune in partnership with BJMC, CSIR-NCL and IISER Pune said, “IISER Pune and CSIR-NCL are sequencing viral genomes from patient samples. We are not specifically looking for Delta or Delta plus but the idea is to discover which strains are prevalent across Maharashtra but mainly Pune and how various strains emerged and spread since January 2021. It could be any variant present. IISER Pune sequencing efforts are larger scale and results are not yet out. IISER Pune sequencing efforts are larger scale and results are not yet out.” Dr Anu Raghunathan, principal investigator at CSIR-NCL said, “Ours is an independent institute than ISSER although we are in the same premises and adjacent to the building that caught fire. However, both ISSER and NCL are part of INSACOG. The fire would not hamper the genome sequencing work at NCL.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-will-not-hamper-covid-19-testing-or-genome-sequencing-iiser-101626449653176.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Warkaris ready for Pandharpur with RT-PCR negative report||The committees of Sant Tukaram maharaj temple, Dehu and Sant Dnyaneshwar maharaj, Alandi are getting ready to carry out the respective pakhis to Pandharpur via the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus on July 19. During palkhi prasthan (departure) ceremony which was held on July 1 and 2 saw 27 warkaris getting impacted due to Covid in Alandi on the ceremony day. However, the management is making sure of following all safety protocols during the trip to Pandharpur. On July 19 around 9am, respective buses along with 40 warkaris in each bus from Dehu and Alandi will start their journey for Pandharpur. As the walking wari tradition was cancelled for this year, from July 3 to July 19, the palkhis were kept in temples in Dehu and Alandi. “The 25 RT-PCR tests were conducted today in Alandi, on Sunday; we will have their reports in our hands. The remaining warkaris will produce a negative RT-PCR report before boarding the bus to Pandharpur,” said advocate Vikas Dhage Patil, palkhi ceremony head for this year. Representatives of the various dindis will be going to Pandharpur from Alandi. In Dehu, as well, RT-PCR tests were conducted on Friday. “RT-PCR report is must for all the warkari and even bus drivers and respective conductors will have RT-PCR negative report with them. In Bus, a mask is a must for all during a complete journey,” said Sanjay More, head of Palkhi procession, Dehu. In Pandharpur and neighbouring villages, curfew will start from July 18 for five days ahead of ekadashi which is on July 20. Seven days curfew is imposed in Pandharpur and eight days around the temple, ghats and Nagar Pradakshina. The state transport buses have been banned from entering the town from July 17 to July 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/warkaris-ready-for-pandharpur-with-rt-pcr-negative-report-101626449593127.html
16-07-2021||Pune||1,878 kg ganja worth ₹3.75 crore seized by DRI Pune||In a major haul, sleuths of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Pune regional unit, have seized 1,878-kilogram ganja popularly known also cannabis or marijuana estimated to be worth ₹3.75 crore in the open market. The officers of DRI, Pune regional unit have intercepted two vehicles - one Eicher truck bearing registration number TS-07-UA7962 and one Maruti Ciaz car bearing a temporary registration number TS09 EP T/R 90, on the Solapur-Pune Highway on Thursday. During detailed examination of the seized trucks at Central GST Office, 41/A Sassoon Road, Pune, it was found that below the cargo of loose pieces of pineapple and jackfruit, HDPE bags containing Ganja (also known as Cannabis or Marijuana) were concealed. A detailed examination of the truck resulted into the recovery of 40 HDPE bags containing small rectangular packets having Ganja. The Maruti Ciaz car was used for escorting the Ganja laden truck; a total of 1,878 kilogram of ganja was recovered from the 40 HDPE bags and seized under the provisions of the NDPS Act, 1985. It is estimated that the value of this contraband consignment of Ganja would be over Rs. 3.75 crore in the illicit market. The statements of total six persons including two persons who were occupants of the said truck and four persons who were occupants of Maruti Ciaz car, were recorded wherein they admitted that they were assisting in illegal trafficking of ganja from Andhra Pradesh. The ganja was destined to a place in Pune. All the six persons identified as Vilas Pawar, Abhishek Ghawte, Vinod Rathod, Raju Gondhwe, Shriniwas Pawar and Dharamaraj Shinde, who are residents of Maharashtra and Telangana, were arrested under the provisions of the NDPS Act, 1985. Further investigation in this case is in progress, DRI Pune stated. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence is a premier agency which combats import export frauds, besides doing anti-smuggling and anti-narcotics work. The general public may share any information pertaining to the offences under the NDPS Act or the Customs Act, including about the smuggling of goods like gold, cigarettes and may contact DRI, Pune office at 020-29705899.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1878-kg-ganja-worth-rs-3-75-crore-seized-by-dri-pune-101626449053178.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 7,761 single-day Covid-19 infections, Mumbai records 443 new cases||Maharashtra continued to report over 7,000 daily new infections of the coronavirus as 7,761 people tested positive on Friday, data from the government showed. The total confirmed cases reached 6,197,018. The death toll in the state climbed to 126,727 after 167 more people succumbed to their illness in the previous 24 hours.The capital city of Mumbai witnessed 443 new cases in the day and its tally reached 730,234. The city’s death toll rose to 15,678 with 11 new fatalities in the day, the data also showed.The daily new cases in Maharashtra have remained above 7,000 on Monday and Tuesday when the state reported 7,603 new cases and 7,243 new cases respectively. On Wednesday (8,602 cases) and Thursday (8,010 cases), the state reported over 8,000 new cases each day. The death toll, however, has remained above 170 on all days in the week except Monday, when it was 53.Also read | Take more proactive measures: PM Modi urges states with high Covid-19 casesAs many as 13,452 patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday as the cumulative recoveries climbed to 5,965,644 so far. Meanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 215,406 new samples for Covid-19 and so far 45,039,617 samples have been tested for the disease.Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the measures taken by the state government to tackle the second wave of the pandemic and also about the “planning in works to mitigate the impending third wave,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. Modi met over a video conferencing call with the CMs of six states -- Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala -- to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in these states. During the meeting, the PM expressed concerns about the increasing number of infections in Maharashtra and Kerala.Thackeray also reiterated his demand for 30 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine per month to the state in the meeting with Modi. “If the state gets three crore doses per month, vaccination in all the districts can be completed,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.On the vaccination front, 38,268,323 doses have been administered in the state as of 7am on Friday, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. This included 29,723,378 first doses and 8,544,945 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-7-761-single-day-covid-19-infections-mumbai-records-443-new-cases-101626448497011.html
16-07-2021||Dehradun||‘Petrol costlier than desi ghee, clear loot of common man’s money’: Sachin Pilot||Senior Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, Sachin Pilot launched a scathing attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Centre on rising fuel prices in the country saying the prices of petrol and diesel are now “more than desi ghee.”Pilot’s comments came during his press conference on Friday in presence of Uttarakhand state president Pritam Singh and other party leaders at Congress state headquarters in Dehradun.Attacking BJP, Pilot said, “After BJP came to power in 2014, there are many issues due to which the people of the country are suffering but one of the major ones is the skyrocketing prices of petrol and diesel. Their price is now more than desi ghee as claimed by an elderly while having a conversation with me in Rajasthan.”“It is beyond imagination that the prices of petrol have crossed ₹100 in more than 250 cities in the country. This year alone, so far, the government has increased the price of petrol a total of 66 times. As per the government’s own figures, the excise on petrol has increased by 250% while 800% on diesel in the last seven years which has got them a revenue of ₹25lakh crores. This is nothing but a direct attack on the pockets of common man,” he said.The senior Congress leader also compared the prices of petrol during the UPA rule in 2014.“In 2014, when the crude oil price was US $105, the price of petrol was ₹71. But now, when the crude oil price has come down to about US $45, the petrol price is more than ₹100. It is beyond understanding why the BJP government is not passing on the benefit of low crude oil prices to the public by reducing the petrol prices and is looting them by increasing it. This government is just taking from the public and not giving it anything,” said Pilot.He also accused the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre of reducing the domestic production of crude oil.“They talk of Atmanirbhar India but have reduced the domestic production of country’s total petroleum consumption from 24% during our rule in 2014 to 18% today. The oil major ONGC, which was a cash surplus company at our time, is now cash strapped because it was forced by this government to buy out loss-making Gujarat Petroleum Corporation which was on the brink of insolvency,” said Pilot.He also attacked the “sad state of the country’s economy.”“Today, there is job loss and unemployment everywhere in the country. In the last two months alone, 2 crore jobs have been lost against this government’s promise of generating 2 crore new jobs. Also, because of this government’s faulty economic policies, 23 crore people in the country have slipped below the poverty line,” said Pilot.“But whenever we demand answers from it on these issues, it only talks of India-Pakistan, mandir-masjid or gives slogans which are of no use,” he said.Later during his address to media on the Uttarakhand elections, Pilot said that the party is ready to fight it “unitedly and is confident of winning with a thumping majority.”“The ruling BJP, despite getting a clear mandate from the public, has created political instability in Uttarakhand by changing two CMs and having a third one in four months. The people of the state are feeling duped and waiting to give their full support to Congress in the 2022 elections. Till then, the party will raise the issues faced by the public,” said Pilot.On the factionalism in the party’s Uttarakhand unit, he said, “There is no tussle for power in the party but that’s a healthy competition showing able and efficient leadership here. As per the party’s tradition, if the party wins the polls in 2022, the central leadership will choose the face of CM without any issues.”The state BJP, meanwhile, refuted Pilot’s allegation against the government. “Pilot is dissatisfied with his central leadership and is just doing his duty as party leader in whichever state he is being sent to,” said Madan Kaushik, party state president.“Also, before giving a lecture on fuel prices, he should have asked his government to slash the VAT of petrol and diesel in Rajasthan where it is maximum in the country. Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, both ruled by the BJP, have the lowest VAT,” he added.Kaushik also said, “The prices of petrol and diesel have risen because of price hike in the international market amid Covid-19 pandemic which has affected economies of all the countries including India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/petrol-costlier-than-desi-ghee-clear-loot-of-common-man-s-money-sachin-pilot-101626447913888.html
16-07-2021||Other||Distribution reform scheme: Centre tells UP to submit DPR by Oct||LUCKNOW The central government has asked Uttar Pradesh and other states to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) for the works to be undertaken under the new and ambitious reform-based result-oriented power distribution scheme worth ₹3.03 lakh crore. Alongside, the controversial Electricity (Amendment) Bill, seeking to open up the distribution sector for multiple players enabling consumers to choose their service provider may also be tabled during the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Powermen in UP are against many provisions of the Bill. The new scheme announced in the Union Budget-2021-22 was cleared by the Cabinet on June 30. To remain effective for five years till 2024-25, the conditional revamped distribution reform scheme aims to improve operational efficiencies of state power distribution companies by helping them strengthen their infrastructure. “We have asked states to submit their DPRs for the works they want to get done under the new scheme latest by October this year,” union secretary, power, Alok Kumar, said over phone. He said UP would be a major beneficiary of the new initiative. “This scheme also focuses on three things — installation of prepaid smart meters in all the 500 cities covered under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), segregating agriculture feeders from domestic feeders and putting up energy meters on all the distribution transformers,” disclosed Kumar. These measures, he said, would go a long way in improving discoms’ financial position by plugging in pilferages, reducing distribution losses and enhancing revenue collection, and in turn, helping them provide better services to consumers. In UP, 61 cities with a population above one lakh have been identified for the AMRUT scheme. And all of them would have prepaid smart meters under the centre’s distribution reform project. Smaller towns in this category include Akbarpur, Amroha, Ayodhya, Ballia, Banda, Baraut, Basti, Badaun, Chandausi, Etah, Kasganj, Etawah, Fatehpur, Firozabad, Sitapur and Hardoi. In the meantime, the central government is also gearing up make important amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003, to pave the way for the entry of more players, including private suppliers, into the field of power distribution. Kumar said the Electricity (Amendment) Bill had been sent the cabinet secretariat that may refer the same to the cabinet for approval. “Subject to the cabinet’s nod, the Bill may be tabled during the coming monsoon session,” he indicated. UP’s power engineers and employees are against the government bringing the Bill without taking the main stakeholders into confidence and have decided to join a nationwide one-day strike called by the All-India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF) on August 10. “We have served a notice on the union power ministry with regard to the one-day strike,” said Shailendra Dubey, AIPEF chairman, here on Friday. He said UP’s power engineers and employees would also join the strike. The proposed amendments, he claimed, aimed to benefit private companies at the expense of the interests of consumers and employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/distribution-reform-scheme-centre-tells-up-to-submit-dpr-by-oct-101626446473007.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury rises in Punjab, Haryana; Chandigarh scorches at 38 degrees Celsius||After a few days of respite following rains, maximum temperatures on Friday rose and hovered above normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab.According to the Meteorological Department here, Chandigarh recorded a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal range.Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 deg C, up two notches while Hisar registered a high of 38.1 deg C, one degree above normal.The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 37.3 deg C, up one notch while Gurgaon also experienced hot weather at 37.8 deg C, up three degrees. Karnal's maximum settled at 35 deg C, up one degree against normal.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35.6 deg C, one degree above normal.Ludhiana recorded a high of 36.7 deg C, three notches above normal limits while Patiala's maximum settled at 36 deg C, two more than the normal limit.According to the Met Department forecast for Haryana, heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18, 19 and 20 in the state.Thunderstorm or lightning is also likely at isolated places during the period in the state.The forecast for Punjab says that heavy rain is likely at isolated places on July 18 and heavy to very heavy rain likely at isolated places in the state on July 19 and 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-rises-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-scorches-at-38-degrees-celsius-101626445322175.html
16-07-2021||Other||Jal Nigam recruitment anomalies: Begin trial of Azam through video conferencing, says court||LUCKNOW A Lucknow court ordered to start the trial of former cabinet minister and Rampur MP, Azam Khan, through video conferencing over his alleged involvement in anomalies related to recruitments on 1,300 posts, including 122 assistant engineers and 853 junior engineers in Jal Nigam during the Samajwadi Party regime between 2012 and 2017.A senior government official said the court of special judge, anti corruption, Manoj Pandey issued the order (dated July 15) and allowed to start the trial of the former minister in the case. He said the court had asked the Sitapur jail authorities to make Khan appear before it through video conferencing on Monday (July 19). The official said SIT had served B-warrant against Khan to Sitapur jail authorities in the recruitment case as he is lodged there since February 26, 2020 in another case related to alleged forgery in age-proof documents of his son Abdullah Azam.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) had earlier filed chargesheet against Khan and other accused, including one Girish Chandra Srivastava, Neeraj Malik, Vishwajeet Singh, Ajay Kumar Yadav, Santosh Kumar Rastogi, Roman Fernandez and Kuldeep Singh Negi in the matter, he added.The official said the chargesheet was filed after getting prosecution sanction from the state government on the basis of findings about his involvement in the alleged anomalies in recruitment process of Jal Nigam.The SIT had earlier lodged an FIR against five people, including the former minister, the then secretary of urban development, SP Singh, and the then managing director of Jal Nigam, PK Ashudaani, on April 25, 2018. The former minister was the then chairman of Jal Nigam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jal-nigam-recruitment-anomalies-begin-trial-of-azam-through-video-conferencing-says-court-101626445692963.html
16-07-2021||Patna||Teachers’ recruitment: FIRs lodged against recruiting agencies in Bihar||After postponing counselling for employment in 400 recruiting agencies at the panchayat level, following the detection of irregularities in preparation of merit lists, Bihar’s education department has got FIRs registered in Gayaghat and Paru blocks of Muzaffarpur.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary has directed the department officials to conduct a detailed inquiry and take strong action against those involved in irregularities so that there is transparency in the counselling and recruitment process. “Everything is being monitored through live streaming both at the state level as well as the district level to prevent any discrepancy,” the minister said.Also Read | Policeman crushed to death by SUV transporting liquor in Bihar’s KeotiThe process, in 400 panchayats, was put on hold after the director, primary education, detected anomalies in the merit lists during review. The names of several candidates were missing despite and the merit list was not completed by the deadline. In the 400 panchayats, the process will now continue after irregularities are resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/teachers-recruitment-firs-lodged-against-recruiting-agencies-in-bihar-101626444253453.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: A Tale of Three Cities||Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata — three cities that glitter like a tiara across India’s forehead; each equally eulogised, criticised, glorified and vilified. Each city singularly different, unabashedly divergent and a world unto itself. One, celebrated as the country’s business and film capital; another, the seat of its administration and political power; and the third, a repository of its intellectual and cultural ethos. But beyond their stereotyping and mythology, behind their facades and fences, what are they really like? Surely, there’s no better way to get under the skin of a city than to dine as a guest in one of its celebrated homes. For it is only here, ensconced within the four walls of your host’s private residence, that you are afforded a peek into their city’s heart and can get a measure of its manners and modes, its customs and canons, what makes it tick and what gets its goat. “The first question you get asked by people you’ve just been introduced to at a Delhi dinner is: Where do you live?” says a long-time resident of the Capital. “In Delhi, location is everything. A Delhiwala can gauge what work you do and how much you’re worth in two seconds flat — just by knowing where you live. On the other hand, in Kolkata, the first questions I’m asked are usually to find out which authors and filmmakers I admire and which political ideology I adhere to…” And what about Mumbai, I prompt the long-time Capital resident, what are the first questions you get asked here? “In Mumbai, no one really bothers about where you live or what books you read — all they want to know is what you do,” she guffaws. **************************** “Even the art on the walls of each of these cities is so very different,” says a young corporate honcho, whose work takes him frequently to all three cities. “In Delhi, it is wall-to-wall Hussains and humongous works by Subodh Gupta and Ravindra Reddy — after all they have the space for them. In Mumbai, you’re more likely to see the ‘progressives’ on the walls like Raza and Souza, while older collectors display their Shiavax Chawdas and Aras with pride. And of course, the grand old homes in Kolkata feature works primarily by the Bengali masters and Ganesh Pyne,” he says, adding, “But that’s not all, even what you see on the bookshelves is so very different in all three places.” How so? “Well, firstly in Delhi, there are two kinds of people,” says the corporate honcho, “Those who display handsome, leather-bound collections of volumes, which you know have never been opened even once; then there are the other homes — mostly in Lutyen’s Delhi — where you will almost certainly see well-thumbed copies of William Dalrymple’s City of Djinns, Tharoor’s The Great Indian Novel and Jawaharlal Nehru: A Biography by Frank Moraes.” And Mumbai? “In Mumbai, you’re more likely to encounter copies of Shantaram, Sacred Games, Maximum City and A Brief History of Time. Meanwhile in Kolkata, as to be expected, Tagore’s collected works take pride of place, along with books by Amit Chaudhuri, Amitav Ghosh and Siddhartha Mukherjee…” **************************** But of course, it’s not only what’s on the walls and shelves that tell the tales of these three cities and their individual traits, but also what transpires over the course of the evening: What is spoken about and is not can convey so much about a city’s ethos. As to be expected, here too there are striking differences. A media maven, who finds himself in one or the other of these three every four months or so, says he follows simple ground rules: “I never begin a conversation about politics in Delhi, if I don’t have lots of time. In Mumbai, I avoid talking about business or the stock exchange if I’m party-hopping; and in Kolkata, I never enter a discussion about football or Mamata Banerjee, if I want a peaceful evening ahead.” Ah yes, what about the sensitivities in each city, I ask the media maven: What does an outsider have to remember never to say at dinner? “That’s simple,” he replies, “The rule of thumb in Delhi is don’t criticise the ruling regime — unless you’re among really close friends. In Mumbai, it’s best not to criticise Sachin Tendulkar or Lata Mangeshkar; and in Kolkata, you’d be better off not saying a word against Sourav Ganguly and Satyajit Ray.” And what do people like to show off about over dinner in these three cities, I ask the media maven. “I guess in Delhi, it’s about owning a farmhouse, or a politician; in Kolkata, people take great pride in telling you about their priceless collections of shawls, or first editions of Tagore’s Gitanjali; and in Mumbai, it’s all about owning a boat and a getaway home in Alibag — though these days, among the younger lot, it’s also about their latest three-star Michelin experience,” he says. **************************** Which brings us to the most important part of at-home dining — the food on the table and the drinks on offer. “It’s still scotch, preferably Johnny Walker Blue Label, with kebabs, butter chicken tandoori naan and kali daal, in Delhi — unless Ritu Dalmia is catering,” says the long-time Capital resident. “In Mumbai, it could be anything from finger foods like Japanese sushi to Gujarati sev puri and khandvi, to a tossed green salad and a charcuterie and cheese board, accompanied by a choice of new-world wines and Bloody Mary or Margaritas. In Kolkata, the table will groan with homemade Bengali specialties like machher jhol, hilsa curry and often a platter of the city’s famous Nizam’s rolls, Arsalan’s biryani or Chinese dishes from Tangra.” What about dress codes, how seriously should one take them, we ask the Delhi resident. “That’s particularly revealing,” she says, “In Delhi, smart casual could mean either showing up in a Modi jacket or in heavy-duty designer brands like Gucci-Pucci and Dior. In Mumbai, generally it’s casual chic and anything goes — jeans, capris, Hawaiian shirts, flip flops or even Kohlapuri chappals. Of course, in Kolkata, a crisp dhoti-kurta with a perfectly crimpled hand finish is de rigueur…”**************************** Anything else you can tell us about these cities, we ask our three friends who appear to be so well versed in their ways. “Yes. What time you arrive for the dinner says a lot about you in Delhi,” says the corporate honcho. “In Delhi, an 8.30pm invitation means that your main guest will show up three hours later, mumbling ‘sorry, ministerji called’,” he smiles. “In Mumbai, it seems to be all about being fashionably late,” says the Capital’s long-time resident, adding, “Here, the words Midnight’s Children take on a new meaning, as no self-respecting guest arrives before 10.30pm and the dinner goes on till the wee hours.” “Try coming even half-an-hour late in Kolkata and you’re sure to receive a frosty look from your hosts and what’s worse — find the ilish curry almost finished,” says the media maven. “Also, you might never get invited again.” **************************** So, there you have it, gentle reader: The ins and outs of at-home dining in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, from people in the know. As we said at the very beginning, each city singularly different, unabashedly divergent and a world unto itself…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-a-tale-of-three-cities-101626444073778.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Victims of Covid-19 vaccine fraud will be vaccinated soon, BMC tells Bombay HC||A separate drive will be undertaken to inoculate more than 2,000 persons in Mumbai who became the victims of bogus Covid-19 vaccination camps, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told the Bombay High Court on Friday. Senior advocate Anil Sakhre, the civic body's lawyer, said that of 2,053 people who were duped at these privately-organized camps, 1,636 were checked. "1,636 people reached out to us and we checked them. They were not found to have any side effects or health problems. Police report says saline water was given to them instead of a vaccine," he told the HC. "We have asked the Central Government to de-register the victims from the CoWin portal and re-register them. We will have a drive soon for vaccinating them," he said. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Siddharth Chandrashekhar through advocate Anita Castellino. The PIL sought greater access to vaccine doses and resolution of the problems faced by people while booking slots on the CoWin portal. On July 2, the BMC had told the court that it had formulated draft guidelines to prevent fake vaccination camps. A racket which organized bogus vaccination at housing societies, private firms and educational institutions in the name of reputed hospitals came to light last month and several people were arrested. The court had asked the Maharashtra government to inform about the status of the police probe. Chief Public Prosecutor Aruna Pai said a charge sheet will be filed within two weeks in the first FIR which is related to the duping of a housing society in suburban Kandivali. "The corporation is expected to keep a vigil on all such drives in future. It must also ensure that vaccination for victims is not delayed," the HC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/victims-of-covid-19-vaccine-fraud-will-be-vaccinated-soon-bmc-tells-bombay-hc-101626440334992.html
16-07-2021||Other||Global village idiot: The truth about faith||PUNE “They are afraid of change, but their boss has faith in you. Have no fear and complete what you started. When they see the benefits to them, they will stop seeing threats, and they will stand with you too.”This was the advice my spiritual guide gave me many years ago when I was faced with a peculiar problem related to my first consulting project - the entire team had voted to invite a consultant, but they all worked against the project in the background. Left to my own devices and that of my immediate circle of friends and advisors, I would have eventually quit the assignment since the incessant politics was not worth it.“Your body can heal itself. But your mind must let it.”This advice came from my physician, Dr Anant Gokhale, who I met many years ago. I had just met the good doctor having moved to Pune in 1996, a practitioner of medicine who rarely prescribed medicines to me. I had long working hours and a degenerative health condition and injuries had left me with a daily dose of medicines to stay functional. Left to my own devices, I would have kept working and taking prescription medicines, and eventually have let the body’s ailments overcome my spirit.What was my spiritual guide’s advice, really? To look at nothing, but the goal. To ignore all emotional voices. To perceive only the path to achievement of the goal. To understand that if I want to achieve anything in life, I have to rise above all that would stand in the way, including my ego, which always interprets any criticism or opposition as an insult, triggering thought processes that keep me up all day and all night addressing negative energies.What was the advice of my physician? To listen to what my body says and to trust the advice it offered.For a logical mind, to learn the required lessons in order to accept such advice - truly accept it and practice it - was a tall order. I was in my mid-20s then, and still many experiences, failures, and comebacks-from-failures away from internalising such a lesson. I would say I was at least a decade away from the learning.In both cases, I simply took the advice and followed it without question. I never rationalised it or thought it through or analysed it, or allowed any other cognitive barrier to stand in the way. I just implemented the advice.That is Faith.Even later, when there were further doubts, I just ignored all my usual thoughts and just kept on trudging on. Over the subsequent years, I had occasion to seek advice from my guide and my physician on several matters - personal, family, work, corporate, health - and their advice was always consistent, eerily similar: take the right path first time every time and then, be carefree.Today, on a day to day basis, I (still) go through my very generous dose of self-doubt, suspicion, persecution, physical hardships, and sundry other distractions. (Like everybody else). And I still put in the hard work to have Faith. Because you can’t take it for granted that you have learnt to have Faith. Faith is that belief in something that you can’t see, perceive, know, or feel. Faith is that which is beyond what logic reveals to us, that knowledge which is beyond what education and experience teaches us, that relationship to a future that is beyond what the past and present are capable of revealing, that place where even Trust does not dare to tread.As a result of having Faith, I have found myself believing in people rather than not believing them. That in turn means that I don’t doubt them or their intentions. Which means I am reposing Trust in their character: And that leads them to live up to that Trust in themselves.From the time that I started having such Faith, I have come to learn that most people just wanted to be trusted and believed, but that day-to-day human interactions make it quite difficult for people to trust one another. Day-to-day logical processes lead us to build walls that exclude most opportunities and people. For instance, if someone breaks my trust and I stop trusting people, then the loss is mine, for I have excluded all of humanity from reaching me; however, if I exclude the person (or people) who broke the trust and continue to trust everyone else, then I include all of humanity in my world and therefore, increase my chances of a better life. But for this to happen, I have to go beyond the mechanism of Trust (a logical process based on evidence and reason). Faith is different. Because when someone places their Faith in me, it is without reason and I seem to feel like living up to that Faith for it assigns a value to me that I always wanted, but maybe had never perceived I deserved. Someone else’s Faith in me says that I am dependable, that I am important, that I matter and I don’t have to prove it. That is a liberation of sorts.After two decades of following that advice, I aver that Faith can move mountains. For I can honestly say that had I followed the path of reason alone, I would have been more alone than ever, having vetoed most ideas on some grounds or the other, shut out most people, let my health run aground, and isolated myself from most opportunities to change.Faith makes me see that which reason cannot sanction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-the-truth-about-faith-101626441552894.html
16-07-2021||Other||What’s the buzz in Pune: July 17 to Aug 1||National e-conference on data mining NCDM 2021- the national e-conference on data Mining & ICT is being organised by the Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society’s Allana institute of management sciences.To register go to https://forms.gle/2A71jKPii7pLzTob9When: July 17Where: OnlineZest Fest: exhibition-cum-saleCamphor purifies air, while silver jewellery generates positive vibes and when it comes to farsan, it adds taste to your life. All three products on show and for sale. For details contact Paurnima Pawar on 94220 09772When: July 16 onwards (only weekdays); 10am-3pmWhere: 639 Kulkarni wada, Fadtare chowk, Kumthekar road, Sadashiv peth.Beauty workshopLearn about the properties of ingredients used in products, sterilisation process, with five types of skin brightening products like skin brightening cream, lip lightening cream, skin brightening facewash, skin brightening serum and skin brightening face clay mask.Registration fees: Rs2,700 (including videos and PDF)To register contact +91 8306363530When: July 18Where: OnlineOnline story telling “What is found here may be found elsewhere, but what is not found here cannot be found elsewhere.” A few stories in the world are as intriguing as the Mahabharata, with its numerous plots and sub plots and characters with strengths and flaws in equal measure.“Stories from the Mahabharata” is an endeavour by Aparna Jaishankar to recreate an interest in this epic.To register please contact 9886294444When: July 18Where: Online Insider’s guide to content writingAre you losing opportunities due to a lack of knowledge of English language skills? Come and learn the basics of grammar and sentence formation for an in-depth understanding of how content is created.The instructor for this course Ushma Naik, an expert in instructional design and content management, as well as brand psychology. To register go to https://bit.ly/36v277DWhen: July 18Where: OnlineBusiness seminarThe India Japan Business Council (IJBC) will hold two online seminars on ‘India, an Alternative Investment Destination to China’. Topic one will be an Indian economic outlook post-Covid 19 pandemic presented by Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak Asset Management. The second topic is on ease of doing business in India, which will deal with ways of doing business in India, presented by Aliff Fazelbhoy, senior partner, ALMT Legal, Advocates & Solicitors, and Vaishakh Kapadia, Partner ALMT Legal, Advocates & Solicitors.To register go to https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJ0vcO2grzktEtS9WGEAZCeOVhBvlfgU5gjSWhen: July 24 Where: 2021, onlineTheatre workshopIAPAR presents an acting workshop facilitated by Vidyanidhee Vanarase. This programme will be conducted offline in a physical space with a limited number of participation keeping with guidelines from the government.For more details call +917775052719 or email us on iapar.office@gmail.comWhen: August 1 to 8; 10 am to 1 pmWhere: Kalachaya Cultural Centre, S B Road||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-july-17-to-aug-1-101626441492925.html
16-07-2021||Indore||Indore reports lone single-day Covid-19 case, a first in 16 months, says health official||Indore in Madhya Pradesh reported only one case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past 24 hours, for the first time in 16 months, nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Amit Malakar said on Friday. He mentioned that close to 9,000 samples were tested for the viral infection of which only one turned out to be positive.“In the past 24 hours, we have tested 8,923 samples and among them only one was found positive for the infection,” news agency PTI quoted Dr Malakar as saying earlier on Friday. He further noted that Indore, which was previously one of the worst-affected districts due to the pandemic, has recorded only one case in the 24-hour span for the first time in 16 months.Dr Malakar attributed the decline in the number of cases to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district and also the weakening of the impact of the second wave of infections, PTI reported. However, he also asked the people to not lower their guard against the disease in the face of the looming threat of a third wave.Also read | 2 vaccine doses gave 95% protection from death against Delta: CentreThe number of daily new infections in Madhya Pradesh has gradually declined over the past few days and previously on Thursday, 20 more people tested positive for the disease in the state. This took the total confirmed cases to 791,614 so far. As many as 10,510 people have lost their lives to the disease after two new fatalities were reported on Thursday, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Meanwhile, state home minister Narottam Mishra earlier in the day said that around 21 new cases of Covid-19 have been detected in the state on Friday. “We are conducting more than 70,000 tests each day. Around 21 new cases have been reported in the state today. The recovery rate in the state is 98.8%” news agency ANI quoted Mishra as saying.According to official data, Indore has so far reported over 150,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,391 fatalities. Currently, the district has 61 active cases of the disease, PTI reported. With 1,292 doses of the vaccine administered to beneficiaries in the district on Thursday, 2,766,144 doses have been administered so far, a bulletin from the state health department on Thursday showed.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-reports-lone-single-day-covid-19-case-a-first-in-16-months-says-health-official-101626440102570.html
16-07-2021||Jaipur||Time to adopt one-child policy: Rajasthan minister||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Friday backed population control measures and said it was time to adopt the one-child policy. He cited the Sample Registration Survey, 2018, and added the state’s total fertility rate was 2.5% against the national average of 2.2%. “As per the Millennium Development Goals, our target is to bring the total fertility rate down to 2.1% by 2025, and for that, we need to adopt a policy of one child per family.”The comments came in the backdrop of plans in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Assam for introducing population control laws. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday last unveiled a population policy aimed at stabilising the state’s population. This came after a draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill was made public.Also Read | Army chief visits Jaisalmer military station to take stock of preparednessSharma said about 250,000 sterilisations are done every year in Rajasthan under the family welfare programme. He said that Rajasthan is counted among the leading states of the country in sterilisations.Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the contribution of women in the sterilisation programme is about 99% and that of men only 1% even as a vasectomy is very easy. He said that efforts were being made to encourage sterilisations among men to make the family welfare programme a success.Laxman Singh Ola, a doctor, said the total fertility rate in Rajasthan was 4.1% in 2000, which came down to 2.5% in 2018 and is presently around 2.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/time-to-adopt-one-child-policy-rajasthan-minister-101626438613673.html
16-07-2021||Other||Social media helps connect traditional artisan in Prayagraj village to buyers||When Bibi Fatima, 28, an artisan, began making hand braided Moonj grass bangles and bracelets at her home in Mahewa village in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj late last year, she was not sure whether she will find any takers. A tech-savvy person, Fatima tried marketing her products on Facebook and Instagram. The strategy worked. She has over the last eight months began getting orders for her products from as far as Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat.Fatima said she initially mainly catered to local markets and now she is even getting bulk orders from far off places. “I am now trying to complete the formalities related to GST (Goods and Services Tax) etc so that I can supply these products to different states,” said Fatima, who learnt the art after getting married from her mother-in-law, Aisha Begum.“Four women of the household, including me, are making these jewellery items,” said Aisha Begum, who has taught the art to many women in the region.Also Read | Court notice to Champat Rai, three others over Ayodhya land dealFatima said that despite the pandemic, the women involved in the craft were earning up to ₹500 a day for around six-hour work. “This is a traditional art passed on from one generation to another. Around eight months back, a training programme was organised by the government where a designer suggested that we make attractive jewellery pieces and we quickly adapted. Now, the aim is to find buyers abroad,” she Fatima, whose family has traditionally been involved in making baskets, coasters and bags.Around 500 women in villages such as Mahewa, Dandi and Badoka near Prayagraj are involved in making these products. With the help of the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), they often showcase their products around the country.Experts from Krishi Vigyan Kendra are guiding over 180 women artisans associated with self-help groups on how to make jewellery as per modern patterns, designs and colour combinations. They are helping them market the products using social media platforms.Amit Shukla, NRLM’s district mission manager, said the training and guidance have helped these women get orders from Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. He added people have also shown interest in these products in countries such as Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.NRLM deputy commissioner Ajit Kumar Singh said the products are being sold online through IndiaMart and other platforms are also being roped in.Nimisha S Natarajan, an expert with the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Prayagraj, who is guiding the women, said people want newer products in attractive colour combinations and designs that are affordable and stylish. “So, we are helping the traditional artists in creating jewellery that meets expectations and can be marketed online...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-helps-connect-traditional-artisan-in-prayagraj-village-to-buyers-101626437113962.html
16-07-2021||Other||Odisha CM demands early vaccination for 12-18 age group||With a possible third wave of Covid-19 likely to impact children, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday urged PM Modi to vaccinate those in the 12-18 years age group. CM Patnaik proposed that the vaccination for 12-18 years be expedited during a virtual meeting with PM Modi on Friday.Patnaik’s request for early vaccination came on the back of Zydus Cadila concluding its clinical trials for a DNA vaccine for people in the 12 to 18 age group. Last month, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chief Dr NK Arora said children above 12 years can be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease in August once the clinical trials are over subject to regulatory approvals.During the meeting, Patnaik also demanded that 95 per cent of vaccine allocation for Odisha should be given to the state government and the rest 5 per cent to the private hospitals.“Odisha has been performing very well in vaccination and our wastage is among the lowest in the country. However, due to the low presence of private hospitals in the state, lifting of the vaccines from the 25% quota has been less,” he said. Due to vaccine shortage, Odisha’s pace of vaccination has been inconsistent with some days the vaccination figure dropping below 5,000 while on others over 2 lakh people getting vaccinated.Regarding the high Test Positivity Ration in coastal districts, Khurda and Cuttack, Patnaik said the TPR is high in coastal districts as they were affected by cyclone Yaas. He said Covid appropriate behaviours got compromised during cyclone Yaas in those districts.The PM advised Odisha and other states to move forward with the strategy of ‘test, track, treat and tika’ while urging the states to go for micro-containment zones to prevent the spread of the virus.Odisha on Thursday extended lockdown in 10 of the 30 districts including Khurda till August 1 as the Covid-19 infections had not come down. The state is reporting more than 60 deaths daily since last week though the state government clarified that all the deaths may not be recent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-demands-early-vaccination-for-12-18-age-group-101626435673243.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall in Mumbai causes Tulsi lake to overflow||Tulsi lake, located inside Sanjay Gandhi National Park, one of the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai, began to overflow at 11am on Friday, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Until 6am on Friday, Tulsi lake had 94.07% useful water content, or 7,569 million litres water content, in comparison to 79.42% useful water content around the same time last year. In the 24 hours until 6am on Friday, Tulsi’s catchment area received 67mm rainfall, and its water level rose by 0.15 metres during this time.Despite the heavy rainfall recorded in Mumbai over canight, water level in the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city remained at 7.24% of its total capacity , in comparison to 25.80% on the same day in 2020, and 48.80% on the same day in 2019. Also Read | Mumbai receives July’s second-heaviest rainfall in 10 yearsAjay Rathor, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulics department, said, “For a week now, cumulative water available in the seven lakes has not increased, and remains at about 17%. The catchment area has not received sufficient rainfall. We will observe the lake levels closely for the next two-three days, and then decide the future course of action for the remaining year. A decision about whether to impose a water cut will be taken after this.” The total amount of water in all seven lakes in the city is presently 249,459ML, out of the total capacity of 1,447,363ML. On Saturday last week, the water level in the city’s lakes was at 17,43%, or 252,323ML, in comparison to 22.46% on the same day last year, and 43.92% on the same day in 2019. Mumbai receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vehar, and Tulsi lakes, whose total water capacity is 1,447,363ML. BMC supplies 3,850 million litres of water per day to the city. Until 6am on Friday, Upper Vaitarna had 0% useful water content, Modak Sagar had 25.44% useful water content, Tansa had 30.35% useful water content, Middle Vaitarna had 10.08% useful water content, Bhatsa had 17.50% useful water content, and Vehar had 72.52% useful water content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-causes-tulsi-lake-to-overflow-101626432793479.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Govt-appointed prosecutors for tractor rally violence cases: Delhi Cabinet||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday decided that a panel of government-appointed prosecutors will deal with the cases related to January 26 violence during farmers’ tractor rally against three farm laws passed last year even as lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has endorsed a panel of lawyers the Delhi Police have suggested.An official aware of the matter said the Cabinet dismissed the idea of having the police-suggested panel of lawyers argue the cases. “It decided that a panel of public prosecutors appointed by the Delhi government would be engaged in the cases concerning farmers’ agitation,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The official added the L-G has been endorsing the police panel. “But the Delhi government wants to engage its own panel of prosecutors on the sensitive matter to ensure unbiased hearings.”The official said the Cabinet’s decision will be conveyed to the office of the L-G. The Delhi Police report to the Union home ministry through the L-G.Later in a press briefing, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia confirmed the development. He said, “In today’s Cabinet meeting, we have decided that Delhi government will appoint its own panel of lawyers. The L-G had earlier dismissed the Delhi government’s recommendations on appointing such a panel. It is unfortunate that the central government is intervening in routine affairs of Delhi’s governance through the L-G . Appointing prosecution in Delhi comes under the elected government’s domain, going by Supreme Court’s directions. The L-G, however, has a veto power which can be used in rarest of the rare cases. Such routine use of the veto power is unconstitutional, anti-democratic and goes against the spirit of Supreme Court’s directions.”In a tweet, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said, “To support the farmers of the country is the duty of every Indian. We have not done anyone any favour. We have just fulfilled our responsibility towards farmers of the nation. Farmers are not criminal, they are not terrorists. They provide us food.”Baijal’s move to reject the idea of having the government-appointed prosecutors argue the cases related to the January 26 violence has become the latest source of disagreement between the two sides.Also Read | Domestic flights at Delhi airport’s Terminal 2 might resume from July 22Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office confirmed the development on Thursday and said the Cabinet would meet on Friday to take up the issue.“The L-G has dismissed the team of special public prosecutors appointed by the Delhi government with regard to the cases concerning the farmers’ agitation. The L-G has directed that the prosecutors suggested by the Delhi Police be approved. So, we have called a Cabinet meeting regarding this matter. The Delhi government had set up a panel of lawyers to ensure unbiased hearing in the agitation of farmers, who have been protesting against three contentious farm laws. Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain dismissed the list of lawyers suggested by the Delhi Police,” Kejriwal’s office said in a statement on Thursday.An official in the L-G’s office reacted to the statement saying the matter pertained to the violence, and disrespect to the national flag on January 26 and not to the farmer protest. “It has nothing to do with ‘farmers protest’ as is being deliberately made out. Individuals with predetermined agenda and vested interests deliberately carried out acts on January 26, 2021 in full media presence that were not only an affront to national morale but aimed at bringing shame to India internationally.”On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the rally and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.Also Read | Rights activists caution against child labour and trafficking during pandemicThe statement from the chief minister’s office on Thursday said the L-G was “pressuring” the government to approve lawyers chosen by the police. “...Jain sent details of Delhi government’s panel to the L-G. The L-G has not approved it even though the work of Delhi government’s lawyers has earlier been appreciated by all, including the L-G.”On February 26, the police sent a proposal to the Delhi home department for the appointment of 11 law officers to represent the state in the cases. The government responded saying an existing team of prosecutors will argue them.On July 1, Baijal met Jain, but the matter remained unresolved. On July 2, Baijal wrote to Kejriwal, requesting him to convene a meeting of his council of ministers over the matter.Referring to the meeting, the official in the L-G’s office said, “Apart from earlier disagreement on file, the L-G in the said meeting on July 1, 2021, with the home minister, clearly and categorically expressed his disagreement at the minister turning down the valid request by the Delhi Police for appointment of special prosecutors. The same was reiterated and clearly conveyed in a subsequent letter from L-G to the CM, requesting him convene a meeting of the council of ministers to consider and decide the said disagreement at the earliest....”The government and the L-G also disagreed last year over the appointment of lawyers to argue the 2020 northeast Delhi riots cases. In 2018, differences of opinion also surfaced over the appointment of prosecutors in the case of alleged assault on former Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash. In those cases, the L-G’s decision prevailed since the matter was finally referred to the President, who approved the former’s decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govtappointed-prosecutors-to-deal-with-cases-related-to-tractor-rally-violence-delhi-cabinet-101626431173387.html
16-07-2021||Jaipur||Increasing big cat population at Ranthambore Tiger Reserve a concern||The increasing tiger population at Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) in Sawai Madhopur district has become a concern for the Rajasthan government with territorial fights and man-animal conflict due to dispersal out of the Reserve area, officials said.Two days back, tigress Arrrowhead (T-84) was spotted with three cubs. The big cat population in RTR’s has reached 79, including 28 cubs and sub-adults living in an area of 1,334 square kilometres, making it the third most congested habitats of felines in India after the Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand and Kaziranga National Park in Assam.The state has three tiger reserves with over 103 big cats – 79 at RTR , 23 at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) in Alwar, and one left at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) in Kota.In a recent development, after the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change get the permission, tigress Ridhi will be relocated to Sariska Tiger Reserve as she and her sister Siddhi have injured each other number of times claiming a territory. Five months back in January, two-and-half-year-old tigress Ridhi had received 14 stitches on the tongue after getting injured in a territorial fight with her sibling Siddhi.In wake of the growing population and infights, the CM has directed the officials to form a panel of experts to suggest shifting tigers.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the meeting of the State Wildlife Board held on Thursday, directed the officials to form a panel of experts. The panel will suggest shifting the increasing number of tigers to other sanctuary areas; and ways to develop Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve and the newly formed Ramgarh Vishdhari Tiger Reserve in Bundi, said an official release.Gehlot said that the state government is working on a plan to develop new tiger reserves in the state to provide safe shelter to the tigers in line with their increasing population in the state. “It is a matter of happiness that the Ramgarh Wildlife Sanctuary in Bundi region has recently been approved by the NTCA as a Tiger Reserve. Now, it is our endeavour to promote the conservation of tigers and other wildlife in Kumbhalgarh Sanctuary and other forest areas,” he said.RTR Field Director TC Verma said, “The big cat population is rising in the Reserve and they need space. Not just one but we have asked to permit to shift more.”RTR is the source area to re-populate other Reserves in the state, since the inception of project tiger in 1973, then the Reserve had 11 tigers.In the last five years, five tigers were relocated from RTR – four to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in 2018 and one to Sariska Tiger Reserve in 2019.Of the five relocated, MT-4 is the lone survivor at MHTR as the rest, MT-2 and MT-3, along with their two cubs, died last year in the month of July and August; while MT-1 cannot be traced. Similarly, 7-year-old ST-16 which was shifted to Sariska Tiger Reserve, Alwar in April 2019, died two months after the shifting allegedly by an overdose of tranquillizer injected to treat a wound.Retired IFS, Sunayan Sharma said looking to the increasing population relocation of tigers should be the priority, or else territorial fights and man-animal conflict will continue. “The kind of management done here is not scientific management as carrying capacity should is the guiding principle. Relocation and habitat improvement of tigers should be done simultaneously,” he said.He said tigers were relocated in past, some died but that does not mean that the relocation process should be stopped. Tigers should be sent again to MHTR, and people should be held accountable. If relocation is stopped the population will continue to increase, he said.Sharma said old tiger habitats should be revived and developed such as Ramgarh Vishdhari, MHTR, and Raoli Todgarh in Udaipur – this will help in tiger and environment conservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/increasing-big-cat-population-at-ranthambore-tiger-reserve-a-concern-cm-calls-for-expert-panel-101626430455464.html
16-07-2021||Other||Policeman crushed to death by SUV transporting liquor in Bihar’s Keoti||A policeman, who was part of a patrol, was on Thursday crushed to death in Bihar’s Keoti when he tried to stop an SUV transporting liquor. Safiur Rahman, the policeman, was dragged by the SUV for nearly 200 metres. Local residents caught the driver of the SUV and handed him over to the police.Jitendra Choudhary, a local police officer, said the SUV has a Delhi-registered number and added three other occupants of the vehicle managed to escape.Also Read | Eight die in Bihar allegedly after consuming spurious liquorThe sale and consumption of liquor are banned in Bihar even as liquor is often smuggled from other parts of the country.Police said the patrol tried to stop the SUV but the driver speeded up. Rahman tried to stop the vehicle by jumping on its bonnet and was crushed to death later. He was from Pathan Kabai village in Darbhanga.Police said they have registered a case and launched a manhunt to nab the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/policeman-crushed-to-death-by-suv-transporting-liquor-in-bihar-s-keoti-101626429733069.html
16-07-2021||Other||Eight die in Bihar allegedly after consuming spurious liquor||Eight people are suspected to have died in Bihar’s West Champaran after having spurious liquor since Wednesday, police said.Lalan Mohan Prasad, deputy inspector (Champaran range), said two men, Thug Sah and Suresh Sah, have been booked for allegedly supplying the liquor. “No arrests have been made...raids are on to arrest them.” He added one person has confessed to having liquor before falling sick. “We took statements of about 40 persons including the family members of those who died but all of them denied the consumption of liquor. However, one of the two persons undergoing treatment confessed to having been served liquor.”Also Read | Patna HC pulls up govt, says education system based on segregationKundan Kumar, district magistrate, West Champaran, said eight people died in three separate villages. He said families of the eight denied that they consumed liquor. “One of those who died in Bagahi village was on dialysis, other at Deurawa village died following a heart attack,” he said. Birendra Gupta, the local lawmaker, said the eight died after consuming spurious liquor and accused the district administration of hushing up the matter. “The family members of the deceased are under pressure...they accepted that the deaths occurred due to consumption of illicit liquor,” said Gupta, who visited the families of the eight.Prohibition was imposed in Bihar in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eight-die-in-bihar-allegedly-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-101626429193172.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||LSR student and some young volunteers: Driven to educate one and all||When one hears that the pandemic caused someone to drop out of school or college, due to lack of funds, it pinches the soul. That’s what was experienced by Arpita Chowdhury, a second-year student of BA (Hons) English at Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Delhi University (DU). She realised the extent of the digital divide when she came in touch with a few students, who she had mentored in the past. “In absence of any support, they might have had to leave their education in between. This thought made me start the initiative named #EducationForAll, to ensure a sustainable and inclusive atmosphere for all students, even those from the marginalised background,” says Chowdhury. “I had the means to receive good education, and it was an emotional turmoil to see other youngsters being forced to quit midway due to lack of resources,” recalls the 20- year-old, who is currently teaching five students from tribal families, hailing from villages of Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. “To run this campaign, two of my friends are supporting me, and we attempt to ensure that during such difficult times these young adults are able to continue their education, and pursue their dreams. These youngsters are enrolled in a government schools, but had expressed desire for additional help since online classes weren’t enough. So we asked them to move back to Delhi, and we’ve raised funds for their education and living facilities in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar,” she adds. To teach these youngsters from economically weaker background, there are about 30 student volunteers available remotely from across India, including DU. “These teachers are enrolled on a bi-monthly basis,” says Aarushi Raj, project coordinator of the initiative, and a student at DU’s Kamala Nehru College, adding, “We’ve reached out to over 500 people, using social media, to collect resources such as books, stationery, and even funds for internet provision. Many students have been unable to pursue their education smoothly, due to poor internet connectivity and lack of devices to attend online classes. We are trying to make a little difference in their lives, and hope to include more students under this initiative in the near future.” It’s not just academics but their all round development – through workshops and webinars – that this initiative focusses on. It also provides the underprivileged students with access to career coaching as well as psychologist. And the students are more than grateful for all the help. “I always wanted to continue my education, which seemed almost impossible amid the pandemic. Now, with the help of this initiative, I believe I have gained more knowledge and feel confident about myself. Arpita didi is helping me pursue my dream of becoming a mechanical engineer,” says Lodro Munda, a class XII student from Jharkhand, who is currently enrolled in a Delhi school.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lsr-student-and-some-young-volunteers-driven-to-educate-one-and-all-101626429138073.html
16-07-2021||Ranchi||State Information Commission defunct for 14 months in Congress-ruled Jharkhand||Chandramohan Paswan, a resident of Hazaribag district in Jharkhand, was in Ranchi for some work this week. He took out time to visit the Jharkhand State Information Commission office on Wednesday to enquire about the status of the appeal he filed seeking information related to the allotment of a gas agency in Bermo town in Bokaro district.Much to Paswan’s surprise, he was told by clerical staff in the commission that the next date of hearing in his case was yet to be fixed as the state government is yet to appoint an information commissioner.“It has been so long now that I don’t even remember the exact date I had sought information from the Bokaro SDM office. Probably it was in 2017. Then I had filed my second appeal here. Every time I come to Ranchi, I visit the office to check the status but the situation remains the same,” said Paswan. As a result, Paswan is not the only applicant facing such hardships. Officials in the information commission said around 12,000 appeals are waiting for disposal. The state information commission is lying defunct since information commissioner Himanshu Shekhar Chaudhary retired after completing his term on May 8 2020. The state has a provision of six commissioners including a chief information commissioner. However, all six posts are lying vacant since May last year.“There were around 8,000 appeals under process when the last commissioner retired. Since May last year, we have received around 4,000 new appeals. We make file entries for all the applications. Beyond that, only the commissioners take a call whether they reject or admit the appeal for further hearing,” said a staff at the commission, not willing to be named.Not only the commissioners, but the post of secretary is also vacant now which has a direct bearing on over a dozen of contractual staff working at the commission which wears a deserted look as its core work has come to a standstill.“Our salary has been withheld for the past two months as Abhishek Tiwary, who was the secretary, got transferred. He had the salary disbursal powers for the contractual staff. We are eagerly waiting for someone to be posted here,” said a home guard on duty at the commission.The office has 10 home guards working on contract besides half a dozen staff in the project monitoring unit at the commission, staff members at the office said.In January last year, the Personnel Administrative Reforms and Rajbhasa department of the Hemant Soren-led three-party coalition government, where the Congress is the second largest ally besides the RJD, invited applications for filling the post of commissioners. Officials said around 300 applications were received against the advertisement. However, there is no forward movement on the appointment issue since inviting applications. Vandana Dadel, the incumbent secretary in the department refused to comment on the issue. “I won’t like to comment anything on the matter now,” she said when asked if anything has moved on that front.The Congress party takes credit for bringing the Right to Information Act but its Jharkhand unit president and finance minister, Rameshwar Oraon, could not give a definitive date till when the appointments would be made. “We had initiated the process but the mandatory clause of the Leader of Opposition being in the three-member selection committee delayed the process as the matter of the LoP is being heard in assembly Speaker’s court. We had taken legal opinion and it has been finalized that the senior-most member of the main opposition party could be taken on board. The process is on. We expect it to be done soon,” said Oraon.BJP, the principal opposition, appointed Babulal Marandi as its legislature party leader after he merged his party JVM(P) into the BJP within months after the 2019 assembly elections. Two of his JVM(P) legislators joined the Congress. The assembly speaker has not granted LoP status to Marandi to date as the split and merger of the JVM(P) is now being heard in his court under the anti-defection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-information-commission-defunct-for-14-months-in-congress-ruled-jharkhand-101626428773070.html
16-07-2021||Bhopal||Four dead, 10 trapped inside well in MP’s Vidisha||Ten people are still feared trapped inside a well in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district, about 100 kms north of Bhopal, police said on Friday. Four bodies have been recovered, and 23 people of Lalpathar village have been rescued. Rescue operation has been on for the past 16 hours after about 40 people, who had gathered around a 40-feet-deep well to watch the rescue of a 10-year-old boy, fell into it when its boundary wall caved in under their weight, police said late on Thursday. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are trying to rescue others but the operation has slowed down due to mudslide inside the well. Three JCB machines are being used to pull out mud from the well.” According to villagers of Lalpathar, the rescue operation is getting delayed due to a strategic error. “The teams dug a parallel space for pumping out water from the well but it didn’t work due to mudslide inside the well. The expert team didn’t analyse the quality of the soil before digging parallel space,” said Devendra Kumar, a local resident. A tractor which was being used to pump out water also fell into the well due to mudslide. Four police personnel who were sitting on the tractor sustained injuries, said Sanjay Sahu, additional superintendent of police, Vidisha. Villagers blamed the sarpanch and local administration for the accident.“The well is the only source of water for 700 families of the village. A large number of people came here for fetching water. The safety wall of the well was weak and villagers informed the sarpanch and panchayat secretary about it. Even the boy fell into the well as a part of it caved in,” said Anita, who lives near the well. Sarpanch, panchayat secretary and collector couldn’t be contacted for response. Bhopal additional director general of police A Sai Manohar said, “We can’t comment anything on this incident. We are now concentrating on rescue operation only.” Meanwhile, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered a high-level inquiry in the matter and also announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the next kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those injured in the accident. Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia expressed his grief. “Deeply saddened by the news of many people falling in the tragic accident that took place in Ganjbasoda, Vidisha, I pray to god for everyone’s safety,” he said in his tweet. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi also expressed condolence to the family members of those who lost their lives in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/four-dead-10-trapped-inside-well-in-mp-s-vidisha-101626428473241.html
16-07-2021||Other||High court seeks details about people with leprosy in Odisha||The Orissa high court has asked the government to submit district-wise details on the number of leprosy-affected people, facilities available for them and whether the state and Centre’s interventions have resulted in a reduction in such cases.A two-judge bench of chief justice S Murlidhar and justice SK Panigrahi also asked the government to submit an affidavit on the prevalence of leprosy, the status of availability of treatment, beds, and drugs across the state and the status of filling up of vacant posts of medical officers and staff.“Exact figures rather than platitudes or general vague statements of due care and attention be placed on record,” the court said while hearing a petition filed by the general secretary of State Leprosy Welfare Federation, Bipin Bihari Pradhan, over deficiencies in the state’s leprosy control measures.Also Read | Odisha chit fund scam: CBI arrests brothers of firm’s managing directorThe court appointed a committee of three lawyers to check the living condition of people with leprosy to understand their needs.In 2006-2007, Odisha was declared “leprosy free” as per the World Health Organization (WHO) standards. According to WHO, regions reporting 1 case per 10,000 of the population can be called leprosy free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-seeks-details-about-people-with-leprosy-in-odisha-101626428353040.html
16-07-2021||Other||Odisha man, missing for 40 years, returns home with help from Good Samaritans||Two years after his wedding in the 1970s, Simanchal Mohapatra, a strapping man in his late twenties, left his village in Ganjam district for Mumbai in search of work. Like many people in Ganjam venturing out to other states in search of work, Mohapatra thought he would earn a livelihood and return home a couple of months later.On Thursday afternoon, Mohapatra, now a frail man in his seventies, returned home after four decades. He cannot walk without a walking stick; his wife and daughter are no more. “Though everyone in the family and his childhood friends are jubilant, there is a sense of loss. My uncle looks very frail. We had to get a car to take him home from the railway station,” said Mohapatra’s nephew Dhruba Charan Rana.Rana said when Mohapatra did not return a few months after he left his village, the family began searching for him starting from Assam to Mumbai. “Some said he might have gone to Bhubaneswar or Cuttack. We searched everywhere, but stopped looking out for him a few years later,” said Rana.Also Read | Odisha chit fund scam: CBI arrests brothers of firm’s managing directorMohapatra would perhaps have never been able to come home, had it not been for Sanjay Shinde, who runs an NGO called Roti Bank in Burhanpur town of Madhya Pradesh, and Kamal Rathi, a Cuttack-based businessman.When Mohapatra initially reached Mumbai, he started working for a civil contractor. The contractor reportedly asked him to leave after his work came to an end, but did not pay him. From Mumbai, Mohapatra boarded a train thinking that it was headed for Berhampur, the railhead near his village. Instead, he reached Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh, thanks to his issue with pronunciation.“Once he got down at Burhanpur station, the railway police arrested him as he did not have a ticket. He was put in a lock-up, but later released after the police realised that he was innocent. But his lack of fluency in Hindi ensured that he could not go back home,” said Shinde.Mohapatra did odd jobs, such as washing dishes at a hotel, working as a security guard or on construction sites. As age caught up, he could not work. He did not have a place to stay and started living in under-construction buildings while trying to do menial jobs. However, a family in Burhanpur would provide him food every now and then.Shinde, who runs Roti Bank, that feeds the homeless and hungry in Burhanpur, got to know about the “old man from Odisha” from his WhatsApp group in January last year.When Shinde met Mohapatra, he couldn’t make out anything that the latter said, but could decipher that he hailed from a place called Tikarpada in Odisha and wanted to go back there before he died. “I tried to make him talk to some Odia people who stayed in Burhanpur, but nothing much came out of it,” said Shinde.Eager to help Mohapatra reach home, Shinde asked an acquaintance, if he knew anyone in Odisha. It was then that his acquaintance’s nephew Kamal Rathi got in touch with Shinde and started searching for Tikarpada after watching some video clips of Mohapatra talking about his village.Rathi works with Indiacares, a group of volunteers comprising Odisha-based IPS officer Arun Bothra as well as students and other professionals that helped Covid-19 patients during the first wave of pandemic last year.Rathi watched the video clips of Mohapatra many times, but could not decipher what Mohapatra wanted to say. “He spoke the names of many villages and some of his family members. But he was away from Odisha for more than 40 years, without contact with other Odia people and his language did not seem to have the accent of Berhampur town, but was a mix of Odia and Marathi with a Malva accent. His diction was difficult to decipher. The only name that registered with me was Tikarpada,” said Rathi.Rathi then started looking for places near Berhampur town with names that sounded similar to Tikarpada on Google Maps. After searching for some days, he chanced upon a village called Sahadeb Tikarpara in Digapahandi block. It was 50km away from Berhampur railway station. “I thought this could be Mohapatra’s village,” he said.The next job was to find out if his family was still there in the village. “I asked for help from IPS officer Arun Bothra, now transport commissioner. He then spoke to superintendent of police of Ganjam, Brijesh Rai who sent a police team to the village. The police team contacted the sarpanch of the village who led them to the family,” said Rathi.Soon a video call was arranged and Mohapatra’s family recognised him. On Wednesday, Mohapatra’s nephew Dhruba Charan Rana reached Burhanpur after Rathi booked their train tickets.“I thought I would never see my uncle and almost given up on him. My grandparents had died longing for my uncle’s return. I was too overwhelmed with emotion when I saw him,” said Rana.At Burhanpur, the sub divisional magistrate and the local Maheswari Samaj organised a farewell ceremony for Mohapatra. He was shaved and given new outfits and shoes before boarding the Udhna -Khurda Road special train back to Berhampur station.On Thursday afternoon, soon after he reached his home, there was a flurry of visitors. “My uncle was tired, but happy,” said Rana. “When he left, he was around 27 years old and their daughter barely one. It would have been a happier reunion had his wife and daughter been there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-man-missing-for-40-years-returns-home-with-help-from-good-samaritans-101626428052878.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors reattach boy’s thumb in 6-hr surgery||A 12-year-old boy has regained 50% of his thumb movement a month after it was severed and doctors at Mumbai’s Wockhardt Hospital performed a six-hour replantation surgery at midnight to reattach it. With the Covid-19 protocol in place, doctors in personal protective equipment (PPE) performed the delicate surgery, which involved connecting minuscule veins under a high-tech microscope.The boy was playing badminton with his friends when the shuttlecock landed on a tree on May 28 at Boisar in Maharashtra’s Palghar district. While removing it, his right thumb got stuck in a wire and was severed.“...he was completely traumatised from the accident. We immediately called our family physician, who instructed us to rush to a hospital and preserve the thumb in a plastic bag with ice,” said the boy’s father.Also Read | Mumbai receives July’s second-heaviest rainfall in 10 yearsThe boy underwent a rapid antigen test for Covid-19, which came negative. But considering the efficiency rate of the test, doctors chose to conduct the operation with PPE. “In such cases, it is essential to operate...at the earliest as the cells in the cut-off portion start dying. So, we performed the six-hour-long surgery and the entire procedure under a microscope wearing PPE,” said Dr Sushil Nehete, a plastic, and reconstructive microsurgeon. “It was quite challenging as we had to connect the tiny veins under the microscope with face shields. So, we had to be extra cautious but also had to act fast to save the thumb.”The surgeons joined vessels to restore blood supply. Nerves linked to sensation, and tendons needed to bend and extend fingers were also joined after fixing the bone with a metal wire. “The impact of the injury was so severe that he required a piece of the vein to repair the artery. Each and every structure of the thumb was repaired. This surgery aims to restore the normal form and function of the thumb to a maximum extent,” said Nehete.Doctors said with regular physiotherapy, the boy’s thumb will be fully functional.Dr Leena Jain, a plastic and reconstructive microsurgeon who was part of the medical team that conducted the surgery, said it is possible to re-attach or reconstruct detached fingers if people manage to preserve them and reach the hospital on time for surgery. “This patient was fortunate enough to reach the hospital within 3.5 hours after the injury and wisely brought his amputated part in a well-preserved condition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-reattach-boy-s-thumb-in-6-hr-surgery-101626426972949.html
16-07-2021||Patna||Patna HC pulls up govt, says education system based on segregation||The Patna high court has observed that the “education system cannot be improved so long it is based on the concept of segregated system -- one for elite section and other for poor Biharis who have to remain content with mid-day meal, free books, uniform and bicycles with poor or no teaching.”Hearing a writ petition by guest school teachers whose services were terminated, on July 13 -- the order was uploaded late on Thursday -- the bench of Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay sought details of wards of IAS and IPS, Class-I and Class-II officers admitted to government-run schools.The court was responding to the counter affidavit filed by the Bihar Chief Secretary in the present case on the issue of guest faculty teachers and the issue of qualitative improvement of education system in the state.“The Chief Secretary (CS) ...has made tall claims and highlighted the steps taken for improvement in the quality of education, but those policies and scheme are only glorifying the records where these policy documents are maintained to understand the qualitative change and improvement. The court is of the considered view that improvement in the system can be gauged by the faith of people towards the system. Let the CS convene a video conference of district magistrates of all the districts of the state to solicit the information from them as to how many wards of the IAS and IPS and Class-I and II officers in the state service are undergoing studies in the government-run elementary and other schools. Thereafter, the CS shall file affidavit, furnishing details of wards of the elite class studying in the government-run schools, as it will instil confidence in the society,” Justice Upadhyay said.The next date of hearing in the case is August 16. “The court hopes and trusts that honest effort will be made by the Chief Secretary and appropriate affidavit be filed for the improvement of educational system for the poor Bihari,” the judge said.Earlier, the court had observed that the manner in which petitioners had been terminated “manifests that in Bihar, rule of law is only a slogan not to be acted upon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-pulls-up-govt-says-education-system-based-on-segregation-101626426372993.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Domestic flights at Delhi airport’s Terminal 2 might resume from July 22||Domestic flights at Terminal 2 of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport might resume from July 22, according to budget airliner IndiGo. “Flight numbers 6E2000 - 6E2999 will arrive and depart from Terminal 2, Delhi, starting 22nd July, 2021. Please check your flight number and terminal before leaving for the airport for a hassle-free journey,” IndiGo said on its website.Flight operations at Terminal 2 have been suspended since May 18 due to falling passenger footfall and fewer flights caused by the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. All flight operations had been shifted to Terminal 3, which is the only operational terminal in the Delhi airport.Officials of the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) also said that Terminal 2 could open this month, according to a report by the Times of India on Friday. Speaking to the newspaper, a DIAL official said that they were handling a peak of 120,000 passengers of both domestic and international flights per day in February this year, the highest since the Covid-19 outbreak in March end last year. However, the number of passengers went down to 30,000 during the second wave of the pandemic, and currently, 60,000 passengers are being handled daily, the above official added.On July 1, DIAL said that the number of domestic passengers at the Delhi airport increased by over three times between mid-May and June-end. “Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021,” DIAL said in a statement. In June, a majority or 48 per cent of the passengers who travelled were visiting their family and friends, 25 per cent were travelling for vacation and 19 per cent for business purposes, DIAL added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/domestic-flights-at-delhi-airport-s-terminal-2-might-resume-from-july-22-101626423818413.html
16-07-2021||Kolkata||Man impersonating as ED officer arrested for trying to dupe TMC MP in Kolkata||The Kolkata Police have arrested a man for masquerading as an Enforcement Directorate (ED) officer and allegedly trying to dupe ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) Member of Parliament Santanu Sen. “The accused Chandan Roy, 38, was impersonating an ED officer... He called Sen and told him that there were many cases pending against him. Mitra also offered to help Sen in lieu of money,” said a police officer.Roy was arrested late on Thursday from a bus terminus in Kolkata on Sen’s complaint. The mobile phone, which the accused used to call Sen, was also seized.“Interrogation revealed that Roy tried to blackmail several other persons in the same way. Further investigation is going on,” said the officer.Also Read | Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata prepare guidelines for festivities amid pandemicSome TMC leaders, including ministers and legislators, are accused in the multi-crore Sarada chit fund scam and Narada sting operation cases for allegedly taking bribes. The cases are being probed by central agencies.In June, the Kolkata Police busted a fake vaccination racket allegedly run by 28-year-old man, who was masquerading as a bureaucrat. Over 800 people, including TMC Member of Parliament Mimi Chakraborty, were misled into taking fake vaccines.A man from Howrah in West Bengal was arrested in Delhi last week for defrauding people by impersonating as an officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/man-impersonating-as-ed-officer-arrested-for-trying-to-dupe-tmc-mp-in-kolkata-101626423733157.html
16-07-2021||Patna||Railway engineer killed in Patna||A junior engineer with the Indian Railways was shot dead in Patna on Thursday evening while he was on his way back home. Police said two men on a motorcycle shot him multiple times from a close range before fleeing the scene. They added the manner in which Pankaj Kumar, 40, was killed showed the assailants were familiar with the route the junior engineer took for commuting to and from his place of work.Senior police superintendent Upendra Sharma said they were investigating the case and will be unable to comment after it is over. “Following inputs from eyewitnesses, we have launched a search operation.”Dhananjay Das, a policeman, was shot at separately in Bhagalpur while he was on his way to catch a train. Police said Das, a bodyguard of additional police superintendent Manish Kumar, was on leave when he was robbed and shot at.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/railway-engineer-killed-in-patna-101626423072935.html
16-07-2021||Other||Suspicious bag prompts suspension of traffic along Jammu highway||The traffic along Jammu-Poonch national highway in Jammu & Kashmir was halted on Friday after security forces recovered a suspicious bag at Bhimber Gali.“The suspicious bag was found lying near an army camp. The traffic movement has been suspended,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Army troopers and a bomb disposal squad were rushed to the spot and they were dealing with the matter as per standard operating procedure, he added.Also Read | Two militants killed in Srinagar gunfight: PoliceImprovised explosive devices placed in bags, utensils, and boxes have been used in the past to attack convoys of security forces.The bag was found a day after at least four drones were spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu, Samba, and Kathua districts in the region. Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27 when a drone was used to target the Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives last month. The explosives left two personnel injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspicious-bag-prompts-suspension-of-traffic-along-jammu-highway-101626421452859.html
16-07-2021||Other||Uttarakhand police launch special drive to check ‘nuisance’ at tourist places||The Uttarakhand Police on Friday began “Operation Maryada” for action against tourists creating “a nuisance” at state’s religious places after videos purportedly showing visitors smoking hookah near the Ganga in Haridwar went viral. The videos provoked outrage and prompted police to arrest at least 25 tourists.Uttarakhand Police chief Ashok Kumar said they welcome all the tourists at revered religious places and other tourist spots. “...in the recent days some videos came up in which some tourists were seen disturbing the sanctity of the religious places by drinking alcohol and other indecent activities,” he said. “Such acts will not be tolerated at all. Tourists are expected to respect the sanctity of the religious places and the rich culture of the state. They are also expected to help in maintaining the cleanliness of such places. To stop such incidents in the state, the operation has been launched under which strict action would be taken against all such people.” He added the operation would continue for 15 days. “Those found littering tourist places would also be fined.”Kumar asked kanwar yatra pilgrims not to come to Haridwar, citing the government’s decision to cancel the pilgrimage due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “As the state government has cancelled the kanwar yatra, we urge the pilgrims to not come to Haridwar... Any pilgrim found entering Haridwar would be put under a 14-day quarantine.” He added pilgrims coming to Haridwar would be respectfully turned back. “... there would be a prohibition on the selling of kanwar-related material... Special enforcement teams would be patrolling in Haridwar, Dehradun, Pauri Garhwal, and Tehri Garhwal districts...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-police-launch-special-drive-to-check-nuisance-at-tourist-places-101626417972647.html
16-07-2021||Patna||New book recounts army’s peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan and his West Bengal counterpart Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday jointly released in Patna a book on the Indian Army’s peacekeeping mission in the jungles of Africa. Authored by Major General Rajpal Punia, general officer commanding of Jharkhand and Bihar Sub Area at Raj Bhavan in Patna, the book, Operation Khukri, is titled after the successful operation in Sierra Leone.In this operation in July 2000, more than 200 Indian soldiers, who were part of the United Nations peacekeeping force, were surrounded in the forests by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), a rebel faction of Sierra Leone. India is the largest contributor to UN peacekeeping efforts with 4,238 soldiers and civilian police participating in various UN peacekeeping operations around the world. Also Read | Large number of Bihar PSUs not preparing accounts: CAG officialThe book recounts the operation, which took place a year after the Kargil war, through the eyes of Punia, an officer of 14 Mechanism Infantry, who was then the commanding officer of the 58th Gorkha Rifles. Punia and his troops not only defeated the RUF rebels in jungle warfare, but broke the siege and 233 Indian soldiers returned home. The book is dedicated to Havildar Krishna Kumar, the only Indian soldier who was martyred in the operation. In this mission, forces from 17 countries participated of which 16 left. Only Indian forces stayed put against RUF rebels for more than 75 days. “In the steaming tropical jungle of West Africa, the hostage soldiers were surrounded in their tents. Despite the atmosphere of uncertainty and being cut off from the world, the Indian soldiers kept their spirits up. They did not lay down arms in front of the rebels. The Indian Army decided to carry out Operation Khukri,” said Poonia, who was awarded the Yudh Seva Medal in 2002.Major General Punia and his daughter Damini are the co-authors of the book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-book-recounts-army-s-peacekeeping-mission-in-sierra-leone-101626417312538.html
16-07-2021||Kolkata||Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata prepare guidelines for festivities amid pandemic||With less than 100 days to go for the Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – the forum of puja organisers has proposed a set of guidelines, which needs to be followed during the pandemic. “This year we have proposed that all puja organisers, artisans, priests and drummers should be vaccinated,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of Forum for Durgotsab. The forum represents more than 350 pujas in the city, including prominent ones, some of which are patronised by ministers and senior leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress. This year Durga Puja will be celebrated in the second week of October. Also Read | Kolkata Metro to resume ops today; Covid curbs to continue till July 30In 2020, the week-long festival was celebrated in a low-key fashion due to the pandemic. The Calcutta high court had banned the entry of visitors inside the pandals, virtually declaring them “no entry zones” to check any gathering, which could have increased the coronavirus spread. “We have also urged the organisers to scale down their spending on the pandals, lighting, idols and other paraphernalia, and instead use the funds fo public service. The pandal should be kept as simple and open as possible with minimum interior work, so that citizens may see the pandal, decoration and idol from outside,” he added. Other Covid-19 restrictions, such as maintaining social distance during puja, wearing masks and sanitisation, will also be followed. Just like last year, no sliced fruits will be offered as bhog (to the idol). Instead only whole fruits will be offered. Last year, over 37,000 community pujas were organised across the state, including over 2,500 pujas in Kolkata. Around 1,700 pujas were organised by women in the state. The list, however, doesn’t include pujas held inside housing societies and hommes. The Mamata Banerjee administration had provided ₹50,000 to each puja organiser as grant in 2020. The court, however, directed the organisers to use the fund to purchase masks and sanitiser which could be distributed to pandal-hoppers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/durga-puja-organisers-in-kolkata-prepare-guidelines-for-festivities-amid-pandemic-101626416832690.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai receives July’s second-heaviest rainfall in 10 years||The city received 253.3mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Friday, according to the automatic weather station in Santacruz -- which is taken as representative of the entire city. This marks the heaviest shower of the season so far, and the second-largest quantum of daily rainfall in July in at least the last 10 years. The city had recorded 375.2mm of rain on July 2, 2019, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) data.However, IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre’s archives indicate that Friday morning’s shower was the highest quantum of daily rainfall received in July in 14 years, since 2007 -- when the city got 256.6mm of rain in 24 hours on July 8. IMD officials later confirmed to Hindustan Times that this was an erroneous entry. With seasonal rainfall of 1,545.2mm, the city has now surpassed the normal rainfall amount for the month, which is 1,332.5mm. In the past week alone, the city has recorded 435mm of rainfall.Also Read | Heavy morning showers cause waterlogging in parts of MumbaiWaterlogging was reported in many western suburbs, particularly around Santacruz. Independent meteorologists predict that there will be more rain for both western and northern suburbs in the next couple of hours. In Colaba, on the other hand, only 13mm of rain was received, marking one of the largest spatial discrepancies over the 25km difference between the two observatories.“Early morning small vortex of massive thundercells poured extreme heavy rains over Western & Northern suburbs where as Colaba got only light rains,” tweeted popular independent meteorologist (@IndiaWeatherMan) on Friday morning, later adding that the “worst” of heavy rains for Mumbai are over. “Cloud structure formed over Mumbai in the last 3 to 4 hours. Such things are near impossible to predict,” said another popular independent forecaster, Weatherman of Mumbai.“There are two components in forecasting. Intensity and distribution. We predicted the distribution of rainfall correctly, but the intensity, which was confined to the western suburbs, could not be predicted given that the cloud cover formed extremely quickly, during the early hours. For the remainder of the day, moderate to heavy showers are possible till evening,” said Jayanta Sarkar, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-july-s-second-heaviest-rainfall-in-10-years-101626415512474.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services hit due to heavy rainfall||Due to heavy rainfall in the city on Friday morning, local train services in Mumbai were operating with over 25 minutes delay on the central railway. Services were suspended between Vadala and Mankhurd railway stations on the Harbour Railway at 12.03pm due to waterlogging at Chunabhatti railway station. Trains on Harbour Railway operate between Mankhurd and Panvel and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Goregaon railway stations.Local train services were operational on the western railway without any delays.Also Read | Heavy morning showers cause waterlogging in parts of MumbaiTrains were not suspended but were operating at restricted speed due to waterlogging reported near Sion, Kurla, VidyaVihar and Chunabhatti railway stations. It led to bunching of trains on the slow and fast railway tracks. Passengers were seen walking on the railway tracks.“Due to heavy rains and waterlogging on slow line near Kurla -Vidyavihar, trains are running 20-25 minutes late.Slow line traffic between Kurla -Vidyavihar have been diverted on fast line.Harbor line is also running 20-25 mins late.Trans - Harbor line traffic is running smoothly.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer,central railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-hit-due-to-heavy-rainfall-101626415092977.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||Court notice to Champat Rai, three others over Ayodhya land deal||A disciple of Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati of Dwarka Sharada Peeth has filed a civil suit seeking directives for preventing Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, which is overseeing the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, from demolishing the nearby Fikerah Ram Mandir. The Trust said it plans to demolish the mandir for expansion of the area around the Ram Temple.Lawyers Ranjeet Lal Varma and Tarunjeet Lal Varma filed the civil suit on behalf of the petitioner, Swami Avimukteshwaranand Saraswati, on Thursday in Ayodhya district court. The court issued notices to Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Trust, Raghuvar Saran Das, the mahant of Fikerah Ram Mandir, in response to the suit. “Fikerah Ram temple is a historic temple, and it should not be demolished. We have filed a civil suit against the Trust seeking directives from the court to stay the demolition of the temple,” said Swami Avimukteshwaranand Saraswati. Also Read | Ram temple to open for devotees by end of 2023: Trust general secretaryChampat Rai refused to comment on the matter. The petitioner has sought the appointment of a receiver (custodian) to take care of the Fikerah Ram Mandir and to regulate rituals there. The Trust said it has purchased three temples--Kaushalya Bhawan, Fikerah Ram Mandir, and Deen Kuti--for the expansion. The three temples are around 250 to 300-year-old. The Fikerah Ram Mandir is the biggest of the three. Mahant Raghuvar Saran said his temple is inside the Ram Janmabhoomi, where the Ram Temple is under construction. “I had no option but to accept the Trust’s offer to sell the land for expansion of Ram Mandir.” The Trust has provided land to the Mahant for constructing the temple in Ramkot area, over a km away from away, in Ayodhya. The Supreme Court paved the way for the Ram Temple construction in 2019 by awarding the disputed site to the Hindus. The temple is coming up in place of the demolished 16th-century Babri Mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/court-notice-to-champat-rai-three-others-over-ayodhya-land-deal-101626412152432.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy morning showers cause waterlogging in parts of Mumbai||Mumbai suburbs received over 70mm of rainfall early on Friday while the island city recorded 36mm of rainfall, leading to waterlogging in several parts of the city.Owing to heavy spell within a few hours, between 4am and 7am, waterlogging was reported at Wadala, Gandhi Market in King Circle, Sion, Dadar, Western Express Highway, and Malwani in Malad.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials, waterlogging was caused as the heavy rainfall during a short period of time did not allow for the water to drain out.The city was expected to be receiving heavy rainfall earlier this week but between Monday and Wednesday, it received around 200mm of rainfall in parts. Further, though Mumbai has been receiving heavy rainfall, the catchment areas around it have not been recording a downpour. The seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city have around 17.28% of useful content left.Meanwhile, Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga, said, “Due to waterlogging at Gandhi market area, traffic going from Dadar to Sion, which is northbound, is at a standstill. But the southbound traffic going to CST is still moving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-morning-showers-cause-waterlogging-in-parts-of-mumbai-101626411012619.html
16-07-2021||NA||Mumbai rains Live: IMD forecasts heavy rains in central Maharashtra on July 18 and 19||Heavy rainfall continued in Mumbai on Friday leaving many key parts of the city inundated. Commuters faced hassle as buses were diverted and trains were delayed on the harbour line due to water logging on the tracks. Torrential downpours have been besieging the financial capital since Tuesday night, and as per the regional meteorological department's prediction rains are set to last another 24 hours.Follow all the updates here:IMD forecasts showers in central Maharashtra on July 18 and 19Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra on 18th & 19th ; and over Coastal Karnataka on 16th & 17th July, 2021.Isolated extremely heavy rainfalls very likely over Ghat areas of central Maharashtra on 18th and 19th: India Meteorological Department (IMD)Lake Tulsi overflows due to heavy rainfallLake Tusli, located inside Sanjay Gandhi National Park, began overflowing at 11am on Friday, according to BMC. Tusli is one of the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai.3 NDRF teams shifted from Pune to Mumbai in view of Orange alertIn view of orange alert for Mumbai by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), 3 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been shifted from Pune to Mumbai as a precautionary measure: NDRFEarlier visuals from Gandhi Market area of Mumbai pic.twitter.com/KnyVze5QQ5Local train services resumed on all railway linesLocal train services in Mumbai has resumed in all railway lines. This comes after many areas were cut off due to water logging following incessant rains since Tuesday night.Local train services between Vadala and Mankhurd suspendedLocal train services between Vadala and Mankhurd railway station on the harbour line have been suspended at 12.03 pm due to waterlogging at Chunabhatti railway station.Fast local train services suspended between Matunga and Mulund due to waterloggingCentral Railway suspended fast local train services between Matunga and Mulund railway stations due to waterlogging at Sion and Kurla stations. Slow local train services are operating with a delay of 25 minutes. Train services are operational on the harbour and trans-harbour line of the Central Railway. Local trains of Western Railway are operating without delays.Mumbai's Dahisar area waterlogged due to heavy rainfall#WATCH | Maharashtra: Dahisar area of Mumbai waterlogged following heavy rainfall in the city this morning. pic.twitter.com/OdA7YAa14lMumbai's Gandhi market area waterlogged following incessant rainfallMumbai | Roads waterlogged in Gandhi Market area following incessant rainfall. pic.twitter.com/xp8hZDA6TJHeavy waterlogging in Sion railway station affects commuters#WATCH | Mumbai: Daily commuters' movement affected as railway track waterlogged in Sion following heavy rainfall.Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai predicts "light to moderate rain in city & suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places" for next 24 hours pic.twitter.com/s6qq03tuIrBEST Buses diverted due to waterlogging in low-lying areasMumbai: Due to heavy rain and waterlogging in low-lying areas, buses have been diverted. pic.twitter.com/If8JMzkRzh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-live-best-buses-diverted-due-to-waterlogging-in-low-lying-areas-101626405605016.html
16-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to resume ops today; Covid curbs to continue till July 30||Kolkata Metro will resume its operations from Friday even as the West Bengal government has extended Covid-19 curbs till July 30.“Metro railway service shall operate five days a week with 50% seating capacity and shall remain suspended on Saturdays and Sundays,” stated an order issued by the state’s chief secretary on Wednesday.Kolkata Metro officials said while 192 trains will run on its north-south route between Kavi Subhash and Dakshineshwar, 48 services will operate on the east-west corridor from July 16 for the public. The service was to begin at 8am and end at 8pm.“Metro Smart Cards which expired on or between May 15 and July 15 will be treated as valid till August 16,” said an official. The local train services, however, will remain suspended till July 30.According to the latest order, shops and markets have now been given the nod to remain open throughout the day. Shops inside shopping malls may also remain open but with 50% capacity of both workforce and visitors. Banks have been allowed to remain open from 10am to 3pm instead of 2pm.Meanwhile, though the administration has allowed buses to ply from July 1, more than 95% of the private buses remained off the roads. Bus associations have also demanded a hike in bus fares to cope with the losses because of hike in fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-metro-to-resume-operations-today-covid-curbs-to-continue-till-july-30-101626406212145.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: IMD predicts light rain today and tomorrow||Delhi is likely to see light rain on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Light rain or drizzle has also been predicted for Saturday. The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 37 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 23.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 36.6 degrees Celsius. Also Read | Heavy rains continue in Mumbai, major areas of city waterloggedDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 91. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 83 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Thursday, the union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and the southwest monsoon has advanced into Delhi. Thundershowers observed over Delhi. Increased rainfall activity is likely to influence AQI positively. Widespread rainfall is likely during the next few days. Satisfactory to good AQI is forecasted for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-imd-predicts-light-rain-today-and-tomorrow-101626404651976.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 8,010 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, on Thursday, recorded 8,010 new Covid-19 cases even as the government demanded an increased supply of vaccine doses to beat the impending third wave of the pandemic.Although the state received 950,000 doses from the Centre on Thursday, the supply will hardly last three-four days, considering the state is vaccinating 300,000-350,000 citizens daily. On Thursday, 337,074 citizens were vaccinated in Maharashtra across 2,924 centres.State health minister Rajesh Tope demanded that the Centre dispatch more vaccines to Maharashtra. “It is our genuine demand to give us more and also consistently so that we can plan better and that there is no rush at our vaccination centres,” said Tope.Also Read | Covid-19 third wave likely by August-end, will be less severe than second: ICMR“If we want to stop the third wave or want to reduce mortality rates, vaccination is the only solution. The Central government needs to encourage those states who are carrying out vaccinations on a large scale,” he added.Although Maharashtra leads the nation with its record of administering 38,262,360 doses so far, the erratic supply has ensured that many of its centres are forced to remain shut due to shortage of vaccines.Tope said that currently 300,000-350,000 doses are being administered daily, but the state wants to vaccinate at least 1,000,000 people daily. “Our minimum capacity is 10 lakh (1 million) and we can go up to 15 lakh (1.5 million) daily,” he added. He said that Maharashtra legislature has already passed a resolution demanding 30 million doses monthly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-8-010-new-covid-19-cases-101626404232174.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rains continue in Mumbai, major areas of city waterlogged||Mumbai woke up to overcast skies on Friday as the heavy rainfall continued overnight, leaving several parts of the city waterlogged by the morning. Traffic took a hit, with buses being diverted on multiple routes. Trains, too, were reportedly running late due to waterlogged railway tracks on the harbour and the slow lines. In its daily weather update, the regional meteorological centre predicted that the torrential downpour will continue across parts of Mumbai and its suburbs over the next 24 hours.Follow LIVE updates about the Mumbai rains and traffic alerts on Hindustan Times' tracker; click here.The heavy rainfall in Mumbai left the Gandhi Market area completely waterlogged by Friday morning, photos tweeted by the news agency ANI showed. Visuals from the Eastern Express Highway also showed the overnight heavy rains lashing parts of the city.Also Read | Vortex: A tiny weather system that interfered with Mumbai monsoon#WATCH | Maharashtra: Heavy rain lashes parts of Mumbai; visuals from Eastern Express HighwayRegional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai has predicted "light to moderate rain in city & suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places" for the next 24 hours pic.twitter.com/g6Cr6mlNJr#WATCH | Mumbai: Water-logging at Mumbai's Gandhi Market area as the city continues to receive heavy rainfall pic.twitter.com/1I6tKRUDUV#WATCH | Mumbai: Daily commuters' movement affected as railways track waterlogged in Sion following heavy rainfall.Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai predicts "light to moderate rain in city & suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places" for next 24 hours pic.twitter.com/oT7XIVhkd0Due to heavy rainfall and waterlogging on the slow line near Kurla-Vidyavihar, trains are running 20-25 minutes late. Slow line traffic between Kurla and Vidyavihar has been diverted on the fast line. Trains on the harbour line are also running 20-25 minutes late, while the trans-harbour line is running smoothly so far, the Central Railway informed in its latest hourly update.Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport (BEST) buses have also been diverted in at least 10 routes across Mumbai, including Sion Road, Gandhi Market, Hindmata Cinema, and Wadala Bridge.Heavy rains have been lashing Mumbai since Tuesday night, with several key stretches of roads completely inundated. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow category alert for Mumbai on Thursday and Friday, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places, and a green alert for Saturday and Sunday.Heavy rainfall in Mumbai always carries the possibility of flooding low-lying areas in the city, as well as a potential disruption to electricity supply, water services, and local traffic. However, the met department said that the intensity of rainfall is likely to reduce soon, with light to moderate showers in isolated areas.Until 8:30am on Thursday, Mumbai received a total of 1291.8 mm of rain since June 1, which is about 48% in excess of the seasonal normal. In the past week itself, Mumbai received about 302mm of rain, which is 77% above the seasonal normal. A significant portion of the rainfall deficit for the first 14 days of July has been made up in the past week, though it is still -22% short of the normal for the period of 376mm, as per IMD’s rainfall information.As per official forecasts, the maximum temperature over the next five days is expected to rise to 32 degrees Celsius (up from 30 degrees Celsius on Wednesday evening), and the minimum temperature will rise to 26 degrees Celsius -- up from 24.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-weather-heavy-rains-continue-major-areas-of-city-waterlogged-101626399779337.html
16-07-2021||Bhopal||4 dead, several injured after falling into well in MP's Vidisha; rescue ops on||At least four people died and many were injured after they fell into a 40-feet-deep well in Ganj Basoda of Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha distict late on Thursday during a rescue operation to pull out a child, officials said on Friday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Fridays the state government has decided that financial assistance of ₹5 lakh will be provided to the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 and free treatment will be given to the injured."Minister in charge of Vidisha @VishvasSarang Ji was present at the spot throughout the night as the representative of the state government. Under his supervision, the rescue teams are engaged in rescuing the trapped people. The team of Commissioner, IG, Collector, SP, NDRF, SDRF is helping people at the spot," Chouhan said in a series of tweets in Hindi.राज्य शासन ने निर्णय लिया है कि मृतकों के परिवारजनों को 5 लाख रुपये की आर्थिक सहायता और घायलों को 50 हज़ार रुपये एवं निशुल्क इलाज की सुविधा प्रदान की जाएगी।MP’s medical education minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang, who was sent by Chouhan to Ganj Basoda, said 19 people have been rescued after they fell into a well on Thursday night during a rescue operation to pull out a 10-year-old boy, who fell into the well while playing.Earlier, Chouhan extended his condolences over the loss of lives in the accident and said rescue work is still underway. "Have received information that two people have lost their lives in Ganjbasoda. Their bodies have been recovered. I pay homage to those who lost their lives in the accident and pray to God to give peace to the departed souls. The rescue work is still on and I am continuously monitoring the situation," Chouhan tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Also watch | How rescue op of a child turned fatal for several onlookers who fell into a 40 feet wellThe dead and the injured were among the nearly 40 people, who gathered to watch rescuers trying to pull out the boy. Bhopal division's additional director general of police Sai Manohar said as people were trying to rescue the boy the well's boundary wall caved in and they fell into it.MP’s medical education minister Sarang said shortly before midnight that about 23 people were rescued and 13 have been admitted to the hospital. Sarang, the guardian minister of Vidisha district 50 km from the state capital of Bhopal, said he has ordered a high-level probe into the accident.The condition of the child is not nkown. According to earlier reports, the rescue operation was suspended for some time after a tractor being used by them also fell into the well. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the state-level disaster response force were involved in pulling out people from the well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/ganj-basoda-vidisha-4-dead-several-injured-after-falling-into-well-rescue-ops-on-101626396216793.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Chai of hard labour||Will it rain today? That’s the lazy chatter going on. Anybody can come here to have chai, but the tea shop is for labourers, asserts the tea stall owner. This afternoon the unnamed stall is teeming with half a dozen men. Each one of them is holding a plastic glass of chai.“All my customers are mazdoor (labourers),” repeats Muhammed Sabir. The lane that runs parallel to Asaf Ali Road, in Old Delhi, is a smorgasbord of small shops, eateries, and houses, and home to many groups of labourers living on the footpath or in tiny warehouses filled with construction material. Most of these labourers cook their own meals, but often have chai breaks in the area’s tea stalls. This shack is always teeming with folks.The tea things are arranged on the shuttered grills of a building’s characterless back-wall, while the customers sit atop a mound of cement sacks that have solidified into a rock-like hard surface—presumably— over the course of several seasons. “I only make chai, but there are ready-made things to eat,” says Mr Sabir, pointing to glass jars filled with fens and rusks. At the moment, all the customers happen to be Bihar natives. Rahman is from Madhubani, while Bacchu Singh, Salim Akhtar, Muhammed Khwaja Alam and Asit Yadav are from Purnia. The talk veers towards the forthcoming marriage of shy Rahman, who becomes so conscious that he turns his gaze towards his chappals. Some naughty jokes follow at his expense.The tea seller, too, was a labourer. He arrived in Delhi from Madhubani, in Bihar, more than 30 years ago, and “I opened this stall some 10 years ago with the ₹10,000 I had managed to save.” Labourer Bacchu Singh interjects, saying, “I feel apnapan (personal) in this shop. You always see your own folks here. And the chai gives asli taazgi (real energy), it’s a labour (sic) chai.” The rest make similar murmurs. This brotherly consensus becomes a reason for another round of chai; a metal tray is passed around from hand to hand. The shop opens daily from 5am to 8pm. A single serving of chai costs ₹5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-chai-of-hard-labour-101626395796960.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Water shortage will ease soon, says Chadha||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday inspected the Haiderpur treatment plant to check its water level after Haryana released supplies in the Yamuna on Tuesday.Chadha said once the full volume of water reaches the plants, the utility will again be able to achieve the original optimum production of 945MGD (million gallons per day). “Areas that are still getting thin supply will also have supply restored,” he said.“It takes around three days for water to reach all water treatment plants (WTPs) across Delhi, and another day or two for it to reach all households. We are monitoring the speed at which water is flowing in at the Haiderpur WTP,” he said in a statement.The Haiderpur plant is Asia’s second-largest plant, which filters and treats over 200MGD water, he said. Haryana releases raw water in the river Yamuna, which is treated at the WTPs and supplied to households.“Two major water channels of Delhi — CLC (Carrier Lined Channel) and DSB (Delhi Sub-Branch) have started receiving Yamuna water in good proportions and it will have a direct impact on increasing water treatment and production capacity,” the senior AAP leader said.On Sunday, DJB filed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking directions to Haryana to release the share of water Delhi is legally entitled to. On Tuesday, DJB said Haryana has released 16,000 cusecs of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-shortage-will-ease-soon-says-chadha-101626394203859.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to receive heavy showers over the weekend, says Met||The national capital received little rainfall on Thursday, two days after the southwest monsoon arrived in the city after running a 16-day delay. However, the weather office said a good spell of showers is in sight, and issued an ‘orange’ alert for Sunday, predicting heavy rains across Delhi.“Rainfall activity is expected to start from Saturday night and intensify on Sunday morning. This is because the monsoon trough line, which at present is from Gujarat to the Bay of Bengal, will shift to the northern plains, resulting in intense rainfall and thunder in Delhi and its satellite towns, including Noida and Gurugram,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre. He added the showers will lead to lower temperatures.An orange alert is issued when there is a forecast of rain and thundershowers, along with heavy rainfall in isolated pockets, accompanied by gusty winds of 30-40 kmph.On Thursday, the Safdarjung observatory, considered to be representative of the city, received only “traces” (rainfall up to 2.4mm) of rain. The maximum temperature was 36.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s normal, and the minimum was four degrees below normal at 23.4 °C. The Lodhi Road weather station, too, recorded only trace rainfall.IMD officials said the Capital is likely to receive steady rainfall between July 19 and July 21. “This period is likely to have good cloud cover, light to moderate rain or thundershowers with gusty winds. This will lead to a drop of almost 4-5 degrees in the maximum temperature,” said a senior IMD official.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 54.6mm of rain, with some areas receiving more than 100mm rain.The southwest monsoon arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, after a string of incorrect predictions by the IMD. This is the most delayed onset of monsoon in the Capital since 2002, when monsoon rains arrived on July 19. According to the weather office, monsoon usually sets in Delhi by June 27.Independent forecasters, too, said good rainfall is likely in the region over the weekend.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet, a private weather forecaster, said Delhi is likely to have continuous and “typical” monsoon rains from July 18 to 20. “The monsoon trough will start shifting from central parts of the country to the northwest from July 17. It is likely to result in moderate to heavy rainfall over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh and parts of east and north Rajasthan on July 18. The showers will continue on and off thereafter till at least July 20,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-showers-likely-on-weekend-says-met-101626388753384.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, expect Chandigarh traffic police at your doorstep for pending e-challans||The Chandigarh Traffic Police have decided they will now visit the houses of serial traffic offenders to clear their pending challan.Ever since moving to e-challans, there have been reports that many people didn’t clear their pending dues even though the challans were sent to their mobile numbers and through letters to their residences.As per the traffic police, two teams have been formed of two members each. The traffic cops will first target the habitual offenders, who have the most number of pending challans against them. The routine offenders will be covered in due course. The cops will also provide counselling to the offenders and make them aware about the traffic rules and violations.The teams will take the e-challan machines with them when they visit the offenders. They will not accept cash and will wear a body camera, which will remain switched on to ensure that the residents don’t face any harassment and to rule out the possibility of bribing.67% e-challans issued since March 2020 pendingWhile officials didn’t have fresh data at hand, around 1.05 lakh e-challans were issued between March 2020 and June 2021. Out of this, around 71,000 or around 67% of the e-challans are pending.Many e-challans can be paid on the spot, but for violations like speeding, the offender has to go to the Traffic Lines in Sector 29 to clear the e-challan, which is why many people choose to keep the challan pending. However, with an e-challan pending against a vehicle, it is not possible to sell the vehicle or get its insurance and/or registration certificate renewed.Speaking about the initiative, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Palak Goel said, “The step has been taken to ensure that pending e-challans are cleared. It will make it easier for people, too, to pay them, when we go to their residence.”It still remains to be seen what will be done in case the offender is not present at the residence or has shifted. There are some non-compoundable offences like speeding, jumping a red light and using a mobile phone while driving for which the fine isn’t collected by the traffic police but by the courts, so it remains to be seen whether these challans would also be cleared this way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-expect-chandigarh-traffic-police-at-your-doorstep-for-pending-echallans-101626381190693.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dulal Panda takes charge as Mohali NIPER director||Professor Dulal Panda joined as the director of National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, on Thursday. On June 29, the chairperson of the NIPER’s apex council had approved his appointment for a period of five years. The post had been lying vacant for a year and a half. Before joining NIPER, Panda was the chair professor of department of biosciences and bioengineering at IIT Bombay. Through his 20 years of teaching experience, he has researched eukaryotic and prokaryotic cell division, microtubule dynamics, mitosis, cancer chemotherapy, FtsZ’s assembly dynamics, FtsZ-targeted antibacterial drugs and biomolecular spectroscopy. He has to his credit three American and four Indian patents, apart from several publications in peer-reviewed journals. “I will work with a vision of taking NIPER to new heights at both national and international levels,” he said after taking over his new position.The previous director, Raghuram Rao Akkinepally, was sacked by the President of India on December 3, 2019, for concealing facts while submitting his application for appointment. He was appointed in May 2017, after a gap of nearly seven years. Declared as an ‘Institute of National Importance’ by the Government of India, NIPER is the first national-level institute in pharmaceutical sciences with a proclaimed objective of becoming a centre of excellence for advanced studies and research in this field. Mohali houses the main campus of the group of seven NIPER institutes across India under the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dulal-panda-takes-charge-as-mohali-niper-director-101626381130456.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman duped of ₹25 lakh for black fungus medicine: 2 more held||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested two more men for duping a Manimajra resident in lieu of providing injections to treat black fungus at lower rates. The accused have been identified as Vishesh Agarwal, 38, and Vishal Surani, 23, both hailing from Surat, Gujarat.They were arrested from Surat on the disclosure of Pallav Kumar, 29, and Brijbhushan Verma, 28, both hailing from Bihar, who were nabbed in Muzaffarpur, Bihar, on July 6. Agarwal and Surani were produced before a court and remanded to police custody till July 17. All accused are facing a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy registered on June 28 on the complaint of Geeta Rao of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra.Owner of GA Healthcare Pharma Company, Rao had received a call from a person on May 24, claiming that they were selling liposomal amphotericin B injection for ₹4,800 a piece, which she agreed to purchase. Through various transactions, she deposited ₹25.71 lakh into two bank accounts. The accused had told her that the injections will be dispatched on May 27, but they were not received and the accused went off the grid, she had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-duped-of-25-lakh-for-black-fungus-medicine-2-more-held-101626380830558.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sand boa snake rescued from Pathankot man in Chandigarh||A brown sand boa snake was rescued from a Pathankot man who was trying to sell it for ₹15 lakh in the city.The accused, identified as Ravi Kumar, was arrested near the Sector-23 government school following a tip-off on Wednesday night.Police said a decoy customer approached Kumar to buy the snake. As soon as a deal was struck, he was nabbed. The rescued snake was handed over to the forest and wildlife department. During questioning, he revealed that he bought the reptile from a snake charmer in Pathankot.According to investigators, the rare non-poisonous snake was in huge demand in the international market for use in black magic, and making certain medicines and cosmetics. It is also believed to bring good luck and wealth. A case under various sections of the Wild Life Protection Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector-17 police station. The accused was produced before a court and sent to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sand-boa-snake-rescued-from-pathankot-man-in-chandigarh-101626380470406.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, lover held for murdering mother-in-law, dumping body in Ambala||Cracking the murder of a Chandigarh woman within 24 hours, Ambala police have arrested her daughter-in-law and her lover.The deceased, Sushma Chauhan, 55, a resident of Sector 45, was found dead near the railway tracks behind Ambala Central Jail on Thursday. She worked as a private caretaker in Chandigarh and was missing since Tuesday.The accused were identified as Rajni, wife of the deceased’s elder son Amit and hailing from Kharar, and Swaran Singh, a taxi driver from Ropar. “As the victim learnt of Rajni’s affair and confronted her, she killed her in connivance with Swaran. After strangling her to death, they dumped her body near the railway tracks,” said superintendent of police Hamid Akhtar.The victim’s body was found on Wednesday and she was identified with the help of her Aadhaar card. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy and the last rites were performed in Chandigarh on Thursday.The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-lover-held-for-murdering-mother-in-law-dumping-body-in-ambala-101626380290181.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Chandigarh MC decides on technology to upgrade waste processing plant||After more than a year of debates, presentations and study tours, the MC General House on Thursday finally decided on the technology for upgrading the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25 (Dadumajra).The new plant will use the “waste to energy” technology instead of “waste to refused derived fuel”.The next step will be preparation of a detailed project report (DPR) and the tender document. MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We will be writing to Punjab Engineering College, IIT Ropar and Thapar University, inviting their bids for preparation of DPR and the tender document (request for proposal). We will go for the lowest bidder.”The DPR will include the cost estimates, the exact technology model, project time and funding model.“We are expecting the DPR to be ready by this month-end. We plan to the present the DPR before the House in its August meeting. The tender document is likely to be floated in September and we expect the work to be allotted in October,” Yadav said.For using the power generated from the new plant, MC will tie up with the power department. The final modalities of the share of electricity and its monetisation will be decided at a later stage.Notably, the meeting to decide on the technology came after UT adviser Dharam Pal recently warned MC of the administration stepping in, if MC delayed the matter further.The city produces 550-600 metric tonnes of waste daily. Of this, around 200 MT is dry waste, 150 MT is wet (kitchen) waste, mixed waste is 75MT and horticulture waste runs into 100 to 125 MT. However, the plant’s current waste processing capacity is only 70-80 MT.In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from the Jaypee Group, due to its inability to process the waste completely.But since then, MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology and most of the daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. West waste plant’s capacity to be expanded Yadav said MC will also expand the capacity of the wet waste processing plant up to 300 MT per day. “Even though the company running the plant has been claiming that 300 MT wet waste could be processed every day, in practice it isn’t more than 70 MT. The DPR will also include this aspect of waste processing,” he added.The corporation also decided to set up another plant for the horticulture waste, for which 30 vehicles will be rented to collect and dispose of the waste.Meeting theatrics During the meeting, amid high drama, Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla tore a water bill and a bank cheque. Babla had earlier said that he had spent some amount during a study tour and in response, BJP councillor and former mayor Asha Jaswal handed him a cheque for ₹8,000. Stating that he asked reimbursement from MC and not from her, Babla ripped up the cheque. Protesting against hefty water bills, he also rote a water bill.Following repeated interruptions by Congress councillors, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma asked them to leave the House on their own.THE ROAD AHEADAugust-end: Preparation of detailed project report and request for proposalSeptember: Floating of tenders October: Allotment of work||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-chandigarh-mc-decides-on-technology-to-upgrade-waste-processing-plant-101626380050254.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s govt schools reopening on July 19, pvt schools likely to follow suit||With government schools set to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 on July 19, most private schools of the city are also planning to resume physical classes within this month.While government schools had reopened in November 2020 as well, most private schools had chosen to stay closed, with parents still reluctant to send their children to school.Now, with the number of active Covid-19 cases going down daily, schools feel parents will accord their consent.Vice-president of the Independent Schools’ Association, ABS Sidhu said, “A meeting is pending for a unanimous decision, but most schools want to reopen now.”Sidhu, who is the director-principal of Saupin’s School in Sector 32, said they had sought parents’ approval and also plan to reopen on July 19.Atul Khanna, director of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26, also said that they had sent out consent letters to parents on Thursday. “We plan to open for board classes from July 22, and for Classes 9 and 11 from August 2 onwards,” he added.Detailed instructions issued by edu dept Following the Tuesday decision to reopen government schools, UT education secretary SS Gill issued detailed instructions on Thursday. Schools will remain open from 8.30am to 1pm for students and 8am to 2pm for staff. Students will need to bring a consent letter signed by their parents. Online classes will continue for those who choose not to attend physical classes.All heads of schools have been asked to ensure compliance of Covid protocols, and vaccination of all teaching and non-teaching staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-govt-schools-reopening-on-july-19-pvt-schools-likely-to-follow-suit-101626379870336.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||No afternoon water supply in Chandigarh from July 16||Even as it moves forward with its plans to supply 24X7 water supply in the city, the municipal corporation on Thursday decided to shut down the afternoon water supply from July 16. However, it will provide additional half-an-hour supply in morning and evening. The morning supply will last from 3.30am to 9am and the evening supply from 5.30pm to 9pm.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “With the onset of monsoon, summer has ended and demand for afternoon supply is not very high. We are doing this on a trial basis. If residents don’t experience any problems, we will continue it.” With the decision, MC also expects to save in crores. “We are spending around ₹14 crore annually on the afternoon supply. It is much less expensive to increase the duration of the morning and evening supply,” said Yadav. With no hike in water tariff between 2011 and 2020, MC earned only ₹87 crore against an expenditure of ₹215 crore last year.With the September 2020 water tariff hike, it expected to add ₹60 crore in receipts from the supply. However, with the UT administration putting a stay on the hiked water tariff, the gap between its cost of supplying water and its recovery is likely to widen up to ₹90 crore. Notably, on Wednesday, the UT administration had turned down MC’s request for allocation of ₹90 crore as special grant, mainly in lieu of losses due to reduction in water tariff and to carry out developmental works. In response to MC’s demand, made around a month back, the UT stated that it had no funds to provide the grant sought and that more funds can only be sought from the government under revised estimates for 2021-2022. “Now, with the afternoon water supply being shut, MC should ensure that there is no hike in water tariff after March next year. MC will save a lot by not pumping water in the afternoon. It should also ensure adequate water pressure in all localities of the city,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-afternoon-water-supply-in-chandigarh-from-july-16-101626379690272.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers protest against land acquisition for Delhi-Katra e-way project||Farmers from several districts of Punjab on Thursday staged a protest against land acquisition for the six-lane Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project, with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) extending its support to them.Hundreds of farmers from at least 22 villages of Ludhiana district reached the mini- secretariat in tractors and pickup trucks in the morning to hold a protest. By afternoon, members the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee from Khanauri, Patran, Bhawanigarh, Nakodar, Kartarpur, Qadian and Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran also joined them.They said instead of offering them the market rate, the government is giving them peanuts for acquiring the land.An SKM delegation visited the deputy commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum demanding stalling of the acquisition process. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, an SKM member, said, “We are not against development but the government should offer farmers the market rates. It is an open secret that there is always a variation between the actual land price and the registry rates. The government is offering ₹15-25 lakh per acre. It is peanuts,” said Lakhowal. They will not allow the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to acquire an inch of land till their demands are met, he added. Gurcharan Singh Hawas, a member of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said it was a symbolic protest. “We will block all the highways in Ludhiana and will not lift the dharna till our demands are met,” said Hawas.District revenue officer Joginder Singh said, “We received a representation from the farmer unions and have forwarded it to the government for consideration. The compensation will be paid as per the orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-protest-against-land-acquisition-for-delhi-katra-e-way-project-101626379390518.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cholera outbreak confirmed in two Panchkula villages, cases mount to 179||The health department has confirmed cholera as the reason for the death of a nine-year-old boy on Wednesday, even as the number of cases in Abheypur and Budhanpur villages due to the bacterial disease burgeoned to 179.Confirming a cholera outbreak in the villages, civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said the disease caused the death of nine-year-old Arpit in Abheypur on Wednesday.She said in the last two days, 179 patients from the two villages had been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, after drinking contaminated water. Vibrio cholerae bacteria had been found in 16 out of 18 stool samples tested. Health teams had also collected 55 water samples from the villages and reports will be out in a couple of days, she added.While the health department denied any other death, two admitted youths, Akshay, 17, and Roshan Kumar, 21, claimed their friend, Saurabh, 20, also died due to the disease.Congress leader Om Parkash claimed the water contamination started after a new pipeline was laid near the park in Abheypur. “Around 10 days ago, we complained to the HUDA officials concerned. They even visited the area, but left after saying that everything is fine.”For a village with nearly 50,000 people living in over 500 houses, only 12 water tankers were provided till Thursday, he said.A HUDA official, not wishing to be named, said, “On July 13, we got a call from the area councillor regarding filthy water. We visited the area, but did not find any fault. We got another call regarding black water being supplied to a house. We inspected the site on Thursday and found the sewage mixing with the water supply pipe. Similar problem was found at another house, near a manhole.”When contacted, Amit Rathi, executive engineer, HUDA, said, “Contamination was found at two houses and the supply there had been disconnected.”‘Cannot live here anymore’Father of nine-year-old Arpit, Anil Kumar, said he had decided to leave the village that took the life of his elder son: “I have bought tickets to drop my four-year-old son and wife in Uttar Pradesh. Then I will search for some other place to live. I cannot live here anymore.”He alleged that his son was discharged even though he hadn’t recovered fully. “Who listens to a poor man? I begged them to look after my child, but they sent him home after giving some medicines. My child died, not because of filthy water, but due to medical negligence,” he lamented.At the civil hospital, wards were full with people mostly from Abheypur and some from Budhanpur. “Water is so filthy and smells so bad that you cannot stand near it. We are getting sewage water in our homes,” alleged Rajesh, one of the patients.Sarawati, mother of a 16-year-old patient, claimed they had been getting contaminated water for over two months, but it had worsened over the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cholera-outbreak-confirmed-in-two-panchkula-villages-cases-mount-to-179-101626379270033.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance busts recruitment racket, sarpanch among 4 held||The Punjab vigilance bureau on Thursday claimed to have unearthed a recruitment racket with the arrest of four members of the racket, including a sarpanch and an employee of the state health department. The arrested accused confessed to have got recruited four persons in the Border Security Force (BSF) by accepting ₹3 lakh bribe each, officials said. They are Pritpal Singh, who is posted as a multipurpose heath worker at the primary health centre (PHC), Dhotian, in Tarn Taran district; Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Kadgill village in Tarn Taran; Malkiat Singh of Varpal village in Amritsar and Sukhwant Singh of Jhite Kalan village in Amritsar. The officials said the racket kingpin has been identified as Dominic Sahota, who is presently lodged in the Ropar jail in connection with a robbery and kidnapping case. Sahota used to pose as an assistant commandant in the BSF while his father Govinder Singh impersonated as an inspector, they said. Vigilance senior superintendent of police (SSP) Parampal Singh said one Barinderpal Singh of Tarn Taran town had lodged a complaint that Pritpal and Malkiat were demanding ₹3.5 lakh for getting his relative recruited as a helper in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). A trap was laid and Pritpal and Malkiat were apprehended while accepting ₹50,000 as first instalment of the bribe by a team led by Tarn Taran DSP Harjinder Singh. He added, “Malkiat confessed that accused Sukhwant, who operated from Ludhiana, was to be given ₹3 lakh from the total bribe amount for the recruitment. Malkiat has also told us that he had already got recruited four persons in the BSF through Dominic in 2019. Dominic had taken ₹2.5 lakh from each aspirant while Malkiat accepted ₹30,000 from each.”Dominic, his father, brother and three others were arrested by the Mohali police in January. Three illegal weapons, uniforms of security services, four vehicles, ₹2.5 lakh, laptops and fake ID cards were recovered from them. The SSP said they will bring Dominic on production warrant from the Ropar jail to identify the four persons recruited in the BSF through bribes. “It appears there are many more big fish in the scam. Our teams are working to reach them. We are also questioning accused Malkiat and Sukhwant as they are suspected to be involved in several more recruitments in various government departments. We have also found six more persons from whom the arrested accused have accepted ₹1 to 3 lakh bribe for getting them recruited in government departments. The statements of the six have also been recorded.”A case under section 7 of the Prevention of the Corruption Act, sections 420 (fraud) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at vigilance police station in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-busts-recruitment-racket-sarpanch-among-4-held-101626378910033.html
16-07-2021||Other||L-G Sinha inaugurates 35 power projects worth ₹44cr in Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday inaugurated 35 power projects worth ₹ 44.14 crore, augmenting the overall capacity in the Jammu division by 367 megavolt ampere (MVA).The L-G also launched several e-services of power development department, including the new provision for submitting application for getting a new electricity connection through online mode. Further, people can avail facilities of online bill payment, online complaint redressal, online security deposit calculation, besides using the online customer portal for their convenience, he said.He said that the capacity augmentation of the Barn Grid station which is being inaugurated on Thursday should have been done in 2012 itself because in the same year, it was targeted that the capacity of this grid station would be increased to 480 MVA by installing additional capacity of 160 MVA.This project will immensely benefit the remote areas of Poonch, Rajouri, Akhnoor, Jourian, Reasi and the adjoining areas of Jammu, Sinha said.He termed augmentation of the power grid stations imperative to meet the increasing power demand. The Gladini Grid station whose capacity was upgraded on Thursday had been long awaiting its capacity augmentation, Sinha added.Draba-Chandak transmission line, which was hanging since 2014, was also completed to further strengthen the power distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-sinha-inaugurates-35-power-projects-worth-44cr-in-jammu-101626378849841.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Will have Hindu, Dalit as deputy CMs in Punjab if voted to power: Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday announced to have two deputy chief ministers in Punjab — a Hindu and a Dalit— if the party is voted to power in the state in the 2022 assembly elections. The decision was taken in a meeting of the core committee of the party, which formed an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ahead of the polls, led by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal in Chandigarh. Sukhbir said, “Some external forces want to disturb peace in Punjab. We guarantee the Punjabis that the SAD is committed to keep all communities together and therefore we have decided to have a leader from the Hindu community as deputy CM once we form government.” “We already had announced to appoint a Dalit as deputy CM if voted to power. As Punjab has the highest percentage of Dalits in the country, it will also help protect their interests. When in power, our party has extended maximum social welfare benefits to the community,” he added. SGPC president Jagir Kaur, Tota Singh, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Grewal, Daljit Singh Cheema, Bikram Singh Majithia, Gulzar Singh Ranike and DSGMC Manjinder Singh Sirsa were among those who attended the meeting. ‘To move adjournment motion against farm laws’ Sukhbir, who represents the Ferozepur the Lok Sabha constituency, said the party will move an adjournment motion seeking repeal of the three farm laws in the forthcoming parliamentary session besides appealing to other parties to support their move. The core committee also decided to approach the farmer unions asking them not to gherao the leaders of parties who support their cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-have-hindu-dalit-as-deputy-cms-in-punjab-if-voted-to-power-akali-dal-101626378731300.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two gangsters held from ex-KCF militant’s house in Tarn Taran||Police on Thursday arrested two notorious gangsters-cum-smugglers who were allegedly harboured by former Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) militant Gursewak Singh at his house in Tarn Taran district’s Mari Kamboke village. With the arrest of the two, the police claimed to have solved the murder of a fish contractor at Harike. The arrested men are Amritpreet Singh and Jagpreet Singh of Harike and Gursewak Singh, the former militant. The police seized three country-made weapons, 1.3 kg heroin and ₹22 lakh drug money. Also, the police arrested four more persons who were allegedly involved in the killing of the fish contractor, Mukhtiar Singh, in August 2020. They are Jobanjit Singh and Sandeep Singh, alias Shishu of Tarn Taran, and Jagmit Singh and Sandeep Singh of Panchkula in Haryana.Officials said gangsters Amritpreet and Jagpreet are facing 50 criminal cases, including that of murder, attempt to murder and drugs in various districts of the state. Gursweak used to smuggle weapons and drugs from Pakistan, they said. He is also facing various criminal cases, including that of extortion, drug and arms smuggling. Addressing a press conference, Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Earlier, Amritpreet and Jagpreet were living at Gursewak’s house in Madhya Pradesh. Now, they were given shelter by him at his Mari Kamboke village residence. Gursewak has made huge property in Punjab and MP. Our teams are working to ascertain his all property records.”He said, “Amrit and Jagpreet along with their other accomplices gunned down Mukhtar Singh. During Amrit’s questioning, he disclosed that he kept the weapons used in the crime at one Hira Sigh’s house. When Hira’s residence was searched, some heroin and Ra 22 lakh drug money was seized. Hira is absconding, but we arrested his brother Jaswant Singh who is also a member of the gang.” Joban and Shishu were living at Jagjit and Sandeep’s house in Panchkula, he added. “Joban and Shishu are also aides of Amrit and Jagpreet. Our raids are on to nab Hira Singh,” he said. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Arms Act was registered against Amrit, Jagpreet, Gursewak and his wife Manjinder Kaur, Hira Singh and his brother Jaswant Singh at the Harike police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-gangsters-held-from-ex-kcf-militant-s-house-in-tarn-taran-101626378730076.html
16-07-2021||Other||6th pay commission report: Ludhiana MC employees on pen down strike, visitors a harried lot||In protest against the 6th pay commission recommendations and alleged pressure on municipal corporation (MC) employees to accept the same, the Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee observed a three-hour (9 am till noon) pen down on Thursday.Due to this, the visitors at the MC offices and Suvidha Kendras were a harried lot after work. They were forced to return without getting their work done. The MC employees came together outside their respective zonal offices and raised slogans against the pay commission report.Union chairman Ashwani Sahota and president Jasdev Sekhon stated that the employees’ unions in different departments across the state are protesting against the 6th pay commission report, and the MC employees have also opposed the same as the recommendations are not in favour of the employees.Sekhon and Sahota said some senior officials in MC are trying to pressurise the employees by saying that their salaries won’t be released if they don’t accept the recommendations.They had also submitted memorandums with mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday.The decision regarding further agitation will be taken after discussing the issue with the state-level employees’ unions.Meanwhile, the visitors at the MC offices stated that MC employees should protest but not harass the public by suspending their work.Gurbir Singh of Sarabha Nagar, a visitor at MC Zone D office, said, “I had visited the MC office to get TS1 (NOC) certificate for my house, but came to know that the employees are on strike. I waited for around half an hour for the employees to get back on their seats. Many other visitors also returned due to the strike. The employees should not suspend the services during the protest as people visiting the MC offices face a lot of harassment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6th-pay-commission-report-ludhiana-mc-employees-on-pen-down-strike-visitors-a-harried-lot-101626378669981.html
16-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC to promote healthy eating habits under ‘Eat Smart Challenge’||The municipal corporation (MC) will spread awareness among the residents about healthy eating and hygienic food under the union government’s ‘Eat Smart Challenge’. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with NGOs, college principals, and dieticians in this regard at the MC Zone D office on Thursday. The participants were roped in to spread awareness among the residents especially the youth regarding healthy eating habits.During the meeting, the participants discussed how social media platforms can be used to spread awareness. They also discussed steps to promote Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) certification, especially for the vendors and small eateries. Registration with MC and the health department will be made mandatory. Also, it was contemplated to organise a ‘Food Mela’ in the city to promote hygienic food items.Rahul Verma, a member of Sambhav NGO, said they also deliberated on the need to apprise street vendors of hygienic practices. The civic body has also roped in colleges to ensure that healthy food practices are adopted in the college canteens. Awareness programmes will also be held in schools and colleges. Sabharwal said that eating ‘smart’ means eating healthy, and it was the first meeting held under the challenge introduced by the union government to promote health through hygienic eating habits. MC will soon start the awareness drives at ground level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-to-promote-healthy-eating-habits-under-eat-smart-challenge-101626378611296.html
16-07-2021||Other||3 days on, protesting Ludhiana docs start OPD at hospitals’ hallways||In protest against the state government for the implementation of the sixth pay commission, members of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee (JGDCC) on Thursday checked patients in the common halls of their respective hospitals.The veterinary doctors also protested in a similar manner and offered their services in the common halls of their hospitals.The outpatient and inpatient department services, elective surgeries and other non-emergency services remained suspended from Monday to Wednesday as over 400 doctors deployed at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna, Jagraon, and 10 community health centres have joined the protest.However, emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico/vetro-legal services continued uninterrupted. As the OPD services resumed, a huge rush of patients was witnessed at civil hospital.Vikram Singh, a neurology patient, who had been struggling to meet the doctors for past three days, said his wait finally ended on Thursday. “The government should address the demands of doctors and resolve the issue. Due to the current situation, it is the patients who are suffering,” he said.JGDCC includes members of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMS), Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association.Leading the protest, JGDCC member Dr Varun Saggar said the state’s sixth pay commission has recommended reducing the NPA paid to government doctors from 25% to 20% and delinked it from the basic pay, which is not acceptable to them.One dies, 16 test positive for CovidOne person died and 16 fresh cases of Covid were reported on Thursday. A total of 87,206 people have tested positive so far, while 2,091 residents of the district have lost their lives to the contagion. Not a single patient from Ludhiana is currently on ventilator support.The latest fatality was a 81-year-old man from Guru Angad Dev Nagar, who was undergoing treatment at Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-days-on-protesting-ludhiana-docs-start-opd-at-hospitals-hallways-101626378610007.html
16-07-2021||Bhopal||40 people fall in well while watching rescue of 8-yr-old girl in MP’s Vidisha||BHOPAL: Nearly 40 people in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha, who had gathered around a well to watch others try to pull out an eight-year-old girl, fell into the 40-feet-deep well after its boundary wall caved in due to the pressure, police said late on Thursday.About 23 people have been rescued, MP’s medical education minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang, said shortly before midnight. Of them, Sarang said, 13 people have been admitted to hospital.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who asked Sarang, the guardian minister of Vidisha district 50 km from state capital Bhopal, to oversee the rescue and relief operation, said he has ordered a high-level probe into the accident.According to the villagers, a girl fell into a well late on Thursday evening while playing. A huge crowd gathered around the well as word spread across the village. They were trying to rescue her when the boundary wall of the well caved in and they fell into the well, Bhopal division additional director general of police, Sai Manohar said.There is no word on the condition of the young girl who first fell into the well while playing. Or the remaining 17 people.“She is still in the well,” a police officer said, pointing that it was not clear if she was hurt due to the debris when the boundary wall collapsed and the people who fell into the well moments later.Several people are feared trapped under the rubble, the officer added. Sanjay Sahu, additional superintendent of police, Vidisha, said he believed about 10 people were trapped.Preliminary reports suggest the rescue operation, which was later led by personnel from the National Disaster Response Force and the state-level disaster response force, was suspended for some time after a tractor being used by them also fell into the well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/40-people-fall-in-well-while-watching-rescue-of-8-yr-old-girl-in-mp-s-vidisha-101626378552337.html
16-07-2021||Other||PSPCL assures resolution of ‘unauthorised use of electricity’ cases||To address power-related grievances of various industrial associations, DPS Grewal, director distribution, PSPCL, interacted with the city traders at the United Cycle and Part Manufacturer Association Office, Gill Road, on Thursday. He assured them that their issues related to the unauthorized use of electricity (UUE) cases, will be resolved within seven days.Grewal said the assessment will be made for the period during which such unauthorized use has taken place. The period of UUE will be determined from the data downloaded from electronic metres. The penalty will be charged from the industrialists for the actual duration for which they were using more power and not for the entire year, he added.This move has brought relief to the traders as heavy penalties had been imposed on several businessmen in the last year for using more load in their factories than the sanctioned load. The traders had also protested outside the PSPCL office at Ferozepur Road from June 15 to 18, demanding the authorities to waive off the penalties and withdraw the UUE cases. Continuing with their series of protests, the city traders also burnt effigies of the PSPCL chief outside the subdivision offices.Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association president Jaswinder Singh Thukral said, “For the last two months, the traders have been upset due to penalties imposed on them. Many of them were already reeling under losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This move by the PSPCL has provided relief for the industrialists and we have decided not to hold any protest now.” During the interaction, DS Chawla, president of United Cycles Part Association, has suggested that for the new industrial connections, the condition of LT line length should be increased from 250m to 350m due to space constraints.FICO president Gurmit Singh Kular suggested that the maximum load of the SP category should be increased to 50KW and the maximum load of the MS category should be increased to 200KW.Grewal assured that these suggestions will be considered and would be conveyed to the appropriate decision-making bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-assures-resolution-of-unauthorised-use-of-electricity-cases-101626378550201.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Road rage: Four Punjab youths visiting Manali brandish swords, held||In a bizarre case of road rage, four tourists brandished swords at locals when they were asked to remove their car, which was parked in the middle of the road, as it was blocking traffic in Manali on Wednesday night. The accused, Ravinder, 21; Dalbir Singh, 28; Amandeep Singh, 24, and Jasraj, 23, were all residents of Khadyal village, Sangrur, Punjab. The complainant, Harish Kumar of Mandi, said he was driving from the Manali Bus Stand towards Rangri when an SUV bearing a Punjab Registration number (PB11CF 0123) overtook his car and parked it smack in the middle of the road causing a traffic jam. When locals asked them to remove the car, four people alighted from the vehicle with swords in hand and started threatening the locals. A video recording of the incident, which has been widely circulated on social media, shows the accused on the road with swords in their hands. The accused were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. DGP ups checking of tourist vehicles at borders Given the rising number of road-rage incidents, director general of police Sanjay Kundu has issued directions to increase checking of tourists vehicles at the borders. “It has been observed that due to sudden influx of tourists in the state, there has been an increase in incidents of road rage,” said Kundu, who has asked inspector generals, deputy inspector generals and superintendents of police to randomly check tourist vehicles at entry points of their jurisdictions. “The officer-in-charge of the naka should use his prudence to determine whether the tourists can create a rukus in the state based on their age, clothing, drunkenness and other behaviour. They have been directed to ensure that no such elements enter and travel in their respective jurisdiction with any weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-rage-four-punjab-youths-visiting-manali-brandish-swords-held-101626378490594.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal colonies: Ludhiana MC swings into action after facing flak in House meet||A day after the issue of rising number of illegal colonies mushrooming in different parts of the city rocked the MC’s general House meeting, its building branch officials launched action against such settlements in Giaspura on Thursday.As per the officials, illegal construction was razed and water/sewer connections in three colonies were snapped in Giaspura area. Councillor of the area, Jaspal Giaspura, however, termed the move an eyewash and stated that no action has been taken against the buildings established in the illegal colonies.MC’s Zone C assistant town planner (ATP) Satish Malhotra said the illegal water/sewer connections of three colonies on 33ft road and near Eastman Chowk were razed on the complaint of the councillors. “One illegal building was also built in one of the colonies, which was demolished while facing resistance from the owner. The work in the other two colonies is at initial stage,” he added. Giapura, meanwhile, alleged that many buildings are being constructed in one of the illegal colonies and the MC has demolished only a manhole there. “I will also meet MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and demand action against such colonies and the officials who have failed to take any action against them. An inquiry should also be conducted into how a large number of such colonies are coming up in the city,” he added. Municipal town planner SS Bindra said after receiving complaints from the councillor, action has been taken against the illegal colonies as per the norms. “If any councillor has any complaint, then he/she should submit the same with the officials and required action will be taken,” he added. Slamming the civic body officials over their failure in taking action against unauthorised colonies, councillors of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had during the general House meeting on Wednesday rued that residents living in their areas, especially the outer wards of the city, were also facing shortage of water due to mushrooming of illegal colonies.BJP councillor from ward number 31, Sonia Sharma, had even warned of staging a protest outside the office of MC commissioner if the civic body failed to take action against the illegal colonies in the coming few days.Mayor Balkar Sandhu had assured that strict action will be taken against the illegal colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-colonies-ludhiana-mc-swings-into-action-after-facing-flak-in-house-meet-101626378431013.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 bodies lie unidentified as Ludhiana police pull out ‘every trick in book’ to solve cases||Three unidentified bodies are haunting the Ludhiana police, who are still struggling to identify the victims in order to expedite pending investigations. The police have already scanned missing persons’ complaints to identify the bodies and also informed their counterparts in other districts. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has directed the station house officers (SHOs) concerned and CIA staff to work on unsolved murder cases. What could be termed the ‘most heinous murder’ was reported in Shehzad village of Jodhan, when the Ludhiana Rural police had found the decapitated body of a toddler on December 31, 2020. The missing body part was also found nearby. The police had suspected it to be a case of human sacrifice. After more than seven months, the case still remains unsolved.Jodhan SHO Amritpal Singh said they have scanned all cases of missing toddlers across the country, but to no avail. “We have contacted most of the families whose toddler sons were missing, but no one came forward to identify the body. We have also taken help of social networking sites and other mediums, but in vain. However, we have preserved the DNA of the victim,” he added. Tibba police, meanwhile, are still struggling to identify the body found stuffed in a gunny bag in a garbage dump in Shankar Colony on July 1. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (East) Davinder Chaudhary said they are trying to identify the body and have taken all the measures to do so. The police, he said, have procured CCTV footage from the surrounding areas to gather clues as well.Another similar case had come to light on June 18 after a body stuffed in a sack was recovered from the Buddha Nullah. Haibowal SHO Neeraj Chaudhary said as the body was decomposed, no injury mark was visible on it. He added that the viscera of the victim was sent for chemical examination to ascertain the cause of death. Other murder mysteriesOn July 6, a 70-year-old man was found brutally murdered at his house in Payal’s Buyani. The body had decomposed by the time of its discovery, leading police to suspect that he was murdered about three days ago. He was the son of a freedom fighter. On June 25, body of an elderly person was found in Dr Ambedkar Nagar of Model Town. The victim had been living alone in a rented accommodation. A blood-soaked wooden log was also found near the body. Three days before that, an elderly couple was found murdered in Jagraon’s Lakha. The assailants had also disfigured their faces. Hathur police had suspected old rivalry behind the murders as they found no sign of robbery in the house.Skeleton recovered from Jagraon drain Tension gripped Jagraon after sanitation workers recovered a skeleton from a nullah during a cleaning exercise on Wednesday evening. Police suspected that the body was dumped in the nullah in the winters as they found woollens on it.An FIR has been registered on the statement of Pardeep Kumar Dodhariya, executive officer, Jagraon municipal council. He said the skeleton was wrapped in a blanket. ASI Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the body was totally decomposed and only a skeleton was left. “We found a denim and a sweater on the skeleton. We also found some bangles in one of the arms, suggesting that the victim was a woman,” he added. The police are now scanning missing persons’ reports of the past nine months for identification purpose. The remains would be sent for forensic examination to ascertain the cause of death.A case under sections 302 and 201 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-bodies-lie-unidentified-as-ludhiana-police-pull-out-every-trick-in-book-to-solve-cases-101626378430023.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 15-year-old girl ends life after ‘breakup’||Disturbed over ‘breakup with her teenage boyfriend’, a Class-8 student hanged herself to death in Sundar Nagar of Ludhiana’s Daba last night, police said on Thursday. The girl has left a suicide note wherein she mentioned about the breakup, the police added. A case has been registered at the Daba police station under the charges of abetment to suicide against her purported boyfriend, who is also a minor. Daba station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur said they were alerted about the suicide on Wednesday night. “Her mother was first to spot the body when she came home from work,” the SHO said. The girl’s mother said that she had strained relations with her husband, who has been living in Khanna with their son, while she lived in Sundar Nagar with her 15-year-old daughter. The mother said that she worked in a factory. She added that her daughter was emotionally disturbed for the past few days. “I had talked to her about it, but she did not share anything,” she told the police. The SHO said that though the girl did not mention the name of her boyfriend in the suicide note, the police have come to know that he lived in the same neighbourhood. The investigating officer said the FIR has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC. “Efforts are on to nab the boy, who is absconding. Things would become clear after the boy is arrested,” she added. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-15-year-old-girl-ends-life-after-breakup-101626378370957.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ban no deterrent as use of plastic carry bags goes on unabated in Ludhiana||While the Ludhiana civic body has failed to enforce a complete ban on plastic carry bags in the last five years, the general House of municipal corporation (MC) approved another resolution to ban single-use plastic during the meeting that was on Wednesday held at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan. The move has come at a time when the civic body is struggling to impose a blanket ban on plastic carry bags, which was introduced by the state government in April 2016, and the use and trade of plastic carry bags is going on unabated. Despite tall claims that continuous drives are being conducted to ensure compliance with the order regarding trade and use of carry bags, no visible change can be seen at the ground level as carry bags are being used by shopkeepers, street vendors and residents. One of the MC officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said even as the matter has been highlighted during the MC House meetings in the past too, the civic body has been facing problems in enforcing the ban on plastic carry bags due to “political interference”. Plastic carry bags are sold by traders in different areas of the city, including Kesar Ganj Mandi, Field Ganj, Giaspura, and Jawahar Nagar camp area among others, and the officials are also aware of the same, he added. “The drives are organised only when pressure is mounted by the local bodies department and this time too, the resolution has been approved to ban single-use plastic just to complete a formality under the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge. The focus will be on banning the use of plastic carry bags only, while the authorities are finalising a list of other items to be banned,” the official claimed. Meanwhile, the authorities said that a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags will be imposed this time and use of other items such as disposable spoons and straws will also be prohibited in a phased manner. The matter was also raised during the general House meeting with councillors and mayor Balkar Sandhu highlighting the need to ban the carry bags as apart from polluting the environment, such carry bags also tend to choke the sewer lines if disposed irresponsibly. The mayor said, “A separate team of officials will soon be formed only to enforce the ban on plastic carry bags and the councillors have assured their cooperation during the general House meeting. We need to deal with solid waste and this step will help us in tackling the garbage situation in the city on a daily basis. Hefty challans will also be levied on the violators as per the norms.”6,226 penalised since July 2019: MC Ashwani Sahota, nodal officer for MC’s health branch, said the civic body has issued 6,226 challans against the trade and use of plastic carry bags since July 2019. “While 6,157 kg of carry bags have been confiscated, fine of 10.9 lakh has been slapped on the violators,” he added. Sahota said that regular drives are being conducted to impose the ban and over 100 challans have been issued in the month of July this year. Ban not a solution, management is: Industry Expressing disapproval at the decision taken by the MC to ban single-use plastic, the representatives of plastic industry stated that the move will “destroy their business” which is already reeling under losses amid the Covid pandemic. They urged the civic body to work on solid waste management rather than clamping a complete ban on plastic bags without providing an alternative in the market. The general secretary of Kesar Ganj Plastic Merchant Association, Puneet Makhija, said that most of the traders in the city are now dealing in packaging material and carry bags are being supplied from other states. “It is not possible to ban plastic bags as there is no other alternative. The government should work on managing the solid waste and the industry will help the authorities in the same. Efforts should be made to recycle the waste. At least the state government should allow plastic carry bags having width above 50 micron on the lines of the central government. We are ready to install dustbins in the city, but the government is adamant to ban the plastic,” said Makhija. Similarly, president of Plastic Manufacturers and Traders Association, Punjab, Gurdeep Singh Batra said that there are 1,600 manufacturers and traders dealing with plastic carry bags and lakhs of workers are engaged in the sector. “Despite repeated requests, the government is determined to ban the carry bags without providing an alternative. How will a shopkeeper or street vendor sell the items without carry bags? The government does not have any answer to this question. We will again approach the civic body and the government to reconsider the decision, otherwise the sector will be destroyed and residents will also face inconvenience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ban-no-deterrent-as-use-of-plastic-carry-bags-goes-on-unabated-in-ludhiana-101626378369844.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Virbhadra Singh’s ashes to be immersed in rivers across Himachal||The ashes of veteran Congress leader and six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who had breathed his last on July 8, were brought to the Congress’ Shimla headquarters, Rajiv Bhawan, on Thursday and later dispatched across 72 blocks to be immersed in rivers and holy places across the state. The 87-year-old scion of the Rampur-Bushahr royal family had been cremated at his native town on July 10. Congress’ state chief Kuldeep Rathore said a prayer meeting would be held in memory of the stalwart leader on July 16 and the ashes will be immersed in rivers across the state the next day. The party members, who remembered Singh as the architect of modern Himachal, have demanded that space be allocated on the historic Ridge maidan to install the statue of the former CM. “I have written to the chief minister seeking permission to install the statue. We have only sought space and permission to install the statue. The party will bear all the cost. It is important that his contributions be remembered. Besides, the locals have also demanded that his statue be erected. All party members will pitch in up to ₹1,000 for the project,” said Rathore. The tribal Buddhist community of Lahaul-Spiti district organised a special prayer for the departed soul at Rajiv Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virbhadra-singh-s-ashes-to-be-immersed-in-rivers-across-himachal-101626378190925.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Double land compensation: HC judge recuses from PIL||A Punjab and Haryana high court judge on Wednesday recused himself from hearing public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into double compensation a Punjab cabinet minister and his family got for the acquisition of land in Ferozepur. The plea filed by three residents of Rupnagar, including lawyer Dinesh Chadha, levels allegations of “illegal and fraudulent acts” by Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and his family members in connivance with the officials for getting double compensation. It further alleges that due to the influence of the minister, the Congress government is diluting the whole matter by giving it a civil tone in order to shield corrupt elements who have “abused” power. The plea was taken up by the bench of chief justices RS Jha and Arun Palli but the latter recused from hearing it while fixing the next date of hearing for July 23. The case involved a matter of grave public concern whereby a present cabinet minister in Punjab government managed and manipulated the government machinery in taking compensation again and again for the same land. It was done in the garb of dual acquisition proceedings by concealing the fact of earlier acquisition proceedings,” the PIL alleges. The land at Mohanki Attar village had been acquired for the Ferozepur-Fazilka-Guru Har Sahai road. The family received ₹1.8 crore compensation in 2014 for the land after re-acquisition in 2012, which, as per record, had also been acquired in 1962 for ₹7,384. The land comprised 55 kanal and 6 marla belonging to Sodhi and 38 kanal of his nephew Jasdeep Sodhi. The plea alleges that the entire fraud has been unearthed as per the state government’s own high power committee report but the government officials are sitting as “puppets and helpless creatures in the hand of mighty and powerful, least they themselves will be facing the wrath in case they dare to take any criminal action against the minister concerned and his family members”, hence a CBI probe is warranted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-land-compensation-hc-judge-recuses-from-pil-101626378189811.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal flashflood: One more body found in Kangra’s Boh valley||Four days after rain-triggered landslides and flashfloods hit Kangra district, the body of yet another person was found in the debris in Boh valley on Thursday, taking the death toll to nine even as another person remains missing in the area. The victim, Subhash Chand, 70, was a resident of Rulehar village. The body of his only son, Shiv Prasad, 30, had been dug out of the debris on July 13. Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan said rescue teams sent by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Himachal Pradesh Police, Public Works Department (PWD) and Revenue department were involved in the search operation. While five people were successfully rescued, nine others were found dead over the last four days. Rescue operations should have been carried out on war footing: BaliHitting out at the state government, senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali alleged that the BJP regime had failed to carry out rescue operations in areas ravaged by landslide and heavy rainfall in Kangra. “Rajol and Boh village were completely devastated in the landslide caused by the heavy downpour. Nine people have lost their lives. The NDRF team has reached the area, but the government has provided them with one machine to excavate the debris. Rescue operations should have been carried out on war footing,” said Bali addressing a press conference. He urged the high court to take sou motto cognisance of encroachment on river banks and rivulets in the state, which was also responsible for the extent of devastation caused by the natural calamity. Bali also said that the government’s decision to purchase 250 new buses had burdened the Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation, which was already on the brink of bankruptcy. He promised that should the Congress come to power in the state, the party will create 2.5 lakh jobs in Himachal. “Back door channels are being used to recruit people. No guidelines on reservation, qualification or economic distribution are being followed,” he said. He also asked the government of the criteria, on which vacancies were being filled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-flashflood-one-more-body-found-in-kangra-s-boh-valley-101626377949916.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple to open for devotees from end of 2023: Trust general secretary||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will open to devotees for worshipping the child deity, or Ram lalla, by the end of 2023 and the entire 70-acre campus will be completed by the end of 2025, said office-bearers of the trust overseeing the high-profile project on Thursday.The announcement came after a meeting of the 15-member Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust with engineers and architects. The meeting was chaired by trust chief Nripendra Misra, who wrapped up a two-day visit to Ayodhya.“By the end of 2023, the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple will be opened for devotees to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust.“Construction work on the 70-acre temple complex will be completed by the end of 2025. Then the entire temple campus will be opened for devotees,” added Rai.The foundation of the temple was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5 last year in a glitzy ceremony but work stalled in January after water was found under the proposed temple site. Currently, engineers are working on the foundation of the temple and it is likely to be completed by September 15. The second phase of the work is likely to start in November.The construction committee has decided to keep the Ram Janmabhoomi campus eco-friendly. “The temple complex will have provision of rainwater harvesting so that water collected on the campus does not choke drains outside the temple. All existing trees in the temple complex will be preserved so that they provide natural cooling to devotees,” said Rai.Security of the complex was discussed at the meeting on Thursday and it was decided that instead of cement, industrial fly ash will be used in the construction of the temple. It will be procured from Unchahar Thermal Power Plant in Rae Bareli.Sandstone from Mirzapur and Jodhpur, marble from Makrana in Rajasthan and pink stone from Bansi Paharpur in Rajasthan will be used in the construction. “On completion of one year of Bhumi Pujan of Ram temple on August 5 this year, we are planning a media visit at the construction site,” said Rai.According to the temple’s master plan, the campus will also have a museum, record room, research centre, auditorium, cow shed, a centre for tourists, administrative building, yagya shala and other facilities.Construction of the temple, a decades-long demand of Hindu groups, was cleared by the Supreme Court in 2019 in its landmark verdict on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. Before that, devotees were allowed to offer prayers to the child deity under a makeshift shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-temple-sanctum-sanctorum-to-be-open-for-devotees-by-end-of-2023-101626377829230.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||CM Jai Ram Thakur dedicates developmental projects in Himachal’s Mandi district||Eyeing the upcoming bypolls for the Mandi parliamentary seat, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur dedicated developmental projects amounting to ₹ 2.28 crore in Balichowki of Siraj constituency, Mandi, on Thursday. The CM inaugurated the building of a primary health centre centre, which cost ₹1.18 crore and the office building of the treasury and assistant engineer, PWD, which cost ₹1.1 crore in Balichowki. Reiterating that the state government was committed to ensure the overall and balanced development of the state, the CM said preference was being given to areas that had remained neglected over the years. Jai Ram said the Thalot-Panjai Road was being upgraded at a cost of ₹25.82 crore, while the mini secretariat was being constructed at Balichowki at a cost of ₹10 crore. He said that construction work at the ₹7 crore community health centre building and ₹4.5 crore sericulture building at Balichowki was being done at war footing. Around ₹14 crore has been sanctioned for constructing a bridge over Beas River at Thalot, whereas construction work of an 11km road connecting Burah and Panjai via Munat is in progress, he said Jai Ram inspected the ₹4.5 crore bridge being constructed over Tirthan Khad at Balichowki and directed officers to ensure its timely completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cmjai-ram-thakur-dedicates-developmental-projects-in-himachal-s-mandi-district-101626377650647.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||India and Japan one of the most natural partners in region, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called Japan a trustworthy friend as he inaugurated the Rudraksh convention centre constructed with the help of that country in VaranasiHe also said the friendship between the two countries was considered one of the most natural partnerships of this region.Projects like the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed train, which were coming up with the cooperation of the Japan government, will become the strength of New India, he said. He thanked the Japan government and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga in this respect.Modi was speaking at the inauguration of the Rudraksh convention centre and interacted with prominent people of Varanasi on the occasion.He recalled that the then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gifted Rudraksh to Kashi during his visit here in 2015.Modi planted a Rudraksh sapling on the premises of the convention centre. “Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide ji was the chief cabinet secretary at that time. From then till the role of PM, he (Yoshihide) has been personally involved in this project continuously. Every countryman is grateful to him for his affinity towards India,” said PM Modi and added that he was thankful to Japan government, PM Yoshihide, and the people of Japan for this gift of the convention centre. “There is one more person in today’s event, whom I cannot forget to name. Another friend of mine from Japan, Shinzo Abe. I remember, when Shinzo Abeji came to Kashi as Prime Minister, I had a discussion with him on the idea of Rudraksh,” Modi said.He said that thereafter, this idea was conceived, and Abe instructed his officials to work on the idea. The planning was done and today this grand building was adding to the glory of Kashi, he said. “This building has the spark of modernity and cultural radiance, it also has connect of India-Japan relationship and also scope for the future. During his Japan visit, he talked of this affinity in people-to-people connect in India-Japan relations,” Modi added. He also mentioned the Japanese Zen garden which was inaugurated a few weeks ago.“As this Rudraksh is like a rosary of love from Japan, the garden is also spreading essence of love… Be it strategic area or economic area, Japan is one of the most trusted friends of India today. Our friendship is considered one of the most natural partnerships in the entire region. Japan is our partner (for) several important projects. Be it Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail, Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor or dedicated freight corridor, these projects being built by the cooperation of Japan will become the strength of New India.” He said that this development should be all-round and should be for all. This international convention centre Rudraksh will be a medium to connect the whole world through art and culture, Modi said. Mentioning the Banarasi singing styles like chaiti, Kajri and musical instruments like tabla, pakhawaj, shehnai and sarangi, he said there was music and art everywhere in Banaras (Varanasi).“Banaras can become a global centre of music, science and knowledge,” he said. “Kashi is the form of Shiva. Now that Kashi is being adorned with so many development projects in the last seven years, how could this adornment be completed without Rudraksh? Now that Kashi has worn this Rudraksh, the development of Kashi will shine more, and the beauty of Kashi will increase more,” said Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/india-and-japan-one-of-the-most-natural-partners-says-pmmodi-101626377350175.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi asks doctors in Varanasi to motivate people, increase vaccination||Praising the preparations made in Varanasi for dealing with the possible third wave, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told the doctors here to increase vaccination as it was an effective means of fighting Covid-19.Asking the doctors to dispel myths, he said they should create awareness, motivate people and take steps for doing away with vaccine hesitancy.He also asked the doctors to document their experiences of dealing with the first and second waves for research in the near future.After inaugurating several projects in the city, PM Modi inspected the new 100-bed mother and child health wing at Sir Sundar Lal Hospital, Institute of Medical Sciences-Banaras Hindu University (IMS-BHU) and watched a presentation on the preparations for dealing with the possible third wave of Covid-19. Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma gave the presentation. Later, Modi held a meeting with 18 doctors at the hospital and interacted with four of them, including IMS-BHU director Prof BR Mittal, chief medical officer (Varanasi) Dr VB Singh, Indian Medical Association vice-president Ashok Rai, and IMS-BHU Trauma Centre in-charge Prof Saurabh Singh. PM Modi thanked the medical fraternity for Covid-19 management during the second wave. He asked about the preparations for dealing with the third wave, including the availability of modern equipment, labs, oxygen, beds, medicines and research equipment. Experts informed the PM that a 100-bed Covid-19 ward for children has already been created by SSL Hospital, BHU and it has all the necessary equipment. Later, the prime minister asked the doctors about vaccine hesitancy in the region. According to a medical expert, who was part of 18-member team, a doctor told PM Modi that after the second wave, vaccine hesitancy decreased to some extent and a large number of people were turning up for vaccination at present.IMA vice-president Dr Ashok Rai, a child specialist, appealed to PM to make available Covid-19 vaccine for children soon after it is approved.Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that 23% population (over 10 lakh people) of the population had been vaccinated in Varanasi district from January 16 to July 14.About 8.21 lakh people received the first dose and 1.96 lakh people got the second one, he said. A total of 10,928 vaccination sessions have been conducted in Varanasi so far. When contacted, Prof Ashok Kumar, head of the department of paediatrics at IMS-BHU, said, “We are fully prepared to deal with the possible third wave. All preparations have already been made. For children, 100-bed Covid-19 ward equipped with all the facilities is ready.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-asks-doctors-in-varanasi-to-motivate-people-increase-vaccination-101626376629935.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ten pregnant women take Covid-19 vaccines on day one||Only 10 pregnant women turned up to take the Covid-19 jabs on Thursday, the first day of vaccination rollout for them in Mumbai. While eight were administered the dose in public centres, two received the shots in private centres. Medical experts and civic officials said the lukewarm response was due to low awareness among pregnant women, and that gynaecologists should take the lead in disseminating information about risks and benefits. In Mumbai, gynaecology departments of both public and private hospitals have already started spreading awareness among pregnant women registered under them. “We have trained healthcare workers in spreading awareness,” said a civic official. Eight pregnant women had already taken the jab in private centres before the drive was rolled out in the city on Thursday, taking the total number of vaccinated pregnant women to 18. On July 2, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare approved Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant women, underlining that the benefits of vaccination outweigh their potential risks. The centre’s guidelines say that pregnant women can take the jab at any point during the pregnancy. A guidance document released by the centre said that pregnant women who develop Covid-19 are more likely to require intensive care than their non-pregnant counterparts, and the infection during pregnancy may result in rapid deterioration of their health and might affect the foetus. These threats prompted medical experts to demand vaccination for pregnant women. The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) was instrumental in pushing the centre to rollout vaccines for pregnant women as well as lactating mothers. Vaccination for lactating women started in May. Since then, 3,646 lactating mothers have been vaccinated in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ten-pregnant-women-take-covid-19-vaccines-on-day-one-101626376569055.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||To beat 3rd Covid wave, Centre needs to up vaccine supply: Maha health minister||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 8,010 new Covid-19 cases even as the government demanded an increased supply of vaccine doses to beat the impending third wave.Although the state received 950,000 doses from the Centre on Thursday, the supply will hardly last three-four days, considering the state was vaccinating 300,000-350,000 citizens daily.On Thursday, 337,074 citizens were vaccinated in Maharashtra across 2,924 centres.State health minister Rajesh Tope demanded that the Centre dispatch more vaccines to Maharashtra. “It is our genuine demand to give us more and also consistently so that we can plan better and that there is no rush at our vaccination centres,” said Tope.“If we want to stop the third wave or want to reduce mortality rates, vaccination is the only solution. The central government needs to encourage those states who are carrying out vaccinations on a large scale,” he added.Although Maharashtra leads the nation with its record of administering 38,262,360 doses, the erratic supply has ensured that many of its centres are forced to remain shut due to shortage of vaccines.Tope said that currently 300,000-350,000 doses are being administered daily, but the state wants to vaccinate at least 1,000,000 daily. “Our minimum capacity is 10 lakh (1 million) and we can go up to 15 lakh (1.5 million) daily,” he added. He said that Maharashtra legislature has already passed a resolution demanding 30 million doses monthly.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clini,c said vaccination is the need of the hour. “Covid-19 virus is here to stay and vaccination is necessary to reduce the severity of the virus. Mass vaccinations will also help in unlocking the restrictions and play a major role to revive the economy,” said Dr Mandot.Mumbai on Thursday recorded 528 new cases with 13 deaths, with its death toll reaching 15667.The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,189,257.There were 214,935 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,391.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 107,205 while the total number of deaths has now reached 126,560.Pune tops with 17,401 patients, followed by Thane with 15,653 active patients and Sangli with 11,346. The death toll has now reached 126,560 with Pune leading with 17,577 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,667 patients and Thane with 10,618.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/to-beat-third-wave-centre-needs-to-up-vax-supply-rajesh-tope-101626375608972.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda AC ISBT nowhere in sight, old bus stand to get ₹1-cr facelift||After failing to start the construction work of Punjab’s first air-conditioned inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) in Bathinda, the state government has now decided to renovate the decades-old bus stand in the city.As state elections are nearing, the government has sanctioned ₹1 crore for the makeover of the dilapidated bus stand. Punjab Roadways Bathinda depot general manager Raman Sharma said the transport department received funds on Saturday and the renovation work has started.New flooring on 1-lakh square feet, sewerage system and construction of public conveniences blocks are key works to be undertaken. The renovation is expected to be completed by October, said Sharma.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents the Bathinda Urban segment, wants better infrastructure at the existing bus stand as the new ISBT project has not seen any development since the Congress government came to power, said officials not wanting to be named.Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal laid the foundation stone of the modern ISBT project ahead of the assembly elections in 2016. Officials attribute the delay in the ambitious ISBT project to the non-approval by the army authorities. “The ISBT project comes under the purview of the Bathinda military station and after it objected to the seven-storey complex, the plan was changed to a four-storey building. It has been more than a year and the Bathinda district administration is still waiting for the approval from the army authorities,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-ac-isbt-nowhere-in-sight-old-bus-stand-to-get-rs-1-cr-facelift-101626374830566.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: HC reserves order on petition against handwriting samples||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday reserved its order on a plea from an accused in a 2015 sacrilege case, against the special investigation team (SIT) taking the handwriting samples.Last week, the high court had restrained the Punjab Police’s SIT probing the sacrilege cases from submitting chargesheet (challan) against the accused, Sukhjinder Singh, in a desecration incident wherein derogatory posters were pasted near the gurdwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on the intervening night of September 24 and 25 in 2015. The HC bench of Justice HNS Gill reserved the order after it was apprised by the Punjab Police that the accused himself had agreed for handwriting samples before a court.Earlier, the high court had acted on the plea of Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, a Dera Sacha Sauda follower, who had demanded that the SIT be stopped from re-examining his handwriting samples for matching them with those on the posters. Sukhjinder had argued that the SIT is competent only to further investigate the matter and not reinvestigate it.Sukhjinder is among four accused in the case, besides Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh and Baljeet Singh. On June 1 this year, the SIT collected samples of Sukhjinder to match them with the writing on the derogatory posters claiming that one of the posters was written by him. The SIT led by then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018 had claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers had matched with the ones on the posters. But the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-hc-reserves-order-on-petition-against-handwriting-samples-101626374649470.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Irrigation scam: HC directs Punjab to look into allegations of ‘shoddy’ probe||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Punjab government to look into the allegations of a “shoddy” probe into the 2017 multi-crore irrigation scam, reported during the previous SAD government regime between 2012 and 2017. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli disposed of public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Harmit Singh and two others from Bathinda, demanding a CBI probe. “In the circumstances and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the petition is disposed of with a direction that the authorities shall look into the grievances/concerns that are being raised by the petitioners and take the necessary measures/decision on the petitioners’ representation..,” the bench said, adding that petitioners can bring additional facts and material in the notice of the authorities and file a representation before the appropriate authority on allegations of money laundering. The FIR was registered on August 17, 2017, under Prevention of Corruption Act against a contractor and senior officers of the Punjab government for alleged misuse of public funds and causing financial loss to the state exchequer. According to the vigilance bureau, during the previous Akali government regime, higher officials connived with a contractor and indulged in allocation of works worth ₹1,000 crore that too on the rates more than 50% of the departmental rates. The court was told that though the authorities have taken cognisance of the matter and have conducted investigation, necessary sanction for prosecution has not been granted and in such circumstances, either the authorities should proceed in the matter or the same be handed over to the CBI for further investigation.So far 14 challans have been presented before the trial court. Two ex-ministers, three IAS officers and two personal assistants of both the ex-ministers are involved in the scam, it was claimed, adding that same was disclosed by the contractor, Gurinder Singh, to the police. In October 2018, the Enforcement Directorate too took note of the scam. “The statement (of contractor) includes very cogent evidence, which was required to be investigated, but for the reasons best known to the investigating agency, said aspect has not been probed,” the court was told. Senior advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu had told court that in December 2019 that the chief director, vigilance bureau, wrote to the secretary, department of vigilance, Punjab, seeking permission for registration of inquiry against the officers and politicians.The vigilance department in June 2020 wrote to the department of personnel and principal secretary, parliamentary affairs to grant necessary approval but to date, there is neither sanction nor is there any headway, he said before the court, adding that despite nod from the chief minister for probe, it has not been completed. Hence, either the state be directed to complete the probe under the high court’s supervision in a time-bound manner or it be referred to the CBI. The plea also wanted money laundering probe in a time-bound manner. As the Punjab government told court that matter shall be examined by the authorities and necessary action, including grant of sanction, will be taken by the respondent authorities expeditiously, the court disposed of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/irrigation-scam-hc-directs-punjab-to-look-into-allegations-of-shoddy-probe-101626374529690.html
16-07-2021||Other||75% work on Belapur-Uran railway corridor in Navi Mumbai completed: Central Railway||The second phase of the new Belapur-Uran suburban railway corridor project is nearing completion. Seventy-five percent of work on the railway line has been completed so far. The second phase of the corridor is being constructed between Kharkopar and Uran railway stations and is expected to be completed by 2023. The first phase of the project – 12.5-km Belapur and Kharkopar railway route – started in November 2018. After its completion, the railway corridor will facilitate direct commute between Mumbai and Uran and connect to the new Navi Mumbai international airport as well as the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT). Two major bridges, two road under bridges and four road over bridges are being constructed between Kharkopar and Uran stations as part of work in the second phase. “The work on the 14.6km-long railway line is ongoing and 75% has been completed,” said a senior Central Railway (CR) official. The railway line was sanctioned in 1967. The estimated cost of the Belapur- Uran railway project is ₹1,782 crore. The project has been undertaken on a cost-sharing basis, with the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) bearing 66% of expenses and CR 34%. Cidco will develop a 3-km parcel of land for the corridor. Five railway stations – Gavhan, Ranjanpada, Nhava Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran – are being constructed along the railway line, as part of expanding the Mumbai suburban train network’s in Navi Mumbai. A rail over rail (ROR) is being constructed between Gavan and Ranjanpada railway stations. The zonal railway will be launching girders for the construction of ROR. “The second girder for the construction of ROR will be launched soon,” said the senior CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/75-work-on-belapur-uran-railway-corridor-in-navi-mumbai-completed-central-railway-101626374469560.html
16-07-2021||Other||No illegality in Elgar Parishad case accused Sudha Bharadwaj’s detention: Maharashtra govt to HC||The Maharashtra government on Thursday opposed the default bail plea by Elgar Parishad case accused Sudha Bharadwaj and her contention that the extension of her custody granted by an additional sessions judge was beyond his jurisdiction as only a designated special judge could pass the extension order. The state told the court that the extension granted by the sessions judge was justified as even though the activist and lawyer was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act stipulated the need for a special judge at the time of the trial and not pre-trial, and the sessions judge had passed the extension order in 2018 before NIA took over the case last year. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state argued that the contentions of Bharadwaj’s lawyer was not maintainable as there had not been any lapses on the part of Pune Police in approaching the additional sessions judge who granted extension to the custody of Bharadwaj and also authorised the charge sheet. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, was hearing the application for default bail of Bharadwaj, who was arrested after her name cropped up in the electronic devices of another accused Rona Wilson. After her arrest in November 2018, Pune Police had filed for extending the period of her custody to enable them to file the charge sheet. Additional sessions judge KD Vadane had not only granted the extension but had also authorised the charge sheet in 2018 and 2019. Bharadwaj’s counsel, Dr Yug Choudhry, while arguing for her default bail, had submitted that as per the provisions of law, only special judges could preside over and hear cases under NIA and UAPA Acts. Hence, the orders passed by sessions judge Vadane were not valid, and Bharadwaj’s detention and that of eight other accused was illegal. Dr Choudhry had based his assertions on the right to information (RTI) queries from HC registry which had stated that judge Vadane was not a special judge when he had passed orders in the case of Bharadwaj and other Elgar Parishad accused. While refuting the claims, Kumbhakoni submitted that the orders by sessions judge Vadane were justified and there was no illegality as averred. He referred to sections 13 and 14 of NIA Act which clarified that trials had to be conducted by special courts. He further submitted that the special court would come into the picture only during the trial and when the case was being investigated by NIA and not when the state was the investigating agency. When HC questioned why a special court was constituted, Kumbhakoni submitted that they were set up for trials or when NIA returned the investigation to the state after previously taking over it. He added that the definition of courts under UAPA and NIA Acts were very clear as also which court could hear which case. Hence, the orders by sessions judge Vadane did not suffer from any illegality as it was provided for by the legislation. The state will continue its arguments and is expected to reply to another query of the court as to why Pune Police had not approached the magistrate court, which was also permitted under the said Acts. The next hearing has been posted for July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-illegality-in-elgar-parishad-case-accused-sudha-bharadwaj-s-detention-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-101626374408963.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||4 arrested for snatching ₹6.5 lakh in Hoshiarpur||Police have arrested four persons accused of snatching ₹6.5 lakh from employees of money changer in Mahilpur on Tuesday and recovered the entire amount. On July 13, Rajesh Kumar of Mahilpur, who is running financial services company Western Union in the area, complained to police that three unidentified persons snatched a bag containing ₹6.5 lakh from Baljinder Singh and Balwinder Singh, who work with him by throwing chilli powder in their eyes near Milan Palace.The accused have been identified as Baljinder Singh, Sahil, of Kot Fatuhi, Rohit of Bugran and Prabhjot Singh of Binjo. Interacting with the media, SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said Baljinder hatched the conspiracy with Sahil, Rohit and Prabhjot. They have been booked under various sections of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-arrested-for-snatching-rs-6-5-lakh-in-hoshiarpur-101626374350181.html
16-07-2021||Other||Ahead of Parliament session, Maharashtra CM, Pawar discuss critical issues||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s official residence Varsha on Thursday. According to Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) insiders, both the leaders are said to have discussed critical issues such as forming a strategy for the upcoming Parliament session to resolve the reservation crisis of the Maratha and Other Backward Classes (OBC) communities. The monsoon session of the Parliament is set to start from July 19.“We want the issues to be raised properly in the Parliament and compel the Centre to take appropriate steps to resolve them. Both the leaders may have discussed the issue in today’s meeting,” said a senior minister, who did not wish to be named.In separate verdicts, the Supreme Court had struck down reservations in jobs and education for the Marathas and the political quota to OBCs in local bodies, which has created a political crisis for MVA. On July 5, the state had passed two resolutions seeking Centre’s intervention in the reservation crisis. MVA has asked for the empirical data of OBCs for restoration of political reservation and also demanded an amendment to remove 50% quota cap put by Indra Sawhney ruling.Pawar and Thackeray’s meeting assume significance, considering a series of damaging statements made by Nana Patole – the state chief of their ally Congress – in the past two weeks. Recently, Patole had declared that the Congress will contest the upcoming elections in the state on its own. Later, he alleged that he was put under surveillance by CM and deputy CM Ajit Pawar, and that his movements and chats were being closely watched. On Thursday, Patole also said he would organise a rally in Baramati to protest against the Central government in support of the OBC community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-parliament-session-maharashtra-cm-pawar-meet-to-discusses-critical-issues-101626374289296.html
16-07-2021||Other||50 battery operated e-buses for UP’s Prayagraj soon||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-battery-operated-e-buses-for-up-s-prayagraj-soon-101626374288764.html
16-07-2021||Other||Kidnapped Agra surgeon rescued within 30 hours||Agra In a joint operation with their Rajasthan counterparts, the Agra police on Thursday rescued a surgeon kidnapped from the Taj city on Tuesday night. Two people, including a woman, have been arrested and reward of ₹1 lakh announced on the arrest of absconding gang leader Badan Singh, who mostly operates in Rajasthan. Additional director general (ADG), Agra zone, Rajeev Krishna briefed the media on Thursday afternoon about the successful police operation undertaken jointly with Rajasthan police at Dholpur on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Badan Singh had asked for a ransom of ₹5 crore for the doctor’s release but aggressive combing by Agra police, led by SP city Rohan Pramod Botre in the ravines of Chambal in Dholpur district of Rajasthan foiled his plan and the doctor was rescued. It may be recalled that Dr Umakant Gupta, a surgeon who owns a nursing home in trans-Yamuna area of Agra, had left for a round of his nursing home at 8 pm but did not return till late, according to his wife, also a doctor. The worried family initially lodged a case of missing at Itimad-ud-daula police station but later an FIR of kidnapping was lodged by the doctor’s son. “A woman came for treatment of her brother a month ago. Her brother was treated but she continued to interact on one pretext or another and asked for a job. She again called me to meet at Bhagwan Talkies on Tuesday night and got into my car. She told me that I was in trouble as the car was followed by miscreants and asked me to drive on,” revealed Dr Umakant Gupta (60) after his rescue. The doctor was asked to drive till Rohta on the outskirts of Agra and there, the woman got down and four unknown men got into the car. The doctor was told to go to the back seat. The kidnappers drove the car to Dholpur and from there took the doctor on a motor cycle to a remote place where they told him that they had kidnapped him for a ransom of ₹5 crore, although they had made no call to his family. The doctor was then taken to the ravines of Chambal near Dholpur and was kept in a farm area with four to five armed kidnappers on guard. “The kidnappers were discussing about hot chase by police and decided to leave me lying in the field,” said the doctor, adding that he was threatened that he would be transferred to another gang. The police team on search operation reached the spot and rescued the doctor. Two of the accused, including the woman making calls to the doctor and another person identified as Pawan Singh, who drove the car from Rohta, were arrested as police worked out the kidnapping case within 30 hours, revealed ADG Agra zone Rajeev Krishna. The doctor’s family, including wife Dr Vidya Gupta and sons Abhishek and Abhilash Gupta were much relieved on his recovery. Tracing the last location of the doctor’s mobile to Saiyyan, a town on way to Dholpur, assisted the police in assessing that he was taken towards Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh, the bordering states of UP. Constable Dalchand from Dholpur police was instrumental in the arrest of the two as he was the one who recovered the doctor’s car. The constable arrested the driver Pawan and took the car to Dholpur police station. Later, the woman involved was also arrested and revealed how the doctor was kidnapped through her. ADG Rajeev Krishna informed that a reward of ₹1 lakh had been announced on main accused Badan Singh, the gang leader and Rs. 25,000 on other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kidnapped-agra-surgeon-rescued-within-30-hours-101626374108821.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Ex-employee steals sensitive data, blackmails firm||Rubberwala Housing and Infrastructure Ltd, a city-based construction company, has lodged a police complaint against a former employee, alleging that he has stolen important data from the company and is demanding ₹48.52 lakh by threatening to hand over the “sensitive company information” to income tax, Enforcement Directorate (ED), Goods and Services Tax (GST) and civic authorities.The accused, Ankit Goyal, in his messages to company officials claimed he was demanding the money as compensation for alleged mental harassment that he underwent while in the company’s employment. Goyal was booked by Agripada police on Tuesday after the company’s human resource and admin executive Amit Ranganekar, 39, lodged a complaint.As per the complaint, Goyal was hired by the company in July 2019 as an account executive, but he resigned and left the company in October 2020 without completing exit formalities.According to the first information report (FIR), the complainant received messages from Goyal in April this year saying that he had sensitive data of the firm with him and if the company fails to clear his full-and-final settlement and issue him a relieving letter, he would share the same with probing agencies. He allegedly also claimed he would use the data to prove money laundering and tax evasion to the tune of ₹20 crore.However, after the full and final settlement was settled and the relieving letter was issued, the accused kept on threatening the firm saying he wanted the company to pay him compensation in two bitcoins (worth ₹48.52 lakh) for alleged mental harassment.“Based on the complaint from the company, we have registered a case under sections 381 (theft by an employee), 385 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66B (dishonestly receiving stolen information or device) of the Information Technology Act and will soon detect the case,” said senior inspector Shriram Koregaonkar.“The accused levelled false and baseless allegations against us, hence we decided to take the path of justice. Police is investigating the case and we are hopeful that truth will triumph,” said a spokesperson for the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exemployee-steals-sensitive-data-blackmails-firm-101626373989525.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||After Yogi, Akhilesh, now Maya exhorts party cadres for 2022 UP polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Thursday that her party governments in the past had presented an ideal model of governance in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and claimed that people were eagerly waiting to vote BSP to power again in 2022 UP elections.Mayawati’s statement came a day after the chief minister Yogi Adityanath highlighted the performance of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav called upon the party workers to highlight the development projects launched under its government.Mayawati alerted the people against getting swayed by tempting promises, launches and foundation of projects being made by rival parties. Claiming that under her previous four terms, the state moved fast on the path of development, she said, the BSP governments had worked with the “sarvajan hitay- sarvajan sukhay” policy.“The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is a movement launched for the social justice and the dignity of the have-nots, the people should remember the working of the BSP government in the coming assembly elections. They have to take a correct decision keeping in mind the welfare of their family, society and the state,” she said in a press statement.She said during her governments several projects were launched for the welfare of the weaker sections, the law and order was under control.“The people are hurt and sad with the misrule under BJP and SP governments, the violence in the recent panchayat election reminds of the jungle raj and anarchy under the SP governments. For the return of the good days, the people are eagerly waiting for the assembly election to vote BSP to power,” she said in the statement.She said several development projects including Yamuna Expressway, Taj International Airport, Ganga Expressway, Metro rail, Buddhist circuit, several hospitals and medical colleges were launched under the BSP government. Her previous governments, she said, worked for the welfare of the youths, farmers, traders, labourers, minorities and weaker section in the society.Earlier, launching development projects in Gorakhpur on Wednesday, chief minister, Yogi Adityanath said the UP is moving fast on the path of development under the BJP government. He said the threat of Covid-19 pandemic was successfully negotiated and his government launched several infrastructure and industrial projects, employing large number of youths. The chief minister also said the arrears of sugarcane farmers were cleared by the sugarcane farmers and efforts were made to increase the income of the farmers. He also said the state government has improved the health facilities to fight the possible third Covid wave. Addressing the party MLCs on Wednesday, the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had told them to highlight the achievements of the SP government (2012-17) in the election campaign. He said under SP government the Agra- Lucknow expressway, metro rail, Purvanchal Expressway project, 108 ambulance service, helpline for women, cancer hospital, medical colleges were launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-yogi-akhilesh-now-maya-exhorts-party-cadres-for-2022-up-polls-101626373990219.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||ED remand of Ekanth Khadse’s son-in-law extended till July 19||A special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court on Thursday extended Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody of Girish Chaudhari, son-in-law of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, till July 19. Chaudhari has been arrested by the central agency in the money laundering case registered by it in connection with the Bhosari land deal.ED had, on Thursday, produced Chaudhari before the special court as his earlier custody remand ended, and sought six days’ extension of his custody. The agency on August 28, 2019 booked Khadse, his wife Mandakini, Chaudhari and the owner of the land in Bhosari, Abbas Rasulbhai Ukani, in a money laundering case. ED’s case information report is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Maharashtra anti-corruption bureau (ACB) against the Khadse family in 2017. ACB had later closed the case, but ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal.The case pertains to the purchase of a 1.31-hectare plot at Bhosari village in Haveli taluka of Pune district on April 28, 2016 by Chaudhari and Mandakini for ₹3.75 crore against the market value of ₹31 crore. ACB had alleged that Khadse and the other two had caused loss of ₹61.25 crore to the state exchequer by dealing with the land.In its remand application seeking extension in Chaudhari’s custody, ED stated that the piece of land was acquired by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in 1971, which then developed and allotted it for different industries.ED further added that in his statement given to the agency, Avinash Hadgal, regional officer of MIDC, stated that, “The notification under 32(1) of MIDC Act is already issued on November 11, 1971 in respect of the said land and the said land vests with MIDC. That the land is already in possession of MIDC and further allotted to 14 plot holders and one open space.”“Chaudhari and Mandakini Khadse have wrongly purchased the land from Ukani which rightly belonged to MIDC by way of acquisition; that Chaudhari and Mandakini are not entitled to hold the subject land and hence, the sale is void,” read ED’s application.It was further alleged that Chaudhari had purchased the land after securing finance of ₹2 crore from a company named Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited. ED recorded statement of Benchmark Buildcon’s former director Manjunath Omkar on Tuesday. In his statement, Omkar said he was offered ₹15,000 salary per month for becoming the director, and he has never seen any work being carried by Benchmark Buildcon and that it was just a paper company.“The source of funds for purchase the said land is not genuine and it has been routed through various companies. These companies which are used by Chaudhari to channel funds for the purchase of the said land are nothing but shell companies used for layering of funds,” ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-remand-of-ekanth-khadse-s-son-in-law-extended-till-july-19-101626373988829.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Thane anti-extortion cell arrests Dawood aide||Sayyed Abbas Tublani, 51, a close aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, has been arrested by Thane anti-extortion cell (AEC) for procuring fake passports and traveling to Iran and Dubai. He is wanted in several cases by the Mumbai Police.The accused is a friend of Dawood’s brother Mustakim and was arrested in 2015 by the Mumbai Police for threatening a journalist during an auction of Dawood’s property. After being released on bail, Tublani procured an Aadhaar Card and passport with fake identity, changed his name to Jasim Redhal Tublani with an address proof of Mumbra. He then went all over Mumbai and then travelled to Iran and Dubai using the fake passport. Recently, he had returned to Mumbra. The Thane AEC team headed by senior inspector Sanjay Shinde received information about a man procuring a fake passport hiding near Thakurpada near Dahisar Morri area of Shil Daighar. The officer said, “We laid a trap based on the information and successfully arrested Tublani with the Aadhaar Card, passport and other official documents with his fake identity. The reason behind his visits to Dubai and Iran is still not clear. We are investigating each and every aspect from how he procured the fake documents, made a fake identity and his movements in other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-anti-extortion-cell-arrests-dawood-aide-101626373929435.html
16-07-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka arrives in Lucknow today; has tough task of Congress revival in UP||As Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrives here on her long-pending visit today, she may have little time to perform the gigantic task of giving her party a major push to make it a strong contender for power in the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Though Priyanka is credited with bringing her party into focus as and when she undertakes tours to various regions, the state Congress has not been able to take any advantage of the impetus her visits give to the party.This will be after a gap of about one and a half years that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters here. So her visit has raised the hopes of partymen. “We are hopeful that her visit will help in gearing up the party organisation for the 2022 UP assembly elections,” said a senior party leader.“Priyanka is the only leader who toured different districts to meet anti-CAA protestors. She also took up the cause of rape victims in Unnao and Mainpuri. She went to meet the boatmen beaten up by the police in Prayagraj. She also went to meet families of victims of Sonbhadra’s Umbha massacre. Her actions brought the state Congress into focus,” said the leader.Also Read | Captain to lead poll campaign, buzz persists over Sidhu’s roleThe political observers feel that her brief visits will in no way strengthen or gear up the party organization. “Priyanka should give more time to Uttar Pradesh now. The Congress is weak in Uttar Pradesh and brief visits will not help. Infighting in her party is one of the reasons for the prevailing situation. She needs to focus on strengthening the party organisation. She has the qualities and she can do it,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of the department, political science, Lucknow University.“There is nothing unusual in Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Lucknow. Leaders of all political parties tour the state before elections. Her visits to the state in the past to take up different issue brought her party into media focus. The Congress, however, was not able to take advantage of this due to poor party infrastructure,” said professor Badri Narayan, drector, GB Pant Social Science Institute, Prayagraj.Meanwhile, the UPCC is gearing up to accord a grand welcome to Priyanka as she arrives here. A number of welcome and flower showering points have been put up on the route from the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport, Lucknow to Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters here. She will land at the airport at about 1PM and proceed straight to the GPO Park here. She will garland the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the GPO Park and will then reach the UPCC headquarters to meet the partymen and representatives of farmers there.On the second day of her visit,, Priyanka proposes to meet block level presidents of her party from Rae Bareli and Amethi. She will also meet students appearing in different competitive exams and holding protests for delay in recruitments. She will meet former MPs, former legislators and office-bearers of her party’s frontal organisations, different cells and departments.Will she also meet disgruntled leaders who have been sidelined or expelled from the party? “We have no information about any meeting with the party’s old timers. Priyanka is surrounded by a coterie of advisers and this is only causing damage instead of helping the Congress,” said former minister Satyadev Tripathi who along with other old timers was expelled from the Congress on the charges of indiscipline in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cong-revival-priyanka-faces-tough-task-with-little-time-in-hand-101626373628876.html
16-07-2021||Pune||Truant monsoon leaves Pune with deficient rainfall in July||PUNE Despite a revival of the Southwest Monsoon forecast for Maharashtra, Pune, and many parts of the state are now recording deficient rainfall received so far in JulyAs per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune district is reporting a deficiency of 64 per cent rainfall received in July this monsoon season. Along with the district, Madhya (central) Maharashtra has also reported a rainfall deficiency of 40 per cent in July.Some districts which are drought prone, however, have reported excess rainfall in July. As per IMD, Ahmednagar, Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, Solapur, Nanded, Parbhani Jalna and Aurangabad have reported a “large excess” of rainfall in July. According to IMD, rainfall in excess of 50 per cent falls in the category of “large excess”. Pune district, Satara, Thane, Palghar, Nashik and Nandurbar now have a “large deficit” of rainfall for July. Large deficient, as per the weather department is considered when rainfall has been lower than between 60 per cent to 90 per cent of the normal.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that Pune district has seen less rainfall due to various reasons.“First the district is on the leeward side. Secondly, the westerly winds are not strengthening and the offshore trough is absent. The strength of the low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal has reduced. And there is, as of now, no strong system to increase rainfall activity,” said Kashyapi.He added that from July 16, rainfall activity is likely to increase in the district.“Including Pune district, many parts of the State are also likely to witness better rainfall till July end,” said Kashyapi.On Thursday, Pune city reported no rainfall.The districts of Kolhapur, Sangli, Dhule, Jalgaon, Buldhana, Gondia and Amravati have deficient rainfall - between 20 per cent to 59 per cent lower than normal in July.Hingoli, Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg have reported excess rainfall in July. Also, Raigad, Suburban Mumbai, Akola, Washim, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Nagpur, Bhandara and Wardha have received normal rainfall in July.Till July 15, Madhya Maharashtra reported 67.9 mm rainfall, which is 40 per cent less than normal., Vidarbha reported 12 per cent deficient rainfall. Konkan and Goa have one per cent excess rainfall, which is in the normal category.Drought prone Marathwada has received 87 per cent more rainfall. Marathwada in the first half of July received 146.2 mm rainfall, against the normal forecast of 78.1mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-rainfall-deficient-in-july-101626373210857.html
16-07-2021||Pune||State’s directive defied: PMC votes to prepare DP for merged villages||PUNE Even as the state government has empowered the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to prepare the Development Plan (DP) for 23 villages merged recently into the civic limits, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday, went against state’s decision and initiated a process to prepare the DP for the villages.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Thursday, called a special general body meeting and approved the proposal by vote, despite opposition from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Congress and the Shiv Sena.As the PMC has now passed the resolution, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP will need to take a call on it. Sources from the administration confirmed that the state government may have the final say, since the rules suggest the government can prepare the draft fo-r undeveloped areas, something the BJP members, including Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, have confronted, claiming most villages merged in the municipal limits are partially developed. In such a scenario, the Urban Development Department under MVA government can reject the PMC plan and will continue with the state’s notification, despite the PMC passing a resolution in the GB.BJP leader, and leader of the house, Ganesh Bidkar said, “The state government has encroached upon the municipal corporation’s power. We have decided to fight the legal battle. Let them do whatever they want. It is in the corporation’s power to create the development plan.”A development plan is a long-term planning document that gives a conceptual layout for proposed future growth and development. It covers buildings, social settings and surrounding environments. The plan includes analysis, recommendations, and proposals for a site’s population, economy, housing, transportation, community facilities, and land use. The plan could be renewed every 20 years Meanwhile, former Mayor and NCP president Prashant Jagtap has said that the Pune Municipal Corporation’s resolution is challenging the state government’s power and insulting the state’s decision. “The state government will reject the civic body’s resolution. There are chances that the state government can ask for clarification from the corporation for the same,” said Jagtap.He also claimed that when PMC was discussing the DP for old city limits of 2017, the state government intervened and approved it. “Then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis pulled the DP when the GB was going on. Though we (NCP) were ruling in the PMC at that time, we respected the state government’s decision and adjourned the general body meeting. This time even as the state government has appointed PMRDA as a special planning authority, BJP conducted the general body meeting and approved the resolution by calling for a vote.”Earlier on Wednesday, the BJP took objection to the Maharashtra government’’s decision to appoint the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) as a special planning authority for 23 villages recently merged in the city limits, after the state issued an order to this effect 23 areas (villages) merged in PMC Mhalunge, Sus, Kirkatwadi, Pisoli, Kondhwe-Dhawade, Kopre, Nanded, Khadakwasla, Mundhwa, Manjari, Narhe, Mantarwadi, Holkarwadi, Handewadi, Wadachiwadi, Shewalewadi, Mangdewadi, Vadgaonsheri, Nandoshi, Bhilarewadi, Jambhulwadi, Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi and Kolewadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/states-directive-defied-pmc-s-special-gb-votes-to-prepare-dp-for-merged-villages-101626373149509.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||BMC to develop app to map all parking spaces in Mumbai’s 3 wards on pilot basis||Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday gave a green light for the implementation of a decentralised parking plan in three administrative wards – D ward (Malabar Hill and Peddar Road), K-West ward (Andheri West and Vile Parle West) and S ward (Powai and Bhandup). Under this plan, the Mumbai Parking Authority (MPA) – a separate body constituted by BMC – will develop a dedicated mobile application on which vehicle owners can find parking lots.The application will also allow housing societies and commercial complexes to make available to the public the parking lots in their premises. MPA officials said it would take at least two months before the project takes off. Prachi Merchant, an MPA member, said, “We are focusing on creating a central database of identifying all parking spaces in a ward. An application programme interface (API) will be created at the ward level as a pilot. All the data on the parking spaces will be put on a mobile app and motorists would be able to check the slots available for them to park in case they visit that area. All agencies, housing societies and commercial complexes having parking lots can put in their slots here. We’ve taken up three wards for now and based on the learnings and findings from here, will take the project ahead.”BMC in a statement said, “Apart from implementation of the ward-level parking pilot project, it was agreed that the lowest amount of the current parking pricing policy be implemented in the ward plans to ensure it is inclusive and takes into consideration concepts like ‘livelihood discounts’ for yellow plate vehicles wherein vehicle such as autos/taxis/cabs will be charged subsidised rates for parking.” The statement added, “New concept for valet parking is to be introduced, [there’ll be] consideration for abandoned, deep sleep and towed vehicles, while cycles and essential transport vehicles will be exempted from charges.” Meanwhile, the civic corporation said a 10,000-square metre plot in M-East ward and two scrapyards in H-East ward are in the process of gaining possession for scrapping junked vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-develop-app-to-map-all-parking-spaces-in-mumbai-s-3-wards-as-pilot-101626373148835.html
16-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA starts process to avoid secret voting for speaker poll||In an effort to avoid a political slugfest over the appointment of the Speaker in the Maharashtra assembly and prevent the possibility of cross-voting, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government has initiated the process of changing the method of electing the person who will occupy the constitutional post.The Rules Committee of the state legislature held a meeting on the second day of the monsoon session held last week and proposed that the Speaker be voted through a voice vote or a headcount on the assembly floor instead of secret ballot, which is the method currently employed, HT has learnt.Four out of 11 members of the committee, which comprises both Opposition leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and from the ruling coalition parties (the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress) met on July 6 and proposed the change.“The quorum for the meeting is three. Four members were present for the meeting, including Congress’s Prithviraj Chavan, Shiv Sena’s Subhash Desai and NCP’s Ajit Pawar, where the proposal was moved for a change in the rule,” an official of the parliamentary affairs department said on condition of anonymity. The meeting was chaired by deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal – a move that was made possible after the state legislature approved his chairmanship the previous day.“Using the powers in Article 180 of the Constitution, the state legislature changed the rule in order to appoint the deputy speaker as the executive chairman of the Rules Committee. The estimate committee had proposed the amendment and the decision of appointing deputy speaker as executive chairman of the committee was taken on July 5,” an official from the state legislature said.No BJP member of the committee was present in the meeting. One of the committee members, Girish Mahajan, was among the 12 Opposition legislators who had been suspended for misbehaviour with the presiding officer inside the Assembly, the previous day.The proposal will be put before Assembly during its next session – in December -- and members would be given 10 days (the time span can be amended by the government) to submit suggestions. The decision on the final proposal would be taken in the house with a voice vote.The much-anticipated election was expected to take place during the two-day monsoon session. As per the power-sharing pact between the three allies, the post would be held by a Congress legislator. It has been vacant since Nana Patole resigned to take charge of the state Congress unit in February. Ruling party leaders said that Prithviraj Chavan, Sangram Thopte, Suresh Warpudkar and Amin Patel are among the probable candidates for the post.Political experts contend that the move from secret ballot to a voice vote will help prevent cross voting by any of the ruling party MLAs. In an open voting methodology like head count or voice vote, legislators face disqualification if they vote against the whip issued by the party. The election would have been a bellwether of the strength of the government as it would have indicated how many members of the legislative assembly (MLA) support of the ruling party – or, in this case, the MVA coalition.“The election to the post of Speaker is held by secret voting, making it difficult to avert the cross voting. Rule 6 of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly mandates secret ballot for the post of the Speaker. Though it won’t be a problem getting the Speaker elected with a majority, it will be important to maintain the number of votes polled during the confidence vote. A drop in number is a moral defeat and will give a reason to the Opposition to corner the government,” a senior Shiv Sena leader said on condition of anonymity.The MVA government had won a floor test in 2019 by polling 169 votes in 288-member House. Besides the strength of 154 MLAs from three parties the ruling alliance, 15 MLAs from smaller parties and independents also supported the government. The BJP, which had 105 MLAs, was supported by nine MLAs from smaller allies and independents. “The proposal will have to be formally read out in the Assembly. The condition of 10 days can be modified and brought down, like it’s done in case of discussions on budgetary demands. Once amended the election can be held by voice vote, by raising hands or head count on the floor of the house,” said another official of the parliamentary affairs department.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the process adopted by the MVA government was invalid. “The deputy speaker does not have the powers to hold the meeting of Rules Committee which is headed by the Speaker. If any such decision has been taken, it’s an invalid decision. Besides, the main question is why the ruling parties are worried about holding the election by secret ballot? This shows that everything within the alliance is not well. There is trust deficit among the ruling parties and no faith on their own MLAs,” he said.Anant Kalse, former principal secretary, state legislature however, cited Article 180 as being clear on the validity of the deputy speaker as standing in for the Speaker. “Even Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and legislative councils have adopted this process and there was nothing wrong if we go for it. We are not worried about the majority as the number of MLAs from three ruling parties itself is well above the half way mark,” Congress’s legislative party leader and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-more-secret-ballot-for-post-of-maharashtra-speaker-101626372729449.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Bail for 4 held for role in blast outside Israel embassy||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to four students from Ladakh arrested in connection with a blast outside the Israel embassy in the city, saying there is no evidence to suggest that any of the accused posted objectionable material against India.The four students — Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25) — were arrested from Kargil last month in connection with the minor IED blast in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi on January 29. There were no casualties. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that took place about 150 metres away from the embassy on Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dr Pankaj Sharma said nothing incriminating has been put forth by the investigating officer to suggest that the accused people have links with any terrorist organisation and that they are a threat to the society.The court said the accused’s antecedents are “blemish free”, as it asked them to surrender their passports and not leave the country without permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bail-for-four-students-arrested-in-connection-with-blast-outside-israel-embassy-101626371708619.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||‘I saw a girl being chased, but did not realise she was my daughter’||She held at least a dozen taekwondo medals and would have defended herself, had she been not attacked by her stalker with an axe from behind, the family of a 15-year-old girl who was murdered on Monday in south Delhi’s Moti Bagh area, said on Thursday.The girl was hacked to death a day before her 16th birthday by a 21-year-old man, identified by the police as Pradeep, who was stalking her for the past eight months.The girl’s mother was witness to the attack. However, since she was standing at a distance from the spot where the attacker dealt the blows on the girl’s forehead, she did not know at that moment that it was her daughter who was under attack.“Pradeep must be hanged,” said the girl’s 40-year-old mother at the south Delhi hutment where she lives with her husband and three other children.She said her daughter was practising the martial art particularly hard, and stayed vigilant ever since Pradeep started stalking her.“I was drying clothes outside my house when I saw a girl being chased on the other side of the park. She fell down and it looked like the man who was chasing her hit her a few times and ran away. Till that time, I was not aware that it was my daughter who was being killed right before my eyes. She may even have called for help, screamed, but I could not save her,” she said, breaking down.The girl’s father, who does odd jobs in nearby buildings, said that a few days before his daughter was killed, she told him that if Pradeep ever tried to harm her, he should ensure that he was punished.He said Pradeep stopped stalking his daughter around two months ago, when he confronted him. It led to a fight with Pradeep and his friends near the south Moti Bagh market, where the family ran a roadside fruit shop.“I thought the matter was settled. A few weeks ago, I saw him sitting with the society’s security guard, but I ignored him. I did not file a police complaint back then because I did not think things would come to this. Apparently, he was holding a grudge against us and settled the score by killing my daughter,” he said.The man said he used to drop his daughter to the shop every day before going ahead with his work. But on July 12, she walked alone. “She left early that day... I will regret this for the rest of my life,” the father said.The victim’s 12-year-old sister was planning a surprise birthday party for her. She said they asked for ₹1,500 from her father to buy a bag, a pair of sneakers and jeans.Senior Delhi Police personnel said that Pradeep was arrested from his sister’s house in Palwal in neighbouring Haryana, a day after he killed the girl.“He bought the axe from a market in RK Puram around a month before the attack,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest), Ingit Pratap Singh.The rented room where Pradeep lived with his parents has been locked since his arrest.Residents of Pradeep’s neighbourhood remember him as an “unemployed” man who was often whiling away time with boys from the locality.“He probably used to work somewhere till a year ago, but lost his job during the Covid lockdown. He was a wastrel, but we never thought that he would go to the extent of killing someone,” said a local shop-owner, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-girl-hacked-to-death-by-stalker-in-south-delhi-i-saw-a-girl-being-chased-but-did-not-realise-she-was-my-daughter-101626371350021.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Can’t risk it, schools to stay shut for now: CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that schools in the national capital will not reopen at the moment, since trends across the world point towards a resurgence of Covid-19, and added that his government will “not take any risks” till the vaccination process is complete for everyone.“Internationally, there is a trend of resurgence of Covid-19 through a third wave. So until the vaccination process is not completed for everyone, we cannot risk the lives of children,” said Kejriwal while speaking on in the sidelines of an event to launch the pneumococcal conjugate vaccination programme for children.Schools in the national capital have mostly been shut since March last year due to the pandemic, and classes and other teaching and learning activities have broadly shifted online in that time. Though the Delhi government allowed in-person lessons in January this year for students due to appear in the Class 10 and 12 board exams, as well for remedial and practical lessons for students in classes 9 to 12, this was cut short as the fourth wave of infections began to spread in the city.Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, welcomed the chief minister’s announcement. “Most were wary of sending their children to school if offline classes resumed as cases are on the rise in Kerala and other states again,” she said.Principals of several private schools also said that parents have been worried about their children’s well-being. “Parents are okay with private schools functioning online for now because they are scared for their children. No school or teacher will want children to fall sick or to risk their health. While human contact and offline classes make a difference, we cannot go ahead till parents and students are confident about returning to classes,” she said.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has in the past urged the Centre to allow children to be vaccinated against Covid-19.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on June 9 said the Centre must procure as many Covid-19 vaccines as possible to keep children safe, especially in the backdrop of a potential third wave.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 27 asked the Centre to procure Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine to inoculate children in the country.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The government should not allow any gatherings at this point. They should not act in haste when it comes to taking a call on reopening of schools, colleges and educational institutions.”DU may start PG course registries from July 26Delhi University is likely to start the online registration for admissions to postgraduate and research courses from July 26, university officials said on Thursday. The decision was taken during a meeting of the admission committee officials.However, no decision was taken on the schedule for admissions to undergraduate courses, officials said.The university conducts an entrance test for admissions for all postgraduate (PG), M.Phil, and PhD courses.A senior official who attended the admission committee meeting said, “The online registration process for PG and research courses is likely to begin from July 26. The admission committee recommended starting registrations for the nine undergraduate entrance test-based courses as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-risks-schools-in-city-will-not-reopen-arvind-kejriwal-101626371288699.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||LG okays ‘walk plans’ for areas around 6 Metro stations in city||To make city roads pedestrian-friendly, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is preparing “walk plans” for areas around Metro stations. The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC), chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, approved six walk plans on Thursday to be implemented by the civic agencies.The plans that were approved were INA market, ITO junction, Hauz Khas-IIT Delhi Metro station, both campuses of Delhi University, and Kamla Nagar and Lajpat Nagar markets.DDA officials said the six areas were taken up on account of their high pedestrian movement.“These plans aim at improving walking infrastructure customized to specific needs of the respective areas,” Baijal later tweeted.A senior DDA official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The walk plans include dedicated pavements for pedestrian, cycle lanes and street furniture, among other amenities. The idea is to provide pedestrians hassle-free access to Metro stations. The plan will be implemented in a 500m radius of the six Metro stations by the civic agencies. We consulted with traffic police while drawing up these plans.”The DDA plans to make 27 such walk plans, of which 15 have been finalised (including the six approved on Thursday).The plans are part of the walkability policy, which was approved in 2019, and focuses on integrating walkability into various policies and projects in the national capital, to make streets more pedestrian-friendly. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddas-walk-plans-for-six-metro-station-vicinities-approved-by-transport-body-101626371228613.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt says facing a ‘full-scale assault’ over new excise rules||The state government on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it is under a “full-scale assault” for its new excise policy, which was made public earlier this month, and aims to introduce sweeping changes in the city’s liquor business, clean up malpractices, and improve user experience.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea against the new policy, were informed by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi that most of the apprehensions raised in several writ petitions were “fanciful”.“There is a full-scale assault on us [the Delhi government] by filing writ petitions… We are plugging the leaks, minimising corruption and also giving enough and fair competition. There have been eight more writ petitions since the court heard the first petition in this regard,” Singhvi told the court.He said the pleas have been filed by people who are “well-versed” with the liquor trade and are now acting “innocent”.The court did not pass any order on the plea by Ashiana Towers and Promoters Private Limited and Rajiv Motors Private Limited, who alleged that the policy is illegal, unfair, arbitrary and in violation of the Delhi Excise Act of 2009.Advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, appearing for the two companies, said the rules divide the city into 32 zones but allow only 16 players in the market, thus “creating a monopoly”.To this the bench said, “Control is for public welfare and not for you to run your business. It is for the public at large. It is not meant for you to run your business or put you in difficulty.”The court also issued notice to and sought a reply from the Delhi government on a petition by Anita Chaudhary, who holds a wholesale liquor licence in Uttar Pradesh.Advocate Sanchar Anand, appearing for Chaudhary, argued that the policy is beyond the state government’s rule-making powers under the Delhi Excise Act and violates Article 14 of the Constitution.Meanwhile, BJP leader Pravesh Sahib Singh Verma also moved the high court on Thursday challenging the home delivery of liquor in the national capital, claiming that the policy suffers from many infirmities as it fails to take into account ground realities, practical implications and implications such as a potential increase in cases of domestic violence.The bench first issued a notice, but later withdrew its order when they saw that Verma had added Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the memo of parties.The bench posted the matter for hearing on August 6.Verma’s counsel Balaji Srinivasan said they added AAP in the plea because the party, during the elections, promised they would reduce the price of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/facing-full-scale-assault-on-excise-policy-delhi-govt-on-clutch-of-petitions-against-new-norms-101626371229248.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||'Confer Bharat Ratna on Bahuguna': CM to Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the central government to consider awarding Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian award — to environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna, a founding member of the Chipko movement.Bahuguna died of Covid-19 at 94 at a hospital in Rishikesh on May 21. A recipient of India’s second-highest civilian award, Padma Vibhushan, Bahuguna’s work revolved around people’s rights over forests in the Himalayas.“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday unveiled a commemorative stone, portrait, and took part in a tree plantation drive at the Delhi Legislative Assembly in memory of the revered environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna who is world-renowned for spearheading the Chipko Movement. On the occasion, the CM appealed to the central government to honour Sunderlal Bahuguna with the Bharat Ratna award...” said a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office.“His fight and struggle along with his dedication to giving back to the society will not just be remembered but it will continue to motivate and inspire generations and generations of citizens of not just Uttarakhand... but the entire country,” it said.Uttarakhand is one of the states in which the Aam Aadmi Party will be contesting assembly polls in 2022.Kejriwal also presented a cheque of ₹1 lakh to Bahuguna’s family. The event at the Delhi legislative assembly was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and speaker Ram Niwas Goel, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-sunderlal-bahuguna-founding-member-of-chipko-movement-101626371170465.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||State vs Centre as LG dismisses Delhi govt lawyers in R-Day cases||The latest tussle between the Centre and the Delhi government has intensified with Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal dismissing the public prosecutors appointed by the Delhi government to argue cases related to violence during a January 26 rally taken out by farmers protesting against three controversial new farm laws.The office of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, which confirmed this development on Thursday, said the Delhi Cabinet will meet on Friday to take up the issue.“The LG has dismissed the team of special public prosecutors appointed by the Delhi government with regard to the cases concerning the farmers agitation. The LG has directed that the prosecutors suggested by the Delhi Police be approved. So, we have called a Cabinet meeting regarding this matter. The Delhi government had set up a panel of lawyers to ensure unbiased hearing in the agitation of farmers, who have been protesting against three contentious farm laws. Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain dismissed the list of lawyers suggested by the Delhi Police,” the CM’s office said in a statement on Thursday.Delhi Police reports to the Union home ministry through the LG.A senior official in the LG’s office said the matter pertained to the violence, and disrespect to the national flag on January 26, 2021; and not farmers protest.“It has nothing to do with ‘farmers protest’ as is being deliberately made out. Individuals with predetermined agenda and vested interests deliberately carried out acts on January 26, 2021 in full media presence that were not only an affront to national morale but aimed at bringing shame to India internationally,” the official said.But the CM’s office said in its statement that the LG was “pressuring” the Delhi government into approving lawyers chosen by the Delhi Police. “Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain sent details of Delhi government’s panel to the LG. The LG has not approved it even though the work of Delhi government’s lawyers has earlier been appreciated by all, including the LG,” the statement said.Last week, Raghav Chadha, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national spokesperson, alleged that the LG’s and the police’s request was part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s “vengeful attempts to harass and defame innocent farmers”.“No complaint against the Delhi government’s lawyers has been received. Still, the LG wants to replace them with BJP’s lawyers to teach the farmers a lesson,” Chadha said.On February 26, Delhi Police sent a proposal to the state government’s home department seeking the appointment of 11 law officers to represent the state in all cases related to the farmers’ agitation. The Delhi government responded that it wanted its existing team of prosecutors to argue the cases.On July 1, Baijal and Jain held a meeting in which the matter could not be resolved. On July 2, Baijal wrote a letter to Kejriwal, requesting him to convene a meeting of the council of ministers to decide upon the disagreement in a week.Referring to the meeting, the official in the LG’s office said, “Apart from earlier disagreement on file, the LG in the said meeting on July 1, 2021, with the home minister, clearly and categorically expressed his disagreement at the minister turning down the valid request by the Delhi Police for appointment of special prosecutors. The same was reiterated and clearly conveyed in a subsequent letter from LG to the CM, requesting him convene a meeting of the council of ministers to consider and decide the said disagreement at the earliest. The Cabinet, if at all, is doing just that.”The Delhi government and the LG had a similar disagreement last year over the appointment of state lawyers to argue the north-east Delhi riots cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-vs-centre-as-lg-dismissesdelhi-govt-lawyers-in-r-day-cases-101626371168541.html
16-07-2021||Noida||7 held for robbing, killing cab driver in Jhansi||The Noida police on Thursday arrested seven persons for allegedly robbing and murdering a cab driver in Jhansi on May 26, 2021. The victim, identified as Harvesh Singh (35), was a native of Kasganj and worked as a driver with a private cab aggregator in Noida.Four of the seven suspects — identified as Rahul, Abid, Sonu and Shivam — had booked the cab on May 26, but when the cab driver arrived to pick them up, they cancelled the ride. “They instead convinced him to do an offline booking from Ghaziabad to Jhansi for ₹10/km. After they reached their destination in Jhansi, the four men robbed the driver of his cellphone, wallet and car, and killed him. Police found the victim’s body from Jhansi five days later,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity.Deputy commissioner of police (zone 2), Harish Chander, said on Thursday, “The driver’s family had filed a missing person complaint on May 29. After the driver’s body was found, his brother filed a murder complaint against unidentified persons at a police station in Jhansi on July 11, alleging that the victim was killed on the pretext of booking a cab. The case was then transferred to us (the Noida police), and we launched a probe.”Police started tracing the suspects with the help of details of the cancelled cab ride, and arrested Rahul from Noida Sector 62, Abid Khan, Sonu and Shivam from Ghaziabad, and Sudama Dutt Sharma, Shamshuddin, Mohammad Umeed from Delhi, on Thursday. During interrogation, Rahul, Abid, Sonu and Shivam — all natives of Jhansi — confessed that they had booked the cab and robbed the driver of the belongings before killing him. They had a debt and needed a quick money fix. They do not have any criminal history, said the police.“Rahul sold the car to Sudama Dutt Sharma, Shamshuddin, Mohammad Umeed for ₹50,000, who later sold parts of the vehicle, and the car body as scrap. We could only recover the engine of the car from their possession,” said another police official, requesting anonymity.A case has been registered against the seven suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 413 (habitually dealing in stolen property) at a police station in Noida.The suspects were produced before a magistrate on Thursday and sent to a 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/7-held-for-robbing-killing-cab-driver-in-jhansi-101626369848997.html
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kapurthala: 130-yr-old Durbar Hall to be restored by Sept-end||Delayed amid the pandemic, the restoration of 130-year-old Durbar Hall — an Indo-Saracenic monument built by Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala — is set to be completed by the end of September this year. Funded by the Asian Development Bank, the ₹8.5-crore project for interior and exterior restoration and conservation of the historical building at Kapurthala is being carried out by the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board. Once the work is complete, the Durbar Hall will be thrown open to the public, said project manager AR Mishra.Indo-Saracenic architecture was a revivalist architectural style mostly used by British architects in India in the later 19th century, especially in public and government buildings in the British Raj, and the palaces of rulers of the princely states. It drew stylistic and decorative elements from native Indo-Islamic architecture, especially Mughal architecture.The Durbar Hall was also built in line with the Sikh tradition: it had grand interiors for public functions and was used by the Maharaja to hold his durbar (court) twice a year. Its construction began in 1882 and was completed in eight years. The Maharaja’s birthday celebrations and state rituals and ceremonies were also held in the hall. In 1947, the complex became government property and was converted into a courts and administrative complex.Around 60 workers under the supervision of technical experts of thetourism department’s conservation wingare engaged in the restoration project. The work started in 2019 and was expected to be completed within 18 months, but was stalled as the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic delayed the shifting of government departments from the historic building, said officials.Mishra said renovation of the main part of Durbar Hall, also known as Palace of Justice, has been completed at a cost of nearly ₹3.5 crore. The works included restoration ofthe ornate ceiling and wooden flooring. “Once the restoration work gets completed, which is expected by September end, Punjab Infrastructure and Development Board will take over the building’s further preservation, likely under public-private partnership,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kapurthala-historical-durbar-hall-to-be-restored-by-septend-101626366609457.html
16-07-2021||Delhi||Army officer nabbed in espionage racket||The police on Thursday said they have arrested an officer of the Indian Army in connection with the espionage racket busted on Tuesday, following the arrest of a 41-year-old man, Habib-ur-Rehman, from Rajasthan’s Pokhran who was allegedly passing classified documents to Pakistan’s ISI.The police identified the army officer by his first name Paramjeet, a Naik, posted in the Agra Cantonment.“Some bank accounts of the two suspects have been seized and their analysis has shown that they were receiving money from their handlers based in the enemy country. We also recovered some sensitive documents related to the army from the 41-year-old spy, Habib-ur-Rehman. The army headquarters have authenticated the seized documents as classified and informed us that they contained highly secret information related to the army,” said Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of police (crime).A case under the Official Secrets Act (OSA) has been registered. Ranjan said Rehman is a contractor who supplied fruits and vegetables to the army base at Pokhran. During his visits to Sindh, Pakistan, to meet his relatives there, Rehman came in contact with agents of Pakistan ISI, the special commissioner said.“Paramjeet was earlier posted at the Pokhran base camp. During his posting, Rehman asked him to supply sensitive documents to him. Rehman further passed on the classified papers to his handlers in Pakistan,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-arrest-man-from-pokhran-for-role-in-espionage-racket-101626287160407.html
