17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 911 sex ratio at birth in first six months of 2021||When Haryana had recorded 922 female births per 1,000 males in 2020, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had set 935:1,000 as the sex ratio at birth (SRB) target for 2021.The ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ flagship programme that Khattar monitors, appears to have suffered some setbacks in the last six months with the cumulative SRB till June dipping to 911, show the official data that HT has accessed.Karnal district is among six worse performing districts with 888 SRB in six months - 23 points lower than the total SRB of Haryana.Data showed that the cumulative SRB, a critical indicator of gender equality, has dropped by nine points this year. During the corresponding period (till June 2020), the SRB of Haryana was 920.Haryana had managed to meet its SRB targets in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic posing challenges to the flagship programme that in the last six years has significantly bridged the gender imbalance in state.“The SRB so far this year is not on the expected trajectory. The fall is sharp and reasons are plenty - from Covid to touts involved in pre-birth gender determination tests,” said an official involved in the programme, refusing to be identified.“We have been observing every year that after dip in May-June, the SRB jumps during the second half of the year. Nonetheless, the birth registration data of first six months is being re-checked,” the official said.Dr Veena Singh, director general health services, Haryana, didn’t respond to the phone calls and text messages.Though per month SRB fluctuates, the total SRB this year so far has been lower than the corresponding months in 2020. For example, the SRB of the state this year in January was 918, February 922, March 921, April 918, May 912 and June 911.In 2020, between January and June the cumulative SRB fluctuated in the range of 937 in January and 920 in June.The annual SRB numbers have steadily improved in state, from 832 in 2012 to 868 in 2013, 876 in 2015, 900 in 2016, 914 in 2017-2018, 923 in 2019, and 922 in 2020.“If the current trend continues this year, we may have to console ourselves with 920 annual SRB in 2021,” an official said.The primary reason behind this pessimism about dip in the annual SRB among those monitoring the programmes stems from past experiences.For instance, in 2017, the SRB till June was 910 and the annual SRB that year was 914.ROHTAK LEADS WHILE KARNAL LAGSRohtak led the state with an SRB of 962 in six months, followed by Charkhi Dadri 945, Panipat 937, Mahendergarh 931, Rewari 927, Panchkula 926, and Jind 925.Palwal and Sirsa were tied at the eighth spot with an SRB of 923, Nuh recorded 922, Gurugram 914, Kurukshetra 911, Ambala 909, Hisar 908, Kaithal 902, and Yamunanagar 900.The worst-performing six districts with the SRB hovering between 858 and 895 in the first six months of 2021 are Faridabad (895), Sonipat (888), Karnal (888), Bhiwani (887), Fatehabd (862), and Jhajjar (858).Total 2,20,841 births (1,05,255 females and 1,15,586 males) were registered in 2021 till June with 911 SRB.Nuh recorded the highest 23,176 births (12,057 males and 11,119 females) during the first six months, followed by Faridabad (18,116), Gurugram (17,130), and Hisar (14,852).85 RAIDS, FIRs IN SIX MONTHSOfficials said this dip in the SRB this year has been despite tightening of noose around those involved in sex-determination tests.This year so far, 85 first information reports (FIRs) have been lodged under the PNDT (Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques) Act and the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act.These 85 FIRs were registered after successful raids were conducted within and outside state.Sources said in January, 20 raids and FIRs were registered, 14 in February, 15 in March, 12 in April, no FIR in May, 10 in June, and 14 in July so far.Last year, 100 FIRs were registered. Among the raids conducted last year, 40 were inter-state raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-911-sex-ratio-at-birth-in-first-six-months-of-2021-101626546439096.html
17-07-2021||Other||Delhi court dismisses bail plea of journalist held for leaking confidential info to Chinese intelligence||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Saturday dismissed the bail plea of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on charges of supplying sensitive and confidential information to Chinese intelligence officials in exchange for money.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said that Sharma had received lakhs of rupees on multiple occasions, invariably in cash, from dubious sources and has failed to furnish any palpable explanation regarding the receipt of money.Calling it “intriguing”, the judge also noted that even though Sharma’s annual income was barely ₹8.6 lakh, he is financing his son’s education abroad, enjoys multiple foreign trips and has even lent lakhs of rupees to his friends and acquaintances for investment purposes.“...from the statements recorded, it is evident that the applicant/accused has received lakhs of rupees on multiple occasions, invariably in cash, from dubious sources,” the court said.It said that the allegations against Sharma are serious in nature and the investigation is at a crucial juncture as the complete money trail is yet to be traced.“…releasing the applicant/accused (Sharma) on bail at this stage would not be salubrious to the cause of justice, as the applicant/accused would definitely attempt to wipe off the foot prints and cover up the traces,” the judge noted in his seven-page order.The ED initiated an investigation on the basis of an FIR and charge sheet filed by the Delhi Police against Sharma under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Official Secrets Act, 1923.During investigation, the ED had said Sharma had allegedly compromised the security and national interests of India by providing sensitive information to Chinese officers in exchange for remuneration.Advocate Amish Aggarwal, Sharma’s counsel, had contended that his client is being falsely implicated in the case and that he has in no way compromisedthe national security of the country.ED had further said the cash received by Sharma and other unidentified persons was generated through hawala means by Mahipalpur-based shell companies that were run by Chinese nationals, namely Zhang Cheng alias Suraj, Zhang Lixia alias Usha, and Quing Shi, along with a Nepali national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohara.The agency further claimed Sharma has received money through benami bank accounts.The court had on Wednesday sent Sharma to judicial custody for 14 days at the request of the ED, which arrested him earlier this month under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-journalist-held-for-leaking-confidential-info-to-chinese-intelligence-101626545177561.html
17-07-2021||Other||Delhi: Gangster wanted in 13 murder cases held after shoot-out in Rohini||New Delhi: The city police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man, an alleged top operative of the infamous Ashok Pradhan gang and named in at least 13 cases of murder, after a shootout outside the Rohini helipad near Sector 37. Police said the accused, identified as Gaurav alias Monti, who is one of Pradhan’s chief aides, sustained bullet injuries to his leg when police returned fire.The Ashok Pradhan gang is involved in murder, robbery and extortion in different parts of Delhi. Pradhan was arrested by police in February 2021 and is currently lodged in Tihar jail.Police said Gaurav had allegedly demanded ₹50 lakh recently from a businessman and threatened to kill him if the money was not paid. Police said that on June 26, Gaurav allegedly shot dead a man who worked for the businessman, and left a slip of paper ordering the latter to pay up.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that police received information around 8 pm on Friday that Gaurav would come to sector 37 area in Rohini, near the Karala helipad. “At around 10.15 pm, we noticed Gaurav coming on a stolen motorcycle. When our team attempted to stop him, he opened fire, shooting at least three rounds. Our team returned fire with six rounds to stop him from firing and to save the lives of the police party. He received bullet injuries on his legs and was caught,” said Tayal. Police said Gaurav allegedly murdered jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana’s cousin last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-gangster-wanted-in-13-murder-cases-held-after-shoot-out-in-rohini-101626545117516.html
17-07-2021||Other||Confer Bharat Ratna on late Sunderlal Bahuguna: Kejriwal writes to PM||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the central government to consider awarding Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian award — to environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna, a founding member of the Chipko movement.The CM initially raised the demand on July 15 while commemorating the legacy of Bahuguna at Delhi’s Vidhan Sabha where the government had installed a portrait and a stone to remember his legacy.In his letter to the PM, written on Friday, Kejriwal said, “In the 75th year of India’s independence, when we are working to honour our freedom fighters and legends who drove our nation towards the right direction, I request you on behalf of the Delhi government that Sunderlal Bahuguna be honoured with the award of the Bharat Ratna. We believe that conferring Bharat Ratna on Sunderlal Bahuguna ji will be an honour for the Bharat Ratna award itself. I hope that you will consider this request of the Delhi government and take an appropriate decision in this direction at the earliest.”Uttarakhand native Bahuguna, aged 94, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Rishikesh on May 21. A recipient of India’s second-highest civilian award, Padma Vibhushan, Bahuguna’s work revolved around people’s rights over forests in the Himalayas.The Aam Aadmi Party had earlier announced that it plans to contest all 70 seats in the Assembly elections in Uttarakhand next year.“Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, Bahuguna ji spent his childhood fighting for the freedom of the country during the Independence struggle. After Independence, inspired by Sant Vinoba Bhave, he committed himself towards the goal of Bhoodan and Gram Swaraj Yojana. When the world was blindly engaged in the environment’s exploitation and the sense of environmental protection was not even a part of the international discourse, sensing the threat upon the nation and the entire world, Bahuguna dedicated himself to the cause of protecting the environment,” read the Delhi CM’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confer-bharat-ratna-on-late-sunderlal-bahuguna-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-101626544997024.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Pocso court grants bail to man booked for kidnap||Exposure to available and varied content is provoking teenagers to enter into relationships, observed a special Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court while granting bail to a 21-year-old who was booked after he eloped with a 15-and-a-half-year-old girl.“Today teenagers are exposed to more sexual issues and lots of material is available to them to know about sexual relations between man and woman. Boys and girls both tend to get provoked. There can be curious and compelling demand to get in such kind of relationship. There is sexual maturation,” said special judge Priti Kumar Ghule, after noticing that the case was borne out of an affair.The accused was allegedly in a relationship with the minor since two years before they eloped. On April 13 this year, the minor left the house on the pretext of going to meet her friend. She and the accused then went to Bihar and allegedly engaged in physical relation more than once. The parents of the girl had lodged a case of kidnapping. Later, the girl was traced and the accused was arrested.Advocate Shabnam Shaikh, for the accused, argued that the girl was well above 15 years of age and had intelligence and maturity to understand the significance and morality associated with the acts. Photographs of them were referred to by the defence to show that they were in a relationship.Considering this, the court granted him bail and observed, “The applicant is a 21-year-old young boy with no criminal antecedents. There was love relation for two years. There is no violent act. The girl has abandoned the house on her own on false pretext.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-court-grants-bail-to-man-booked-for-kidnap-101626544696968.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai under orange alert for weekend||A day after a sudden thunderstorm deposited 253mm of rain over the city in just a few hours, Mumbai woke up to a drier, sunnier morning on Saturday. In contrast to the heavy rain on Friday that left several parts of the western and some parts of the northern and central suburbs waterlogged, India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz recorded just 31mm rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Saturday followed 9mm through the day.IMD had placed Mumbai under a yellow category storm warning for Saturday, indicating moderate rain in the city and suburbs with a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Mumbai has again been placed under orange category on Sunday and Monday, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”, along with chances of extremely heavy rainfall (over 204.5mm in 24 hours) in some parts. Independent forecasters agreed that the monsoon will continue to remain active between July 17 and 22. “But I’d be surprised if there are daily heavy rainfall events of a magnitude similar to Friday morning. Models show a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal around next mid-week which is stimulating offshore trough and strengthening westerlies, but these conditions may not necessarily trigger torrential downpours daily since there are biases associated with forecasts of low-pressure systems,” explained Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD candidate at the University of Reading.With seasonal rainfall of the city standing at 1,585mm, Mumbai has recorded around 63% of the seasonal long-period average (up to September-end). In the past week alone, the city has recorded about 475mm of rainfall. Daily maximum is expected to remain at 31 degrees Celsius over the next two days, up slightly from 29.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, while minimum temperature is expected to be around 25 degrees Celsius, same as Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-under-orange-alert-for-weekend-101626544637469.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||No safe place for children of working parents: Pocso court||A special Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court on Thursday expressed concern about safety of children who have to stay alone at home while both parents go for work. The observation came while the court was sentencing a 40-year-old electrician for sexually assaulting an 11-year-old girl who was alone at home while her parents were out for work.While convicting the electrician, special judge Bharti Kale said, “In many cases such incidents are noticed when the children are required to stay alone at home as parents need to work, and there is no safe place for the children to stay in their absence.”“In the present case, the survivor was also subjected to penetrative sexual assault by the accused, who was known to her, when she was alone,” the judge observed and sentenced the electrician to 10 years of imprisonment.As per the case registered with RCF police station, in March 2018, the school teacher of the Class 4 student called her parents to school and told them about the sexual abuse faced by the minor. The girl had narrated the ordeal to her friends, which eventually reached the teacher.In her deposition before the court, the minor referred the accused as “mama” and claimed that he would visit to their house often, even in the presence of her mother. The accused would tell her that her mother has asked him to look after her in their absence. The girl claimed that in early 2018, the accused came to her house in the absence of her parents and molested her.The parents, in March 2018, registered a complaint against the accused with RCF police station. The girl was taken for medical examination where she claimed that accused had committed sexual assault on her. The accused was subsequently arrested on March 25, 2018 and has been in prison since.Public prosecutor Geeta Sharma examined four witnesses including the minor and her mother as key witnesses. The court heavily relied on the statement given by minor before the court. The court held that “the prosecution has been able to bring cogent evidence on record that the accused has committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim”.The defence, however, had claimed that he was falsely implicated by the minor’s family as there were strained relations between him and the girl’s mother. The court did not accept the same and convicted the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-safe-place-for-children-of-working-parents-pocso-court-101626544636990.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||NGT fines BMC ₹2.1 crore for polluting drains, instructs civic chief to be present for next hearing||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has levied a penalty of ₹2.1 crore on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as environmental compensation for discharge of inadequately-treated effluent into city drains from six different sewage treatment plants (STP). The green court has also directed that municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal be present in person at the next date of hearing on August 28.The development comes on the heels of a recent execution application filed before the tribunal by Vanashakti, a city-based NGO. In October last year, in response to a petition by Vanashakti, NGT had rapped the civic body over continued pollution of city’s creeks and water bodies, and had imposed an environmental compensation of ₹34 crore, which BMC is yet to pay to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).HT had reported on the matter in detail on July 4 and 5 explaining that BMC requires at least another four to five years to free city water bodies of pollution. At the time, BMC officials said they have appealed against the NGT’s order before the Supreme Court (SC), which will decide on the legitimacy of the imposed penalty which now stands at ₹36 crore.“BMC did not file any special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the NGT order. Instead they only filed a civil appeal after Vanashakti filed an execution application (contempt) in NGT. The SC subsequently issued notice to all parties but did not grant any stay of the NGT judgement. NGT has now taken serious view of continuing violations, which also includes discharge of cement slurry into creeks, which we have pointed out in our execution application,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Environmentalists have responded favourably to NGT’s latest directions, commending the court for upholding that direct accountability in the matter rests with the municipal commissioner. “We direct the municipal commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) to appear in person along with his response... on the next date. The municipal commissioner may explain why coercive measures under section 25 of the NGT Act, 2010 read with section 51 CPC (Code of Civil Procedure) may not be taken to ensure compliance of the order of this tribunal,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngt-fines-bmc-2-1-crore-for-polluting-drains-instructs-civic-chief-to-be-present-for-next-hearing-101626544577810.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Server trouble solved: SSC students manage to access results on Saturday||After a harrowing experience aided by a server crash on Friday, several Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students managed to access their individual results on Saturday, almost a day after the results were officially announced. Even as state school education department minister Varsha Gaikwad called for a thorough inquiry into this fiasco on Friday, officials at the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) refused to divulge any details about the inquiry or the cause behind the official website crashing and remaining unavailable to scores of students for over 10 hours on July 16.“Every year, students struggle to access results online but this year the situation went out of control. Several schools and experts have time and again pointed to the board the need for separate links to results for each of the nine divisions. This can avoid the rush of students accessing results through the same link, but the board refuses to change their ways,” said the principal of a suburban school in Mumbai.Board exams for Class 10 and 12 students this year were scrapped in view of the pandemic, and students were marked based on their performance in the current and previous years. SSC was the first of the results to be announced this year with the state recording a 99.75% pass percentage —the highest ever.State board schools had sent marks of over 1.575 million students to the state board this year, of which over 1.574 million passed the exam. While overall state results were announced by MSBSHSE early on Friday, students struggled to access individual results through the day. After receiving series of complaints from students across the state, board officials called for an impromptu meeting of officials on Friday evening; the details of the meeting however have not been made public yet.“Several of our students kept trying to check their results till nearly midnight but to no avail. The official results website was up and running smoothly on Saturday morning, which is when most of our students managed to check their individual scores,” said the principal of state board school in Byculla. He added that the school also tried to reach out to the divisional board office in Vashi on Friday but got no clarity or help.Class 10 students can now start registering for the common entrance test (CET) for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions from Monday (July 19). Details about the same are yet to be released by the state board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/server-trouble-solved-ssc-students-manage-to-access-results-on-saturday-101626544577051.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shanties in Malad demolished for Kurar metro station||Fifteen shanties in Kurar in Malad (East), were demolished by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Saturday afternoon, with the help of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to make way for the Kurar metro station.MMRDA in a statement said all residents were given alternate accommodation before demolition of the shanties, along with the prior notice, of over 10 days.In a statement on Saturday, MMRDA said, “All removed huts were given alternate accommodation before demolition. Some were given alternate accommodation 10 days ago. The demolition was carried out by BMC. It is for the proposed Kurar metro station.”Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant commissioner of the P/North civic ward said, “The demolition was undertaken by MMRDA. The BMC had only provided manpower and machinery. A high court order regarding the case was given in MMRDA’s favour on Friday, following which, we were intimated about the demolition. 15 shanties were removed, near Pushpa Park, for the proposed metro station there.”The Bharatiya Janata Party protested against the move. Local member of Legislative Assembly Atul Bhatkhalkar was detained by police as he protested against the demolition during the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shanties-in-malad-demolished-for-kurar-metro-station-101626543376928.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Coordinate with police, ensure crew is vaccinated, Maharashtra CM tells producers||Maharashtra government has asked the film and TV serials producers to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines during a shooting in the wake of the potential third wave, which may hit the country in future. The producers have been told to ensure that the crew members were fully vaccinated and coordinate with the police while shooting in Mumbai and surrounding areas.Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray held a virtual meeting with representatives of the Producers Guild of India (PGI) on Saturday to discuss various issues and press for the need to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. CM said that any negligence or failure in following the Covid-related norms cannot be permitted as the second wave has not yet been subsided and the threat of the third wave is looming large.“Even state government does not like to impose restrictions on the shooting, but the infection rate in Maharashtra and Kerala is still high. Event the bio-bubbles used during sports and entertainment events have failed to protect participants from the infection. While the country has not come out of the second wave of Covid-19 many countries in the world are witnessing the third wave. The producers in Mumbai and Maharashtra should do the Covid-19 test periodically. The crew members with symptoms should be treated properly. The producers must ensure that the participants are fully vaccinated,” he said.Ritesh Sidhwani, Stuti Ramchandra, Madhu Bhojwani, Rakesh Mehra, Nitin Ahuja represented PGI, while Subodh Bhave, Nagraj Manjule, Ravi Jadhav represented the Marathi film and TV industry. They demanded an extended time for shooting, which is currently permitted till 4pm. The representatives also assured the state government to follow the restrictions rigorously. “We are happy with the government’s positive response as the CM has ensured us with the solution by talking to the task force members soon. We have asked for permission to shoot after 4pm as for certain scenes the shooting during the night is a must. Few films have been stuck incomplete because of the requirement of night shooting. We have assured the government to take all precautions and follow the norms we have been following during day shifts of shooting,” said Ritesh Sidhawani, a producer and member of the PGI. CM said that the state government is taking cautious steps while unlocking the activities and appealed to the producers to cooperate with the state. CM directed the police department to monitor the schedule, venue of the shooting. “The police should monitor the timing, venue of the shooting by taking the information from the producers by assigning a dedicated officer. The officers should ensure that the producers are following all norms appropriately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coordinate-with-police-ensure-crew-is-vaccinated-maharashtra-cm-tells-producers-101626543196885.html
17-07-2021||Other||MSEB cuts connections of over 47,000 defaulters in Palghar, Vasai||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Board (MSEDCL) has till date disconnected the temporary and permanent connections of nearly 47,000 consumers in Palghar and Vasai division as per official data. Vijaysinh Dudhbhate, MSEDCL spokesman, said, “The power has beeb disconnected in residential, commercial and industrial categories, as these consumers have not paid the bills since November 2020.”Till date, Vasai and Palghar consumers are to pay the MSEDCL around ₹267.42 crore in unpaid bills he said. Vasai division tops with 27,527 disconnections followed by Palghar with 19,465 said Dudhbhate.“We had reminded the consumers to pay the bills but the outstanding amount kept on rising, hence, we had to take the extreme step,” said Dudhbhate.“We will also take action against the consumers who despite their power being disconnected manage to get power from other sources or by stealing. Such people will prosecute them under the Electricity Act, 2003,” an official said.Meanwhile the MSEDCL has also undertaken a campaign to review all consumers who are getting bills for less than 30 units per month.“We suspect that the consumers may have tampered the meters. We have identified 4.45 lakh consumers in Ulhasnagar, Kalyan, Dombivli, Palghar, Vasai, Thane (rural) divisions and we will take action against the defaulters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mseb-cuts-connections-of-over-47-000-defaulters-in-palghar-vasai-101626543077526.html
17-07-2021||Other||Gang involved in abduction-rape-murder of working women busted||Gurugram: The Nuh police on Thursday busted a four-member gang that allegedly abducted at least two women after offering them lifts, gang-raped them and disposed their bodies in lakes or canal after murdering them. Police said they suspect they are involved in the disappearance of at least a dozen more women.Police said the accused -- identified as Devender alias Bablu, Nasir and Rinku alias Rishabh from Tauru and Manjeet Kumar from Palwal -- were also involved in cases of snatching, robbery and loot for the last six years. They were produced before a court on Thursday and sent to two-day police remand for further questioning. Police expect to solve multiple cases with the arrest of the suspects.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said the suspects, all in their early twenties, were business partners in a transport-cum-DJ business. “They had bought a pick-up van for their business that they used to offer lifts as well as transport bodies and dump them in canals,” he said.Bijarnia said the crime unit led by sub-inspector Satya Prakash arrested the suspects, who were allegedly on the lookout for potential targets, from Rangla village in Nuh after they received a tip-off. Detailing one of their alleged crimes, police said on April 24, 2018, the four were on their way to Bhiwadi in the pick-up van when they allegedly saw a woman, who was waiting for public transport to go home after her shift at an industrial area in Bhiwadi. Police said they allegedly abducted her on the pretext of offering her a lift and took her to Nuh. “They gang-raped her and killed her in the fields of Uthon village in Nuh and dumped her body in a water canal near Biwipur village in Gurugram, after tying stones to her hands and legs,” said Bijarnia. The body was found after several days and remained unidentified for months. In May 2019, a case was registered at Sadar police station of Nuh under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destroying evidence) of the IPC. Police said during questioning, they confessed to the crime and shared details of more heinous acts. Police said they suspect the gang is involved in over 20 cases of rape and murder. In another instance, Devender, the alleged kingpin of the gang, offered a lift to a woman who was returning from her in-laws’ place in Gadi Hodal on July 20 last year.“At first, the woman refused but as it was getting dark, she boarded the van. He held her captive and threatened her. He took her home, raped her and later murdered her. The next day he took her body in the van and dumped it in a water body near Jaurasi. He tied stones to her hands and legs to ensure the body doesn’t surface,” said Bijarnia. The decomposed body was found after months and a case was registered in August last year under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the IPC at Tauru police station. Police said the cases had spread panic among working women in the industrial areas of Bhiwadi and Palwal.Nuh police will write to Faridabad, Palwal, Bhiwadi and Rewari police to check their records pertaining to working women from their areas. “They have shared more details but we are yet to establish the facts,” said Bijarnia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-involved-in-abduction-rape-murder-of-working-women-busted-101626543076917.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||4 districts in Maharashtra still show rainfall deficits, below average kharif sowing||With nearly 40% of the ongoing southwest monsoon season over - and with the July 15 deadline for sowing of kharif crops having lapsed - four districts in the state continue to show significant rainfall deficits, shows India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. These include Nandurbar, Dhule, Akola and Nashik, which are concentrated along the same belt from Khandesh to western Vidarbha. Officials, however, said it is too early to speculate on how these deficits will impact agricultural productivity.On July 14, Maharashtra’s agriculture minister Dada Bhuse had said that 74% of kharif sowing for the season have been completed across the state, with soybean seeds being sown across 38 lakh hectares and cotton across 39 lakh hectares. However, he also added that Nashik, Dhule and Nandurbar have so far shown below average sowing figures. An official with the IMD’s agricultural meteorology division, seeking anonymity, also said this was the case with Akola district, but declined to provide specific figures.“We are confident that the situation in these districts will also improve. If you look at Jalgaon and Buldhana districts, they were also showing fairly large rainfall deficits a week ago, but are now showing good rainfall and crop sowing has also picked up. There are contingency crop plans for each of these districts which will be put into action as soon as the rainfall situation improves,” the official said.Hindustan Times had reported, on July 12, that Nandurbar and Akola were showing the highest seasonal deficit at -57% and -50% respectively. Updated rainfall data shows that there has been some improvement in Akola, where the gap now stands at -33%. The district has so far received 169.6mm of rain against the long period average of 252.1mm. Some improvement was also seen in Dhule district, where the rainfall deficit a week ago stood at -46%, improving to -22% on July 17.The situation in Nandurbar has not shown similar improvements, however, with the deficit still standing at -56% on July 17. The district has seen only 142.9mm of rain (against the normal 322.7mm). The same goes for Nashik, where the deficit reduced from -37% a week ago to just -32% on July 17. Jalgaon and Buldhana districts, however, have shown the most rainfall in the past week, currently showing nearly normal levels of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-districts-in-maharashtra-still-show-rainfall-deficits-below-average-kharif-sowing-101626543018345.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases further fall to 59; fresh deaths increase by 4||Delhi on Saturday recorded another low of 59 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 1,435,478, according to the health department’s bulletin. Ninety-one patients recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the total recoveries to 1,409,830. The positivity rate on Saturday further dropped to 0.08 per cent, the bulletin added.However, daily deaths in the national capital on Saturday climbed to four, after they had remained at one for the past few days. The death toll has climbed to 25,027 with a fatality rate of 1.74 per cent.As many as 76,421 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 52,490 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 23,931 were rapid antigen tests. The numbers of patients under home isolation are at 212 while the containment zones have slightly increased to 422, the health department’s bulletin further showed.Delhi reports 59 new #COVID19 cases, 91 recoveries, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 621Total recoveries: 14,09,830Death toll: 25,027 pic.twitter.com/9RNP4AaaPJEven though the overall pandemic situation in Delhi has been improving since mid-May and almost all districts recorded less than one per cent Covid-19 positivity rate between June 25 and July 12, the shortage of vaccine doses is overburdening the national capital’s health infrastructure.The vaccination drive in Delhi saw another downfall on Saturday as only 71,000 eligible beneficiaries were inoculated compared to 87,000 on Friday, according to news agency PTI. In total, over 9.25 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated since the inoculation drive started from January 16 this year.On Wednesday, almost 50 per cent of the vaccination centres across the city were closed while on Thursday, 21 vaccination centres in South Delhi alone were shut. The shortage of doses has also impacted the overall inoculation rate of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-cases-further-fall-to-59-fresh-deaths-increase-by-4-101626541671877.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Around 87,000 people vaccinated on July 16, shows data||Around 87,000 people were vaccinated against coronavirus in Delhi on Friday and less than one day's stock of vaccine was available in the city, according to official data.According to the CoWin portal, over 71,000 beneficiaries received vaccine jabs on Saturday.The vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government said over 92 lakh doses have been administered in the city since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 21.88 lakh people have received both the doses.According to the Delhi government's data, the city had around 2.67 lakh vaccine doses left on Saturday morning. The health bulletin said the stock will last less than a day. Vaccination centres across Delhi can administer around 2.26 lakh doses daily, but the inoculation number crossed the one lakh mark only once (on Tuesday) in the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-around-87-000-people-vaccinated-on-july-16-shows-data-101626532144652.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Now, trains on Aqua Line to run from 6am-10pm||With the Uttar Pradesh government revising the night curfew timings, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has decided to run trains on its Aqua Line between 6am and 10pm from Monday onwards. The train service, at present, is available from 7am to 8pm. Currently, the night curfew in Gautam Budh Nagar is in place from 10pm to 6am, as against 8pm to 7am earlier. Ritu Maheshwari, managing director of NMRC said the metro services will be available from 6am to 10 pm. “The trains will be available in intervals of 10 minutes during rush hours and in gaps of 15 minutes during non-peak hours. The peak hours usually starts from 8am to 11am and between 5am and 8pm,” she said. Maheshwari said as the weekend curfew is still in effect in Gautam Buddha Nagar, the train services will not operate on weekends.Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, said the revised timing will surely help computers. “A number of people work in Delhi and Noida and they commute by metro. This will help a scores of people and office goers, who return home late,” he said. Nisha Wadhawan, company secretary and NMRC’s public relations officer, said the Aqua Line recorded the highest ridership of 9,489 passengers on July 12 after the metro services were resumed on June 9. On July 16, the Aqua Line recorded 8,895 passengers. NMRC has been taking proactive measures to spread awareness regarding the virus and ensure that its premises and trains are clean and sanitized. The Metro body does regular announcements at every station regarding maintaining adequate social distancing and washing hands. The NMRC also urges passengers to follow the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and cooperate with authorities to curtail the spread of Covid-19.The NMRC also runs fast trains during peak hours. There are 21 stations on the Aqua Line. The fast trains skip 10 stations which have low ridership during peak hours. Wadhawan said that the fast trains will continue as of now. In order to augment the non-farebox revenues, the NMRC on Wednesday came up with the idea of offering the vacant parking space at various stations in the Metro body’s network to food truck vendors. This initiative will help the NMRC to boost its ridership by enhancing aesthetics and public amenities in the vicinity of metro stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-trains-on-aqua-line-to-run-from-6am10pm-101626541456841.html
17-07-2021||Other||Buffalo thieves giving sleepless nights to Haryana farmers||The rise in the incidents of theft of buffaloes in northern parts of Haryana is giving sleepless nights to the farmers. As per the reports collected from the different police stations, most of the incidents were reported in villages of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar districts. The aggrieved farmers filed complaints of theft of their buffaloes but the police failed to get any clue about the accused, HT has learnt. “Two days after I purchased a buffalo worth ₹70,000, it was stolen from my cattle yard on the intervening night of July 3 and 4. I have filed a police complaint at Karnal’s Sadar police station but the police have failed to get any clue yet,” said Sunil Kumar, a resident of Bijna Village of Karnal district.On the same night, the thieves also stole two buffaloes of a farmer Sarwan Pradhan of Kailash village of the district. He also filed the FIR at the same police station. A dairy farmer, Darbari Singh of Kheri Mansigh village, filed a police complaint of the theft of his two milking buffaloes from his cattle farm last month.Another farmer, Jai Pal Singh of Garhi Jattan village, filed a complaint at Indri police station and alleged theft of his two buffaloes worth around ₹1.40 lakh from his farm on the intervening night of June 23 and 24.According to the farmers, the thieves come between 2 to 4 am in groups of 5 to 10 in pickup vehicles and steal milch buffaloes, which cost around ₹50,000 to ₹1. Lakh.The farmers said the thieves come from Uttar Pradesh and do not steal cows because there is a strict law against cow smuggling and slaughtering. Even stolen buffaloes are taken to cattle mandis in Uttar Pradesh and they cross state borders but the police have failed to arrest them.The crime investigation agency of Kaithal police arrested three members of a gang involved in buffalo theft on July 5. The cops said that the accused belong to Uttar Pradesh and confessed to having stolen 18 buffaloes from Haryana and Punjab in the past two years. Eight buffaloes were recovered from their possession.Police officials associated with the investigations said that most of the people involved in the theft of buffaloes come from Uttar Pradesh. Karnal SP, Ganga Ram Punia, said that the investigation of all cases has been entrusted to a special team of the CIA and some accused have been identified based on material available with us. To prevent such crimes in future, two Nakas have been set up at Manglora and Shergarh Tapu villages (Haryana-UP border) which may be used by the accused near river Yamuna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/buffalo-thieves-giving-sleepless-nights-to-haryana-farmers-101626541278879.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Mobile phone snatchers arrested in Noida||Noida: Two persons were arrested on Saturday for their alleged involvement in several snatching cases in the city. A juvenile was also apprehended, the police said, adding that six mobile phones were recovered from the possession of the suspects. The two suspects were identified as Sahil, 22, and Wasim, 20, residents of Khajoori Khas in Delhi. The identity of the juvenile, 15, is withheld. Sudhir Kumar, in-charge of Sector 24 police station, said that police received information that the three suspects would be moving on a motorcycle near Metro Hospital crossing in Sector 12. “A police team was deployed at the crossing. The suspects reached the spot but they tried to escape after they spotted the police team. The police team chased them and forced them to stop near Mother Dairy booth in Sector 11,” he said. According to the police, the suspects had snatched one of the phones from a woman two days ago in Noida Sector 12. They used to roam around different sectors and snatch mobile phones and sold them at cheap rates, they said.A case has been registered against them under Section 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) of IPC. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody while the juvenile was produced before the child welfare committee and then sent to a juvenile home, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mobile-phone-snatchers-arrested-in-noida-101626541157342.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Man arrested for selling Covid medicine at inflated rates||Police on Saturday arrested a 40-year-old man, identified as Akashdeep, a resident of Sector 27, wanted in a case of selling Covid-19 medicines at exorbitant rates. Munish Chauhan, station house inspector (SHO) of Sector 20 police station, said the police received information about the suspect’s movement near Harolla Chowk in Sector 5. “The police team reached the spot and recovered an injection of Actemra 400mg from the suspect’s possession. He was looking for a prospective customer who will buy the medicine from him at an inflated price,” said Chauhan. Chauhan said on May 4, police arrested Akashdeep’s two accomplices – Ravi Kumar (30), and Mohammad Junaid (32), both residents of Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. Sanat Kumar Mishra, a sub-inspector at Sector 20 police station, and a complainant in this case, said Kumar and Junaid were arrested from near the district hospital with the medicines.“The suspects used to find prospective customers through social media. They fixed the deal and sold each vial for up to ₹80,000,” said Mishra in the FIR. The two revealed that Akashdeep had supplied the medicines to them.An FIR was registered against three people under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC, Sections 18-A, 24, 10 and 96 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 at Sector 20 police station. Police said Akashdeep ran a restaurant in Delhi, where Junaid was also employed, and Kumar worked as his driver. “Akashdeep got the medicine from someone and then passed them to his two accomplices, who sold them in Noida. Two people were earlier arrested in this case. The police had announced a reward of ₹10,000 for Akashdeep’s arrest,” said Chauhan. On Saturday, Akashdeep was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-selling-covid-medicine-at-inflated-rates-101626541156776.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Noida witnesses hot and humid conditions as rain stays away||No rainfall for three days in a row has shot up mercury levels, with the maximum temperature standing at 39.4 degrees Celsius in the city, three notches above normal, on Saturday. The high humidity, clubbed with higher temperatures, compounded the discomfort of residents though the weather department has predicted some relief from the sweltering heat on Sunday. On Saturday, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) office in Noida recorded a maximum temperature of 39.4°C, three degrees more than the 36.6°C recorded a day earlier, and a minimum of 28.8°C against Thursday’s 28.2°C. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered to be representative of the National Capital Region, the maximum temperature recorded was 38.8°C, four degrees higher than the season’s average, and the minimum was 28.2°C, a degree higher than the season’s average.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday, which will help bring down the mercury levels substantially. According to weather scientists, the moisture laden easterly winds and shifting monsoon trough in the Delhi-NCR area will revive rainfall. “Noida is likely to receive rainfall from July 18 to 21. The highest intensity is likely on Sunday as the monsoon trough line is shifting towards the Indo-Gangetic plains and is likely to show its effect till July 21. The mercury may thus drop substantially. Several regions, including parts of UP, east and west Rajashtan and Haryana, have already started to receiving showers. The mercury has been soaring for the past three days because there was no rainfall or clouds. The region is now receiving moisture laden easterly winds, which are favourable for rains,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, of Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency. “The maximum and minimum temperature are likely to hover around 34°C on Sunday. There are high chances of heavy to moderate rainfall,” said an IMD official. So far, the city has received 1.5mm rain on Tuesday, the day monsoon finally marked its onset in Noida. IMD officials said that the monsoon arrived after running a 16-day delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-witnesses-hot-and-humid-conditions-as-rain-stays-away-101626541036773.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to dispose of 600k metric tonnes of legacy waste by March 2022||Ghaziabad: The city will be able to get rid of about 600,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste at two landfill sites -- one in Indirapuram and the other in Pratap Vihar -- by the end of March next year, officials said on Saturday. The officials said that the Pratap Vihar landfill site has about 450,000 metric tonnes of waste. In January 2019, the UP solid waste monitoring committee, set up on directions of the National Green Tribunal, directed for stoppage of dumping of solid waste at the Pratap Vihar site. “Accordingly, we selected an agency that has recently started work for removal of the legacy waste dumped at the Pratap Vihar site. The work that was supposed to start in March 2021 got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is expected that the waste will be converted into manure by March 2022, and thereafter the land will be handed over to UP Avas Vikas. ,” said MS Tanwar, commissioner of Ghaziabad municipal corporation. In the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the Ghaziabad city slipped by six spots to the 19th rank. The officials of the corporation said that they lost vital points as they could not get a permanent landfill site after the Pratap Vihar site was shut. The officials said that at the Indirapuram landfill, about 150,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste will be cleared. “The work is already in progress at the Indirapuram site. It’s being done by the same agency that has been awarded work at the Pratap Vihar site. The processing of one metric tonne of waste will cost ₹308. The work at the Indirapuram site is expected to get complete by October this year,” said Tanwar.The municipal commissioner said that the corporation has proposed setting up several small garbage factories in different areas for disposal of daily solid waste.The Pratap Vihar landfill in the past faced a lot of opposition from residents of nearby Siddharth Vihar. Besides, the waste monitoring committee also said that the site, which is close to the river Hindon, would contaminate groundwater over a period of time.  Similarly, the open dumping of solid waste and frequent incidents of fire also faced opposition by residents in Indirapuram. In 2018, the Confederation of trans-Hindon RWAs moved NGT and contended non-compliance of Solid Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2016 at the dumping site. Following the directions of the tribunal, the authorities started the bioremediation process at the site in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-dispose-of-600k-metric-tonnes-of-legacy-waste-by-march-2022-101626540976827.html
17-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar records 11 black fungus deaths in last two months||Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, has claimed 11 lives in Gautam Budh Nagar between May and June this year, according to data available with district health officials. The health department started keeping a record of black fungus cases from May. Currently, there are 10 active cases of the disease in the district while total 117 cases of black fungus have been recorded by the district health department so far. While four deaths were reported in May, seven fatalities from the infection were reported in June. No deaths have been reported in July so far, said officials.  Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar said, “The district health department has not recorded a single new case of mucormycosis in July so far, which is an indication that the disease is not affecting new patients any more. Out of the total cases recorded so far, 96 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals.” According to doctors, mucormycosis is a post-Covid complication where patients who have recovered from Covid-19 suffer from a fungal infection. Most of the early symptoms of this disease include headache, facial swelling, swelling around the eye, pain in the nasal area, black particles found in nose or upper area of the mouth and sinus congestion, said officials.Dr D K Gupta, chairman of Felix Hospital in Sector 137, said black fungus is found among those whose immune systems have been compromised or are weak, especially patients who have uncontrolled diabetes, those who have been on a long course of antibiotics, long term steroids, intravenous fluids, oxygen therapy or some immunosuppressant treatment.“The minimum diagnosis time for mucormycosis is 1-2 weeks after recovery from Covid-19 and maximum is 4-6 weeks. The infection has also been detected in many patients who were under home isolation and were using oxygen cylinders at home without professional guidance,” said Gupta.Meanwhile Dr Sunil Dohare, district surveillance officer of GB Nagar, said the official data includes patients from other cities and districts who were being treated here.“GB Nagar is one of the referral centres for the whole of western Uttar Pradesh, which is why patients from nearby districts also get treated here. The official record of mucormycosis cases does not differentiate between whether the patient is from GB Nagar or outside. Rather, it only tells us about the mucormycosis patients who were admitted in private and government hospitals in the district for treatment and whether they recovered or died,” said Dr Dohare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-records-11-black-fungus-deaths-in-last-two-months-101626540916893.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Shareholder agreement signed for Noida airport||GREATER NOIDA: Zurich Airport International, the Swiss company selected for developing the international airport at Jewar, on Saturday signed a shareholder agreement with the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), officials said. Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of NIAL, and Christoph Schnellmann, CEO of the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), signed the agreement in Lucknow in the presence of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and senior officials of the state government. YIAPL, a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International, has been formed to develop the about ₹30,000 crore airport project. According to the agreement, NIAL, the UP government’s nodal agency for the project, will hold one golden share in YIAPL and the right to nominate two directors to the company’s board. “The work on the project is likely to start very soon at the ground as the shareholder agreement has been signed. Now, the UP government will have a golden share in YIAPL. It means that CEO of NIAL and UP civil aviation director have become two directors on the YIAPL board and will have a say in all key policy decisions. Two more directors will be from Zurich,” said Singh.The airport is scheduled to become operational by 2024.“We have rehabilitated almost all farmer families, making way for the work to begin soon. We have started the process of physical transfer of 1,334 hectares of land to YIAPL,” said the NIAL chief.Replying to a query, Schnellmann, CEO of YIAPL, said, “Geotechnical and topographical studies have been underway for the past several months. We expect construction activities to commence at the site in the next few months. The UP government is also in the process of concluding the rehabilitation and resettlement activities.” The officials also said that the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) are likely to give their final nod to the Jewar airport’s master plan this month. The MoCA and AAI had, in February 2021, had suggested some technical changes in the master plan.“As per the suggestions, distance between two runways, length of a runway, and the space required for airplane parking, among others, have been revised in line with civil aviation rules. We are likely to receive the final nod to the master plan that will be vetted and approved by the Yamuna Expressway authority and NIAL this month only,” said Singh.Meanwhile, Daniel Bircher, CEO of Zurich Airport International, said, “We are pleased to sign the shareholder agreement, which strengthens the partnership between Zurich Airport International and NIAL. The Noida International Airport will be an engine of economic growth for India and Uttar Pradesh, stimulating residential and industrial activities in the catchment area as well as the development of cargo and logistics cluster in the NCR region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/shareholder-agreement-signed-for-noida-airport-101626540796805.html
17-07-2021||Lucknow||Day after Supreme Court prod, Uttar Pradesh cancels Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid-19: Reports||The Uttar Pradesh government announced on Saturday that the Kanwar Yatra is being cancelled in view of the coronavirus pandemic, according to news agency ANI. The development came a day after the Supreme Court gave the state government time till Monday to reconsider its decision of going ahead with allowing the pilgrimage.Also Read | Call off kanwar yatra, or we will, SC tells UP"Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled in Uttar Pradesh, in view of Covid-19," ANI quoted officials in the UP government as saying.Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled in Uttar Pradesh, in view of COVID19: UP Government pic.twitter.com/X25JpZbdiLOn Tuesday, the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand, too, announced cancellation of the yatra over fears of it contributing to a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | Uttarakhand scraps Kanwar yatra amid warnings over 3rd Covid waveIn Friday's hearing, a two-judge bench of the top court, comprising of Justice RF Nariman and Justice BR Gavai, practically gave the Uttar Pradesh government an "ultimatum" to call off the yatra, observing that it "cannot go ahead with the Kanwar Yatra, 100%." The bench then gave Uttar Pradesh time till July 19 to reconsider its decision "in the interest of health of the citizenry of India" or be ordered by the court to scrap the pilgrimage.The Union government, too, submitted in the apex court that state governments should not permit the movement of Kanwariyas, who walk on foot to bring the water from the holy Ganga river in Haridwar. Instead, the Centre suggested that the governments should develop a system to make the sacred water available at designated spots, keeping in mind the religious sentiments of the devotees.Also Read | States mustn't allow Kanwar yatra, but make Ganga jal available: Centre in SCThe Supreme Court had earlier taken suo moto cognisance of the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow the yatra.The debate over whether the Kanwar Yatra, which was cancelled last year as well, should be permitted or not came amid scenes of tourists thronging markets and hill stations amid the ebbing second wave of Covid-19. This prompted the central government to express concerns over large gatherings and "revenge tourism."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/day-after-supreme-court-prod-uttar-pradesh-cancels-kanwar-yatra-in-view-of-covid-19-reports-101626539668395.html
17-07-2021||Other||Withdraw report on governance reforms in PU, Sukhbir to Prez||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has written to President Ram Nath Kovind requesting the withdrawal of a report that the Chancellor’s High-Level Committee on governance reforms has submitted with regard to Panjab University (PU). The vice-president is the ex-officio chancellor of universities in the country. “Please ensure that the territorial jurisdiction of Panjab University is not curtailed in any manner,” his letter to Kovind says, adding that the Punjab governor’s status as ex-officio chancellor of Panjab University be restored. He also called for the ouster for current vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. “You must assuage the sentiment of Punjabis worldwide, which has been wounded by the attempted brazen cultural and administrative invasion and takeover of Panjab University. Punjabis are deeply disturbed by conspiracies to submerge their culture into a nameless set of ideas, values and cultural ethos quite alien to this region and its proud people in the garb of governance reforms,” the letter adds.  Briefing the president on what he claimed was the latest blow to the university, Sukhbir said in November 2020, the University Grants Commission had sought suggestions on governance reforms in line with the New Education Policy of that year. He added that vice-president Venkaiah Naidu formed an 11-member committee in February 2020, without nominating a single member from its senate or syndicate. He said the committee recommended drastic reduction in the territorial jurisdiction of the university, disaffiliating over 200 colleges in Punjab, besides calling for the abolition of the Registered Graduates elected Constituency and its replacement with four members to be nominated by the V-C.“This constituency originally sent eight people from Punjab alone of mandated 15. This symbolises total elimination of Punjabis from the running of the university,” Sukhbir claimed, adding that the recommendations constituted a painful distrust of the people of Punjab through their elected members. “It also amounts to humiliating their voice and pushing them out of the national mainstream,” his letter claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/withdraw-report-on-governance-reforms-in-pu-sukhbir-to-prez-101626539537554.html
17-07-2021||Other||Amid festive mood, six MLAs visit Sidhu’s Patiala house to show support||Patiala With the buzz about Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu taking over as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) getting stronger by the hour, the mood at his Patiala residence remained festive throughout Saturday. At least six party MLAs visited the former state Cabinet minister’s residence in a show of strength as the latter returned after meetings with Congress ministers and former PPCC presidents in Chandigarh. Pargat Singh from Jalandhar Cantonment; Amrinder Singh Raja Warring from Gidderbaha; Davinder Singh Ghubaya from Fazilka; Surjit Singh Dhiman; Kulbir Singh Zira and Darshan Singh Brar visited Sidhu. Supporters also made their presence felt, sporting T-shirts printed with the Sidhu couple’s picture.“It is clear that Sidhu is the next president of the PPCC, only the formality of an announcement is left. The commander needs to be strong, as only this can ensure that the army never faces defeat. We have always fought on issues, not for presidentship,” an elated Zira said. Hinting at a possible patch-up between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Sidhu, Raja Warring said, “Navjot Singh Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh will soon fit into a single frame. We will, however, keep raising the demand to eradicate mafia.” He denied any knowledge of Amarinder’s demand of a public apology from Sidhu.Pargat said, “The party chief and the CM have to work together. Everybody has to accept the decision of the party high command. Many things in the Congress party will get resolve now. We will also push for solutions to the power woes of the state and ensuring justice in the Bargari sacrilege case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-festive-mood-six-mlas-visit-sidhu-s-patiala-house-to-show-support-101626539117370.html
17-07-2021||Ranchi||BJP protests against ‘failed’ job promise by Hemant Govt||BJP workers led by state party president Deepak Prakash on Saturday protested at Birsa Chowk, accusing the Hemant Soren-led UPA government of failing to provide jobs to youth as promised ahead of the elections.BJP workers held a “ghara phod” (breaking earthen pots) protest at Birsa chowk on the day when the Congress workers organised a cycle rally across the state to protest rising fuel prices.“This government had promised to provide five lakh jobs in one year after coming to power. It’s been close to two years now, but not a single youth has got a job. They did not even spare the contractual staff as they lost their jobs. We will expose this government,” said Prakash..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-protests-against-failed-job-promise-by-hemant-govt-101626538937392.html
17-07-2021||Ranchi||Centre only interested in filling its coffers, says ex-minister Salman Khurshid||Hitting out at the Centre over “rising inflation, especially petrol and diesel prices, former union minister Salman Khurshid said on Saturday that the Narendra Modi government has failed in handling the economy and hence should make way for the Congress in the government.The veteran Congress leader who spoke to reporters at the party’s state headquarters here categorically ruled out suggestions that their government could provide relief on its part by reducing VAT on petroleum products.“This government has raised its hands on the economy front. They only impose cess to fill their coffers... They blame Pandit Nehru and Congres for everything. I suggest that they should hand over governance to the Congress party. We will show them how we used to run the economy,” said Khurshid.Comparing the current price of petrol and diesel with those during the UPA regime, Khurshid said while Petrol prices used to be ₹65 per litre when international crude price was 125 US dollars, the petrol prices in Mumbai and Delhi and other cities have crossed ₹100 when the crude is currently at 75 US dollars.On the BJP’s allegation that the oil prices are high due to the bonds issued by the UPA government, Khurshid said they would corner the government over the issue in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament.“Let the BJP say it on record in Parliament, we will answer it. The oil bonds were brought to provide a cushion when the fuel prices go up. And if they think it is so bad, why don’t they discontinue it,” said Khurshid.While the Congress leader hit out at the Centre for the fuel prices, he was on the backfoot when asked about his government providing relief to people in the state by reducing VAT on petroleum products.“Do you want us to provide petrol diesel for free? The state government has its expenses to meet. Everything is now under the GST but the Centre does not share the revenue with the state on time,” he said.Khurshid was flanked by Jharkhand Congress chief and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, rural development minister Alamgir Alam, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, former union minister Subodh Kant Sahay, Jharkhand Congress working president Rajesh Thakur among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/centre-only-interested-in-filling-its-coffers-says-ex-minister-salman-khurshid-101626538936707.html
17-07-2021||Other||Couple dies after consuming pesticides in Bihar’s Rohtas district||A couple committed suicide allegedly by consuming pesticides at Babhani Bajar village under Kargahar police station limits of Rohtas district on Friday night.Their family members got to know about the incident late at night when both became critical. They were admitted to a private clinic at Sasaram where they died on Saturday morning.Kargahar station house officer Sushant Kumar Mandal said he was informed about the incident after the couple’s family cremated the bodies. Police were investigating the case and finding the private clinic that also did not inform the police about the incident, Mandal saidThe deceased man could not get a job due to the Covid lockdown so he shifted to agriculture farming and took loans from several people for livelihood. The couple was frustrated and depressed, a local said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-dies-after-consuming-pesticides-in-bihar-s-rohtas-district-101626538877358.html
17-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Bride injured in celebratory firing||A 20-year-old bride sustained bullet injuries on her leg during celebratory firing at her wedding ceremony at Gobindpur under Pratapganj police station in Supaul on Friday night. The bride is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and is said to be out of danger, police said.The incident occurred around noon during the “Varmala” ritual when a man opened fire and the bullet accidentally hit the bride’s leg, due to which she collapsed. “The family took her to a private clinic from where the doctors referred her to Saharsa for better treatment,” police said.The family members of the bride alleged that someone deliberately fired to spoil the function. “We had requested our relatives not to do any firing during the function, but someone did,” a family member said. Soon after, someone uploaded a video of the incident on social media, following which the matter came to light. Station house officer (SHO) of Pratapganj police station Prabhakar Bharti said, “We are verifying the video and will take strict action against the culprits. However, nobody came forward to lodge an FIR in this regard.” SHO said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bride-injured-in-celebratory-firing-101626538816660.html
17-07-2021||Patna||Protest against price rise in Bihar: Congress stir ends with cycle rally, RJD’s to begin today||The 10-day statewide stir of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) against price rise of essential commodities, including petroleum products, concluded with a cycle rally in the state capital on Saturday.The cycle rally, which was taken out from Boring Road roundabout to Gandhi Maidan, was led by All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, and AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar.Senior party leaders, including BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra and others pedalled their bicycles, carrying placards and banners, to Gandhi Maidan.“The Narendra Modi government kept on increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, oblivious of the plight of the people in Bihar,” said Das.Mishra said Congress was the only party which knew how to control prices despite unfavourable global scenario. “Congress has demonstrated it many times. But the BJP, which came to the power in the name of checking inflation, has been imposing taxes on the common people even in times of crises,” said Mishra.BPCC chief spokesman Rajesh Kumar Rathore said the party’s agitation would intensify during the monsoon session of the assembly beginning later this month.Meanwhile, main Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) reviewed its preparations for the two-day agitation against the BJP-led dispensation at the Centre on the same issue. RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is recuperating in New Delhi, took to Twitter to call upon workers and supporters to turn up in large numbers and make the protests on July 18 and 19 a grand success.Talking to media persons, opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said people were seething with rage against the Centre for an unprecedented rise in prices of all commodities. “Prices of petrol and diesel are touching an all-time high. As part of the protest, party workers will stage demonstration at block headquarters on July 18 and district-level protests will be held on July 19,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/protest-against-price-rise-in-bihar-congress-stir-ends-with-cycle-rally-rjd-s-to-begin-today-101626538756720.html
17-07-2021||Other||Bihar headed for midterm polls: Chirag||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, who has been cornered in his party following a coup led by uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, on Saturday reiterated his claim that Bihar was headed for midterm elections and that Nitish Kumar was playing his last innings as chief minister.Speaking to media persons in Katihar and Purnia during the second leg of his Ashirwad Yatra, the LJP leader said, “It is likely we may fight polls alone, but we’ll win.” LJP functionaries are intact and are dedicated to the party and to his father late Ram Vilas Paswan.On the new population policy proposed by Uttar Pradesh, he said, “We are not against the population policy but are opposed to the mindset behind it.”Talking about total prohibition in Bihar, he said, “Initially, I supported the law even though I was in Opposition, but what is going on in Bihar is an open secret.” Attacking CM Kumar, he said, “Even after so many years in power, Nitishji has remained unsuccessful in giving a solution to floods in Seemanchal where people are forced to migrate due to recurrent floods.” Paswan began the second leg of statewide tour from Khagaria on Thursday and will visit Kosi region after Seemanchal. The yatra was launched from Hajipur on the birth anniversary of Ram Vilas Paswan on July 5.Chirag Paswan earlier visited to Purnia house of party’s slain leader Anil Oraon, who was killed recently after being abducted. Oraon had unsuccessfully contested Manihari (Katihar) seat during last assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-headed-for-midterm-polls-chirag-101626538696667.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Eight arrested for beating two to death||The Pune rural police arrested eight people for beating two men to death after one of the two eloped with the daughter of one of the assailants and the other helped him. The incident happened in Karanjvihir area of Khed taluka in Pune on The two dead were identified as Balu Sitaram Gawade (30) and Rahul Dattatray Gawade (20) both residents of Askhed Khurd in Khed area of Pune district. Balu Gawade’s wife Chandrakara alias Mukta Balu Gawade (26), and the father of the woman he eloped with, Balu Margaj (45), both are among six people arrested in the case. The others arrested were identified as Lalita Margaj (35), Prasad Margaj (20) Anil Sambhaji Kadale (21), Raju Sahebrao Gawade (43), Kiran Balu Mongal (20), and Ananda Sitaram Jadhav (32). They will all be produced in court on Sunday. Balu Gawade, a member of Thakar community (tribal), had eloped with the 21-year-old daughter of the owner of the brick kiln in which he worked for past four years, according to the police. The girl, a member of the Maratha community, is a Class 10 dropout and unemployed while Balu Gawade was working at the kiln and had a wife and two children. “They were beaten up quite harshly. The wife made burn wounds on him while other beat him with bats and other things,” said Prerna Katte, Assistant commissioner of police, Chakan division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. A case under Section 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) and others of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-arrested-for-beating-two-to-death-101626538036694.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Man shot dead in Purandar||A 35-year-old man was shot dead in Purandar taluka of Pune on Friday. The deceased was identified as Ganesh Vitthal Raskar (35), a resident of Nira area of Purandar where he was shot at. The police are on a lookout for two men identified as Gaurav Lokande and Nikhil Davare, both residents of Phaltan in Satara. One of the two shot Raskar in the head using a country made weapon. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act was registered at Jejuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-shot-dead-in-purandar-101626537796650.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Case under social boycott against ‘Kanjarbhat jaat panchayat’ registered||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have registered a case against members of a “jaat panchayat” (group of caste leaders) of Kanjarbhat community for boycotting a family and levying a “fine” of ₹15 lakh upon them. The case was registered by the affected family with the help of Andhshradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS), an organisation established by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a man named Sushant Sunil Nagarkar (26) a resident of Moshi market area in jurisdiction of Pimpri Chinchwad police. The accused including relatives of immediate family members of the girl along with five others from their village. Nagarkar is the estranged husband of the 21-year-old daughter of the ‘jaat panchayat’ leader. The two got married in November 2019 and during her pregnancy and ongoing strain of their marriage, her mother and brother took her away from Nagarkar’s house, according to his complaint. On February 1, the panchayat gathered in Moshi market and called for boycott of the family is they fail to pay a fine of ₹15 lakh. Sachin Nagarkar, brother of the complainant, said, “It was a private matter. The panchayat directly levied a fine on us and asked the community members to boycott us.” A case under Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 of Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016 was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-under-social-boycott-against-kanjarbhat-jaat-panchayat-registered-101626537736642.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Yerawada Central Jail housing more inmates than pre-Covid period||The Yerawada Central Jail, even after decongestion last year, has surpassed the population it housed even before the pandemic struck. With 5,693 inmates on March 31, 2020, the Pune-based prison now holds over 5,900 inmates. The prison, which is the largest jail in Maharashtra, has maintained the highest rate of overpopulation among central prisons in Maharashtra before and after the decongestion efforts made during the Covid19 pandemic. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil visited the Yerawada prison, met with Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of prisons, Maharashtra, and released the Maharashtra prisons data for 2019-2020 in form of a book. In 2019-2020, Mumbai central jail recorded the highest overpopulation with 427 per cent overpopulation, the Kalyan district prison touched 354 per cent overpopulation, followed by Thane central jail with 327 and then Yerawada central with 235 per cent overpopulation. The overpopulation is prevalent for almost all the prisons - central and district - in Maharashtra besides Nashik road central. However, the congestion is particularly severe in Yerawada, Mumbai, Thane central jails and Kalyan district jail, according to the data. This is true even though the prison department has not recalled the prisoners released in the decongestion process. The floating population and the under-trial prisoners who have been in the prisons for multiple years make up for the maximum share, both in central prisons. Therefore, among the four major types of prisons, central jails have the highest rate of overpopulation compared to its capacity. The total capacity of the nine central prisons is 14,841 but they held a total of 25,397 inmates in the year 2019-2020. In Yerawada central jail particularly, in 2019-2020, the capacity was 2,449 while the population was above 5,000. Decongestion happened and Yerawada central prison released close to 1000 prisoners and brought the population down. However, in June 2021, the population had crossed 5,000 and that is excluding the population in the temporary jail established in a student hostel. In yet another case of gross overpopulation, the Mumbai central jail with a capacity of around 800 and held over 3,000 prisoners in 2019-2020. In June 2021, the population was over 2,800. In Thane central prison, the population in 2019-2020 was 3,716 in a facility that was built to hold 1,105 inmates. In June 2021, the population was 3,501. The Kalyan district prison, with a capacity of 540, used to hold 1,864 in 2019-2020 and in June 2021, it still held 1,759 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yerawada-central-jail-housing-more-inmates-than-pre-covid-period-101626536596684.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Farmers raise concern against land acquisition for mega projects||With various mega infrastructural projects like Ring road and Pune- Nashik railway in the works, farmers have raised various concerns against land acquisition in Pune district. A meeting was held at circuit house on Friday to discuss various issues raised by farmers by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Amol Kolhe with Maha Rail, MSRDC and district officials. Farmers are raising concerns and blaming that no one is listening to their voice, the review meet was held to after these concerns came to light. Some farmer representatives were present for the meeting along with officials. Kolhe confirmed about the meeting and said that administration promised to consider each complaint raised by land owners. Official sources said on anonymity that mainly all mega projects are going from Haveli Taluka in Pune district. Some farmers need to give land for two or more projects and they are becoming landless. By considering this, the main opposition to the projects is from Haveli taluka. The administration decided to consider individual complaints rather than general objections for the project. The work of Pune - Nashik railway is in progress. Once the land will get acquired, authorities are hoping that it would get completed in record time. Administrative sources said that the farmers are asking exact rate for land compensation. As per new land acquisition law, it would be five times of existing ready reckoner rates, but the administration will take time to calculate land rate for each village. Sources said that for rail project, authorities are empowered to do negotiations with land owner as it would help themto acquire land speedily. The administration put challenges in front of them in this meeting, meanwhile Maha rail officers confirmed that land acquisition started in each taluka and district which are falling in Pune Nashik rail route. Even pamphlets have been distributed to the project affected farmers to give them a brief about project and how it will bring growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/farmers-raise-concern-against-land-acquisition-for-mega-projects-101626536536697.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Virtual hearing and online documentation to ease work for litigants and lawyers||The state charity commissioner’s office will make all hearing details available to users at the click of a mouse after the commissioner ordered mandatory registration of email and mobile number of lawyers and trustees who filed their petitions with the commissionerate. The charity commissioner has asked all the regional commissioners to implement the order wherein the assistant charity commissioners have been instructed to look after the implementation of the department’s Government Resolution (GR). Users across the state will be able to witness the proceedings on the dashboard of the commissioner’s website. All the litigants will have to mandatorily fill the details of their trust and submit all the bonafide documents online for easier access to information and action. The regional commissionerates have been instructed to upload all the files and data through online data entry and a compliance report must be sent to head office. Advocate Shivraj Kadam Jahagirdar, trustee of public trust practitioners association, Pune informed that the Supreme Court had recently granted permission for sending summons on whatsapp and email. The benefits of information revolution must be availed by one and all. The litigants and lawyers can obtain information at the click of a mouse and it brings more transparency and accountability. Virtual hearing will solve travelling and expenses borne the litigants and lawyers, he said. Charity commissioners regulate and make better provision for the administration of public religious and charitable trusts in the state of Maharashtra where according to the act, it is expedient to regulate and to make better provision for the administration of public religious and charitable trusts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/virtual-hearing-and-online-documentation-to-ease-work-for-litigants-and-lawyers-101626536476646.html
17-07-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka issues guidelines for Bakrid; maximum 50 people allowed inside a mosque||Karnataka government’s department of minority welfare, Hajj and Wakf has issued guidelines for the festival of Bakrid, which will be celebrated on July 21. According to the order, published in Prajvani e-paper on Saturday, not more than 50 people will be allowed to offer prayers in a mosque on the day of the festival. The order further stated that wearing a mask is “compulsory,” adding that devotees should maintain a distance of six feet from each other while offering prayers.Additionally, as per the order, children below the age of 10 should offer Namaz at home only. The checking of temperature, sanitising or washing of hands with soap before entering the mosques has also been made mandatory.The regulations also require every person to carry their own “Janemaaz” or a cloth used for offering Namaz. Shaking hands, embracing each other is also prohibited. Slaughtering animals in open spaces like parks, roads, pedestrian paths, hospitals, nursing homes and religious places, including mosques, is forbidden.All the other guidelines mentioned in the standard operating protocol (SOP), too, have to be followed by the devotees, the order mentioned. In order to ensure full compliance with the guidelines, the minority welfare department has urged all Jama Masjids in Karnataka to communicate these to all the “Jamaat” (congregational)-level mosques.Bakrid, which is known as Eid-ul-Adha in Arabic, is celebrated as a festival of sacrifice in Islam. On this day, Muslims set aside a portion of their earnings, which they give away to the needy. Called “Zakat,” it is given in the form of ration, meat, clothes, and anything that the poor may need to enjoy the festival.As this is the first festival in the current wave of the coronavirus pandemic, philanthropists are willing to give away a larger portion of the “Zakat” to the needy from any section of the society.In Karnataka, the festival is celebrated with great zeal in cities like Mangaluru, Kasargod and Bhatkal, which are major centres of Islamic learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-issues-guidelines-for-bakrid-maximum-50-people-allowed-inside-a-mosque-101626535373448.html
17-07-2021||Other||Assam district opens all-women market named after writer Mamoni Raisom Goswami||Assam’s Cachar district has opened its first all-women market in the name of Jnanpith award-winning writer Mamoni Raisom Goswami near the Indo-Bangladesh border. Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli inaugurated the market shed named ‘Mamoni Bazar’ at Dinnathpur Bagicha under Katigorah assembly constituency on Friday afternoon.In this market shed, only women sellers will be allowed to sell products. An all-women market is nothing new in Assam but this is the first one in the Barak Valley part of the state. Assam’s first all-women market was opened two years back in Namrup district. It was inspired by Manipur’s first all-women market named ‘Ima Keithel’. Talking about the naming of the market shed after Mamoni Raisom Goswami, deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli said that while she was in Hyderabad and came to know about her posting in Assam, she started reading about the state. “A friend suggested me to read Moth eaten Howdah of the Tusker written by Mamoni Raisom Goswami. The book helped me get introduced to the taste, sweetness and strength of Assam. When we were planning to name the market, the first name that came to my mind was Mamoni Raisom Goswami.”“Women empowerment is an idea we should discuss more because it helps the women to be independent. Women are the backbone of a family - she cooks, takes care of the children, teaches them and even tries to save money in her own little way for the future of her family. Building an all-women market was undoubtedly an enthusiastic step towards women empowerment and we are making such kinds of markets in other parts of the district as well. The development of a woman can aid the development of the entire family, which in turn will help develop our district,” she added. Chairman of Cachar Zilla Parishad, Amitabh Rai, informed that a sum of rupees 10 lakhs was spent for the construction of the market shed under the District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT). The scheme was taken up under a sustainable convergence project that will be carried out in the long run and regular monitoring by the concerned district heads, such as agriculture, zilla parishad, fishery, handloom, textile and NRLM etc. The progress of the markets will be monthly reviewed by the officials of the administration. He said, “We are training women under SHGs to grow valuable agricultural products. They are also making other products using local crafts which can be sold in these markets. There will be only women vendors in the market which will look unique. With this, we are trying to give a message to society that women can be leaders. We are happy that the market has been named after legendary writer Mamoni Raisom Goswami. This will encourage women and also give a message to society.”In past also Cachar district administration took steps towards women empowerment. In this year assembly election, there were 200 all-women polling centres in Cachar - the highest in Assam. It was praised widely by many including the Election Commission of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-district-opens-all-women-market-named-after-writer-mamoni-raisom-goswami-101626535818976.html
17-07-2021||Other||Punjab BJP delegation meets party chief Nadda||Chandigarh Days after party leaders and workers were gheraoed by protesting farmers in Rajpura, around two dozen BJP leaders from Punjab, including its state unit president Ashwani Sharma, met party president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Saturday. BJP general secretaries Tarun Chugh and Dushyant Gautam, who is also the party in-charge for Punjab, were present at the meeting. The meeting holds significance as the state assembly elections are due in the first quarter of the next calendar year. The leaders shared their concerns with Nadda and also complained about the ‘partisan’ approach of the state police, Harjeet Singh Grewal, who was present at the meeting, said.“Nadda listened to the tough conditions being faced by the BJP workers in Punjab and praised the state leadership and workers for keeping the party flag flying high in tough conditions,” said Ashwani. Party general secretary Subhash Sharma added that Nadda had also assured the state unit that the national leadership and the Centre would extend full co-operation to them. Last Sunday, about a dozen BJP leaders and workers were gheraoed and not allowed to come out of their houses for nearly 12 hours by protesting farmers at Rajpura. They were allowed to come out only in the wee hours of Monday, after the Punjab and Haryana high court intervened.Gautam said party leaders from Punjab shared their concerns and described the situation they are facing in the aftermath of ‘politically-motivated’ protests by a section of farmers in the Congress-ruled state. “Naddaji has assured them that the party firmly stands by its workers in Punjab,” he said.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against three farm laws of the Centre at the borders of Delhi for months. The farmers have tried to attack several BJP leaders from Punjab, including Union minister Som Parkash. — With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-bjp-delegation-meets-party-chief-nadda-101626535637153.html
17-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor calls for development of high-quality variety of crops||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday called for the development of high-quality varieties of crops under agricultural education according to the climate of the particular region. Mishra also emphasized on working with interest on research projects that can give farmers maximum benefits. Addressing the inauguration ceremony of the Platinum Jubilee Year of Sri Karan Narendra Agricultural College, Jobner in Jaipur through video conference, he also expressed the need to start new courses in agricultural management to engage more students in the agriculture sector. "We should not only adopt foreign projects, but also try to take more production of crops according to our climate, soil fertility and irrigation water availability,” a release quoting him said. He also called for greater inclusion of Indian thought and vision in agricultural research. Mishra said that ancient Indian texts contain important information related to agriculture and the farmers here also have unique experience related to farming. "Including all this, students should work on such research projects which can accelerate agricultural development according to Indian culture," he said. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said that Rajasthan has been reeling under famine and drought due to water scarcity and despite these challenges; new dimensions of development have been established in the agriculture sector in the state. He said that along with the establishment of five agricultural universities, a large number of agricultural colleges have been opened in the state. Gehlot said that the agricultural universities of the state would have to pay special attention to research works as well as teaching, and would have to ensure that the farmers get the benefit of research works. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria also addressed the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-governor-calls-for-development-of-high-quality-variety-of-crops-101626532687924.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid tally goes up with 8,172 cases; Mumbai sees 469 infections||Maharashtra on Saturday continued to witness an increase in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,172 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 6,205,190, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 124 people died and 8,950 recovered from the viral disease in the said period and the cumulative figures of deaths and recoveries have climbed to 126,851 and 5,974,594 respectively, the bulletin further showed. This is the third time this week that Maharashtra's daily cases breached the 8,000-mark. Earlier, the state recorded 8,602 on Wednesday and 8,010 cases on Thursday. Saturday's case count in Maharashtra is 411 more than that of Friday's when 7,761 cases were recorded. The toll, however, is 43 less than that of Friday's when 167 people succumbed to Covid-19. The state capital Mumbai on Saturday recorded 469 new cases and 12 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 730,703 and 15,690 respectively. On Friday, the city recorded 443 cases and 11 deaths. A total of 30,053,656 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Maharashtra so far and the state continues to grapple with a severe shortage of doses. Even though the state is leading in terms of total doses administered in the country, the lack of supply has led to shutting down of vaccination centres frequently. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, during the Covid-19 review with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, reiterated Maharashtra's demand of 30 million vaccine doses per month in order to complete the inoculation drive in all districts. Pointing out that the state's vaccine wastage is very less, Thackeray said on Friday that authorities are trying to inoculate frontline workers at the earliest. Thackeray's remarks at the review meeting come just two days after after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope demanded that the Centre should provide more doses to the state so that the vaccination drive can be planned in a better wa and there is no overcrowding at the centres. “If we want to stop the third wave or want to reduce mortality rates, vaccination is the only solution," Tope said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mahas-daily-covid-tally-goes-up-with-8-172-cases-mumbai-sees-469-infections-101626532851752.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||WFH! Fuel prices skyrocket, denizens glad to be in office virtually||With both petrol and diesel prices crossing ₹100 per litre, in all metro cities, residents of Delhi-NCR are thanking their stars that they still have the option to work from home (WFH), even if it’s pandemic induced. In fact, those who don’t have this choice, are now hoping that their offices, too, roll out a work from home facility since that’s the best way to ditch the skyrocketing fuel prices that are burning a hole in everyone’s pocket.“Since the fuel prices have gone up so high, driving my car has suddenly become like a luxury,” says Surbhi Dua, who works in the airlines sector and is required to commute from her home in Vaishali to Gurugram, every day. She adds, “It’s damn expensive! And I’m surprised how still there are so many vehicles on the road. Since the pandemic is still on, with fuel available at such high prices, companies should themselves allow employees to work from home; it’s safer, supereffective and much more economical. At least employees who want to, should be allowed to work from the safety of the homes. Otherwise socho, pehle you spend on the fuel, and then on Covid treatment... phew!”Since many aren’t comfortable taking the public transport, Delhi Metro and buses seem to be out of question! “I’m so happy that my office has given us the option of working from him,” says IT professional Abhay Pratap Singh, who stays in north Delhi and has his workplace in Noida. “My office is a little far and imagine how much would I have had to pay for fuel, if I was asked to report at work every day? I’ve a small kid at home, and my wife isn’t comfortable if I take the metro, toh mujhe toh car se hi jana hota. But this way, I’m saving money, and now I feel that after all this pandemic induced WFH isn’t that bad an idea as opposed to how I felt it was earlier,” says Singh, and Sakshi Khurana, a data analyst living in Model Town, says, “My child has just turned one, and I recently resumed office. Earlier, I used to take the office cab to travel to my office in Noida. But now, they have increased the price of that facility, which I need to pay out of my pocket, and also I don’t feel that comfortable to travel with 3-4 other employees. So I guess I’ll continue working till work from home is allowed, and then may be I’ll have to quit.” The increased fuel prices have also led to some denizens wondering on whether they should buy that planned car or wait and weigh out the pros and cons first. Take for instance Gurugram-based Akshay Tandon, who travels to Noida for work, who was thinking of investing in his second car. “My wife and I were thinking of buying a second car, which I thought I would take to work while she can drive our older car for household chores rather than having to wait and hire a cab or auto via cab aggregators. But now that the fuel price has gone up, the rental price of cabs or autos are also showing higher, and it’s certainly beyond our monthly budget. So now we are thinking, shall we look at buying an electric car? Petrol, diesel ka kharcha toh na ho pagega!” says TandonAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wfh-fuel-prices-skyrocket-denizens-glad-to-be-in-office-virtually-101626532711023.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Provide details about manner of allocating vaccines to states: HC to Centre||The Bombay High Court on Saturday directed the Central government to file an affidavit detailing the manner and methods of allocating Covid-19 vaccines to states. A division bench of Chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni passed this direction while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Yogeeta Vanzara, a city resident, who raised concerns over issues faced by the public in obtaining Covid-19 vaccination appointments through the CoWin portal. Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Jamsheed Master informed the court that at present only 14 lakh people in Mumbai have been fully vaccinated, while 50 lakh have received the first dose of the vaccine. "Merely 6 per cent of the city's population is fully vaccinated," Master said, adding at this rate, it would take three to four years for each citizen to be fully vaccinated. The bench noted that it cannot direct the Union government on the issue of allocation of vaccines, as it was a pan-India policy. However, the court directed the Centre to explain the manner in which vaccine orders are placed with the manufacturers and the timeline of vaccine delivery. The Union government also has to explain the manner in which it makes the vaccine doses available to various states. The state, through an affidavit, informed the court that it collects vaccines three times a week after being intimated by the manufacturer, following which the doses are then distributed to vaccination centres across the state. However, the affidavit did not specify the quantity of vaccines the state collects. The bench directed the Maharashtra State Family Welfare Bureau – which is responsible for allocating doses across the state – to file an affidavit stating when it receives a communication from the Centre and why it cannot inform the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in advance about the exact number of doses allocated. The petitioner's advocate sought that the Serum Institute of India that manufactures Covishield vaccine and Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin vaccine to be added as respondents since they are the vaccine makers in India. To this, the Chief Justice said, “Let the Union government file an affidavit, then we will consider adding them as respondents.” The court has posted the matter for further hearing on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/provide-details-about-manner-of-allocating-vaccines-to-states-hc-to-centre-101626530199483.html
17-07-2021||Jaipur||Light rainfall witnessed in several parts of Rajasthan today||There was light to moderate rainfall in several parts of Rajasthan since Saturday morning, and more are predicted at isolated places in the state in the next two days.Girwa (Udaipur), Narayana (Jaipur) and Bikaner recorded 2 cm rainfall each, while a few more places recorded 1 cm or less since Friday.Tonk, Dholpur, Bikaner and Churu received 7 mm, 5.5 mm, 3.2 mm and 1.7 mm rainfall since Saturday morning, the weather office said.Pali was recorded as the hottest place with a maximum temperature of 42.5 degrees Celsius, followed by Dholpur and Ganganagar at 42.2 degrees Celsius each.The weather department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in the state during the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/light-rainfall-witnessed-in-several-parts-of-rajasthan-today-101626530969320.html
17-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal’s Chhau masks makers struggle as pandemic takes its toll||Even two years back, Umacharan Sutradhar, 55, and his two sons were comfortably running their families by making the traditional Chhau masks at Chordida village in West Bengal’s Purulia district. But situations changed since the Covid-19 pandemic struck. At present, while Umacharan is earning his bread by working as a carpenter, making wooden furniture, and sometimes doors and windows for houses, his eldest son Bibek has taken up a job at a toothbrush factory in Goa. The younger son Sachin is managing a living by making idols in the village. “Father knew some carpentry work and he is doing that. My brother left for Goa around one and half months ago along with two other men in the village. I have started making idols of Gods and Goddesses for the pujas. The pandemic has taken a heavy toll. We were not being able to make both ends meet with just mask making,” said Sachin Sutradhar. Back in 2019, the traditional Chhau mask-making industry at Baghmundi in Purulia, around 300 km west of Kolkata, was well known among tourists with around 150 families involved in the mask-making in the entire village. The masks were not only used for Chhau dancers, who used to perform both in India and internationally but were also a hit among the tourists as they used to flock to the village to purchase the masks and wall hanging and decorative purposes. “Since the pandemic struck, there is hardly any business. Chhau performance has totally stopped because of the pandemic and lockdown and tourists are coming anymore. Earlier we used to get at least 20–30 vehicles full of tourists every day. Now we hardly get 2–3 once or twice a week,” said Ballab Pal, another artisan who works as a mason painting temples and sometimes as an idol and statue maker. The masks are of all kinds, from Hindu Gods to mythical beasts. Rates begin from ₹700 and can go up to a few thousand rupees depending on the craftsmanship. There are three forms of Chhau named after the district or village where they are performed - the Purulia Chhau of Bengal, the Seraikella Chhau of Jharkhand and the Mayurbhanj Chhau of Odisha. While the Seraikelaa and Purulia styles of Chhau use masks, Mayurbhanj Chhau uses none. Again, masks used in Seraikelaa Chhau have a totally different function and stylization to those of Purulia Chhau. Before the pandemic broke out, Kolkata-based documentary filmmaker Malay Dasgupta had made at least two documentaries named ‘Dancing with Nature’ and ‘Where the mask speaks the mind’ on the Chhau mask-making of Seraikela. Both have been screened at a few international festivals. “At that time I could find only three mask makers. Kanhaiyalal Maharana, was the senior-most among them and was almost 90 years of age then. He had won the President Award and Kalidas Samman. But when I contacted them recently to shoot an additional segment on the impact of Covid-19 on the folk artists, I found that Maharana had died. The other two have shifted professions. The workshops which the artisans used to hold with local children and youths have almost stopped as the latter have got engaged in other things to earn a living,” said Dasgupta. Now, only two families remain in Seraikela who are into the mask-making, even though they are depending mostly on other avenues to earn a living. “We have been making masks for three generations now. But now situations are in very bad shape. Now only two families remain. But even they are not into full-fledged mask-making anymore. I have an MCA degree and work in a private company. Dilip Acharya’s family was also into mask-making but now they mainly make idols,” said Sumit Mahapatra, 35, grandson of Prasanna Kumar Mahapatra who was a noted mask maker. The last time Sumit made a mask for a Chhau dance performance was in 2019. Every year, more than a dozen Chhau festivals are organised at Seraikela. But due to the pandemic, all these have been suspended. In January 2020, he last made a mask on an order from South Africa and Japan. It cost around ₹2500. Even though the second wave of Covid-19 is on the decline and there are apprehensions of a third surge, the artisans have not lost their hope. Apart from idol making and other works, artisans at Chorida in Purulia are still occasionally making some of the smaller masks which are usually purchased by tourists. “We hope that the situation would normalize and tourists would return. Our shops are still open. Earlier I, along with four other artisans working under me, used to make 14–15 masks per day. Now I make 2–3 masks in a week or so. Once the Covid is over, tourists would come and I can sell them. Chhau dance would also start then,” said Manoranjan Mahapatra, another traditional mask maker of Purulia, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-chhau-masks-makers-struggle-as-pandemic-takes-its-toll-101626531437119.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||No firm shows interest in Chandigarh’s vintage car museum||Despite floating tenders thrice, the administration has found no takers for its vintage car and heritage furniture museum. One of the pet projects of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, the museum is to come up at the Government Press building in Sector 18. As per the plan, it will have at least 50 vintage cars, besides heritage furniture and manholes on display.“As per the terms and condition, the selected company will establish as well as run and maintain the museum. The third tender was floated with a rent of ₹4 lakh per month but no firm came forward,” said a UT official, adding that the matter was being examined further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-firm-shows-interest-in-chandigarh-s-vintage-car-museum-101626531017117.html
17-07-2021||Other||MD/MS students at Adesh University seek early final exams||Bathinda Postgraduate students of 2018 batch at Adesh University’s Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in the district have written to the National Medical Commission (NMC) to intervene and press upon the varsity authorities to conduct their final exams at the earliest. A student said their three-year academic tenure for MD/MS courses ended in May, but the university had not even declared a date sheet for their exams. “The delay means that our chance to study further for super-specialty courses from this year could be wasted,” she added. President of the Malwa chapter of the Association of Physicians of India, Dr Vitull K Gupta, said, “Other medical colleges in the state have started the process to hold exams. In a letter to medical institutions on June 22, even the NCM had advised these to start conducting exams.” Institute principal Rajiv Mahajan said, “The pandemic has led to the delay in conduct of exams across the country. With the NCM giving its go-ahead, we will announce the exam dates soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mdmsstudents-at-adesh-university-seek-early-final-exams-101626529997185.html
17-07-2021||Other||15-year-old girl rescued in Assam by BSF from forced marriage||The Border Security Force’s Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) has rescued a 15-year-old girl from a forced marriage in Karimganj district of Assam, officials said.The incident took place at Nilambazar area near Indo-Bangladesh International Border on July 14. Based on secret information, the Anti Human Trafficking Unit secretly went to the village and managed to catch the parents of both the girl and the boy, along with the priest. They handed over the boy and other family members to the police. The girl has been sent to a children protection home in Karimganj.Officials of the BSF inform that after getting the information about the child marriage, a joint operation was launched by BOP Bilbari Intelligence staff and troops of 134 Bn BSF, Nilambazar at a village named Kaboi. They also informed the local police about this but asked them to come a bit later, only once they catch the culprits red-handed.“Our anti-trafficking unit received information that a 15-year-old girl is being forcibly married to a 20-year-old boy in a village near the border. In these cases, if we don’t catch them red-handed, we cannot save the girl. We made a plan to enter the village secretly and we informed the police as well. At around 4:00 pm we went to the house where the ritual was taking place and caught them. Later, we handed over the culprits to the police. In past also we received so much of information but the culprits managed to escape. Child marriage is a sensitive issue which needs to be addressed more carefully, especially in border areas,” the officials said.Officer in charge of Nilambazar police station, Kamlesh Singh, informed that both the girl and the boy are underaged for marriage. A case under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act (PCMA) 2006 and some other charges have been registered against their parents and the priest.He said, “BSF’s Anti Human Trafficking Unit informed the police about rescuing a girl from child marriage. They conducted the initial operation and handed over the people involved in the marriage to the police. We have found that the girl’s mother is a widow and she is financially weak. We allowed her to go home under a bond on humanitarian ground. The priest and some other people involved in the marriage have been detained. Further investigation and interrogations are going on in this case.”Child marriage and trafficking is a common issue in Barak Valley area which shares a large International Border with Bangladesh. Two years back, a 12-year-old Rohingya refugee girl was kidnapped from Bangladesh and taken to Cachar district by some unknown miscreants. She was rescued by locals and sent to a children’s protection home later. According to police sources, there are several child marriages happening in rural areas. In the past, several people were arrested but it still exists among the financially weaker class.Social activist and lawyer by profession, Tuhina Biswas said, “Child Marriage is common in some groups like tea garden labourers and the Muslim community. The financial condition of the girl’s family and also some religious beliefs play vital roles behind these cases in our area. Sometimes, the girl’s parents are being forced as well. Trafficking and child marriage are very close concepts. We have a red light area in the middle of Silchar town where sex workers of various ages live. Most of them are victims of trafficking, some of them are victims of child marriage as well. They are leading a pathetic life and there is no way out for them to go back to normal life. We need strong awareness among the society against child marriage and human trafficking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15yearold-girl-rescued-in-assam-by-bsf-from-forced-marriage-101626528437802.html
17-07-2021||Other||Cop held for running fake police recruitment racket||Sangrur Police have arrested a senior sepoy, on deputation with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), for running a fake recruitment racket in the force. A police press statement said the accused Malwinder Singh and an accomplice Parminder Singh cheated many aspirants who wanted to join the state police. Over ₹9 lakh, a laptop, a printer and mobile phone have been recovered from the accused.The racket came to light when a man arrived at the office of Malerkotla senior superintendent of police on July 3, wanting to join duty as a sub-inspector. A case was registered under Sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-C, 66-D of the Information Technology Act at Malerkotla City police station on July 7. The accused, Malwinder, was arrested on July 10 and is in police remand till July 18. Malerkotla superintendent of police (investigation) Harmeet Singh Hundal said investigation was on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-held-for-running-fake-police-recruitment-racket-101626527716963.html
17-07-2021||Other||3 associates of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi land in police net||Three associates of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi were arrested from the bus stand of Phaganmajra village of Patiala with three pistols and ammunition. The accused have been identified as Jaspreet Singh alias Gaggi of Bathinda, Jasdev Singh and Gurpal Singh of Mansa. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said the three have several cases of murder and arms act registered against them in Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot and other districts, and were nabbed following a tip-off.The SSP said Jaspreet, along with his brother Manpreet, was also involved in the Kotakpura shootout which took place on June 22. Their accomplice Krishan Kondal was killed in the incident.“The two brothers are in close contact with members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. Accused Jasdev is also an old accomplice of Jaspreet and on several occasions, he brought arms from other states to supply in Punjab,” he said.Investigation officer Shaminder said two pistols of .32 bore and a country-made pistol of .315 bore, along with ammunition, was recovered from the trio. It was sourced from Uttar Pradesh, police have found.The accused have been sent to four-day police custody and are being interrogated, the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-associates-of-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-land-in-police-net-101626527297054.html
17-07-2021||Dehradun||'Not written in the Vedas': Uttarakhand says no to live-streaming of Char Dham Yatra||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami told reporters on Saturday that live-streaming of the Char Dham Yatra from the sanctum sanctorum will not be allowed as such a practice finds no mention in the Vedas. “After taking into account all the suggestions, we have decided not to hold live streaming of Chardham Yatra as it is not written in the Vedas,” ANI said quoting Dhami.The Uttarakhand high court while staying the Cabinet’s decision to allow Char Dham Yatra to proceed with limited tourists from July 1 had ordered live-streaming of rituals at Char Dham shrines instead. The state government had raised objections to this but the court had shut them down alleging that the state was being sympathetic to the feelings of priests, PTI had reported. Dhami said the government will be filing a plea in the high court in this regard.Also Read: Uttarakhand government suspends Char Dham yatra after HC order“Already holding of Kumbh Mela and permitting a large congregation of lakhs of people on Ganga Dussehra at Har-ki-Pauri at Haridwar, are clear cut proof of the failure of the civil administration to administer the precautionary SOPs,” a division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma pronounced.The Char Dham Devasthanam Board held its third meeting, which was headed by the chief minister himself, on Friday, where it was unanimously decided that live streaming will not be allowed. "Considering the religious beliefs and conventions associated with Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, the board unanimously decided not to allow live-streaming of the ceremonies from the sanctum sanctorum," an official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/not-written-in-the-vedas-uttarakhand-says-no-to-live-streaming-of-chardham-yatra-101626524841616.html
17-07-2021||Noida||Zurich airport-NIAL sign shareholder agreement for development of Noida airport||The Zurich Airport International on Saturday signed a shareholder agreement with the Uttar Pradesh government's entity NIAL in Lucknow for the development of the Noida International Airport, a statement said.Arun Vir Singh, CEO, Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), and Christoph Schnellmann, CEO, Yamuna International Airport Pvt Ltd (YIAPL), signed the agreement in the presence Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and senior officials of the UP government, the Zurich Airport International's statement said.YIAPL is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Zurich Airport International and has been incorporated to develop the Noida International Airport in Jewar, which is around 70 km from the main Delhi region.According to the agreement, NIAL will hold one golden share in YIAPL and the right to nominate two directors to the board. "The directors to be added to the board will be Arun Vir Singh, CEO NIAL, and Vishak Iyer, Director, Civil Aviation, Government of Uttar Pradesh," it added. The shareholder agreement also underpins the UP government's support to "establish and continuously improve surface access to the airport, establish and expand utilities required to run the airport (water, electricity, waste water), maintain law and order, including monitoring at the airport, and grant the necessary clearances to build and operate the airport".“The signing of the shareholder agreement is the next step in the direction of progress for the state. The Noida International Airport will be the benchmark for a modern, world-class airport in India,” a statement quoted Adityanath as saying.“It will accelerate the development of industrial infrastructure, boost tourism, promote exports, ease air traffic and lead to creation of more jobs in the state. It will generate multi-dimensional progress, leading to economic development in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Last month, the YIAPL had announced that it has secured a loan of ₹3,725 crore from the State Bank of India for the development of Noida international Airport.When it won the bid on November 29, 2019 to build and operate the Noida airport, the Zurich Airport International had said the airport will be able to handle 12 million passengers per year after the first phase of construction.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh government and the Swiss company had signed a concession agreement on October 7, 2020 to begin the construction of the Noida airport, estimated to cost ₹29,560 crore.In December 2020, it had submitted the master plan for the first phase of construction to the UP government and selected a four-company consortium to design the passenger terminal for the greenfield airport in Jewar.The Zurich Airport International had outbid Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Adani Enterprises and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited to win the 40-year concession for the Noida airport in November 2019.The Zurich Airport International is itself a 100 per cent subsidiary of Flughafen Zurich AG, a listed company that operates the Zurich airport.Zurich Airport International AG (ZAIA) CEO Daniel Bircher said, “We are pleased to sign the shareholder agreement, which strengthens the partnership between ZAIA and NIAL. The Noida International Airport will be an engine of economic growth for India and Uttar Pradesh, stimulating residential and industrial activities in the catchment area as well as the development of cargo and logistics cluster in the NCR region.“This agreement reaffirms UP government's commitment to provide road and rail connectivity along with other various utilities and to ensure safety and security for the upcoming Noida International Airport,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/zurich-airport-nial-sign-shareholder-agreement-for-development-of-noida-airport-101626524382148.html
17-07-2021||Lucknow||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh's health condition improving, says hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted at the Sanjay Gandhi PostGraduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, has improved, the hospital said on Saturday.Singh (89), who has also been the Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level."The condition of Kalyan Singh has improved. All the vital parameters are under control. The senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology are monitoring his vital parameters. Director, Prof RK Dhiman is supervising his treatment on a daily basis," a statement said.Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-s-health-condition-improving-says-hospital-101626523792457.html
17-07-2021||Bangalore||Woman seeks rape case revival that was quashed after accused agreed to marry her||The Supreme Court has sought the response of Karnataka government and an MBBS student after taking note of a plea of a woman seeking revival of a rape case filed by her against him that was quashed following a settlement under which he had agreed to marry her.A bench comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta issued notices to the state government and the accused and directed them to file their replies to the petition within a month. The petition, filed by the alleged victim, claimed that the accused tricked her into believing that he would marry her, while simultaneously practicing deceit in the form of creating circumstances, including a demand for dowry, which would force her to decline the marriage. The petition was filed by advocate Siddhartha Jha against an order passed by Karnataka High Court, which had in September last year quashed the proceedings in an FIR lodged into the matter related to the alleged rape of the MBBS student between 2017-2018, after a compromise was reached between the complainant and the accused.The petition before the top court claimed that the settlement between the parties was based on the forcible consent of the woman extracted by the accused.The petition claimed that the high court ignored an order passed by the apex court that had emphasised that in a case of rape, there can be no quashing on the basis of settlement or compromise as the said crime is against the body and dignity of a woman.The victim claimed in her petition before the top court that the accused, being her senior at Rajarajeshwari Medical College, Bengaluru, took advantage of the dominant position over her.According to the petition, the accused made sexual relations with the victim on the promise of marriage. However, later, he refused to marry her and she filed a rape case against him, it said.The case was later quashed as both the parties agreed to a settlement where the accused promised to marry the woman as soon as their course was completed.Immediately after the case was quashed, however, the accused started antagonising and ill-treating the woman and her family, it is alleged. “In fact, the accused has now demanded a dowry of ₹1 crore for marrying the petitioner. The accused has refused to bestow any sanctity to the relationship with the petitioner and has made every possible attempt to scuttle the relationship with her. “The circumstances after the quashing have made it clear that the act of marriage offered by the petitioner was a ruse to get the case quashed when, in fact, he harboured no intent to marry her or bestow any sanctity to the same,” the petition alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/woman-seeks-rape-case-revival-that-was-quashed-after-accused-agreed-to-marry-her-101626522074386.html
17-07-2021||Patna||Dacoits loot house in Bihar, elderly shot dead||Tension flared up in Musepur village within Bihta police limits of rural Patna after a group of miscreants shot at an elderly for resisting their robbery attempt during the wee hours of Saturday, officials said. The deceased was identified as Ram Prasad Singh, 70, a farmer. According to the police, over half a dozen criminals broke into the house around 2 am and started looting properties at pistol point. Singh’s wife raised an alarm when she saw the accused committing the robbery. The accused tied up the woman and confined her in the bathroom. As Singh heard the screams, he rushed towards his wife and clashed with the dacoits. He caught one of them and raised an alarm. Subsequently, another miscreant fired at Singh who received a bullet injury on his chest. The victim was rushed to hospital and but was declared brought dead. “There were eight men in total, all masked and carrying weapons. Two were standing guard outside the house while six came inside. They held me at gunpoint. My husband had kept some money at home for agriculture work, he had withdrawn the money from the bank only a couple of days ago,” said the victim’s wife, adding that that the robbers took away cash and jewellery amounting to about ₹5 lakh. Locals said the dacoits ransacked the house and looted valuables and cash. They revealed that the dacoits also tried to commit a crime in the house of one Bindeshwari Prasad Singh but his daughter, Durga Kumari, woke up and raised alarm. Following the incident, irate villagers put the body on road, staged a protest and blocked the Bihta-Maner NH demanding arrest of the miscreants, job to the kin of the deceased and pressed dog squad. Due to the protest, vehicular traffic came to a standstill on the road for five hours. Meanwhile, after the incident, senior police officials including city SP (West) Ashok Mishra visited the spot and inquired about the incident. The police have recovered empty bags and a steel container from outside the locality. Mishra said an FIR has been filed and teams have been formed to nab the accused. Cops are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the locality and expect a breakthrough soon. A scientific team, along with a sniffer dog, was rushed to the crime spot for investigation. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dacoits-loot-house-in-bihar-elderly-shot-dead-101626521597244.html
17-07-2021||Pune||SSC result portal crashes, state school education minister calls for an inquiry||Chaitrali Bodhe from the Manorama Memorial English Medium School in Daund was still waiting to know her SSC result at 7pm on Friday. “I am little nervous now, it’s been over 6 hours. My teacher assures me that the results will be good as I have been a good student,” said Bodhe. Varsha Gaikwad, state minister for school and education, took to Twitter to apologise to thousands of students for a technical issue that caused the portal crashing on Friday. “We apologise for the inconvenience caused by the SSC result link being inaccessible due to a technical issue. I have ordered a full inquiry into the incident. Strict action will be taken against all those responsible to ensure that such incidents don’t recur,” she tweeted.Some principals were having a tough time responding to their students. “We were unable to see our school result for the whole day and have attended to several calls from anxious parents and students alike, who thought the school might get the results earlier than them,” said Archana Panch, vice-principal, Ramanbag English School.Anuja Yerudkar, principal of Zeal Institute’s Silver Crest School was very happy when she finally got the final tally of 100 % result for her 82 students - 73 with distinction and eight students getting first class. “It’s a relief to inform the students of their marks. With the SSC website crashing until late evening, we were fending phone calls and also directing some to try logging in from their phones or laptops. But by 7pm we succeeded in getting the scores,” said Yerudkar.Sujata Hiwale, principal of Manorama Memorial English School, felt that the crash of the website added to the nervousness of students.Renuka Dutta, principal, Dyanganga English Medium School, said, “The website crashed probably because everyone tried to log in at the same time. Imagine not just lakhs of students, but also school teachers and principals trying to find ways to help those who could not log in. The students were frustrated and also disappointed with having no access.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-result-portal-crashes-state-school-education-minister-calls-for-an-inquiry-101626520816687.html
17-07-2021||Pune||CET forms for FYJC admissions out on July 19||For admissions to Class 11, first year junior college (FYJC) the Maharashtra state board of secondary and higher secondary education (MSBSHSE) will release the forms on July 19 for the common entrance test (CET). However, this exam will be optional for students of the State board. Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE confirmed on Friday that the CET will be conducted by August 21.“CET is not mandatory. Any student and all students who have passed Class 10 are assured of an FYJC seat, but the first priority for admissions will be for candidates who appear for the test. On July 19, we will open up registrations for the CET. Students can log in to the board website where a link will be made available. Once the student enters the roll number, s/he will get an option asking them if they want to give the CET or not. Registration for state board candidates is free,” said Patil.He added that CBSE and ICSE students will get separate instructions.“Students from other boards will have to pay ₹170 to register for the CET. The syllabus for the CET will be based on the SSC syllabus. By next week, we will release the subject and chapter wise details based on which the tests will be Diplomas and ITI coursesWith the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) results declared on Friday, students aspiring to apply for diploma courses and industrial training institutes (ITI), will now be able to complete their admission process. These students will get admissions based on their Class 10 results, and no separate examination will be conducted for the same.As per a notification issued by the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), students can apply for various diploma courses based on their marks of Class 10. Dr Abhay Wagh, director, technical education, said that online registration of application and uploading of required documents by the candidate is needed for admission.“Candidates have to select an appropriate mode of scrutiny for the application. More details regarding the same will be available on the website. Document verification and confirmation of application form will be done till July 23,” said Dr Wagh. DA Dalvi, director of Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET), said that students should keep documents like the SSC certificate, caste certificate, and Aadhar card ready.“Admission for the academic year 2021-2022 will be done based on the merit list of Class 10 marks. There will be a centralised online admission process for interested candidates,” said Dalvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cet-forms-for-fyjc-admissions-out-on-july-19-101626520636896.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Green marriage of farming and tech fertilised by innovative marketplace||PUNE Ecozen Solutions, a Pune-based agri-tech startup founded by three IIT Kharagpur graduates is developing a perishables-friendly marketplace, by empowering farmers through solar-power, accessible and affordable cold storage facilities and pump-motor controllers for irrigation. Enabled by clean and innovative technology, this company is also reducing carbon footprints and farm-produce wastage.Halls of residences The story goes back to 2006, says Devendra Gupta, co-founder and CEO of Ecozen Solutions. “When I joined IIT Kharagpur, my batchmate Prateek Singhal was not known to me, nor was Vivek Pandey. We met Vivek through one of our friends. He was a year junior and he had graduated in 2012. Our journey and friendship really began when we got ‘sorted’ together at the Hall of Residences (hostel) on campus. Over the course of one year, we were part of the various projects and sports teams and that is how the bonding really started,” he recalls.Energy-driven startSays Gupta: “We built a power harnessing device together. We did various internships as well at IISc Bengaluru, Siemens, and Burj Khalifa. We felt whatever we did in the project and internships was interesting. It got us thinking about what we would like to do after we finish our studies. So, during college itself, in 2009 we started working together. The focus was more ‘energy driven’ when we started. We wanted to create affordable, accessible and efficient energy harvesting solutions.”“The institute also asked us to take a similar drive. So, while in the college, Ecozen was like an initiative which was helping students gain real experience, apply engineering and actually create value using that. Every weekend, we would go to Kolkata to work in a foundry. The cost was covered by the foundry. Students would contribute during the day and go and party in Kolkata during the night,” he said.Early challengesSharing his experiences during the initial days, Gupta said, “The institution gave us recognition. After we graduated, we had good offers from reputed foreign institutes for further studies, as well as job offers from big Indian and multinational companies. During this period, we also met a bunch of farmers who were facing various challenges. They had resources like water and fertile land, but the challenge was agriculture dependent on rainfed irrigation. They were not able to take as many harvests as they could have, if they had access to better irrigation. It got us thinking and we thought of building a solar-based pump controller for irrigation.”“It was a very challenging period for us. We had many job-offers on one hand, while we all were facing personal and health problems. We all come from middle-class family backgrounds. It was a very stressful time wherein the health is not good, medical expenses were mounting, and there were job offers which were lucrative and which we could possibly take. We discussed it and said if we do not give this a shot now it is less likely that we have the guts to return. So, we all independently decided to give it a try. We wrote to all people who had given us a job offer, thanked them and told them about our decision to walk on the path of entrepreneurship.”Steep curveWorking in the agriculture sector is not easy. Says Gupta, “When we launched our pump controller product we increased our production, but the farmers’ income did not increase proportionally. It again got us thinking and we started working on the supply-chain side. Then we went on to build the Ecofrost product which enables the farmer to store his produce and also to figure out where to sell.”Ecotron is an intelligent solar-powered pump motor controller set with built-in troubleshooting and service detection abilities. It is a device that can operate in remote areas with no grid power availability and has a remote on/off operation.Ecofrost is a portable solar powered cold room based on thermal energy storage, which can maintain low temperatures without any backup power. Both the products are strongly integrated with the internet and give data about their usage and performance. Ecofrost can be deployed at farms, wholesale markets or packhousesUsing this data, Ecozen is building a perishables- friendly marketplace and algorithms to improve performance, serviceability and reliability.“We believe that technology itself doesn’t create value. We saw real-life problems being solved and thereby creating value. It was very satisfying for us and we felt that this may go on to become something big. Today we have 50,000 customers with a good national market share,” says Gupta. Ecozen has also developed a mobile and web-based platform Eco-Connect that facilitates the transaction of produce, enabling farmers to connect with organised buyers and re-sellers to sell commodities. This platform has served the interest of buyers and farmers equally. “Especially during the Covid-19 pandemic period, we saw that farmers were finding it difficult to push their commodities, because the markets were intermittently open or closed. With Eco-connect, we helped farmers take their commodities to big and organised retail players, and in turn the buyers. We helped them reach markets. We were able to add significant value to the supply chain,” explains Gupta.What the farmers say“Using Ecozen’s cold room, we have managed to maintain the freshness of our flowers thereby helping greatly in our supply chain and transits. Our clients have returned with positive feedback. The unit being solar powered saves power costs and the service by the company is appreciable,” says N Yogesh, Red Blossoms, Chikkaballapur, Karnataka.“Ecofrost cold storage facility has benefitted our FPO income immensely. We pre-cool vegetables, fruits, and flowers in cold storage which helps us to remove the field heat from the farm produce. This increases the product’s shelf-life up to 1.5 times and 30 per cent more profit,” says Manish More, Shatayushi FPO, Pune, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-green-marriage-of-farming-and-tech-fertilised-by-innovative-marketplace-101626520398432.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Maharashtra board to issue guidelines for internal assessments for next year’s exams||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will soon introduce guidelines for internal assessments for the ongoing academic year, 2021-22. Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE, said that this year the exam was cancelled due to a surge in Covid cases.“We will be formulating a detailed internal assessment strategy for this academic year very soon. The evaluation process was explained in detail to every teacher and principal which helped quick tabulation of the results. After this result, we are also planning to form an internal assessment committee to send directives to every school, so that if such a situation arises next year, we are ready with evaluation for students,” said Patil. As Covid cases saw an increase in Maharashtra, the state board was forced to cancel offline examination for both Class 10 (SSC) and Class 12 (HSC). This year, for the first time, Class 10 results have been declared before the Class 12 results. As per the board, the Class 12 results are likely to be announced by end of July.Patil also added that the the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) tabulation has begun. “As per the order issued by the Apex court, we will be declaring the result by July end. There was some software updating required for uploading marks with the board. That has been cleared now. The uploading of marks by schools has started. Principals have been given a deadline of July 21 to update the marks on the online portal of the board,” said Patil.He added that after the uploading of marks, the board will further tabulate the result and data before declaring the results.“The HSC scores will be as per the directives of the board. As declared earlier, principals will follow the 30:30:40 formula. This includes the subject marks of Class 10, which will be a best of three. Also, Class 11 final exam marks and 40 per cent Class 12 internal assessments,” said Patil. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-board-to-issue-guidelines-for-internal-assessments-for-next-year-s-exams-101626520396835.html
17-07-2021||Pune||SSC results see 99.95 pass percentage in Maharashtra state||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Friday, reported a pass percent of 99.95 across the state for Class 10 Secondary School Certificate (SSC) 2020-21 exam. This is a record pass percentage, as per the board officials. As compared to 2020, the result this year was higher by 4.65 per cent. A total of 1.574 million students from Maharashtra had registered for the Class 10 exam for 2020-21. However, due to a surge in Covid cases, the board was forced to cancel the offline examination scheduled in April and evaluate students based on an internal assessment. The evaluation criterion for tabulating results was based on marks achieved in Class 9, and internal assessment of the student in Class 10. Of the 1,575,806 fresh candidates who had registered for exams, schools sent assessment reports for 1,575,752, of which 1,574,994 students passed.A total of 82,802 repeater candidates registered for the exams, of which 82,674 results were tabulated by schools and 74,618 candidates passed, making it a 90.25 per cent pass percentage for this section.Girls and boys at same levelUnlike every year, where girl students outperform the boys, this year the two student groups had more or less the same pass percentage - 99.96 for girls, versus 99.94 for boys. Overall, 104,633 students received 90 per cent marks or higher, and 957 students got 100 per cent marks. Overall, in the state, 0.202 million students received additional marks for participation and merit in sports, dance, arts, and NCC among others.Among the nine divisions, Konkan has the highest pass percentage, as it declared 100 percent results, while the least pass percentage is from Nagpur division, 99.94 per cent. In all, 27 of the 72 subjects have 100 percent results. Of the 22,767 schools in the state, 22,384 have also reported 100 percent results.A total of 368 students qualified for ATKT (allowed to keep term) exams, as they failed to clear two or fewer subjects, and 916 students have to appear for a re-exam, since they failed in three subjects or more.Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE, said, “There are 916 students who have failed in three or more subjects and will have to reappear for the exam. Whereas, there are 4922 students whose result is reserved with the board as most of them are repeaters and their records are not with the board. We will be tabulating their records and updating their results next week. This may increase the pass percentage further,” said Patil. Board officials also noted that nine schools in the state had zero pass percentage with not a single student clearing SSC. Of these, two are from Pune division while four are from Nagpur, two from Mumbai and one from Nashik division. “Some students may not have submitted any work at all during the entire year or failed to take internal assessments despite repeated attempts from schools. If it happened in two subjects, they are passed with ATKT, or they have to appear for re-exam. As far as the nine schools are concerned, we are in the process of analysing why their results are nil,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-results-see-99-95-pass-percentage-in-maharashtra-state-101626519677033.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Airport’s Terminal 2 to resume operation from July 22 as footfall rises||Delhi International Airport’s Terminal 2 (T2) is all set to resume operations from July 22, two months after it was shut down on May 18. The decision has been taken as a significant rise in passenger traffic has been noticed with the gradual receding of the second wave of the pandemic. "The T2 terminal will resume operations with IndiGo's 2000-2999 series flights and entire operations of GoAir, and is expecting to witness around 25,000 passenger footfall in the initial phase," the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) told PTI on Saturday.A Delhi airport official told reporters that the airport was handling the highest number of passenger footfalls of around 120,000 a day, as both domestic and international flights were in operation in February this year, the highest since the Covid-19 outbreak in March ended last year. This number went down to 30,000 during the second wave of the pandemic. The number is up again as currently, 60,000 passengers are being handled daily. T2 had resumed operations in October last year after the first wave had settled down.Operations at T2 will resume with approximately 200 air traffic movements, divided evenly between departures and arrivals. Around 27 counters run by commercial airlines GoAir and Indigo will be allowed to open to cater to passengers. The former will be operating 11 counters and the latter 17. Currently, flights are operating out of Terminal 3. “Passengers are requested to note that all flight operations at Delhi airport have been shifted to T3 starting today. All passengers are required to complete their web check-in at home for a contactless journey,” DIAL had tweeted on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-s-terminal-2-to-resume-operation-from-july-22-as-footfall-rises-101626519082177.html
17-07-2021||Dehradun||Free 300 power units promise: AAP launches ‘Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card’ in Uttarakhand||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday launched the “Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card” ahead of next year’s assembly elections in Uttarakhand days after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised free electricity up to 300 units to all households if his party is voted to power in the state.It announced 10,000 workers would visit households in all the 70 assembly constituencies in the state to distribute the card as a guarantee that if AAP comes to power, it will keep the promise.Kejriwal has also promised a 24-hour power supply, free electricity to the farmers, and waiving all the pending bills if the party comes to power in 2022. The AAP has made similar promises to voters in other poll-bound states Goa and Punjab.AAP’s Uttarakhand in-charge, Dinesh Mohaniya, who launched the card, said theirs is the only party that works to provide the best possible basic services to the public--water, electricity, and education. “...we believe if the politicians can get these for free, then why cannot the public... Hence, this card is to assure the public of Uttarakhand that if we win the 2022 assembly elections, we would definitely be working to fulfil the promises...”The party flagged off 350 vehicles carrying AAP workers from Dehradun to all the 70 constituencies to publicise the card. “Five vehicles would be assigned for each seat. Our party members in these vehicles would visit households and urge them to register themselves with the party’s platform and get the card. Apart from this, we have also launched a website kejriwalbijliguarantee.in on which anyone can register for the free power supply promise. The party has also launched a number (7669007669) through which the people can also register by giving a miss call,” said Mohaniya.He attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Opposition Congress for criticising AAP over the free power promise.“It is very unfortunate that since our leader Kejriwal made the promise to the people of Uttarakhand, which produces its own power, both these parties have been opposing it. We just want to ask them that if their leaders can get free electricity, why cannot the people,” said Mohaniya.“We know that the fight is not easy for us, but we will win it with the support of people.”AAP leader Col Ajay Kothiyal (retd), who was present at the launch, said they are fighting “political disaster” in the form of BJP and Congress in Uttarakhand. “During the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, my team and I fought the natural disaster while figuring out a new trek route for the Kedarnath shrine. But this time, I, being a leader of AAP, is not fighting natural disaster but political disaster.”He said the way BJP and Congress are attacking them over the free power supply promise has made them believe that they are doing the right thing.BJP leader Manveer Singh Chauhan said it is “the modus operandi” of AAP to make false promises which it cannot fulfil. “They are doing the same in Uttarakhand, but they would not succeed as people are aware of their despicable tactics.”Congress leader Garima Dasauni said AAP knows it has no political base in Uttarakhand. “Hence it is making such promises months before the elections to garner some votes. But the people of Uttarakhand are smart enough to not fall in their trap.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/free-300-power-units-promise-aap-launches-kejriwal-muft-bijli-guarantee-card-in-uttarakhand-101626519496465.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||JNU students’ virtual aid: Help peers get laptops for online classes||Since the pandemic, most educational institutions have switched to the online mode of teaching. And this has left many youngsters, especially those from the underprivileged backgrounds, bereft of the right to education due to the difficulty in attending virtual classes in absence of access to resources such as a stable internet connection and computer or laptop. Come to think of those pursuing higher education, whose coursework has been affected due to the lack of access to such resources, and most feel sorry about the situation. But that’s not the case with a bunch of kind hearted first year students. Pursuing Master of Arts at Centre for Historical Studies (CHS) at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), they didn’t sit back feeling helpless and instead joined hands to help the marginalised overcome their challenge. Privy to the hardships faced by their classmates, this group of JNU students have set-up an online fundraiser to procure laptops for them. “Apart from accessing online lectures, laptops are also required to cover voluminous readings. Most critically, they are required to submit the 2,000 word typed essays at intervals of roughly 10 days. This is tough for those who don’t have proper access to digital resources,” says Siddharth Jha, from CHS, adding, “Those without laptops had to either type these out on smartphones (with proper citations), or spend hours at cyber cafes at personal expense. And in the absence of exams, these tutorials were the sole means of our assessment in the previous semester!” Since the current semester is also being conducted online, these students realised the need to raise funds to be able to provide for the educational needs of their peers. “A few of us compiled a list of those who were in need of laptops and data packs. Then we spoke to some students in Delhi University, who had experience in raising funds for such initiatives, and they recommended us to reach out to our alumni for help... In CHS alone there are 15 students who need a laptop each, for college work,” says Isha P, one of the students involved in this initiative.  Informing about the progress of their initiative, Isha adds, “We have raised more than ₹3 lakh so far, including donations via platforms and by our alumni. We have handed ₹25,000 to each student, asking them to send the purchase receipt to us once they have bought the laptop, to maintain the transparency in fund distribution.” Until now, 12 students have been able to acquire laptops from the money raised by their fellow classmates. And those who have received a helping hand feel that this will go a long way in strengthening their coursework. “I can’t believe they did this for us,” exclaims Vivek Sahu, a first year student of MA (Ancient History). He adds that being from an economically weaker background, he had never attended online lectures before getting enrolled in JNU. “I had to use my mobile for the virtual classes, and reading a small article of 20 pages felt like reading a book of 300 pages, that much strain on the eyes! But thanks to my classmates, now I’ve a new laptop, and am able to attend my classes in second semester with much more ease!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-students-virtual-aid-help-peers-get-laptops-for-online-classes-101626517517935.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||'Any decision acceptable': Amarinder Singh after meeting Harish Rawat||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Saturday any decision taken by Congress president Sonia Gandhi would be “acceptable” to all, news agency PTI reported quoting a tweet by Singh’s media advisor Raveen Thukral. Singh’s remark was in connection with the likely elevation of disgruntled former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of the state Congress unit.“Had a fruitful meeting with @harishrawatcmuk. Reiterated that any decision of @INCIndia President will be acceptable to all. Raised certain issues which he said he’ll take up with @INCIndia President,” Thukral tweeted quoting the chief minister as saying after meeting former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, who is on the three-member panel formed by Gandhi to settle the dispute between Singh and Sidhu..”Had a fruitful meeting with @harishrawatcmuk. Reiterated that any decision of @INCIndia Presìdent will be acceptable to all. Raised certain issues which he said he’ll take up with @INCIndia president”, @capt_amarinder pic.twitter.com/UGOrSbJbeRRawat, who is also the Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge, flew to Chandigarh at around 12 noon, from where he headed straight to Singh’s farmhouse in Mohali to meet him.The meeting between Singh and Rawat took place on a day Sidhu met Sunil Jakhar, who currently heads the Punjab Congress. The Sidhu-Jakhar meet took place at the latter’s residence in Panchkula, where the former cricketer-turned-politician is reported to have sought Jakhar’s “guidance.”Also Read | Sidhu meets Punjab Congress chief seeks his guidanceOn Friday, Singh wrote a letter to Gandhi, warning her against appointing Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief as this could have an “adverse impact” on the party’s prospects in the northern state, where assembly elections are likely to take place early next year. Also Read | Amarinder writes to Sonia Gandhi; objects to Sidhu as Punjab Cong chief: ReportsReportedly, the three-member committee suggested Sidhu be tasked with heading the state unit as a means to pacify him. Mallikarjun Kharge and JP Aggarwal are the other two members of the panel. In recent days, the two leaders have appeared before them to present their respective case.In the 2017 punjab assembly elections, the Congress registered a thumping win, returning to power with 77 seats in the 117-member legislative assembly. It increased its tally from 46 in the 2012 polls, and also displaced the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance from power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/any-decision-acceptable-amarinder-singh-after-meeting-harish-rawat-101626515557221.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Bhushan Kumar rape case: Survivor’s friend booked for Kumar’s extortion||A day after Dadabhai Naoroji (DN) Nagar police registered a rape case against Bollywood producer Bhushan Kumar, an extortion case was registered against a man at Amboli police station on Friday night, based on allegation that he had been trying to extort money from Kumar’s family threatening to get a rape case filed against him. The case, Amboli police said, is registered against one Mallikarjun Pujari following a complaint by Bhushan Kumar’s uncle and producer and director Krishan Kumar Dua, who alleged that Pujari had been making extortion calls threatening to get the woman complainant to file a rape case against the bollywood producer if he didn’t pay. The alleged rape survivor, who has accused the T-Series managing director of sexual assaults under the guise of offering her work in films, said Mallikarjun Pujari, the man accused of extortion was actually her supporter who had helped her muster courage to file the rape case against Bhushan Kumar.Kumar was booked for rape, cheating and criminal intimidation on Friday on the complaint of the 30-year-old woman, who alleged that the film producer called her to discuss work but instead sexually assaulted her at his bungalow in September 2017. She added that he threatened to make her video and photographs viral and raped her multiple times at different places in Mumbai.Bhushan Kumar’s uncle, however, said in his complaint that Pujari called Kumar several times between July 3 and July 10 telling him that if he didn’t pay, the model will lodge a rape complaint against him and he could even be killed by Pujari.The police have booked Pujari under sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 500 (defamation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“We have registered the complaint and will question the named accused to find how he is related to the victim and who directed him to demand money,” said a police official from the Amboli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhushan-kumar-rape-case-survivor-s-friend-booked-for-kumar-s-extortion-101626512896367.html
17-07-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Congress holds protest against inflation, soaring fuel prices||The ruling Congress on Saturday took out a protest march against inflation in Jaipur where they demanded the central government to curb price rise and withdraw the hike in fuel rates.Hundreds of Congress members led by PCC chief Govind Sigh Dotasra took out the march from the party headquarters to Shahid Smarak where a dharna was held.Dotasra said the Congress will continue to mount pressure on the central government if the rising inflation is not controlled.“Congress is in power in Rajasthan, yet we are demonstrating. It is because the (Narendra) Modi government came to power by making false promises on the issue of inflation, foreign policy, etc. but it failed on every front and people are suffering badly,” said Dotasra.Also Read| Petrol price jumps 30 paise/litre on Saturday, diesel price remains unchangedHe said that inflation is skyrocketing but the Modi government is not bothered. “We will make the Modi government wake up and bow down,” the Tourism Minister said.Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said people will blacken the faces of BJP leaders if the hike in fuel and LPG gas prices are not withdrawn.“It is shameful that the Modi government continued increasing petrol, diesel and LPG gas prices at a time when people of the country are facing hardship due to corona pandemic,” Khachariyawas said while addressing the dharna.He said all 25 parliamentary seats in Rajasthan were won by the BJP in Lok Sabha elections but all these MPs failed to get the state even one metric tonne of medical oxygen during the peak of Congress party workers should write and send postcards to people about the issue of inflation.Chief whip Mahesh Joshi, MLAs and other leaders and members from frontal organisations were present in the protest march and dharna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-congress-holds-protest-against-inflation-soaring-fuel-prices-101626511476814.html
17-07-2021||Patna||Congress to hold cycle yatra in Patna today to protest against fuel price hike||Congress will organise a cycle yatra or bicycle rally in Bihar’s capital of Patna on Saturday to protest against the rising petrol and diesel prices, according to party national spokesperson Mohan Prakash. “As part of our ongoing nationwide agitational programme against soaring fuel prices and increasing inflation, Congress workers will take out a cycle rally in Patna on July 17,” Prakash was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Thursday.Prakash said that the BJP-led central government has failed to curtail inflation rates and surges in essential commodities, and no effective methods have been adopted in order to check the hike in prices. Prakash added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government has avoided its “responsibilities towards the people during the pandemic,” PTI reported.महंगाई और पेट्रोल डीजल की कीमतों को लेकर कांग्रेस पार्टी द्वारा 17 जुलाई को आयोजित होने वाली 'साईकिल यात्रा" को लेकर कांग्रेस के प्रदेश अध्यक्ष @DrMadanMohanJha जी , राष्ट्रीय प्रवक्ता श्री @MohanPrakashINC जी एवम मीडिया विभाग के चेयरमैन @RajeshRathorre1 की प्रेसवार्ता । pic.twitter.com/BL1JGMNjrMSpeaking to the media in Patna, Prakash highlighted that at the time when India is going through a “deep economic recession,” the inflation has gone into double digits. “Why have crores of people lost their livelihoods and jobs over the last one year? The Modi government is guilty of distressing the poor, middle class and the marginalized,” he said, adding that the PM Modi-led government has been working for the corporates ever since coming to power in 2014.Besides Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) – the opposition party in Bihar, will stage a protest against the rising fuel prices at all blocks and district headquarters on July 18 and 19, respectively, party officials said.“We will write to all parties of the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) to join the protest,” the leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said.Notably, petrol prices witnessed the 41st hike in 75 days on Saturday when they rose by 30 paise per litre. After the latest hike, petrol in Delhi is priced at ₹101.84 per litre, and diesel at ₹89.87 per litre. All five metros in India – Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore and Chennai, have already seen petrol prices crossing the ₹100-mark for a litre of petrol. Diesel prices, however, remained unchanged after seeing a 16 paise per litre reduction on July 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-to-hold-cycle-yatra-in-patna-to-protest-against-rising-fuel-prices-101626500931808.html
17-07-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Darbhanga airport crosses 300k passengers’ mark||Passengers’ traffic at Bihar’s Darbhanga airport crossed 300,000-mark in the first fortnight of July since flight operations started here on November 8 last year, as per Airport Authority of India figures.As per AAI data, a total of 301,513 flyers travelled to and from Darbhanga airport in 2,168 flights till July 15, 2021 since commencement of flight operations in November last.“This is a unique feat for any airport in the country launched under Centre’s UDAN scheme (Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik), a flagship project to propel regional connectivity,” said an AAI official on the condition of anonymity.Airport officials said that the daily average passengers’ footfall has now crossed 2,000-mark after the recent launch of daily flight operations on Hyderabad and Kolkata routes by IndiGo airline. Earlier, SpiceJet was servicing Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmadabad and Kolkata routes.The lowest number of flights and passengers’ footfall were recorded in January, possibly due to inclement weather and foggy conditions due to lack of instrument landing navigational support system. So far, 24,917 arrivals in March-- just before the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic struck-- and 27,023 departures recorded in June, have been the highest. In the first 15 days of the current month, the airport handled movement of 248 flights and 32,293 passengers.Darbhanga Parliamentarian Gopal Jee Thakur said on Friday that the airport was continuously reaching new heights of success since the launch of UDAN scheme.The sharp increase in passengers’ movement has also led to chaos as various agencies working at the airport have limited resources. Recently, the Indian Air Force (IAF), which owns this airport, granted a No Objection Certificate (NoC) for acquisition of 78 acres of land for the construction of a permanent terminal building along with a navigation facility. However, AAI has requested IAF to hand over 2.43 acres of land adjoining the interim civil enclave to facilitate movement of more flights for the time being. “We are yet to get a response in this regard”, said an official preferring anonymity.“Lack of parking facility as well as absence of passenger’s shade from main gate to terminal building is a key issue as far as basic amenities are concerned,” said Manitosh Kumar, a flyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-darbhanga-airport-crosses-300k-passengers-mark-101626501315832.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Day after thunderstorm, dry and sunny morning in Mumbai||Moderate rain was expected in Mumbai and its suburbs with possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The city on Friday experienced a thunderstorm and recorded 253 mm of rain in just a few hours. The heavy rain on Friday morning left parts the city and suburbs waterlogged. The weather on Saturday morning was drier and sunnier. IMD’s monitoring station in Mumbai’s Santacruz recorded just 31 mm of rain in the 24 hours that ended on 8:30 am Saturday. Of this, 16 mm was recorded after Friday evening. Mumbai has been put on the orange category alert on Sunday and Monday, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”, along with chances of extremely heavy rainfall (over 204.5mm in 24 hours) in some parts. The monsoon in the city is expected to remain active between July 17 and 22.The city has so far received 1,576 mm rain, or about 70% of the seasonal long period average (up to September end). In the last week, the city recorded 466 mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-after-thunderstorm-dry-and-sunny-morning-in-mumbai-101626500775974.html
17-07-2021||Bhopal||Rescuers arrived late, say residents of MP village where 40 fell in well||The residents of Lalpathar in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district, where a group of people fell into a well when its boundary wall caved in under their weight while they gathered to watch the rescue of a 10-year-old boy on Thursday evening, have alleged rescuers arrived three hours late.Eleven bodies, including that of the boy, were recovered. A tractor being used to pump out water during the rescue operation also skidded into the well and four police personnel sustained injuries. Nine people came out of the well immediately with the help of other villagers while rescuers pulled out 14 others.“My son Ravi and his brother Sanjay had gone to fetch water from the well. I asked them not to go in the evening, but they did not listen to me. They were fetching water when Ravi fell into the well around 6 pm. Sanjay cried for help and two villagers jumped into the well to save Ravi,” said Omkar Ahirwar, the father of the 10-year-old.He added they called on the emergency number, but no one responded. “I called on 181, the Chief Minister’s Helpline, and the attendant assured of help. For half an hour, no one came. I asked the two villagers to come out of the well and it was impossible for them to search the body of my son in 20 feet deep water,” said Ahirwar. He added he kept calling and soon the people gathered near the well fell into it as its boundary wall caved in. “Two police personnel came to the spot and said they will return after dinner... they said only the rescue team could help. I again called 181 and asked them why hungry police personnel were sent. At around 9 pm, the rescue team and police force reached the spot.”Another resident Lalaram Chandel said he called the town police inspector at least 10 times but she did not take his calls. “Later, I informed the former Congress assembly member Nishank Jain about the incident.” Jain said he too made several phone calls, but no one responded. “Around 8.30 pm, the sub-divisional officer of police responded to my call and sent the team. If they had responded on time, many lives could have been saved.”Additional director general of police (Bhopal division) A Sai Manohar said, “...we will inquire into the matter.” Vishwas Sarang, the minister in charge of the Vidisha district, said the rescue team reached the spot just after receiving the information. “I also reached the spot at 10 pm from Bhopal to report about the rescue operation to the chief minister.”He added the chief minister has announced a high-level inquiry in the matter. “No one will be spared if anyone caused a delay in responding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/rescuers-arrived-late-say-residents-of-mp-village-where-40-fell-in-well-101626496815869.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Experts stumped as record setting thunderstorm hits Mumbai, contrary to forecasts||The city recorded a total of 253mm of rainfall in about 4.5 hours on Friday morning, according to data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz -- representative of the city and suburbs. This marks the heaviest rainfall event of the season so far, and the second largest quantum of daily rainfall (in July) recorded over the past 10 years. The city had earlier witnessed 375.2mm of rain on July 2, 2019, as per the IMD data.Friday morning’s rain was concentrated largely over the western suburbs and parts of central Mumbai. Rainfall data for the day shows large discrepancies in spatial distribution, which experts attributed to easterly winds that pushed the cloud cover away from south Mumbai. As a result, IMD’s observatory in Colaba recorded only 13mm of rain as of 8:30am on Friday.“We’re still not entirely sure why this happened. Radar images from late on Thursday did not show any indication of thunderstorm formation. In the absence of typical large-scale features such as a deep layer of winds from the west over Mumbai, a monsoon low-pressure system over east or central India, or a vigorous offshore trough, even weather models would not have been able to predict this,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD student at University of Reading.It is, however, clear from available satellite and radar images that there was a rapid formation of cloud cover over Mumbai early on Friday, around 5am, due to intense convection over the region. As winds in the lower atmosphere quickly converged and moved to higher levels forming clouds, easterly winds in upper levels steered clouds towards the Arabian Sea, saving south Mumbai and Colaba from a torrential downpour. The storm system later blew past to the south of Gujarat.Friday’s showers are likely to be the “first event of this magnitude in this century to have been triggered in the absence of any Bay of Bengal monsoon low-pressure system in the month of July,” Deoras added.There are a total of five instances between 2000 and 2020 when Santacruz received rain in excess of 250mm, all of which were attributed to low-pressure systems that formed over the Bay of Bengal.Deoras also explained that the mountainous terrain in Mumbai’s suburbs -- specifically in Sanjay Gandhi National Park and nearby green areas -- may have driven the formation of this intense thunderstorm earlier in the day. Such thunderstorms are typically common in Mumbai during the pre-monsoon season in early June, but not so much during July, when heavy rains are driven by features such as low-pressure systems and strong offshore troughWith a total seasonal rainfall of 1545mm, the city has now surpassed the normal rainfall amount expected till end July, which is 1332.5mm. The normal rainfall between June 1 and July 16, as per IMD, is 935.8mm. In other words, Mumbai has received rainfall that is 65% in excess of the normal, up to July 16.For the month of July alone, the city has so far received 583mm of rain, which is 70% of the cumulative average rainfall for the month, i.e. 827mm. Mumbai has also received 70% of its seasonal normal up to September-end. In the past week alone, the city recorded at least 435mm of rain, which had been originally predicted by meteorologists but later dismissed due to the formation of a low-pressure zone in the Arabian Sea, which interfered with wind movements and kept rain bands away from the city.Experts, like IIT-Bombay’s Sridhar Balasubramian, said it is the recent weakening of this system (about which HT had reported on July 15) that may have facilitated a “westerly burst of moisture” over Mumbai on Friday. Balasubramanian had earlier this week predicted heavy rain in the city on July 15 and 16.It is at this point unclear how rains will play out over the next week, and in fact for the remainder of the month. The broader scenario is not conducive for a high frequency of such intense rainfall events, which are typically seen in July.Meanwhile, prevailing wind patterns -- i.e. opposing easterly and westerly winds -- which kept rains away from Mumbai city also continue, independent meteorologists have pointed out. Mumbai has been placed under a yellow category storm warning alert on Saturday, indicating only heavy rain at isolated places (between 64.5mm to 115.5mm in 24 hours).IMD, however, has placed Mumbai under an orange category storm warning alert from July 18 to 20, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”, along with chances of extremely heavy rainfall (over 204.5mm in 24 hours) in some parts.Jayanta Sarkar, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, said there will be widespread rainfall over the Konkan coast during the next five days, indicating more than 75% of all monitoring stations will receive some measure of rain.Asked why IMD had not been able to forecast Friday’s heavy rains, Sarkar responded, “There are two components in forecasting. Intensity and distribution. We predicted the distribution correctly, but the intensity, which was confined to the western suburbs, could not be predicted since the cloud cover formed extremely quickly in the morning.”Though forecasters were in agreement that Friday’s thunderstorm was near impossible to predict, they also criticised IMD for poor functioning of its doppler radar in Colaba. The radar had become defunct during heavy showers on Wednesday, and has been scanning images at intervals of every 45 minutes. A higher scan frequency would provide more actionable data for stakeholders during unexpected extreme weather events.Independent forecasters agreed that the monsoon will continue to remain active between July 17 and 22. “But I'd be surprised if there are daily heavy rainfall events of this magnitude. Models show a low-pressure system over the Bay around next mid-week, which is stimulating the offshore trough and strengthening the westerlies, but these conditions may not necessarily trigger torrential downpours daily since there are biases associated with forecasts of low-pressure systems,” Deoras explained.The IMD had initially placed Mumbai under a yellow category alert for Friday, but later upgraded it to an orange category alert after the thunderstorm. Despite this, the city saw only 14.1mm of rain in the eight hours ending at 5:30pm."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/experts-stumped-as-record-setting-thunderstorm-hits-mumbai-contrary-to-forecasts-101626489566996.html
17-07-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy as PAC chairman: Suvendu fumes, says TMC ruined Bengal's 'democratic fabric'||Taking a dig at the TMC-led government in West Bengal, leader of opposition in the state assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Friday alleged that Mamata Banerjee's regime has destroyed the "democratic fabric" in the state. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had earlier raised issues regarding the appointment of turncoat leader Mukul Roy as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) 2021-22 in the West Bengal assembly.Days after TMC leader Mukul Roy was elected as chairman, Suvendu Adhikari said that the BJP would submit a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in this regard."Our campaign is going on against the appointment of the PAC Chairman. Our team will submit a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The West Bengal Assembly is not following the rules of democracy. People should know this. TMC is not keeping up with the dignity of the assembly. Someone from the opposition should be the chairman of PAC but TMC doing everything on its own accord," he said.The BJP leader also informed that he has submitted a petition in the Supreme Court seeking the transfer of the Nandigram poll matters case pending in Calcutta high court to any other high court."The ruling TMC has destroyed the democratic atmosphere in West Bengal. The democratic fabric of the state is destroyed, this is why I have submitted a petition in the SC regarding the Nandigram matter," Suvendu told ANI."I have submitted a petition in the SC regarding the Nandigram matter (petition filed by CM Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta HC challenging Adhikari's election from Nandigram constituency in 2021 assembly elections) seeking the case to be moved out of Bengal," the BJP leader said.He further mentioned that the NHRC panel probing alleged post-poll violence in the state has recommended CBI investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-as-pac-chairman-suvendu-fumes-says-tmc-ruined-bengal-s-democratic-fabric-101626484933293.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The market innards||Chimneys painted in funky yellow and red. Long AC ducts of varying lengths, spreading out like the pipes of a plumbing system. Black water tanks perched like giant insects. The whole thing looks like the post-modern panorama of some industrial landscape. It is beautiful and ugly at the same time.This is Khan Market, Delhi’s opulent shopping district. But from this vantage point you won’t see that familiar bazaar of bookstores and boutiques, cafes and restaurants, the rich and the rich VIPs. The aerial equivalent of the market’s gutters, this is the world of Khan Market rooftops, as seen from a showroom’s second floor roof—its door lying accidentally open on this cloudy afternoon. The scene is curiously picturesque. From such height, you feel metaphorically uplifted too, far from the distractions of the shops and consumers. This zigzagging world of colourful chimneys and AC ducts stands like an artists’s representation of a secretive high-tech back area, that keeps the enterprise running smoothly. Some of the long metallic AC ducts seem to meander along a building’s entire wall, very evocative of the famous red stairs of the Pompidou Centre in Paris.To be sure, a lot many cafes in the market have second floor spaces, but from there the views are of the front lane or of the back lane, and don’t reveal the whole perspective of the market’s backstage. This view of interest is accessible only from the roofs looking over the Middle Lane, and these are usually barred to shoppers.Among these rooftops, one looks less flashy, less consumerist. It’s one of the few surviving homes here. Khan Market started in 1951 with 154 shops and 75 flats. The shops were on the ground floor, the flats on the first. Until the 1980s, all the flats served as homes. Then commerce crept up the stairs. Most families moved out after selling or renting out their homes. The drawing rooms, the bedrooms, the kitchens and the courtyards turned into cafés and showrooms. The market is left with half a dozen homes—the one visible from this rooftop belongs to the Bamhi family that runs a legacy bookstore on the market’s front lane. (The others are of the Chhabras, the Sabharwals, the Dudhanis, the Durgadas, and a Talwars, respectively.)At this moment, the absence of any humans fills up this entire panorama with a kind of brutalist architecture—all bare and structural. On coming down and returning to the dressy crowd of the lanes, the market appears more complicated, and more strange in the light of what you just saw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-market-innards-101626478668575.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Man behind international phone smuggling racket arrested||A 33-year-old man, who sourced stolen cell phones from the National Capital Region and smuggled them to Bangladesh, Thailand and Sudan, has been arrested from Mumbai, Delhi Police said.Police identified the man as Hasam Rahis Qureshi, 33, a resident of Mumbai, and claimed that he had smuggled over 5,000 phones over the last several months. Police said Qureshi purchased the stolen phones from his contacts in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh -- the contacts bought the cell phones from thieves in NCR region -- and smuggled it to Bangladesh, Thailand and Sudan.Narrating the sequence of events that led to Qureshi’s arrest, police on Friday said that, on July 9, they arrested four men – Jiyauddin Imam, Mohammed Aleem, Ajay and Shiv Kumar -- who received stolen phones from a person arrested for a theft at a mobile showroom in Delhi.Police said the four men were connected to burglaries at cell phone shops in the NCR region, such as the May 17 burglary of a mobile showroom in Delhi Cantonment area, where at least 51 mobile phones were reported stolen. One of the people arrested for the burglary pointed the investigators to the four accused after which they were picked up.A subsequent inspection of Aleem’s bank account showed deposits from people in Mumbai and Kolkata, including ₹30 lakh from Qureshi. Aleem allegedly bought the cell phones at about 40% of the MRP, and then sold them to Qureshi at higher prices.“During questioning, the four men disclosed that they purchased the stolen phones from snatchers, robbers and from criminal gangs of Mewat. The phones were then sold to Qureshi. We had been working to trace Qureshi,” said deputy commissioner of police (south west) Ingit Pratap Singh.DCP Singh said that a police team was camping in Mumbai to trace Qureshi for several days.“Our team arrested him from Mumbai on July 13. During interrogation, we found that Qureshi regularly has been receiving stolen mobile phones from various dealers across India over the past five years. He came in contact with Aleem, a resident of Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh, about a year ago and started receiving stolen mobile phones through courier,” he said, adding that police have also recovered courier receipts.Police said Qureshi sent the stolen phones to a yet-to-be-arrested contact who sent them to Agartala, after which they were smuggled to Bangladesh through carriers.“He used to receive money through hawala in lieu of those stolen mobile phones and further transfer the money after deducting his commission by cash deposit in the account of various stolen mobile phone dealers such as Aleem. In the last six months, he has deposited around ₹35 lakh to the account of Alia Traders, one of Aleem’s firms,” DCP Singh said.Police said Qureshi is originally from Hapur in Uttar Pradesh but was settled in Mumbai for the last 19 years.“Qureshi used to help out in a shop selling stolen laptops and car stereo in Mumbai’s Chor Bazar. After some time, he came in contact with local mobile thieves and robbers in Mumbai and started supplying the stolen mobiles to a man in Gujarat’s Surat, who also introduced him to a contact in Bangladesh. Later on, he developed more contacts in Bangladesh who also had networks in Bangkok and Sudan,” Singh added.Police said they are probing the role of many others, who are part of this international smuggling racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-behind-international-phone-smuggling-racket-arrested-101626477127709.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Women at risk, from streets to cyberspace||On July 15, 2015, a 19-year-old woman living in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat was attacked by two men from her neighbourhood after they stalked her for nearly two years. The woman was dragged by her hair, and stabbed 32 times barely a street away from her house as revenge for filing a police complaint against the men.The incident, less than three years after the 2012 Delhi gang rape that sparked nationwide protests and forced a change in rape and assault laws, highlighted how women continue to be unsafe in the Capital. At the time, several city politicians visited Anand Parbat, and CCTV security cameras were installed.Six years later, women in the locality report little improvement in their safety. In Delhi Police’s 2020 annual report, Anand Parbat is still among the 17 most unsafe localities for women in the city.“These louts stand in large groups, and when a woman passes by, they deliberately do not leave space for her to walk. After 6pm, you can see drunk, jobless men standing around, and it is impossible for women to be outside,” a relative of the 19-year-old victim told HT this week.Though Delhi was badly hit by the pandemic over four waves in the past 15 months, cases of crimes against women -- rape, sexual harassment, kidnapping, and dowry deaths -- rose in 2021.A comparison of police data between January 1 and June 15 in 2020 and 2021 showed that crimes targeting women increased nearly 63% this year -- from 3,407 to 5,566. This translates into 34 (33.53) every day in 2021, as opposed to 21 (20.52) a day in 2020. Registered rape cases rose about 43% till June 15 this year, as compared to the corresponding period last year.The numbers further hurt Delhi’s already poor national image as a city unsafe for women.The Capital reported a crime against woman every hour in 2019, the last year for which national data is available from the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). The Capital registered 12,902 cases of crimes against women that year, more than Mumbai, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad put together.The grim numbers pointed out the need for more vigilant policing but experts said social changes were required as well. They also don’t capture how the Internet has become increasingly unsafe for women in the past decade with frequent complaints of cyber bullying, harassment, morphed photos, fake identifies and blackmail.“After the barbaric gang rape of 2012, the authorities have acted and done some work to ensure that the roads are lit and that there are security cameras installed in areas that are prone to such crimes, but the actual change will only come when we as a society change the way we look at and treat women,” said Renuka Reddy, a women’s rights activist and a gender studies scholar.CRIME HOT SPOTSAn analysis of last year’s cases showed that the maximum cases of rape, sexual assault and harassment were reported from cramped, low-income neighbourhoods of Bindapur, Dwarka, Laxmi Nagar, Mayur Vihar, and Bharat Nagar.A police officer, who earlier served in outer Delhi’s Prem Nagar police station, among the 17 police stations which recorded maximum crimes against women, said, “A lack of parental supervision was also a major reason behind such crimes. Prem Nagar mostly has kacchi colonies, where daily wagers and people working in factories or private companies live. Parents go out for work, leaving their children behind. Many boys fall into bad company and commit crimes against women in their neighbourhood.”.Former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar said certain areas of the city need “immediate police attention” because of local thugs.“The local police of those problematic (unsafe) areas should take immediate steps to identify hot spots, and increase their presence by setting up police pickets. There should be a zero-tolerance policy against drinking in public spaces. If there are certain spots or lanes within the residential colonies, where people sit in groups and drink, the police needs to act strictly. Safety and security of women should not be compromised at any cost,” the retired IPS officer said.Kumar was the police commissioner during the 2012 Delhi gang rape case.But incidents of harassment, stalking and molestation have penetrated even colonies considered safer and better equipped with surveillance.On July 12, a 15-year-old girl in Moti Bagh was hacked to death by her stalker, a day before her 16th birthday, for ignoring his advances. The family of the girl said that 21-year-old Pradeep was stalking her for nearly eight months. “The locality is a mix of government colonies, private bungalows and embassies. In our colony itself, there are CCTV cameras installed in every building. Despite all this, my sister was killed by her stalker in front of everyone,” said the girl’s 12-year-old sister.Dwarka sub-city is another locality where the number of crimes against women are higher than the rest of the city.Sudhir Pandey, president of the residents welfare association of Dwarka Sector 14, said, “The roads here are secluded. After sundown, you will only see vehicles moving on roads. Even the roads outside Metro stations are not well lit and do not have any security. This area is overall unsafe for everyone, but more so for women. Despite being a largely upper-middle-class neighbourhood, if women cannot walk freely, what development have we achieved?”UNSAFE IN CYBERSPACE TOOIn recent years, even the Internet is being used to harass women. Complaints by women of harassment online have also increased in the past few years, and more so after the pandemic. Delhi police officers said the cyber cell receives around 40 complaints of online harassment. Until five years ago, they received only about 5-10 complaints a week, said the officers.Earlier this month, the photographs of more than 80 Muslim women, including social activists, journalists and students, were uploaded on an app that used a derogatory term used for Muslims. The website even held a “virtual auction”, advertising these women as “deals of the day”. “I learnt that my photograph along with a link to my Twitter handle was also being circulated on the website. I felt absolutely powerless and had sleepless nights. After posting about the creation of this website, I have received messages containing sexually explicit language, gestures, threats of sexual attacks and even physical violence,” said a woman whose photograph was also uploaded on the website.According to NCRB’s data, a total of 56 cases of cyber crimes against women were reported in 2019. Of them, four cases were of cyber blackmailing and threatening, five cases of cyber pornography, hosting or publishing obscene sexual materials, 17 cases of cyber stalking or bullying of women, two cases of fake profile, and 28 cases of cyber crimes of other nature.“Several of the cyber crimes against women are committed by people who are known to the victims, and have animosity against them. Incidents of strangers targeting women on cyber space are very less. These strangers mostly target randomly and many women in one go,” said an officer who works on cyber crimes.In simple terms, cyberspace appears to mimic the real world --- according to Delhi Police data of 2020, nearly 98% crimes against women are perpetrated by family members, or people who know them from their localities or workplaces.DEEPER MALAISEDelhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said that the Covid-19 lockdown last year was responsible for the relatively low numbers in the first six months of 2020.He added that city police was maintaining its “free and fearless” FIR registration policy and constantly taking measures to make the city safer, especially women.“Women safety is our top priority. We have launched our street domination drive by having maximum patrolling of police staff on roads. Now, our women personnel are also conducting bike and scooter patrolling. Women officers have been deployed in beats. They interact with women on streets to understand the issues they face and accordingly take actions. Delhi Police is committed towards the safety of all citizens,” he added.But Reddy said while penalties for sexual crimes have been strengthened, there was no corresponding change in mentality among people. “Woman of all ages are seen as sexual objects, and no matter how much we try to put all the blame on the police and the governments, unless we start changing the attitudes towards girl children, help them get an education and change the way we talk about women, these crimes will keep happening. The administration and the society has to work together to make the city safer for women,” said Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/women-at-risk-from-streets-to-cyberspace-101626469888428.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment racket: Gang duped 50 govt job seekers of ₹1 crore||Members of a gang running a recruitment racket unearthed by the Punjab vigilance bureau (Amritsar range) allegedly duped as many as 50 government job seekers of more than ₹1 crore, officials said on Friday. This came to the fore during the interrogation of the four accused who were arrested in the case on Thursday. The arrested suspects are Pritpal Singh, who is posted as a multipurpose heath worker at the primary health centre (PHC), Dhotian, in Tarn Taran district; Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Kadgill village in Tarn Taran; Malkiat Singh of Varpal village in Amritsar and Sukhwant Singh of Jhite Kalan village in Amritsar. SSP (vigilance) Parampal Singh said, “The gang is likely to make more disclosures in the coming days. Sukhwant, the gang kingpin, was also booked in November 2020 along with two persons for allegedly duping 30 job aspirants of ₹75 lakh for getting them recruited in the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the railways.” He added, “Dominic Sahota, who is presently lodged in the Ropar jail in connection with a robbery and kidnapping case, is also a key accused in the fresh case. He was running private firms and gave fake identity cards to people like Malkiat Singh.” A scrutiny of the mobile phones of the suspects has revealed that they had drafted advertisements for jobs on WhatsApp to lure innocent job aspirants, the SSP said.. “Kadgill village sarpanch Harpal Singh has confessed to have duped at least seven job seekers. The questioning of Pritpal Singh, Malkiat, Sukhwant and Harpal is going on and more disclosures are expected soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recruitment-racket-gang-duped-50-govt-job-seekers-of-1-crore-101626465855364.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD didn’t withdraw blasphemy case against dera chief: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal claimed on Friday that they didn’t withdraw the blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during the party’s tenure in Punjab. The case was registered in 2007. Sukhbir was in Jalandhar to welcome the Democratic Party of India’s (DPI) move to extend support to the Akali Dal-Bahujana Samaj Party alliance for the 2022 assembly polls. Addressing a press conference, the ex-deputy chief minister said he wanted to make it clear that no single case of the dera chief was withdrawn during their term in power. He said, “Despite multiple probes launched by the Congress government in over four years, not even single Akali worker’s name figured in the Bargari sacrilege and Behbal Kalan firing cases. Some pro-Congress religious preachers and Congress leaders forced the Akali Dal government for CBI probe in the sacrilege case. We transferred the cases to the CBI on their demand.”“Now, the Congress is busy in infighting, leaving the people of Punjab to their fate. This was proved by Navjot Sidhu who has all along been working to topple chief minister Amarinder Singh and did nothing for the welfare of Punjabis. One cannot count even as single achievement of Sidhu as a minister,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-didn-t-withdraw-blasphemy-case-against-dera-chief-sukhbir-101626465854267.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC draws flak for ‘trying to dismantle’ tunnel-like structures excavated at Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) along with voluntary organisation Kar Sewa has drawn a flak for allegedly not taking the tunnel-like old structures found during excavation in the Golden Temple complex seriously and trying to raze them. This despite SGPC president Jagir Kaur’s assurance in the wake of protests that the structures will be preserved, if found historical. Former SGPC member Jaswinder Singh demanded a thorough investigation into the matter. US-based Sikh activist Sameep Singh, who hails from Amritsar, said, “No one got serious until some people staged protests. Surprisingly, the gurdwara body and the Kar Sewa were ready to destroy the structures as some of them with old bricks have been found broken. Why they do not understand the significance of heritage?”He added, “These tunnels can be a great tourist attraction. I have read about a tunnel that reaches the Gobindgarh fort from one of Ramgarhia Bungas but it was closed after Operation Bluestar. Some efforts can be made to reopen them”.In a video shared on Facebook, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidha said, “They have already destroyed precious heritage of the community. Now, they were about to damage another historic structure. Sikh activists were manhandled when they opposed it.” In a letter to the SGPC, Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO, said, “The structures found at the excavated site seem to be centuries-old. Though experts are better placed to say anything conclusive, these remind us of the turmoil of the period. Sikhs might have constructed the underground dwellings and tunnel-like structures when they had to protect Sri Harmandir Sahib from the invaders.” “If experts say these buildings are basement of ‘bungas’, even then they are of great historical and religious importance. Being unique, they can be instrumental in boosting the tourism industry in the city,” said Amritsar Vikas Manch patron Kulwant Singh Ankhi.Harjap Singh Aujla, an eminent engineer, said these are not tunnels, but rooms of some of the 84 bungas or serais that existed at these places for more than 250 years. “The arches are of the roofs. During those days, flat timber beam and cross purlins were not used as part of flat roofs. These are remains of the underground parts of the bungas. These are precious archaeological sites and should be protected,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-draws-flak-for-trying-to-dismantle-tunnel-like-structures-excavated-at-golden-temple-101626465319190.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fake billing scam: Punjabi University orders audit of financial transactions in last 5 years||The Punjabi University authorities have directed the heads and officials of all academic and non-teaching departments to carry out self-audit of their financial transactions in the last five years. The order came weeks after a fake billing scam came to the fore in the varsity after which two of its employees were suspended and a contractual staffer was dismissed. In a circular issued on Thursday, university registrar Varinder Kaushik said, “In case any suspicious financial dealing is detected, the department heads or officials must report it immediately to senior functionaries for immediate action. The circular have been issued on the orders of vice-chancellor Prof Arvind who took a serious note of scams in the varsity so that such incidents don’t occur in the future.” “You are also directed to keep a close watch on all future finance-related transactions. If any irregularity is found in a department or branch, the head or the official concerned will be personally held liable,” he added. The varsity recently approached the police for registration of an FIR in fake billing scam. Last week, V-C Prof Arvind suspended two administrative wing employees — senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary and superintendent Raminder Kaur— and terminated the services of a contractual peon after a three-member fact-finding committee found substantial evidence of embezzlement. In May, the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised were bogus. The embezzlement went unchecked for six years, it is learnt. The funds included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan.In yet another case of financial irregularity, an employee of the examination department was accused of siphoning fee amount to the tune of ₹92,760.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-billing-scam-punjabi-university-orders-audit-of-financial-transactions-in-last-5-years-101626465314306.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hoardings greeting Navjot Sidhu as PPCC chief spring up in Amritsar||Even as the party high command was yet to make any announcement over Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu’s new role, hoardings projecting the former minister as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president surfaced in Amritsar on Friday, with his supporters even celebrating his “appointment” in the city. The hoardings read “Many many thanks to the Congress high command for appointing Navjot Singh Sidhu”. The legislator’s supporters, including Congress councillors, had made all arrangements for celebrations anticipating that the MLA will be declared Punjab Congress chief soon. A high drama was witnessed at Sidhu’s residence on the outskirts of the city, where his supporters gathered and started celebrating on the beats of ‘dhol’. They even offered ‘ladoos’ to each other. A photo clicked on the house premises also surfaced in which people were seen offering sweets to Sidhu’s personal assistant (PA) Jasmeet Singh Sodhi.The celebrations, however, were stopped after some time. Sidhu’s controversial aide Sourabh Madan Mithu sent the media an invitation to cover the celebrations but later he clarified that the plan had been cancelled. Also, messages were sent to the supporters to gather at Golden Gate, entrance to the holy city on National highway (NH)-1, at 1pm on Saturday to welcome the former minister.Shalinderjit Singh Shelly, Congress councillor from ward number 46, said, “We are waiting for official announcement from the party high command, which would be made anytime. We will plan the celebrations and welcome of Mr Sidhu accordingly”.MLA’s posters found torn in LudhianaHoardings and posters of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu put up by one of his supporters in the Dugri area of Ludhiana were found torn on Friday morning.Posters with “Punjab di hungar, Sidhu is var” written on them were installed on Thursday by Jasraj Grewal, owner of a public relations (PR) company.Earlier, posters of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh were installed in different locations of the city.Claiming that he doesn’t support any party, Grewal said the posters were torn on the directions of the rival group. “I have no political affiliation, but I support Sidhu and want to see him as the next CM of the state,” he said.Dugri station house officer Surinder Chopra said: “It seems the outdoor advertising contractor of the MC has damaged illegal posters installed in different parts of the city. A complaint has been received and we are inquiring.”(With inputs from Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoardings-greeting-navjot-sidhu-as-ppcc-chief-spring-up-in-amritsar-101626465258113.html
17-07-2021||Other||MNS student wing chief joins Shiv Sena||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) suffered a setback on Friday after Aditya Shirodkar, the chief of the party’s student wing joined Shiv Sena. Shirodkar is the son of MNS chief Raj Thackeray’s long-time associate and former business partner Rajan. In the past few years, relations had soured between Thackeray and Rajan that finally culminated in his exit from the MNS.Shirodkar met chief minister (CM) and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s official residence Varsha and joined the saffron party.“I found both Uddhavsaheb and [CM’s son and state minister] Aaditya Thackeray doing a great job and hence decided to join the Sena. Even my father is with me in the Shiv Sena. My father is no longer associated with Rajsaheb,” said Shirodkar. Shirodkar declined to comment about his exit from MNS.He had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha seat from South Central Mumbai constituency on MNS’s ticket.Shirodkar was associated with Raj Thackeray in winning the bid for Kohinoor Mills No 3 at Dadar for ₹421 crore in 2005. The deal took place through Kohinoor CTNL which was set up by Unmesh Joshi – son of former Maharashtra CM Manohar Joshi – Thackeray and Shirodkar in 2005. In 2008, both Raj and Rajan sold their stake and exited the project. It came under scanner when Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) scam came to light in 2018. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) started the probe of Kohinoor CTNL after it came to light that it received loan and equity investments adding up to ₹860 crore from IL&FS.Both Raj and Rajan were questioned by the ED over this deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mns-student-wing-chief-joins-shiv-sena-101626465073846.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||2.25 lakh people skipped due date for 2nd dose in Punjab||At a time when campaigns are going on to motivate the masses to get the first dose of the Covid vaccine, Punjab health department is finding it as hard to bring out the people to get their second jab. According to senior health officials involved in the vaccination drive, more than 1.5 lakh people were due for the second dose a week ago, which now has increased to around 2.25 lakh. “In around 2 lakh cases, we have sent more than three reminders through SMS on the registered mobile numbers but people are not taking the second dose as per schedule,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. State government’s media bulletin reveals that 66,691 people took second dose on Friday which is the highest number in any given day. While second dose of Covishield is administered after the gap of 84 days, the Covaxin’s second dose is due after 28 days. “Out of more than one-lakh people whose second Covaxin shot was due, only around 25,000 turned up in the past four days,” said the nodal officer. A senior doctor posted in Patiala said the biggest reason behind people skipping the the second dose is the (non)availability of the vaccine at the prescribed time and suitable place. “Hesitancy for the second dose is more among those jabbed with Covaxin because of its irregular supply. People took the first dose with hesitancy when it was available. Now, when their second dose is due, vaccine supply is not regular,” the doctor opined. He said in many cases, people, till few days back, had to wait for one month over and above the prescribed 28-day gap for the second jab. People are also having the misconception that the government has deliberately increased the gap of Covishield to 84 days due to non-availability of vaccine. “A lot of unconfirmed studies on social media about the increase in the gap have diverted the minds of the people,” another doctor from Jalandhar said. A senior state health functionary said the strategy of the health department to consume most of the doses provided by the Centre in a single day was wrong. “For example, the state is left with around 20,000 doses even as the state got over 1.5 lakh doses on Thursday. If a person due for the second dose is busy on a particular day, he will get the chance to get second dose when the next supply of vaccine arrives. Now, the next arrival of vaccine in Punjab is due on July 22,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/225-lakh-people-skipped-due-date-for-2nd-dose-in-punjab-101626465017872.html
17-07-2021||Other||P305 tragedy: 11 recovered bodies yet to be identified, say Mumbai Police||Two months after the ill-fated barge Papaa305 (P305) and tug boat Varaprada had capsized in the Arabian Sea, the 11 recovered bodies are lying unidentified in the morgue of Mumbai’s Sir JJ Hospital, even as the families of 10 victims are still waiting to receive the mortal remains of their loved ones. Eighty-six persons (75 from P305 and 11 from tug boat) are missing in the incident on May 17 after Cyclone Tauktae hit the city. An officer from Yellow Gate police station said, “The bodies of 67 crew members of P305 and one crew member of Varaprada have been identified so far.”Of the 13 on board Varaprada, 11 had died, while two were rescued by the Indian Navy.Accommodation barge P305, with 261 people on board, had capsized in the evening near Bombay High oil field. After an SOS was sent, the Indian Navy and Coast Guard conducted a massive search and rescue operation and rescued 186 people on board P305 in eight days. They also recovered 71 bodies of the 75 missing people from P305. Of the 68 identified, one body happens to be a crew member of Varaprada. The police said 17 more bodies (seven from Valsad; one each from Daman and Arnala beach and eight from Alibag, Murud, Nagaon and Sasawne in Raigad district) have also been recovered. Inspector Suhas Hemade of Yellow Gate police station said, “Till date, all the eight bodies recovered from Raigad and three of the 71 bodies recovered by the Indian Navy are still lying unidentified at Sir JJ Hospital’s morgue. Of the eight bodies found at Daman and Valsad, seven turned out to be crew members of Varaprada and they were identified by their family members.”He said the bodies that arrived late were decomposed, making them very difficult to be identified.In a bid to identify all the bodies, the police are in the process of collecting DNA samples of the families so that they can be matched with the bodies in the morgue.The police have also contacted their counterparts in Goa, Daman and Gujarat and requested them to conduct DNA profiling of the bodies lying in their respective morgues since the past two months to bring an end to the agony of the families, said a police officer.Yellow gate police had called four families of missing crew members on Monday and Tuesday from Bihar and Punjab, respectively, and their tissue samples were collected for DNA profiling. “We have also got permission to send teams to Bhopal, Uttarakhand, Kolkata and Valsad for collecting tissue samples of family members of those whose bodies are yet to be identified,” Hemade added.The 10 family members of the crew members, whose bodies are yet to be identified, are eagerly awaiting some news on their loved ones.The family of Pankajkumar Das, who worked as a cook on P305, has no clue on what to expect. His father Khokan said there are many questions which remain unanswered.“Pankaj’s mother just returned after giving blood samples. We are asked to wait for at least 10-15 days for the reports. We just want to know what happened and need a closure,” said Khokan, a farmer from Mirzapur in West Bengal.The authorities had taken blood samples of Das’s elder brother and father too, but they did not match with any of the bodies. Hence, his mother’s blood samples were taken for further DNA sampling, Khokan said. Vibhadevi, wife of Pramod Kumar, another crew, is equally clueless. Kumar had boarded Barge 305 on October 18, 2020, and had last called the family during the cyclone, Vibhadevi said. “He spoke to my son and gave him blessings. But when I took over, the call got disconnected. We tried a lot to call him back, but couldn’t get through. We hoped that he would call once he gets free. But the call never came,” said Vibhadevi, a resident of Madhepura in Bihar.The mother of two daughters and a son, Vibhadevi is now worried about the future of her children, as Pramod Kumar was the only earning member of the family.His younger brother Lallan said they are all desperately waiting for some news about his brother. “My parents and I have given blood samples for DNA tests. My father and my tissue samples did not match and therefore, I had to take my mother for tests. We are now asked to wait for reports,” Lallan said.InvestigationYellow Gate police have registered a first information report (FIR) in the incident on May 21 against Rakesh Ballav, the master of barge P305 and some others, based on the statement of Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of the maintenance crew of the vessel. Shaikh had accused Ballav and others of overlooking the weather alerts and for failing to take appropriate care, despite knowing that the lapse could result in the loss of lives.During the course of investigation, police found the involvement of some officials of Papaa Shipping Company and arrested three key management persons – Prasad Ganpat Rane, Nitin Dinanath Singh and Akhilesh Tiwari on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, endangering life or personal safety of others and common intention of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They are in judicial custody. Rane is the manager of Papaa Shipping Company, while Singh and Tiwari are the director and technical superintendent, respectively.The police said Rane, Singh and Tiwari were well aware of the weather warnings issued by the authorities in the connection with Cyclone Tauktae and were appointed to get daily progress reports of the employees.Yellow Gate police on June 24 registered a second case against Rajesh Shahi, the managing director of Glory Ship Management, which owns Varaprada. He’s booked under culpable homicide not amounting to murder and common intention, based on a complaint of Francis K Simon, the chief engineer of the tugboat and one of the survivors. A police team had been to Kerala and recorded the statement of Simon, who alleged that the company did not carry out the required maintenance and repair works, and their irresponsible act resulted in a tragic incident in which 11 people of the tug boat died. Simon also alleged that the boat was not seaworthy and the owner was well aware of the boat’s defective conditions, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/p305-tragedy-11-recovered-bodies-yet-to-be-identified-say-mumbai-police-101626465018302.html
17-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt cancels kanwar yatra, bars mass Eid prayers at mosques||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Friday released fresh guidelines to put curbs on gatherings ahead of various religious festivals to prevent Covid-19 spread. The guidelines of three-tier public discipline guidelines 5.0 will come into effect from 5 am, July 17.The guidelines bar the kanwar yatra and gathering for Eid-Ul-Zuha in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Uttarakhand, from where the kanwar yatra begins, has already cancelled the yatra. On Friday, the Supreme Court told Uttar Pradesh to call off the yatra.Eid-Ul-Zuha will be celebrated on July 21 and in view of the current pandemic situation and possibilities of excess gathering, holding prayers at public and religious places will not be allowed. The Mudiya Poono fair organised annually in the Govardhan region of Mathura has also been cancelled. Every year, lakhs of devotees from different parts of the state, country and abroad come to this fair for worship and parikrama. The administration will publicise it so that the devotees attending the fair from the state of Rajasthan can get information.Chaturmas festival is organised in many places of the state by the Jain community and many other religious people. This event lasts for four months. Devotees from all over the world come to participate in this event. Such events will not be allowed in any public and religious place.There will be a ban on all events of all other religions as well. An appeal has also been made to the general public to take adequate precautions and follow the Covid protocol. As far as possible, stay at home and offer prayers with family members, the state government said. The government order doesn’t allow swimming pools to reopen. People who haven’t taken even a single dose of the Covid vaccine can only go to public parks from 5am to 4pm. The timings have been relaxed for people who have taken the jab; they can go anytime between 4am and 8pmAll district magistrates, police chiefs of cities have been instructed to ensure strict compliance of the “no mask no movement” rule. The district administration will ensure monitoring of violation of quarantine rules and Covid appropriate behaviour in all urban and rural areas..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-cancels-kanwar-yatra-bars-mass-eid-prayers-at-mosques-101626465014443.html
17-07-2021||Other||Public transport services in Mumbai hit after heavy rainfall||Public transport services in Mumbai were disrupted following Friday’s heavy rainfall. While local train services on the fast line were suspended, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (Best) had to divert its buses at major locations in the city.As rainfall continued from Thursday late night to Friday, waterlogging was reported at Sion, Kurla and Chunabhatti railway stations, following which train services were suspended on the fast railway line corridor between Matunga and Mulund railway stations and services on the slow train were operating on restricted speed that led to delays.On the Central Railway mainline, local train services on the slow railway corridor were operating with delays over 25 minutes because of bunching of trains due to speed restrictions. Passengers were seen walking on the railway tracks towards stations.“My train stopped near Mulund for half-an-hour. I had to walk on the tracks to reach the station. After waiting at the station for 40 minutes, I finally got a train towards Parel,” said Thane resident Kriti Singh.Local train services were impacted on the Harbour railway as well. Due to waterlogging at Chunabhatti railway station, train services between Wadala and Mankhurd railway stations were suspended. By 1.00pm, trains resumed services completely. Local train services were operational on the Western Railway.Meanwhile, BEST diverted its buses on 27 routes, including LBS Road (Kurla), Gandhi Market, Wadala Bridge, SV Road (Bandra), Kurar and Dahisar subways, Hindmata Cinema, Milan Subway and RCF Colony. Sixty-seven BEST buses also broke down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/public-transport-services-in-mumbai-hit-after-heavy-rainfall-101626464893712.html
17-07-2021||Other||Early morning rainfall puts Mumbai under water||As heavy rain lashed the city on Friday since around 4am, waterlogging was reported in at least 26 spots (eight each in Island city and eastern suburbs and 10 in western suburbs). These include Dadar TT, Hindmata, Gandhi Market, Sion, Kurla subway, LBS Road, RCF Colony, Chembur and Anushakti Nagar. In the westerns suburbs, waterlogging was reported at Andheri, Milan and Dahisar subways, Khar station, Link Road (Bandra and Khar), Hub Mall on Western Express Highway and Oberoi Mall in Goregaon.On Friday early morning, over 250 citizens residing on the banks of Mithi River were taken to safe locations, as it crossed the danger mark. By afternoon, however, they were allowed to go back home, as the water level receded. Areas such as Dadar, Kurla, Wadala, Bandra, Andheri and Chembur received over 120mm of rainfall resulting in waterlogging in the areas. According to BMC officials, between 4am and 9am on Friday, most areas in the city received over 100mm of rainfall. According to the data provided by BMC, the Island city reported 55mm of rainfall during these five hours, while the western suburbs reported 143 mm of rainfall. The eastern suburbs reported over 135 mm of rainfall. BMC data further revealed that the highest rainfall (186 mm) was reported in H-East ward (Bandra East, Santacruz East, Bandra-Kurla Complex), while the second highest rainfall was recorded in Chembur at 175mm. In the western suburbs, Andheri, Goregaon and Jogeshwari also reported over 120 mm of rainfall. In the city, the lowest rainfall (28mm) was reported in Churchgate, Colaba and Cuffe Parade, followed by Peddar Road and Malabar Hill that received 36mm of rainfall.Local train services were also affected on Friday morning as tracks were waterlogged at Sion, Kurla and Chunabhatti railway stations. The three stations fall in L and F North wards, where more than 110mm of rainfall was reported between 4 am and 9 am. Hindmata and Gandhi Market, the two areas that witness waterlogging every year, also went under water despite the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) setting up huge dewatering pumps and underground silos. The water receded faster at Hindmata but at Gandhi Market, it took around three hours after the rainfall to stop to drain out the water. Due to this, traffic movement in the area was also affected. Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from the area, said, “On Friday morning, there was waterlogging despite BMC setting up pumps. They had said they would use in the pumps during heavy rainfall, but on Friday it took around three hours for in the water to be drained out of Gandhi Market. After spending so much, this should not happen.”BMC said waterlogging was reported because these are low lying areas and owing to the intensity of rainfall in the five-hour span. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “Both the projects at Hindmata and Gandhi Market are very much successful. At Hindmata, water was drained out by 9am, but at Gandhi Market it took us around three hours as the work has not been completed. The situation will get better in the coming days as we complete the work at both sites. We need to first collect the water: it has to get accumulated post and then we drain it out. The roads have to be motor-able, for which we are working hard.”BMC started operating two of the six newly installed underground dewatering pumps at Hindmata, and all four pumps at Gandhi Market on Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Road during the heavy downpour this week, bringing relief in the chronic waterlogging spots to some extent. The entire project consists of constructing underground water-holding silos to do away with logged water in a lesser amount of time compared to five or six hours.Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited several areas that were waterlogged, including the area around on Western Express Highway in Santacruz East. She directed BMC officials and Metro authorities to fix the drainage system that got disturbed due to Metro works. The mayor also directed public works department officials to look into the issue as the service road is under their jurisdiction.Santacruz resident Gautam Rao said, “There was heavy rainfall for around three hours, leading to waterlogging on Link Road in Santacruz and Bandra. The Gazdhar Bandh area was also flooded. This has never happened in past three years. BMC needs to figure out what is wrong with the drains and why is an area like Link Road also getting waterlogged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/early-morning-rainfall-puts-mumbai-under-water-101626464773806.html
17-07-2021||Other||HC asks Maharashtra govt for door-to-door vax drive guidelines by Monday||Expressing dissatisfaction on the progress by the Maharashtra government with regards to preparing the guidelines for door-to-door vaccination, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to submit the guidelines by Monday and also publicise the initiative through mass media by Saturday. The HC bench said, “We are not satisfied with the progress made so far. We are not saying anything more right now. We want an appropriate guideline. It is high time that you [state] should have formulated a policy. Advertisements should be published in newspapers to inform people as to how the facility will be made available. Also have helplines. We want it to be published and informed by tomorrow [Saturday] and guidelines by Monday.” The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city-based lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state that the state would require two more weeks to finalise the guidelines for initiating door-to-door vaccination. The state informed the court that after HC’s directions in the previous hearing, it had started a survey across all the districts and cities to ascertain the number of people needing vaccination at home. But as the survey was incomplete, it required time to start the pilot drive to vaccinate the severely ill, bed-ridden and elderly patients who cannot go to vaccination centres to get jabs, the state said. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed HC that it had initiated a survey of bed-ridden patients across all the 24 wards in the city and till Wednesday had found 2,780 such persons. The civic authority informed the bench that while the survey was completed in seven wards, the numbers of other wards would be available soon. The PIL had sought home vaccination for those who could not go to centres and had also cited instances of such drives in other states. While the centre was not willing to permit home vaccination based on various grounds and the recommendations of the NEGVAC – the expert committee set up by it – the court had asked the state to overcome its hesitance and start the drive to save lives. In the last hearing, the state had informed the bench that based on recommendations of the state Covid-19 task force it had decided to start the home vaccination initiative in Pune on pilot basis and would prepare the guidelines for it within two weeks. On Friday, Kumbhakoni informed that the state had initiated a survey across all districts to identify the beneficiaries and provide their details to their respective ward or corporation offices. He added that the initiative was publicised through advertisements in the print and electronic media as well as on social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc and the process was ongoing. He added that they had received emails from interested persons on the dedicated email id. When asked about the number of beneficiaries in Pune, Kumbhakoni said there were 50 in the main city, while Pune-Chinchwad had around 2,000 such beneficiaries. BMC through senior counsel Anil Sakhare informed the bench that the door-to-door survey in 17 wards would be completed soon. Data provided by BMC showed that R-Central ward had the highest number of bed-ridden and elderly persons who required home vaccination at 297, followed by N-ward (290) and S ward (268). No citizen in H-West, F-North and E wards needed vaccines at home. Kapadia submitted that the survey could be more effective if there was a helpline number for people to call in and inform the authorities concerned of their requirement for home vaccination and the authorities could also use radios to publicise the initiative and reach out to all the beneficiaries. The PIL is posted for further hearing to July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-unhappy-with-maharashtra-govt-s-steps-for-door-to-door-vax-drive-asks-for-guidelines-by-monday-101626464173680.html
17-07-2021||Other||Revaccinate fake jab scam victims at the earliest: HC to Mumbai civic body||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the Bombay high court (HC) that 2,773 fake vaccination victims have been identified in the city so far, the court asked the civic body to expedite the process for their revaccination as soon the Centre completes their deregistration process on CoWin portal. BMC said the victims were administered saline water, and 1,636 of them who had approached the civic body for check-ups, have shown no health issues. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police informed the court that the probe on the fake vaccination complaint in Kandivli has reached the final stage and the charge sheet would be filed within a fortnight. The court then asked the police to endeavour for an expeditious progress in probes on other cases filed and sought the investigation report in sealed cover. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city-based lawyer Siddharth Chandrashekhar, was informed by advocate Anita Shekhar-Castellino, that apart from the prayers sought in the petition for priority slots for the elderly and redressal of problems faced by people while booking slots on CoWin, the issue of fake vaccination also needed to be addressed. In a previous hearing, HC was informed by BMC and police that the number of victims of the fake vaccines had been identified. The court had then sought a progress report from BMC and police. On Friday, chief public prosecutor Aruna S Pai, representing Mumbai Police, informed the bench that 10 FIRs have been lodged in fake vaccination cases and 14 persons have been arrested, and an SIT (special investigation team) has been formed to probe the issue. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC submitted that the civic body had issued fresh guidelines to housing societies, educational institutions and commercial establishments for conducting vaccination drives in their premises. He said BMC had requested the Centre to deregister the victims from CoWin for their revaccination. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh to ensure that the deregistration was done expeditiously and also asked the BMC to keep a vigil on such issues and ensure that the victims are vaccinated without any delay. The court then posted further hearing of the PIL after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/revaccinate-fake-jab-scam-victims-at-the-earliest-hc-to-mumbai-civic-body-101626464113680.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cholera outbreak: Case tally climbs to 250 in Panchkula village||The count of cholera cases in Panchkula’s Abheypur has reached 250 in the last three days. Among the critical patients admitted on Friday were two children. Civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar confirmed that they have logged 250 cases of cholera, of which over 150 needed hospitalisation. Currently, 58 patients, including 28 children, are undergoing treatment, the doctor said. “Today, a few children in critical condition had arrived in the Emergency. One of them has been referred. All cases are from Abheypur,” she added. Dr Mukta said that she had paid a visit to the village and found that people were living in unhygienic conditions. “In one house, 10 to 15 families are living. Most of the houses have with illegal connections and on Thursday, leakage was found at two places and water connection was cut,” she added. Inquiry marked into death of childTwo days after the death of nine-year old child due to cholera in Abheypur village, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Friday presided over a meeting with the officers concerned to take stock of the situation. While taking cognisance of the death of the child, Gupta directed civil surgeon Dr Mukta to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report.He directed that patients of diarrhoea admitted to the hospital should not be discharged till their condition improves.He also asked the officials of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to collect water samples from Abheypur village in morning and evening to assess the quality of water. He said that the arrangement of adequate number of water tankers should be made so as to ensure that there is no shortage of clean drinking water in Abheypur village.“It has come to the notice that people in Abheypur are getting their water supply by illegally puncturing the main pipelines due to which, there is a possibility of contamination of water. All such cases should be identified and strict action should be taken against the culprits,” Gupta said. On-site camp set up at AbheypurCivil surgeon Dr Mukta said that an on-site camp in Abheypur has been set up to conduct health checkup of residents of the village. She said that 56 people have so far got themselves registered at this camp, out of whom, three children were admitted to the hospital on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cholera-outbreak-case-tally-climbs-to-250-in-panchkula-village-101626463994535.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three govt schools to be upgraded to Class 12||The UT education department is upgrading three Model High Schools (up to Class 10) to Model Senior Secondary (up to Class 12) from this academic session itself. Schools in Sector 45C, Raipur Kalan and Maloya will be upgraded, taking the total number of Government Model Senior Secondary Schools (GMSSS) to 43. Director school education (DSE), UT, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “Schools have been prepared to include Classes 11 and 12 from this session.” Senior officials of the UT education department confirmed that by upgrading these schools, 600-700 seats will be added in Class 11. The department also plans to increase the number of seats in humanities stream; another 500-odd more seats will be added due to the upgrade. Figures show that demand for Class 11 seats has exceeded availability in the UT. Last year, before the first counselling, 12,815 seats had been announced for Class 11, but 14,723 students had applied. Students of private schools also tend to opt for government schools for Classes 11 and 12 to help prepare for board exam and other entrance tests.With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) not declaring Class-10 results yet, Class-11 admission in government schools cannot begin. Brar, however, said, “Necessary arrangements are in the process of being completed. Once, results are announced we will prepare a merit list and start the admission process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhthree-govt-schools-to-be-upgraded-to-class-12-101626463935836.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ease of doing biz: Chandigarh depts seek citizen feedback||With UT adviser Dharam Pal directing all departments to simplify the procedures and rules to improve the ease of doing business, UT departments have started seeking suggestions and comments from the public and other stakeholders regarding minimising and reducing regulatory compliance burden.The departments were asked to examine the relevance and rationale of various norms under the purview of government, states and UTs to rationalise and simplify them.“In order to make Chandigarh Housing Board further make the citizen interface simple, transparent and time bound, there is a need to examine the existing acts, rules, regulations and policies,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, Chandigarh House Board (CHB).Suggestions and comments to CHB can be sent on legal.chb@gmail.com. The suggestions can also be sent by post by July 31.The engineering department has also sought suggestions and comments which can be submitted at eewneengd@chd.nic.in The suggestions can also be sent by post by July 31.The suggestions to the labour department can be given through email at alc.lc30@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ease-of-doing-biz-chandigarh-depts-seek-citizen-feedback-101626463934723.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: IMD predicts rainy Sunday, wet start to week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said there was a strong chance of heavy rain in the city, Sunday onwards till Tuesday. An orange warning has been issued in the city for this period; this is the second of the four-step warning system of the IMD. This means that people are to stay alert and prepared.“Rain will pick up in the region from Sunday. Chandigarh, which is clubbed with Northern Haryana, by the IMD has likelihood of heavy rain, over 60mm; light to moderate rain up to 30 mm is very likely. Thunder and gusty winds up to 50km/h are also likely.” Temperature is also expected to drop and by July 19 (Monday), the maximum temperature is likely to fall below 30°C, around the same temperature as the minimum temperature is expected to be that day.IMD has also issued an advisory to tackle heavy rain. People have been asked to move away from low-lying areas and from water bodies. People are also instructed to avoid going into water-logged areas, to drive carefully and to make sure their drainage system in their houses and offices are working.A look at the mercury graph shows that the maximum temperature of the city went up from 33.2°C on Thursday to 36.8°C on Friday. The minimum temperature went up from 25.8°C on Thursday to 27.6°C on Friday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 36°C and 28°C , while the minimum temperature is expected to be around 28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imd-predicts-rainy-sunday-wet-start-to-week-101626463874246.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Senate elections from August 3||Pending for a year, elections to the Panjab University’s senate — its apex governing body — will be held in August.According to the revised schedule submitted in the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Friday, polling will start on August 3 with the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last, on August 23. In the previous election schedules, the faculties was the first constituency to go to the polls.The senate comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. While 36 members are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly and six are ex-officio members. The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020.The elections were first scheduled in August last year, but were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. After the HC in April this year pulled up the V-C for the delay, the polls were scheduled from April 26, but had to be postponed again in view of the Covid-19 second wave.On July 8, the HC had directed the varsity to place on record the senate election schedule by July 16. The revised polling dates were proposed by the varsity and have been approved by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is its chancellor.According to the election schedule, polling for the registered graduate constituency, which is the largest with 3,61,869 eligible voters, will be held on August 18. The polling for the constituencies of heads and associate/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges will also be held the same day. Voting for the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors of the university teaching departments will take place on August 10.Earlier this week, some candidates had alleged that the varsity was trying to tinker with the sequence of the poll schedule of various constituencies. As many as 19 even wrote to the chancellor, seeking instructions to the V-C to hold the polls without altering the sequence. Eyebrows have also been raised on scheduling the polling for the registered graduate constituency on a working day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-elections-from-august-3-101626463815531.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Parties promote new Maharashtra OBC leadership||The gradual marginalisation of the Munde sisters — Pankaja and Pritam — in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the resultant churn in the party indicate that mainstream political parties in the state, the BJP included, are nurturing a fresh crop of other backward classes (OBC) leaders who can challenge the first-rung OBC faces in their ranks. There is a perception that these established leaders are being cut to size by challengers from their communities, although the reasons could be different in each party. In 2019, Pankaja suffered a shock defeat from Parli in Beed, the pocket-borough of her father—BJP stalwart and OBC leader Gopinath Munde. Pankaja lost to estranged cousin Dhananjay, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and social justice minister in the Uddhav Thackeray government. It was believed that she would be accommodated in the legislative council with OBC leaders like former ministers Eknath Khadse, who has joined the NCP, and Chandrashekhar Bavankule, who belongs to the Teli community, which has strong pockets in Vidarbha. However, the BJP nominated newer OBC leaders like Ramesh Karad, Gopichand Padalkar and Pravin Datke. Like Pankaja, Karad, too, is a Vanjari. Another Vanjari leader Bhagwat Karad was appointed as a union minister of state over Pankaja’s sister Pritam, a Lok Sabha MP from Beed. The Vanjaris have significant numbers in Marathwada and parts of North Maharashtra and Vidarbha. They are counted among the most powerful OBC groups. The NCP is similarly seen as having gradually sidelined its seasoned OBC face Chhagan Bhujbal in favour of two young Vanjari leaders — Jitendra Awhad and Dhananjay Munde. The duo came to the forefront at a time when Bhujbal was entangled in corruption allegations and was lodged in prison for over two years. Ironically, this churn is taking place at a time when the OBCs, who form around 53% of the population (according to community outfits) are at odds with the dominant Marathas over the latter’s demands for quotas. The state government’s ring-fenced reservations for Marathas have been struck down by the Supreme Court (SC). This has led to them reiterating their demand to be classified as OBCs. However, this is opposed by the other backwards, who compete with Marathas for control of local power centres, and fear that they will lose out on affirmative action benefits. The OBCs are also upset at the SC squashing their quota in local body elections. “The masses are upset at Pankaja tai being marginalised. There were similar attempts in the BJP to undercut Munde saheb,” charged Munde supporter Balasaheb Sanap of the Vanjari Samaj Arakshan Kruti Samiti, adding that the BJP would feel the heat. However, a senior BJP leader said this shake-up mirrored a trend at the national level. “There is a perception that the BJP gets votes largely due to the persona of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In this new scheme of things, other leaders are seen as irrelevant. After all, it is the engine that pulls the train and not the bogies,” he explained. In the BJP, Pankaja, a former minister, was seen as a challenger to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Her supporters allege that the 2019 defeat was an “inside job.” “All parties are wary of the resentment among OBCs over the demand by the Marathas. The otherwise diverse OBCs are closing ranks. Hence, parties are trying to nurture a fresh OBC leadership to get these votes,” said an OBC leader, who is with the Shiv Sena. “Leaders like Ramesh Karad and Bhagwat Karad may lack popular support today, but they can build their base ground-up,” he added. While their party leaderships are looking at shaking-up the entrenched order, the old guard of OBC leaders is not taking things lying down and are working to cement their base. An activist close to Bhujbal noted that while a new bunch of leaders were being propped up to counter the old guard of OBC leaders, ironically, it was the veterans who were standing up for the interests of the backwards. “Leaders like Bhujbal, Pankaja and Bavankule are more vocal on the issues concerning OBCs like them losing out on around 56,000 seats in local bodies, while those seen as their challengers within the ranks largely chose to keep mum,” he said. Incidentally, while the caste cauldron in Maharashtra is boiling, the Shiv Sena, which has significant support base among the OBCs, is largely silent. This is attributed to its caste-neutral approach with a base in Mumbai and surrounding areas, where politics is polarised around language and religion. Partymen admit that the cosmopolitan nature of its leadership makes it tough for the Sena to grasp grassroot realities in rural areas unlike the NCP. The BJP, which too has a significant base in the OBCs, is trying to create a fresh constituency by co-opting leaders like Padalkar, who belongs to the Dhangar (shepherd) community, which is a prominent OBC group. The BJP is reaching out to smaller OBCs to create a rainbow social coalition. For instance, Bhiwandi MP Kapil Patil, another inductee to the union cabinet is an Agri. The Agri community has a strong presence in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs, Thane and Raigad. On the other hand, the Congress has chosen an OBC, Nana Patole, a Kunbi from Vidarbha, as the state unit chief. Significantly, Kunbis have strong presence in Vidarbha region that BJP dominated in 2014 and 2019 assembly elections. “Consolidation of OBCs will disrupt the established order. Hence, parties shuffle their pack frequently. All political parties want OBC votes, but don’t want to devolve leadership to them,” said Hari Narke, a former backward classes commission member. However, Vishwanath Patil of the Kunbi Sena, said among the OBCs, most of the benefits had been corned by established sections like Malis (gardeners), Vanjaris and Dhangars. Writer-activist Sanjay Sonawani said some entrenched OBC groups had benefitted from affirmative action measures at the cost of numerically smaller backward groups. “There is a need to re-cast politics and the quota system to ensure that those who have benefited from the reservation system are either excluded from it or their benefits are reduced,” he said, while supporting the G. Rohini Commission, which is looking into the equitable distribution of the OBC quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parties-promote-new-maharashtra-obc-leadership-101626463813765.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||4.6kg heroin recovered near Pak border, 2 held||Two persons having links with Pakistan-based smugglers were arrested with 4.6kg of heroin along the International Border in Tarn Taran, said police officials on Friday.The accused have been identified as Kabal Singh and Surta Singh, residents of Dal village situated near the International Border.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said: “Police got a tip-off that the accused had hid heroin consignment somewhere in the land across the barbed fence near the Dal border outpost.” With the help of the BSF, the police carried out a search operation in the area and recovered the heroin in two bottles, he said, adding the accused have been sent to police remand and more revelations are expected during their questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/46kg-heroin-recovered-near-pak-border-2-held-101626463694334.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: HC asks admn to file affidavit on sale of floor-wise houses||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Chandigarh administration to file an affidavit after it was alleged that floor-wise building plans are being sanctioned “blatantly” in the city’s northern sectors even after assuring the court in February last year that the practice is not being followed.The division bench of Punjab and Haryana high court, comprising justices Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Vivek Puri, was hearing a civil writ petition moved by the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 10, Chandigarh, against the conversion of single residential units into three-storeyed apartment buildings in Sectors 1-10 . The HC is expected to hear the matter on day-to-day basis after the Supreme Court recently ordered it to dispose of the writ petition expeditiously. Appearing on behalf of the petitioners during the resumed hearing on Friday, senior advocate Puneet Bali pointed out that during the hearing on February 18 last year, the UT administration had told the HC that when there is no provision for apartments in the northern sectors in the Master Plan of the city, the question of any permission being granted could not arise. Sharing a a few specific cases where the approval for floor-wise plans of bunglows has been allegedly granted, Bali said the administration is continuing with the practice. The HC has now asked UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain to file an affidavit on July 22 to put it on record that floor-wise sanctioning of plans is not going on in the city. The affidavit will even deal with the documents placed on record by the petitioners.‘Builders have found loophole in Master Plan’The petition states that according to the Master Plan, northern sectors of the city do not have the provision of apartments, and selling a single unit floor-wise would be disastrous. Allowing apartments to come up would burden the city’s infrastructure, as flats on different floors would be sold to different families, which will lead to increase in population density apart from increasing the volume of vehicles, leading to parking problem.“Turning a single residential unit into a three-storeyed apartment will tinker with the heritage of the city. There are heritage cities globally where nothing can be changed. In Lutyens’ Delhi, nothing can be changed,” said Bali. The petitioners contended that even if the registry of separate apartments is not being done, the “builder mafia” has already found a way to circumvent the condition. The builders are allegedly purchasing the bunglows and selling the shares of individual floors. In view of this, the HC has raised a query that if a person wants to sell a share of his property, how can they be stopped. Senior counsel Chetan Mittal, who is the amicus curiae in this matter, will be filing a detailed synopsis and suggestions for assistance of the court before the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhhc-asks-admn-to-file-affidavit-on-sale-of-floor-wise-houses-101626463515252.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Manual scavenging in Ludhiana: FIR sought against MC officials||Spotting sewermen involved in manual scavenging without safety kits in Jugiana on Friday, Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission’s chairman Geja Ram Valmiki has sought legal action against the municipal corporation officials concerned who deployed them on the job.In a letter to deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma, Valmiki has sought an FIR against the officials under the SC/ST Act and Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. A copy of the complaint has also been forwarded to the chief secretary, Punjab director general of police (DGP), and Ludhiana commissioner of police. Valmiki was on a private visit to the city on Friday when he spotted the sewermen cleaning a manhole in Jugiana. Alarmed, he questioned the sewermen, who said MC officials had forced them to enter the manhole. “I immediately called up MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and apprised the chief secretary’s office about the incident. MC executive engineer Purshotam Singh reached the spot and denied having any information,” he said.“I have sought an FIR against the MC officials concerned as manual scavenging is banned. Several sewermen have died in the past after inhaling poisonous gases inside manholes and the civic body is still putting their lives in danger, which is not acceptable,” Valmiki said.Meanwhile, Purshotam Singh said they had not received any complaint from the area regarding choked sewer lines and the sewermen might have entered the manhole on a private request.Sabharwal said he had directed the officials to submit a report. Action will be taken as per the norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-scavenging-in-ludhiana-fir-sought-against-mc-officials-101626463514226.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Six years on, VB books Punjab Police inspector for corruption||After an investigation lasting for six years, the Vigilance Bureau (VB) has booked a controversial Punjab Police inspector under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act.A first information report (FIR) was lodged against Harinder Singh Chameli, now abstaining from duty at Tarn Taran district, at the Ferozepur vigilance police station on July 12.The VB probe stated that the accused cop amassed assets beyond his known sources of income from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2014.As per the calculations of the bureau, Chameli invested ₹1.09 crore, or 98% more than his earnings from various known sources, in the five-year window.Chameli was a sub-inspector and was posted as the SHO at Arniwala in Fazilka district when a man had submitted a complaint in 2015 to the police with details of Chameli’s properties, vehicles etc. A probe was recommended against the cop on July 30, 2015.As the investigation was delayed for six years, Chameli was promoted to the rank of inspector and stayed posted at various places.VB’s deputy superintendent of police Gurinderjit Singh, who probed the case, said the investigation was first initiated by the Fazilka district police and it was later referred to the economic offenses wing (EOW) before the bureau was finally tasked with the investigation.“We found that from 2009 to 20014, Chameli had an identified income of ₹1.11 crore, whereas he spent ₹2.2 crore on his own or in names of his family members. It was a clear case of corruption,” said the DSP.VB sleuth said a team raided the accused’s residence at Green Avenue in Faridkot and his posting place in Tarn Taran district, but Chameli has gone underground. Tarn Taran district police authorities have been alerted and the accused will soon be arrested for further investigation, said the DSP.Shady past Chameli is alleged to have political clout and he is facing several departmental inquiries. He was suspended in December 2015 for dereliction of duty in connection with the gruesome murder of Bheem Sain Tank in Abohar.In that sensational murder case, 24 persons, including the influential liquor trader and Akali leader Shiv Lal Doda, were awarded life imprisonment. Chameli, as then Bahavwala SHO, was charged for an alleged deliberate delay in registering the murder case against Tank’s attackers and ordering a rape case against him on the day of his murder.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said Chameli was posted at police lines but he is missing since July 12.“Chameli is facing three complaints of indiscipline and dereliction of duty in the district. His professional conduct remained questionable,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-years-on-vb-books-punjab-police-inspector-for-corruption-101626463454445.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police commissioner orders eateries to close by 11.30pm||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has prohibited eateries, restaurants, dhabas and hotels from operating beyond 11.30pm to avoid scuffles around midnight. Liquor vends have also been directed to shut down by 11pm.The police chief also imposed a ban on songs promoting consumption of liquor and drugs during live music concerts in the city. In the orders issued on Friday, Agrawal said such songs instigated clashes among the youth, and encouraged them to consume liquor and drugs. Singers performing such songs in live shows and organisers will invite police action.To deter spitting in open, the ban on sale of tobacco has been extended. The official said people spitting chewed tobacco could cause the spread of coronavirus in the city.Ban on acid saleThe ban on the open sale of acid has also been extended. Acid sellers have been directed to renew their licences timely and maintain records to avoid police action. Shopkeepers are required to collect photocopy of the identity proof of the buyer and not sell acid to customers below 18 years of age.Institutions and organisations, that use acid for different purposes, have been directed to maintain the record of acid use and depute nodal officers to ensure that the chemical is not used anywhere with wrong intentions.Security guards at ATMsThe police commissioner has ordered banks to depute security guards at ATMs from 8pm to 6am, failing which they will not be allowed to operate.Agrawal also asked parking lot contractors and their employees to keep a record of visitors parking their vehicles. He said after stealing vehicles from public places, thieves often hid them in parking lots. He directed the parking staff to report to police any vehicle left parked for over a week. All these orders will remain in effect for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-commissioner-orders-eateries-to-close-by-1130pm-101626463334552.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh logs 1 case, lowest since day after outbreak||Chandigarh on Friday recorded just one Covid-19 case and no fatality. After the first case had surfaced in the city on March 18 last year, there was no case reported the following day. However, since March 20, 2020, the daily infection tally has remained above one, according to the UT health department data.Meanwhile, the tricity reported no death due to the virus for the fifth consecutive day. The day’s infection tally stood at 12, with seven cases in Mohali district and four in Panchkula. July has seen both infection and death toll figures taking a plunge. Only nine people have died, including one each in Chandigarh and Panchkula. Even as Mohali has reported seven deaths, there has been none in the past five days.The tricity’s active caseload registered a further decline: from 159 on Thursday to 149 on Friday. Mohali has 69 infected patients, Chandigarh has 58 and Panchkula just 20.The recovery rate continues to remain over 98% across the three jurisdictions, while the daily positivity rate was below 0.63%, with Chandigarh reporting the lowest of 0.07%.Since the outbreak, Mohali has the highest caseload of 68,396, followed by Chandigarh with 61,862 and Panchkula with 30,629. Their death toll stands at 1,056, 809 and 375, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidchandigarh-logs-1-case-lowest-since-day-after-outbreak-101626463215281.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Resume dialogue with farmers: Capt to PM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resume dialogue with the agitating farmers and make efforts to resolve their issues citing the heightened cross-border threat and increased drone and other terrorist activities by ISI-backed groups, including plans by Khalistani outfits to target certain farmer leaders.The CM has proposed to lead an all-party delegation from Punjab for discussion with the Prime Minister to find a durable and amicable solution to the vexed problem of the prolonged farmer agitation, which is threatening the social fabric of the state and impacting the economic activities as well.In a letter to the Prime Minister, Amarinder warned that the powers across the border “may try to play upon the charged emotions of our proud, sincere, and hard-working farmers” of Punjab, which has a long and live international border.“The situation is presently under control but I fear that provocative statements and conduct of some political parties and the emotional backlash might create law and order problems and also lead to irreversible damage to the hard-earned peace in the state,” said the CM.he CM’s letter comes amid rising resentment in Punjab against farm laws, which he said he had asked to be reviewed even in his earlier DO letters of June and December 2020.It comes in the backdrop of increase in drone activity along the villages falling with 5-6 kms of Indo-Pak border in Punjab, with consignments of weapons and heroin being delivered into India by Pakistan. Intelligence reports also suggest that with the Assembly elections in Punjab just a few months away, ISI-led Khalistani and Kashmiri terror outfits are planning terrorist actions in the state in the near future.Besides the threat to the state’s socio-economic fabric due to the unrest caused by the Farm Laws, the day-to-day political activities in line with people’s democratic rights are also adversely affected due to the agitation, though the state government has tried its best to maintain law and order, said the CM.Highlighting some other issues and concerns of farmers which warranted immediate attention, Amarinder referred to his demi-official letter written to Modi on September 28, 2020 through which he sought to compensate the farmers for the additional cost of managing crop residues at the rate of Rs.100 per quintal of paddy, apart from Minimum Support Price as residue burning always remains a no-cost option for them.Noting that this is extremely important to prevent stubble burning in view of anticipated third wave of COVID-19, and its adverse impact on the health of people especially in this region of the country, the Chief Minister said these farmers also needed to be categorically reassured about their concerns regarding the provisioning of MSP and continued public procurement of wheat and paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resume-dialogue-with-farmers-capt-to-pm-101626463214283.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding truck snuffs out 50-year-old cyclist’s life in Ludhiana||A speeding truck mowed down a 50-year-old cyclist near the octroi post on Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road on Friday morning. The driver of the truck, Mangal Singh of Tajpur Road, tried to escape, but was nabbed by onlookers and handed over to the police.The victim, Ajay Sharma, a resident of Phullanwal, was a construction worker.His son Sonu Sharma, who lives in Barewal, told the police that his father had been living with him for some days. On Friday, his father left the house on his cycle around 8.30am to reach a construction site where he had picked up a job. But when he reached near the octroi post on Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road, a speeding truck hit him. The impact of the collision killed the victim on the spot.According to onlookers, even though the traffic movement was restricted on the road due to ongoing construction of flyovers, the truck driver was driving recklessly.Inspector Paramdeep Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sarabha Nagar police station, said the truck driver had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. He has been arrested and will be presented in court. This was the second such incident in the past four days involving a speeding truck.On July 12, a 25-year-old motorcyclist was killed after a tipper truck hit him near Gehlewal cut on Rahon Road. After the incident, a mob vandalised the truck and also tried to torch the vehicle. The mob had also pelted the police with stones when they tried to stop them. In the melee, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and a woman SHO had suffered injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-truck-snuffs-out-50-year-old-cyclist-s-life-in-ludhiana-101626463154337.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM orders suspended medical officer’s reinstatement||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered that suspended Haryana civil medical services (HCMS) officer and former Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur be reinstated pending an inquiry.However, orders for Dr Kaur’s formal reinstatement are yet to be issued by the health department, as the file containing the CM’s orders is “stuck” with health minister Anil Vij, said highly placed sources in the department.Dr Kaur’s suspension orders, signed by the superintendent health–1, additional chief secretary, health department, Haryana, were issued on the evening of July 6. “During the suspension period, her headquarters is fixed in the office of director general health services, Sector 6, Panchkula (sic),” the order stated. While an ex post facto (done after an action has been taken) approval was accorded on file by the CM, questions were raised about the tearing hurry shown by the health minister in ordering Dr Kaur’s suspension without sending the file to the competent authority — the CM. The CM, as per the Rules of Business of the state government, is the competent authority to place a Class-1 officer under suspension and also revoke such orders. Haryana speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had confirmed the suspension was fallout of personal reasons, as the civil surgeon had apparently “not followed” some directions given by the health minister. Two days later, Dr Kaur had written a letter to the additional chief secretary, health, requesting reinstatement. According to highly placed sources, it was on this application moved by the civil surgeon that the CM issued the directions for reinstatement, pending an inquiry. The final orders will be issued by the additional chief secretary after getting the health minister’s nod. If reinstated, Dr Kaur will be back as a medical administrative officer, but not necessarily as the Panchkula civil surgeon. Despite repeated attempts, Vij did not revert for a comment. Dr Kaur had taken charge as the Panchkula’s civil surgeon in February 2020, a month before the pandemic, and led the fight against it from the front. Upon the suspension, support poured for her from both the medical fraternity and local citizens.The Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of resident welfare associations in Panchkula, wrote to Khattar, Vij and Gupta, demanding that Dr Kaur be reinstated. Even Indian Medical Association’s Panchkula chapter questioned the way she was suspended without giving an opportunity to explain herself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-orders-suspended-medical-officer-s-reinstatement-101626463095545.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL slips from A+ to A in all-India ranking||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has slipped from A+ grade to A in the annual ranking report for the financial year 2020 released by the Union ministry of power recently.High cost of power purchase and non-payment of subsidy are the main reasons for the lower rating. Union minister of power RK Singh released the 9th annual report in the online meeting of Power Finance Corporation, comprising assessment of 41 electricity distribution companies (discoms), of the country. Gujarat discoms retained its top performance in the integrated ratings. In 2018-19 fiscal, the PSPCL got A+ rating due to the sale of surplus power of ₹1,183 crore to other states, earning a profit of ₹453 crore. The report then highlighted low transmission and distribution losses, timely tariff orders and audited reports as key strengths of the PSPCL.However, it raised concern over absolute subsidy dependence, high cost of power purchase and high employee costs.“Though the PSPCL has slipped in the rating, it is among the top 10 entities. The higher cost of power purchase is a concern and it’s because of fixed cost. In 2019-20 fiscal, for which the report has been issued, the PSPCL paid ₹1,510 crore as fixed charges to independent power plants without getting power. This is almost 43% of ₹3,521 crore fixed cost paid to independent power plants. When the PSPCL is paying almost 43% without getting power, the cost is set to rise,” said VK Gupta, spokesman of the All India Power Engineers Federation. He said that the PSPCL should work out a plan to avoid fixed cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-slips-from-a-to-a-in-all-india-ranking-101626463094522.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ban deals a blow to drone-driven enterprises in J&K||The ban on drones in Jammu and Kashmir, which was imposed after twin attacks on an Indian Air Force station on June 27, has dealt a severe blow to young entrepreneurs involved in drone photography and videography in the Union Territory. A number of educated youngsters in the region have made drone photography and videography their profession. Photographs and footage of a bird’s-eye view of the picturesque Kashmir valley are commissioned by film directors and advertisers. They are also used in tourism campaigns and marriage photography. Rumaan Hamdani, a 29-year-old entrepreneur, who runs a high-end studio for film production in Srinagar, says the ban had set them back at least six years. “Drone footage or a bird’s-eye view has become very popular in film making and promotions. Whenever people from the film industry came to the Valley to shoot, they would avail our services. We provided them with a drone as well as an operator.” Officials say decentralised airspace access has to be regulated in view of “recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure”.The drone ban is in force in Srinagar, Baramulla, Ganderbal and Bandipora districts in Kashmir division and Ramban, Samba, and Rajouri in Jammu division.Though the ban is already in place, the civil aviation ministry on July 16 issued Draft Drone Rules, 2021, seeking public consultation before notifying them to replace the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules issued in March. According to the draft rules, approvals for the unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, acceptance of existing drones, operator permits, authorisation of R&D organisation, student remote pilot licence, remote pilot instructor authorisation, drone port authorisation, etc have been abolished. ‘Only drones can do justice to the Valley’s beauty’For the past five years, drones have been increasingly used in aerial photography and videography by filmmakers, tourism stakeholders, professional landscape photographers and photojournalists. “Short films, documentaries, wedding events, tourism promotion, landscape photography and even line production in films, all need drones,” Hamdani said.“Only a drone can do justice to Kashmir’s beauty. The wide and vast landscapes can only be captured using these aerial cameras,” he said.This technologically advanced field had allowed youngsters to look beyond government-jobs, which are a major source of employment in the conflict-torn state.After years of applying for government job postings, Tufail Shah, a 30-year-old commerce graduate, decided to buy a camera, lenses and a drone in 2016 to produce videos and landscape photography for the ourism department.Earnings take a major hit“I made a respectable earning shooting in remote places, high-altitude lakes and meadows, which were visited by few people,” he said, adding that he and three other colleagues had been sitting idle since the ban was imposed.  “Most of my earnings would come from drones. We would earn ₹15,000 per person per day. For a short video of 3 minutes we would be paid around ₹50,000,” he said, adding that all of a sudden their source of income had dried up. He says the administration’s concerns over drone use are misplaced. “We use drones very responsibly, take permission and inform local police stations,” he said.Isam Wani, 32, a gymnasium owner and restaurateur, is a self-taught drone pilot who wants to showcase Kashmir’s beauty to the world. “People hardly see the beautiful side of Kashmir and drones help capture the unexplored parts of the Valley,” he said. ‘Govt should regulate usage, not ban it entirely’ He suggests that the government regulate drone operations by providing licenses to professionals and firms. Hamdani agrees. “We should be allowed to fly drones at places that are not sensitive. They can also make a list of professionals and allow restricted use,” he said.Drones are governed by the 1934 Aircraft Act and the 2021 Civil Aviation Rules already restrict flying UAVs in prohibited areas that are 3km from the perimeter of any civil, private, defence airports, military installations and facilities and state secretariat complex or within 2km from the perimeter of any strategic or vital installation, besides national parks and wildlife sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ban-deals-a-blow-to-drone-driven-enterprises-in-jk-101626462974306.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering case: HC grants interim bail to Goraya bizman Gaba||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted interim bail to Goraya-based businessman Chunni Lal Gaba in a money laundering case.The HC said Gaba will have to surrender his passport in a trial court within a week and will have to visit the local police station at least once in a fortnight. The HC order said the trail court will be at liberty to impose any other condition as it deems fit considering facts and circumstances of the case. The case has been listed in the high court on August 20. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had charge-sheeted nine members of the Gaba’s family associated with his 11 firms in connection with the 2013 Jagdish Bhola drug racket for alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED’s chargesheet had listed 11 firms, jointly owned by the Gaba family, and their properties at Phillaur, Goraya and Una (Himachal Pradesh). The ED had registered the case after former Punjab Police DSP and drug lord Jagdish Singh Bhola had in January 2014 accused Gaba of trading in synthetic drug pseudoephedrine in association with Delhi-based smuggler Varinder Raja. Gaba’s counsel had sought the bail saying that his 74-year-old client has been in judicial custody for more than 14 months and there is no chance of the him absconding during the proceedings. The counsel for ED opposed the bail saying that some of the co-accused, including Gaba’s his brother Mahesh Gaba, are absconding and his son Gurjit Kumar Gaba has been sentenced to 10-year imprisonment. The high court, while granting him interim bail, took into consideration that the trial of the case has not made much headway, as some of the accused are still absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-case-hc-grants-interim-bail-to-goraya-bizman-gaba-101626462914584.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu meets Sonia ahead of state Congress revamp||Amid growing tension in the Punjab Congress, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who is trying to resolve factionalism in the state unit ahead of the assembly elections due early next year. Sidhu’s meeting with Sonia at her residence, where former party president Rahul Gandhi was also present, came as the central leadership is on the verge of finalising the revamp of the state unit. The former minister’s early morning departure for Delhi heightened the expectations of his supporters who seemed confident of an announcement of his elevation to the state chief’s post in the afternoon and even put up hoardings in Amritsar, thanking the party leadership, but they will have to wait. There has been no word from the Congress or Sidhu on what transpired at the meeting or when the announcement of the new state body would be made. “I had come to submit my report on Punjab to the Congress chief. As soon as any decision is taken by the party president, I will share the details,” All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, who also attended the meeting, told journalists after the hour-long meeting. He refused to give any direct answer to a query about Sidhu’s likely appointment as the state Congress president. Clamour for Hindu state chief As party circles remained abuzz with speculation about the appointment of Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, as the new head of the state unit and its probable timing, a section of the party leaders pushed for a Hindu face. Senior party leader and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari was the first to put out a tweet on Friday on the issue. He gave the demographic details of the state, mentioning that Sikhs form 57.75% of the population, while Hindus and Dalits (Sikh and Hindus) constitute 38.49% and 31.94%, respectively. “Punjab is both progressive and secular, but balancing social interest groups is the key. Equality is the foundation of social justice!” he tweeted, tagging the Congress, Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs. His party colleagues, Anish Sidana and Pawan Dewan, were more direct about the neglect of leaders from the community. Sidana, a former member of the Kandi Area Development Board, said there was a feeling that they were not needed, asking the party leadership why they are giving the post of CM and PPCC chiefs to Jat Sikhs and fielding them from urban seats. “What Manish Tewari put demography of Punjab wider picture Jat Sikh 22% 78% others including Hindus, Arora khatri Sikh, Dalit, OBC,” he tweeted. Similarly, Dewan, chairman of the Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, also asked the Congress leadership about the representation of the Hindu community on key posts in the state unit. “Punjab Congress president – Jat Sikh (if Sidhu gets the post). CM-Jat Sikh. Punjab Youth Congress president-Jat Sikh. Campaign Committee chairman- Jat Sikh (Name of a Jat Sikh is being considered) Hindu kaha hai (where is representation from Hindu community),” he tweeted. If the party chooses to name Sidhu as the new state chief as is being speculated, there will be Jat Sikhs on both top posts. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is also a Jat Sikh. On July 1, the chief minister had held a meeting with leaders from urban areas, mostly Hindus, who demanded that the post of PPCC chief should go to a Hindu and better representation be given in the state unit and the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-meets-sonia-ahead-of-state-congress-revamp-101626462737477.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||In meet with PM Modi, CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks national policy to contain crowd||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, during the virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and five other state CMs on Friday, insisted on a comprehensive national policy by the Central government to prevent crowding for political events, protests and religious programmes amid the threat of a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He also sought additional stock of vaccine and pressed for adequate arrangement of oxygen upto 2000 metric tonnes in case the third wave hits Maharashtra. He also said that the Centre should take steps to reduce the prices of the monoclonal antibodies’ drugs.Thackeray said controlling crowding at public places owing to political-religious programmes has become a challenge and a national policy to regulate crowding is the need of the hour. He said people are venturing out of their homes in large numbers not only in Maharashtra, but across the country. “Revenge tourism and revenge shopping are gaining momentum, as people are venturing out in large numbers. The crowding at the public places to attend political and religious functions has been alarming. The state governments should take steps to control the crowd, but a national policy on crowd management is necessary,” Thackeray said.Thackeray’s demand is seen as his response to the Centre frequently flagging Maharashtra as one of the worst-affected states. Leaders of the ruling MVA coalition allege the BJP-ruled states are not transparent in revealing Covid case data, but they are not asked about it. The Assembly elections in five states and religious events like Kumbh Mela are being blamed for spike in Covid cases in some states.Thackeray also pressed for the supply of 2000 metric tonnes of oxygen to Maharashtra from the neighbouring states if the third wave hit the state. “As per the projection, Maharashtra could need at least 4000 MT of oxygen during the third wave. We are augmenting our production capacity to 2000MT, the supply of the remaining stock from the steel plants in Bhilai, Jamnagar, Bellary would help in meeting the requirement. Centre should ensure that the additional requirement is met from the central pool of oxygen. Maharashtra has planned for the installation of the 530 PSA oxygen plant covering each of the districts and a plan is in place for the district wise management of the oxygen,” he said.The Maharashtra government has been continuously batting for the additional supply of the vaccine doses to meet the target of vaccination of the 70% population or around 90 million people at the earliest. The state recently passed a resolution in the legislature demanding the supply of 30 million doses per month as the state has planned to vaccinate more than 1 million people a day. In this backdrop, Thackeray said that 8 to 10 worst affected districts in western Maharashtra and Konkan need 20.6 million doses to the population above 18 years. “8.79 million doses have been administered in these districts. To inoculate the entire eligible population above 18 years to reduce the infection rate, we will need an additional stock of 30 million doses,” he said.Maharashtra has administered 38,862,466 doses with 30,033,080 people given at least one dose until Friday evening.Thackeray also said that the number of cases in the state is dipping, although the virus curve has not touched its baseline. He also pressed for the need to set up centres of excellence by the central government for the management of the post Covid complications. He also requested Modi to regulate the prices of the key medicines which are utilised to treat coronavirus. Maharashtra CM has also requested the PM to take steps to reduce the prices of monoclonal antibodies drugs, which are effective in Covid-19 treatment, but their prices are the cause for concern. Thackeray said if projected the need of such drugs for 50,000 patients in the third wave, the burden could be ₹300 crore as the drugs cost around ₹60,000 a dose. The Centre should intervene to ensure that the prices are reduced and the drugs are easily available,” he said.Thackeray also apprised the PM about the steps taken by Maharashtra government for the management of the second wave. The CM said that besides setting up task force the industrial sector, the state is taking steps for awareness among the people over the use of masks and following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-meet-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-national-policy-to-contain-crowd-101626462737990.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP gen secy alleges scam in food distribution scheme, demands probe||General secretary of the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Parveen Bansal, on Friday alleged large scale bungling in the food distribution scheme for the needy.While demanding high-level probe in the matter from state as well as central agencies, Bansal said that they have gone through the details of Garib Kalyan Yojana beneficiaries uploaded on the central portal of the food and civil supplies department and names and details of 40 out of 700 beneficiaries were found out to be fake in Ludhiana in the central constituency.“If in one small pocket of a constituency has 40 fake beneficiaries, then imagine the magnitude of the scam at the state level,” Basal alleged .Bansal, while showing alleged fake names on the list of beneficiaries during a press conference at the circuit house in Ludhiana, said that there were many cards wherein the principal beneficiaries are Hindu while remaining family members are shown to be having Sikh and Muslim names. He said that the party members tried to trace these beneficiaries, but their address and mobile number were not available on the government portal.He said that he will be accompanying the BJP delegation to bring the issue to the notice of Union Minister Piyush Goyal.Despite repeated attempts, district food and supply controller Harveen Kaur was not available for comments. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from the Ludhiana Central constituency Surinder Dawar said the allegations are baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-gen-secy-alleges-scam-in-food-distribution-scheme-demands-probe-101626462679237.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||SSC results in Maharashtra: More than 50% students hit by server crash||For more than 50% Class 10 students of the state board, chaos, panic and anxiety were prolonged for hours on Friday, as the results server crashed, leaving them clueless about their scores till late evening. The results were announced on the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education’s (MSBSHSE) website – http://result.mh-ssc.ac.in – at 1pm. The server, however, crashed within a few hours and remained out of service till late night on Friday. Board officials told HT that several lakhs of students tried accessing their results at the same time, causing the server to crash. The schools had sent marks of over 15.75 lakh secondary school certificate (SSC) students to the board this year, of which over 15.74 lakh passed the exam. After receiving series of complaints from students across the state, the board officials called for a meeting of officials on Friday evening. Details of the meeting, however, were not made public. “Several of our students had gathered at the school around 1pm and several waited around on campus till 6pm, without any results. By 10pm on Friday, over 50% of our batch still had no results,” said the principal of a state board school in the suburbs. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday evening called for an inquiry into the issue. “Every year there is a delay in accessing results, but this year it has gone too far. Students were unable to access their individual results till 6pm in some cases. The board needs to look into this issue,” said Gaikwad in a statement released to the press. Gaikwad tweeted an apology to all SSC students later in the day and assured a permanent solution so that such an incident doesn’t recur in the future. “Most had managed to check their results by evening and no other major complaints were received by the board otherwise,” said a spokesperson for the Maharashtra state board. However, post 5pm, none of the board officials were available for a comment. Fifteen-year-old Anusha Lad had come to her school in Dadar to inquire about her result through the institute and ended up leaving the school to head back home by 5:30pm without knowing her result. “It was only around 6pm when our school principal called me to inform that I have topped the school that I came to know my score—99.40%. It was an unexpected year, we were the first online school batch, and it took great efforts from the school as well for us to be able to complete the academics in time with the new teaching pattern. I want to take up Arts and aspire to get admission in a good college, but with the uncertainty regarding the upcoming common entrance test (CET) and admissions, we are just keeping our fingers crossed now,” said Lad, a student of Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar. Parents too were struggling through the day. “This has anyway been a difficult year for students who were already very anxious about results. The problem is the state board did not account for the fact that all 15 lakh anxious students will be accessing results at the same time, and therefore it led for the server to crash. Someone has to take responsibility for adding to the stress of students,” said Regina Fernandes, mother of an SSC student from Andheri. Her daughter could finally access her result at 6pm and has scored 89% in the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sscresults-in-maharashtra-more-than-50-students-hit-by-server-crash-101626462677535.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Now, free NTSE coaching at block level as well||With online coaching classes for the National Talent Search Exam becoming popular among students at the district-level, the district education department has now decided to provide free coaching for Class-10 students at the block level as well.Over 3,000 students are currently being trained at the school level and a screening test for them will be held next week.Those who perform well at the block level will then be shifted to district level.Over 415 Class-10 students are attending online coaching classes everyday at district-level to crack the exam. The mentors are also holding regular tests to assess their performance and boost their confidence.Students who qualify in both stages of the NTSE are eligible for an annual scholarship of ₹15,000 ( ₹1,250 per month) for two years (Classes 11 to 12) and ₹2,000 per month at the undergraduate level.District education officer (secondary) Lakhvir Singh, said, “In the last two years, four students from government schools have cleared the NTSE stage 1 and more have the potential to do so. So, we decided to provide them free coaching at block-level also. At the district-level coaching, there has been an overwhelming response from the students. The mentors are making all efforts to ensure the best possible results.”To conduct the zoom meetings, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has sent a grant of ₹29,146 to 19 blocks of the district.Gurpreet Kaur, a science teacher at a government school, said, “From our school, five students are attending the coaching at district-level and we are in touch with them. All of them are satisfied with the training and are eager for physical classes to begin. I ensure that the students are regular to class and clear their doubts through video calls, so that they can improve their score in the upcoming tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-now-free-ntse-coaching-at-block-level-as-well-101626462677017.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patwaris go on strike in Ludhiana, visitors left harried||Members of the Revenue Patwaris Union and Kanungos of the Punjab revenue department went on strike on Friday, leaving visitors at the receiving end. People visiting for registry, revenue work and land records returned disappointed as patwaris remained on protest from 11am to 2pm at the mini-secretariat. “I travelled 30km for land registration, but was told to return on Monday. This is sheer harassment. The government must either resolve the employees’ issues or provide alternatives to avoid inconvenience to the public,” said Gurkipral Singh, who came from Payal.Harjeet Singh from Doraha, who needed a copy of a land record, said he waited till 2pm for the employees to return, but had to leave empty handed.Raising slogans, the patwaris demanded hiring of 3,000 employees and reduction in probation period of contractual employees to two years. They also sought proper workstations with laptops. “We will continue our agitation till the government fulfils our demands. We will stage a protest on every Thursday and Friday from 11am to 2pm and the government will be responsible for the inconvenience faced by visitors,” said Varinder Pal, general secretary of the Revenue Patwaris Union, Tehsil East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patwaris-go-on-strike-in-ludhiana-visitors-left-harried-101626462615162.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Locals nab snatchers, police squabble over jurisdiction||A chase by an alert resident ended three snatchers’ spree, but what followed was police quarrelling over the jurisdiction to lodge an FIR and arrest them as confused residents watched.On Thursday, the accused had tried to snatch a woman’s purse near Vishwakarma Chowk, which falls under the ambit of Miller Ganj police station. A scooterist chased them as they drove into Sukhram Nagar in their attempt to flee. Onlookers spotted his pursuit and helped the man nab the trio.The Police Control Room was informed and cops arrived after 45 minutes, only to start a debate on who takes the snatchers’ custody as they were nabbed in Sukhram Nagar, which falls under the Division Number 2 police station, said Vishal Joshi, a resident.It was only after senior police officials were informed that the Miller Ganj police apprehended the accused and lodged an FIR.Residents said if police sought people’s cooperation to deter crime, they should be quick in their response, as criminals could even hurt them with concealed weapons.ASI Balbir Singh, in-charge at Miller Ganj police post, said they had arrested the accused. “The motorcycle recovered from the accused is also suspected to be stolen. Further investigation is underway,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-locals-nab-snatchers-police-squabble-over-jurisdiction-101626462554144.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, Cong tug at Himachal’s apple heartland ahead of bypoll||Up until the mid-80s Himachal Pradesh’s apple heartland, Jubbal-Kotkhai, was the epicentre of the hill state’s politics with two former heavyweight chief ministers – Thakur Ram Lal and Virbhadra Singh – representing the high-profile constituency. With bypolls round the corner, the constituency is buzzing with political activity as the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party try to capture the seat, which fell vacant when Narinder Bragta, the incumbent horticulture minister, passed away due to post-Covid complications. The political tussle has brought orchardists’ issues to the centre stage. Even though Himachal’s farming community laid low when the farmers’ protests rocked the country, they have increasingly been plagued with challenges, particularly inflation caused due to the coronavirus pandemic. Hot button issues: Cost of packaging, state of roads  Orchardists say, of late, the price of packaging material has increased by 25%. Now, growers have to shell out ₹67 for the premium carton, which used to cost ₹53. They say the price of cartons is yet to come down despite horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur’s assurances. “The rate of trays used inside the cartons has also increased by around ₹50- ₹70. This massive hike is burdening orchardists,” says Progressive Growers’ Association president Lokinder Singh Bisht. Growers rue that there has been more politics on the state of the road than work to improve connectivity. The poor state of roads has been the hot button issue in almost all elections but little has been done to improve the state of the Theog-Hatkoti Road, which leads to Rohru and also passes through Jubbal-Kotkhai, thereby connecting the apple belt. The government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the World Bank in 2007 to improve the road. The foundation stone had been laid by the then chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal in 2008. However, only 18% of the road was completed during Dhumal’s regime, around 74% of the work was completed during the regime of the Virbhadra Singh-led government, and the remaining 8% work remains pending during chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s regime. Upgrading Tikkar in Jubbal-Kotkhai to a tehsil ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 failed to bear fruit as the staff is yet to be appointed. The Public Work Division in Kotkhai is in the same boat. Fruit, Vegetables and Flower Growers’ Association of Himachal Pradesh president Harish Chauhan says, “The state government should ensure good road connectivity during the apple season. Many roads, especially link roads, are in poor shape.”Weather gives the cold shoulder Untimely snowfall in April this year had cost the orchardists dear as around 60% of the crop had been damaged due to snow, hailstorms and rainfall. The state government had promised relief to orchardists in the aftermath, but none seems forthcoming . Orchardists have also demanded that the government increase apples’ rates under the market intervention scheme. The kingmaker constituency The Congress, BJP and the CPI(M) are keen on winning the constituency, which has the reputation of being a kingmaker. Veteran politician Thakur Ram Lal had became the second chief minister of Himachal Pradesh in 1977 and then 1980, while six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who had breathed his last on July 8, had contested three elections from his home turf, but lost in 1990. He was elected to the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha from the Jubbal Kotkhai constituency in 1957. Later, he was re-elected to the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha from the same constituency in 1962, 1967, 1977, 1980, and 1982. While the BJP is planning on pitching Bragta’s son Chetan, Congress is backing former CM Thakur Ram Lal’s grandson, Rohit Thakur. The CPI(M) is also carefully weighing its options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-cong-tug-at-himachal-s-apple-heartland-ahead-of-bypoll-101626462194225.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||CM Jai Ram doles out sops for Jubbal-Kotkhai ahead of bypoll||With an on the Jubbal-Kotkhai byelection, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday doled out sops for the assembly segment in Shimla district on Friday.  The CM said sub-divisional magistrate offices will be opened in Jubbal as well as Kotkhai and the procurement price for apple will be enhanced by ₹1 per kilogram under the market intervention scheme.He also announced opening of a block development office at Kotkhai, a fire sub-station at Tikkar sub-tehsil at Kalbog and shifting of the sub-tehsil office and police station, Sawara (Saraswati Nagar) to the new building of the HP Power Corporation Ltd.He said ₹ 20 lakh each will be provided to the nine newly created panchayats in the Rohru and Jubbal-Kotkhai Vidhan Sabha area for construction of panchayat bhawans.The CM paid tribute to former minister Narinder Bragta and remembered his contribution to the apple belt of the state. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said apple growers used to be fleeced by the commission agents at different markets across the country, but now several markets had come up in the state due to the efforts of the BJP governments. He said that ₹ 20 crore each had been sanctioned for the construction of fruit and vegetable markets at Mehandli (Rohru) and Bhattakuffar (Shimla). Segment meted out step motherly treatment: Rohit Thakur Meanwhile, slamming the BJP government, former Congress MLA from the Jubbal-Kotkhai segment Rohit Thakur, who is the son of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur, said the constituency had been overlooked over the last three-and-a-half years. “Now, that elections are around the corner the BJP is making tall claims about development, which never actually took place,” Thakur said, adding that the highest Covid cases had been reported in the region, while the BJP leaders remained oblivious. He accused the ministers of being “political tourists” who only visited the area when elections are in the offing. He said the BJP was started making empty promises to the people of Jubbal-Kotkhai. “The Prem Kumar Dhumal-led BJP government (2007-2012) had set aside ₹1,600 crores for Jubbal-Kotkhai but nothing materialised on ground. Similarly, the BJP government has not filled the posts it had created over the last two years. The promise of a trauma centre in Kotkhai has also proved hallow.” “Jubbal Kotkhai got nothing under the Central Road Fund, NABARD Schemes and World Bank funded projects,” he said, adding that farmers who lost their crop due to unseasonal hailstorm and rain were still awaiting compensation. The ₹ 1,134 crore horticulture project was the fruition of Congress’ efforts, but the ruling government is taking credit for it. Meanwhile, three controlled atmosphere stores sanctioned for the area the subsidy on fungicides, and insecticides was were shelved, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cmjai-ram-doles-out-sops-for-jubbal-kotkhai-ahead-of-bypoll-101626461959188.html
17-07-2021||Other||Death during rural poll duty: Decks cleared for ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||Lucknow: The decks have been cleared for ex-gratia of ₹30 lakh each to the families of 2020 government personnel who died of Covid-19 during duty in the panchayat elections in April-May. The panchayati raj department has sent the list of all such employees to the state election commission, asking it to provide ₹30 lakh each to their dependents as per the government policy. “A total of 3078 applications were received through district magistrates for compensation after the government issued revised guidelines in this regard on June 1 and 2020 claims were found to be genuine,” additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said. He said the government had already made ₹300 crore available to the commission. Earlier in May, the state cabinet cleared a proposal seeking amendments to the rules to change the definition of poll duty to cover more and more claimants. The previous rules covered the election poll period of only one day—the day when the staff did the election duty. The government increased the election duty period from one day to 30 days which meant if any staff died of Covid within 30 days of the election duty, his family would be entitled to ₹30 lakh ex-gratia payment as compensation. Under the guidelines existing then, only 74 personnel were found to have died during poll duty, 40 of them due to pandemic. Kumar said 50% of the personnel who died of Covid-19 in poll duty were teachers. “Of the 11 lakh employees deployed for poll duty, around 6 lakh were teachers,” he said, giving the reason for higher of number of deaths of teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-during-rural-poll-duty-decks-cleared-for-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101626461953626.html
17-07-2021||Other||30 million in Maharashtra received first Covid-19 dose||Even as Maharashtra became the first state in India to administer the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to over 30 million citizens on Friday, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has asked officials to thoroughly prepare for a possible third wave.On Friday, 616,476 people were vaccinated in the state, taking the total number of beneficiaries who received the first dose to 30,047,487. The number of people who are fully vaccinated stands at 8,837,859.“We are also leading in terms of fully vaccinated people. If the Centre gives us more doses, we will soon reach the milestone of crossing the 10 million fully-vaccinated mark,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.In the meeting, Thackeray directed commissioners and collectors of various districts to ensure that economic activities do not suffer during the third wave. “The authorities need to plan and ensure that economic activities do not face any hurdles during the third wave. They must take steps to see that the third wave does not take place and even if it does, then steps should be taken to ensure that economic cycle is not disrupted and livelihoods of the citizens are protected,” said Thackeray.CM instructed the officials to prevent crowding of people, ramping up of testing facilities and also coming down on people gathering at tourist spots. He also cautioned that the second wave in still not over and this period should be utilised to take steps to prevent the third wave. He said that though the new Covid-19 cases have reduced across the state, some districts continue to record surge in the infections.In the backdrop of the shortage of vaccines, the Delta Plus mutant and the impending third wave, Thackeray said officials should take steps like declaring areas with high cases as containment zones, isolating patients and insisting on Covid-appropriate behaviour.According to Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, the third wave in inevitable. “The history of any pandemic – measles, plague, influenza and cholera – show that they witnessed multiple waves and abated with the passage of time. The focus now should be micro containment where if higher number of cases is found in a locality, then it should be strictly locked up and patients must be treated,” said Dr Shaikh.Meanwhile on Friday, Mumbai reported 443 new cases and 11 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 6,197,018, of which Mumbai’s share is 730,234. The total fatalities in the state have reached 126,727, with Pune recording most deaths at 17,609, followed by Mumbai (15,678) and Thane (10,627). On Friday, 215,406 were conducted in the state and 13,452 recoveries were clocked.The active patients in Maharashtra currently stand at 101,337, of which Pune tops with 17,097 cases, followed by Thane (15,826) and Mumbai (10,913).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-million-in-maharashtra-received-first-covid-19-dose-101626461893681.html
17-07-2021||Other||Mumbai Police book Bollywood producer Bhushan Kumar for rape||DN Nagar police at Andheri registered a rape case against Bollywood producer Bhushan Kumar on Friday after a 30-year-old woman claimed that she was sexually assaulted by the T-Series managing director on the pretext of offering work in their projects.Kumar has denied the allegations and claimed that the complainant has worked for the T-Series banner in films and music videos.According to the complainant, she had approached Kumar in September 2017 after one of her acquaintances told her that he could provide her work in T-Series’ projects.She claimed that Kumar then gave her his personal contact number and asked her to call him the next day. When she did so, he asked her to download an app and contact him through it.She alleged that on October 14, 2017, Kumar had called her at his bungalow at Andheri (West) for discussing work-related issues and raped her. He told her she would have to “compromise” if she wanted to enter the film industry. He also told her that he had video-recorded the act and threatened to make the video viral, if she revealed the incident to anyone.The woman has claimed that Kumar continued to exploit her even after the incident on the pretext of providing her with work in T-Series projects, and her ordeal continued till last August.She added that she did not lodge a complaint so far against the film producer as she was frightened, and also thought that no action would be taken against him as he is an influential Bollywood producer.It was only after one of her colleagues encouraged her that she mustered the courage to lodge a police complaint against Bhushan, she claimed.“We have registered a case under sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said senior inspector Milind Kurde of DN Nagar police station.Kumar’s team has issued a statement denying the allegations.“The complaint filed against Mr Bhushan Kumar is completely false and malicious and the contents of the same are denied,” read the statement. “It has been falsely alleged that the lady in question was sexually exploited between 2017 and 2020 on the pretext of giving her work,” it added, and claimed that the complainant “has already worked for T-Series banner in film and music videos.”The statement added that around March, the complainant had approached Kumar seeking help to fund one of the web-series which she wanted to produce, which was “politely” refused to. “Thereafter in June, after the lifting of lockdown in Maharashtra, she started approaching the T-Series banner in collusion with her accomplice demanding a huge sum of money as extortion amount. Consequently, a complaint was filed by T-Series against the attempted extortion with Amboli police station on July 1. We also have evidence in the form of audio-recording for the extortion attempt and the same shall be provided to the investigating agency. The present complaint filed by her is nothing but a counter blast to the complaint filed against her and her accomplice for the offence of extortion (sic),” read the statement from Kumar’s team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-book-bollywood-producer-bhushan-kumar-for-rape-101626461833647.html
17-07-2021||Lucknow||July positivity rate very low but aggressive testing must continue: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said it was a matter of satisfaction that in July so far, the Covid positivity rate in the state had been a mere 0.04%. He said the state on Friday launched a 10-day focused Covid-19 testing campaign focusing five days each in rural and urban areas.Yogi also asked for stepping up vigil and testing at railways stations, bus stations, and airports, saying: “It is observed that often people and groups coming in the state from other states are testing positive to Covid,” the CM said at a high-level Covid review meeting here.The chief minister said the state had so far carried out 6.18 crore Covid sample tests. Although the Covid situation in the state was well in control, aggressive testing must continue because it was being observed that people entering UP from other states were testing positive.“Aligarh, Hathras, Kasganj, Lalitpur, Mahoba and Shravasti are the districts in the state with zero active Covid cases. On Thursday, 38 districts did not report any fresh Covid cases while 36 reported fresh cases in single digit. Lucknow is the only district in the state that reported fresh cases in double-digit,” he said.Yogi said in the last 24 hours, 2.60 lakh Covid tests were carried out, 88 fresh cases were reported, 140 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The state had 1,339 active cases of which 1,118 were in home isolation and the recovery rate was 98.6%, he added.“Covid vaccination is going on well in the state and so far 3.95 crore doses have been administered in the state of which 3.32 crore are first doses,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/july-positivity-rate-very-low-but-aggressive-testing-must-continue-yogi-101626461774211.html
17-07-2021||Other||Bundelkhand gets another mega project, UPSIDA allots land||The Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) allotted a 25-acre plot to Shalvis Specialities Limited in Sumerpur Industrial Area of Hamirpur district in Bundelkhand region. All the clearances were given on priority basis, said the authority in an official statement released on Friday. Shalvis Specialties Limited would set up a manufacturing unit of pesticides and specialty chemicals on the allotted land. The proposed project was worth ₹250 crore which would create 1500 jobs and the production at the plant was expected to begin in next five years, the UPSIDA statement said. Shalvis Specialities, a subsidiary of India Pesticides, has already established a manufacturing unit of fungicides, herbicides and pesticides formulations in UPSIDA industrial area at Sandila in Hardoi district in central UP. The project has been categorised as a mega one as it produced key inputs for agriculture, along with food processing, which has been identified as the thrust sector in the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy-2017 (IIEPP-2017). Bundelkhand region has already attracted Hindustan Unilever which has recently been allotted land in this area. Unilever also plans to invest ₹364 crore in the region that would provide employment to nearly 700 people. The UPSIDA said that such big-ticket projects indicated that Bundelkhand was rising as an industrial hub in lines with the vision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bundelkhand-gets-another-mega-project-upsida-allots-land-101626461353724.html
17-07-2021||Other||Vaccine-loaded syringes in dustbin case: HC rejects anticipatory bail plea of accused||The Allahabad high court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by one Niha Khan who, while working as an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) at Jamalpur urban primary health centre of Aligarh district, had allegedly thrown 29 Covid vaccine-loaded syringes in a dustbin in May this year. Justice Rahul Chaturvedi dismissed the anticipatory bail application filed by Khan.According to the petitioner, she was framed by her co-workers because of personal rivalry. Additional advocate general Manish Goyal and additional government advocate AK Sand appearing for the state government opposed the plea on the ground that the incident wasn’t just a mistake or negligence on the part of accused. Rather wasted dosages linked to Aadhaar cards of public showed that as per the record, the vaccines were administered to the public but actually they were thrown in the dustbin, they argued.The court after hearing the concerned parties dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Niha Khan. To recall, on May 30, an FIR was registered after district health officials came to know about the alleged incident and a two-member inquiry committee was set up to look into the matter.The committee found that Niha Khan was guilty of vaccine wastage and “malpractice and indiscipline”. Vaccination in-charge Aarfeen Zehra was also booked as she allegedly failed to inform the authorities despite allegedly coming to know of the alleged incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccineloaded-syringes-in-dustbin-case-hc-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-accused-101626461115868.html
17-07-2021||Lucknow||Al-Qaeda terror module: ATS takes custody of 3 more suspects||Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday took custody of three terror suspects— Shakeel Hussain, Mohammed Mustakeem and Mohammed Mueed—arrested in Lucknow on Wednesday for further interrogation after a local court allowed their seven-day custody remand, said senior UP ATS officials here.They are allegedly linked to the alleged Al-Qaeda module busted by ATS in Lucknow on Sunday (July 11). A senior police official privy to the investigation said the trio was arrested for assisting two other terror suspects Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen, who were arrested on Sunday, in arranging a pistol and were aware about their planning to carry out serial blasts in the state.He said the trio will be brought face-to-face with two previously arrested terror suspects Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen, who are already in ATS custody for 14 days since Tuesday. All five suspects will be cross-questioned before one another as Minhaz and Maseerudeen are not answering the questions properly and giving misleading facts to the investigators, he added. Sharing further details, UP additional director general (ADG) of police Prashant Kumar said the trio will be quizzed about the gang through which they arranged a pistol for Minhaz Ahmad. He said the ATS took their custody from Lucknow jail authorities at around 6 pm. He said the trio was lodged in Lucknow district jail after they were sent to judicial custody on court’s directives on Thursday.Earlier, the ATS had claimed to have busted an allegedly Al-Qaeda terror linked module in Lucknow on Sunday. The ATS claimed that the five terror suspects held in this connection were radicalised after watching online videos. He said Minhaz and his accomplices were planning to assemble bombs with gunpowder and other things easily available in the market to carry out serial blasts in Lucknow as well as other parts of the state before Independence Day (August 15).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/alqaeda-terror-module-ats-takes-custody-of-3-more-suspects-101626460993595.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Strong showers on weekend may help cut rain deficit: IMD||Despite a slow start to the monsoon in the Capital, a probable spell of heavy showers over the weekend is likely to help the city cover its rainfall deficiency for July significantly, the weather office said on Friday.The city received strong showers for two days, as the monsoon arrived on July 13, 16 days behind schedule. However, since Thursday, the showers have mostly halted, and Delhi has seen only traces of rain. The India Meteorological Department, which got a series of predictions wrong over the arrival of the monsoon in the last month, has now forecast heavy rainfall over the weekend and issued an “orange” alert.According to IMD, the monsoon season officially lasts from June 1 to September 30. “While the usual monsoon onset date in Delhi and NCR is June 27, the season’s maximum rainfall activity is observed between July 10 and end-August. Though rains continue in September as well, their intensity and continuity reduce. Like the first two days of monsoon [in the city, between July 13 and 14], if we get a few more such spells, the deficit for July will be covered,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. The Safdarjung observatory, the official marker for the city’s weather, received only traces (up to 2.4mm) of rainfall on Thursday and Friday. Additionally, the lack of rain has led to hot and humid days.On Friday, the maximum temperature was 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season’s normal, and up from 36.6°C on Thursday.Independent weather forecasters said that the withdrawal of monsoon may be late. Delhi received only 33% of its usual rainfall on July 13, the day monsoon arrived. This has now gone up to around 50%, and the shortfall may get covered with a good spell of rain expected between July 18 and July 21.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said that while Delhi is likely to cover a large part of its rainfall deficit in the next four days, July is still likely to record only “near normal” monsoon showers.“Delhi might still record a deficit by July-end. We are, however, likely to see good rains in August, and there is a possibility that monsoon withdraws late this year,” he said.IMD officials, however, said it is “too early” to predict the withdrawal of the monsoon, since long-range forecasts are generally inaccurate.Early or late withdrawal of the monsoon doesn’t necessarily depend on the date of the onset. Last year, the monsoon arrived two days ahead of schedule (on June 25) but withdrew on September 25, even as most of that month saw little rain. “Similarly in 2019, monsoon arrived slightly behind schedule (July 5) but withdrew on October 8,” said a senior IMD official.According to IMD officials, for the monsoon to be considered normal, cumulative rainfall received for the monsoon season must be 650 mm (or 65 cm). “If the total rainfall received is 20% less than normal, it is considered ‘below normal’,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/strong-showers-on-weekend-may-help-cut-delhi-s-rain-deficit-imd-101626460694087.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||‘Blasts’ on Pink Line coach were common tech snag, clarifies DMRC||A “miscommunication” within the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resulted in five passengers waiting for the last Pink Line Metro train at Mayur Vihar Phase-1 boarding a train meant for “stabling” (stationed for the night), and walking on the tracks to return to the station to catch the right train. While social media posts claimed there were “three blasts”, officials dismissed it as common occurrence of panto flashing — when foreign materials come in contact with the pantograph and overhead wires.“...Five passengers mistakenly boarded this train and they had to be de-boarded and brought to the platform to board the designated last train,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.A five-second video of the incident uploaded on social media by a resident also showed sparks in the overhead wires.“There was a blast over the Mayur Vihar Phase-I Metro line. There were three blasts on the overhead electrical wires. The Metro has been halted for over 30 minutes and there are a few passengers inside the train,” tweeted one Preeti Nahar late Thursday night.DMRC said “no such incident has taken place which compromises the safety of any of its passengers”.“The blast being referred to in the tweet video is a common phenomenon known as panto flashing, which happens due to several external factors such as rain, foreign material etc coming in contact with the pantograph of the train and OHE (overhead electrification) during movement and in no way causes any safety concern or disruption to services,” Dayal said. Pantograph flashes occur with a transit system that operates with overhead power. It often erupts in flashes during rains, thunderstorms or when a foreign object comes in contact with the overhead wires, but this does no harm to the system because of the multiple safety insulation layers around the electric wiring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blasts-on-delhi-metro-pink-line-coach-were-common-tech-snag-clarifies-dmrc-after-video-goes-viral-101626460693517.html
17-07-2021||Other||Over 94,000 phones reported stolen to Delhi Police blacklisted||More than 94,000 mobile phones that were reported stolen to the Delhi Police through first information reports (FIRs) have been blacklisted and their International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers blocked by the Central Equipment Identity Register (CEIR), a project the central government launched last year. This means that the stolen phones may have become useless for the thieves or the people who illegally purchased them, as handsets of blocked IMEI numbers cannot access any network anywhere in India, said senior police officers privy to the development. “In case the thief or the new user of the stolen phone tries to activate any new SIM card in the blacklisted phone, the CEIR portal will share data with the police to help them trace the stolen phone. It will also destabilize the gray market of stolen phones. As of now, the portal is open for Delhi and Mumbai but because of its effectiveness, the facility is being extended across India,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.According to the officer, a total of 94,204 cellphones have been blacklisted through the CEIR portal between May 20 and July 14 this year. The Delhi Police shared the data of these stolen phones with the portal through their zonal integrated police network (ZIPNET) system. Owners file FIRs about their stolen phones either at the police station or through the various e-FIR filing schemes launched by the city police.“The ZIPNET collects the IMEIs of the stolen phones from the FIRs and passes them to the CEIR that blocks them after proper verification,” the officer said adding that the CEIR project was launched with a view to check the resale of lost or stolen phones and discouraging snatching and thefts of mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-94-000-phones-reported-stolen-to-delhi-police-blacklisted-101626460576215.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi civic bodies conduct polls for standing committee posts||The three municipal corporations --- south, north and east --- on Friday held elections to the posts of chairman and deputy chairman of the standing committee, one of the major committees for approval of development work of the civic bodies. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday unanimously elected BK Oberoi, councilor from Rajouri Garden, to the post of chairman while Poonam Bhati, councillor from Tughlakabad Extension, too was unanimously elected to the post of deputy chairman.Oberoi said that he will make efforts to fast-track developmental works pending due to the covid-19 pandemic. “The focus will be more on development works that have been delayed due to the pandemic. Also, we will work on improving civic services and extend support to citizens living in the area,” he said.The North Corporation elected Jogi Ram Jain, a retired teacher and councillor from Kamla Nagar ward to the post while Vijay Kumar Bhagat, councilor from Swami Shradhanand Colony was elected as deputy chairman. Both the leaders were elected unanimously, as only one nomination each was filed for the posts.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) unanimously elected Beer Singh Panwar, councilor from Dilshad Garden as chairman while Deepak Malhotra, councilor from Ghondli was elected to the post of deputy chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-civic-bodies-conduct-polls-for-standing-committee-posts-101626460575689.html
17-07-2021||Other||‘Custodial death is abhorrent, unacceptable’||Observing that custodial death is “abhorrent” and “unacceptable” in a civilized society, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Haryana has awarded life imprisonment to the then constable and three-year jail to an inspector in a 2007 custodial death case.The court has imposed a fine of ₹61,000 on convict Pawan Kumar, who was held guilty under Sections 302, 342 and 348 of the IPC read with Section 34 of the IPC.Kumar is currently posted as the head constable in traffic police staion, Sector 4, Panchkula.Convict inspector Ranbir was held guilty under Sections 342, 348 and 218 of the IPC read with Section 34 of the IPC and directed to pay ₹31,000.The case dates back to 2007, when Bhuvan Dutt, of Kalram village in Karnal was burnt alive at Madhuban police station. In November 2010, an FIR was registered by the police.However, the case was handed over to CBI following the August 23, 2011 order of the high court’s order in August 2011.Deceased Bhuvan’s name had appeared in a murder case of a photographer in July 2007. He had sustained burn injuries on September 1, 2007 and died on September 3, 2007 at PGIMS, Rohtak.CBI mentioned that Dutt had disclosed in his dying declaration that he was implicated in a 2007 murder case and was in the police station for the past three days where police physically tortured him.“To extract a confession from him, inspector Pawan had parked a motor cycle beside Bhuvan Dutt and after taking out petrol from the said motorcycle and pouring it on Dutt, he enquired from Dutt about his involvement in the said murder case. Pawan further set him on fire with a matchstick to extract a confession from him,” Dutt’s dying declaration mentioned.CBI special judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg observed Dutt was “set on fire by the police officials” and it is a case of “custodial death” and no other hypothesis could be made out.“It is crystal clear that it was accused Pawan, who had set Dutt ablaze while he was in police custody, in his endeavour to extract favourable statement/disclosure in the murder case of Rajinder photographer.”While the two pleaded for lenient view, the public prosecutor for the CBI, KP Singh, argued that convicts have misused the power given to them by the statute being police officials, hence maximum punishment be given.Dr Garg observed, “Law enforcers are protectors of life and property and not death dealers. Illegal acts of the accused have severely eroded public trust in law enforcement and caused social harm. The case touched a raw nerve among people because of determined legal battle to bring to justice the killer of Dutt.”Observing that convicts do not deserve any sympathy, the court added, “Death due to custodial violence is abhorrent and not acceptable in a civilized society. The offence committed by the accused is a crime not against the deceased alone but against humanity as well.”He said, “It is a matter of public concern, when the protector of people and society instead of protecting people adopts brutality and inhumanly beat the person who come to the police station for their grievances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/custodial-death-is-abhorrent-unacceptable-101626460574095.html
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Attempted attack on Khattar: Police report absolves IPS officer; five others||A Haryana Police inquiry in the alleged lapse in the security of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha precinct on March 10 has concluded that the outer security ring of the CM was not breached.The inquiry report submitted to Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the security guidelines pertaining to the outdoor arrangement for the CM were followed.The Speaker on Friday, however, expressed dissatisfaction over the report terming it weaker than the first one. “This is an attempt to shield the police personnel. I am referring the matter to the Committee of Privileges of the Vidhan Sabha. Formal orders will be issued on Saturday,” the Speaker said.The July 6 report submitted by the director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has also absolved IPS officer and the then SP (security) Pankaj Nain.Nain was responsible for managing the security apparatus in the assembly parking where the alleged attempt to attack Khattar took place.The report said Nain performed his duties satisfactorily on the day of the incident. The Speaker, however, disagreed with the clean chit given to Nain.“When the first inquiry report was submitted, show-cause notices were issued to eight police personnel. It was also assured that disciplinary action will be initiated against them after getting their response and analysing the episode,” Gupta said.However, the Speaker said, departmental inquiries have been ordered against three cops while the other five have been let off.“If the five are being let off on pretext of following the orders of their in-charge, then action should be taken against the officer in-charge. His action has also not been justified,” the speaker said.The DGP has asked his Chandigarh counterpart to take appropriate action against the erring Chandigarh traffic police personnel deployed at Vidhan Sabha complex for failing to stop the vehicle used by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLAs from entering the Haryana side parking of the assembly complex.The Speaker said by asking the Chandigarh DGP to take action against the traffic cops, the state police is trying to pass the buck.Nine Punjab MLAs of SAD, including former Punjab ministers Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia, were booked by the Chandigarh Police in March for their alleged attempt to attack Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha complex.The Punjab MLAs were demanding that the Haryana government should pass a resolution against the Centre’s three farm laws.Acting on complaint of a marshal of the assembly secretariat on March 13, the Chandigarh Police had registered a case against Dhillon, Majithia, Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma.According to the complaint, Khattar was giving a press briefing on the day’s session when the nine SAD MLAs, accompanied by six-seven people with black stripes protested and allegedly tried to attack him.The security staff of the Vidhan Sabha and the Haryana Police intervened and prevented the situation from worsening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attempted-attack-on-khattar-police-report-absolves-ips-officer-five-others-101626460514902.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cabinet nod to bidding for 160 low-floor buses: Gahlot||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved bidding for 160 low-floor air-conditioned CNG buses, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.“Congrats Delhi! Cabinet today (Friday) led by CM Arvind Kejriwal approved bid for 160 Low Floor CNG AC buses which will be on Delhi roads by November. These buses, fully conforming to BS-VI emission standards, will have CCTV, GPS, panic buttons. With this, our bus fleet size will grow to 6,910,” Gahlot said in a tweet.The vehicles are part of the Delhi government’s plan to add 1,000 low-floor buses to its orange cluster bus fleet, said officials, adding that 311 such buses are already in operation and another 89 is expected to arrive by August 31.On January 6, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) approved funds for the procurement of 1,000 low-floor air-conditioned CNG buses. According to deadlines set by the government, the buses should have arrived in six months but it got delayed because of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, said the official.Delhi is supposed to get 4,000 additional buses by the end of 2022, including 1,000 standard floor buses and 1,000 electric buses.The Cabinet nod to the bid process comes in the backdrop of a clean chit by a panel appointed by Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal to the DTC over the tendering and procurement of 1,000 air-conditioned (AC) low-floor buses — an issue that was a bone of contention between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which alleged corruption in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-approves-bidding-for-160-low-floor-buses-101626460453527.html
17-07-2021||Lucknow||Heavy rain, strong wind across UP in next 48 hours, says IMD||Heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds and thunderstorms is expected to cover most parts of Uttar Pradesh in the next 48 hours,, according to the Indian Metrological Department forecast (IMD) issued on Friday.“Districts of Uttar Pradesh will experience scattered rainfall on Saturday, followed by widespread rainfall on Sunday. The heavy rain is expected to continue till Tuesday,” reads the IMD forecast. The rain forecast is part of the south-west monsoon which has dwindled across north India in the past 25 days. In Uttar Pradesh, as many 25 districts, including state capital Lucknow, have recorded less than normal rainfall during this period.“The monsoon has resumed in the state since last week but has not gain strength which has resulted in less than normal rain fall in many districts. It is expected that the monsoon will gain strength over the weekend with above average rainfall across Uttar Pradesh,” said state MeT director JP Gupta.The lack of rainfall and high relative humidity (RH) have made the weather sultry in Uttar Pradesh. Though the mercury hovers around the 40 degree mark, the high RH makes it feel hotter. Even the minimum temperature across UP has been around 28 degree which is four degree above normal.As per the state MeT data, 47 districts in Uttar Pradesh have recorded less than average rainfall in this monsoon. The state has recorded only 181mm rainfall which is 21% less than the normal 228.9mm rainfall this monsoon season, turning the state into rain deficient. The situation in western UP districts is worse as the region recorded 104 mm rainfall which is 49% less than normal 195.2 mm rainfall.The scanty rainfall has made farmers in the state worried about their Kharif crop. Paddy, sugarcane and maize are major Kharif crops in the state. These crops have a higher water requirement which is fulfilled by the monsoon. In the absence of sufficient rainfall, the farmers are forced to use pumps for irrigation which increases their cost and cuts into their profit.“Uttar Pradesh requires at least six to eight days of good rainfall in July to cover the lack of rain this monsoon season. We are hopeful that the state will have at least five days of rain this month which will reduce the deficiency,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-strong-wind-across-up-in-next-48-hrs-says-imd-101626460393541.html
17-07-2021||Delhi||Yamuna water back to normal levels, says DJB||New Delhi: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice- chairperson Raghav Chadha on Friday inspected the Wazirabad Barrage to review the water levels and said the situation is returning to “normal” now with the Haryana government releasing Delhi’s rightful share.“It took three days for the 16,000 cusecs of water released by Haryana to reach Delhi. The river bed, which was all dried up few days back, is back to its normal levels of 674.5 feet,” said Chadha.Delhi is dependent on its neighbours -- to fulfil its water needs. As per a 1995 Supreme Court order, Haryana government has to release 120 million gallons per day (MGD) of water to Delhi routinely.After inspecting the barrage, Chadha said that the water level in the Yamuna is back to its previous water levels. “Water level has increased to 674.5 feet from 667 feet after Haryana released Delhi’s share of water,” he said.Later, Chadha also tweeted: “During my last visit to Wazirabad Barrage (on Monday), Haryana government’s apathy/inaction was writ large when we noticed that Yamuna river bed was visibly parched and dry. However, now the Wazirabad pond is full... Things are normalising.”On Monday, Chadha claimed that the water level in the Yamuna has slipped to its lowest mark since 1965, and blamed Haryana for the shortages that squeezed supply in the national capital with several areas in the central, south, west and New Delhi districts going without regular supply.The Haryana government strongly denied charges of withholding water then. “First, they (AAP government) presented false figures during Covid second wave to procure oxygen, much above the requirement, and now Kejriwal is doing the same on the water issue to hide his own failures. They are levelling baseless allegations,” Haryana home minister Anil Vij said on Monday. He further accused the AAP government of trying to “mislead the people of Delhi to cover up their own mistakes”.The DJB had last week filed a petition in the apex court seeking directions to the Haryana government to release “Delhi’s rightful share of water”.On Friday, Chadha said that the water treatment plants of the DJB can now operate at optimum capacity. “Now that the water level has revived, the DJB will be able to function at an optimum capacity to deliver clean drinking water to all the households in Delhi. The situation is now completely normal at the water treatment plants and an increase in the water levels of this riverbed is clearly visible,” said Chadha.The water treatment plants in the Capital were operating at a reduced capacity after the water level dropped in the Yamuna earlier, which led to an acute shortage of water supply in several parts across the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yamuna-water-level-back-to-normal-says-delhi-jal-board-101626459794215.html
17-07-2021||Kolkata||‘Not part of such circus’: Judge rebukes officials after glitches in virtual hearing||KOLKATA: A Calcutta high court judge on Friday reacted sharply to technical glitches that disrupted the virtual hearing of a case, issuing notice to the project coordinator in charge of the setup to explain why the contempt of court proceedings should not be drawn up against the coordinator and high court officials on the administrative side.Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya said the glitches had become a daily feature and “it is unfortunate that this court is unable to provide the minimum virtual services and connectivity in order to ensure that justice is rendered appropriately”.The judge ordered the central project coordinator to send his reply by 3pm to his chamber since the court was unable to sit any longer till the connectivity issues were entirely resolved. “It may be recorded here that this has become a regular feature and I feel ashamed that our esteemed high court, which has an illustrious history, is being relegated to such insignificance that we cannot render justice to the litigants at large due to mere connectivity issues,” Justice Bhattacharyya said in his order.HT has reviewed a copy of the order.“I categorically refuse to be a part of such circus because I have taken an oath to deliver justice to the litigants, who are outside the courtrooms and beyond the reaches of the air-conditioned rooms accommodating the Judges and toiling in the sun and the dust outside,” the single court said.“I personally feel guilty, as a part of this court, since disruption and interference in the functioning of courts, in whatever form, might amount to criminal contempt. I am a party to such (an) act as a part of the showcase of Judges who are adorning this court, including the Chief Justice,” the single judge bench said in its order, underscoring that he had repeatedly flagged the problems to the project coordinator.The judge rued that “connectivity issues and electronic interference in the audio and visual systems’’ had become a daily feature of the court. “Despite the tall talks about achievements of virtual hearing facilities and restricting hearing of litigations entirely to virtual hearings, it is unfortunate that this court is unable to provide the minimum virtual services and connectivity in order to ensure that justice is rendered appropriately,” the order said.The Central Project Coordinator is directed to show cause in writing as to why proceedings should not be drawn up against the high court administration, including the registrar general and the central project coordinator, in particular, for criminal contempt of court due to continuous interference in virtual hearings in court in each and every matter, the order said.“Fie on the system which cannot deliver justice to its citizens. Hence, this court is unable to sit any longer till the connectivity issues are resolved entirely. Sitting in court and playing dumb charades during virtual hearings with the advocates, due to major disruptions in virtual services, has become a joke by now and does not tantamount to adjudication of matters but is a mere circus on show before the public,” the order said. Justice Bhattacharyya also asked that a copy of his order be communicated to the acting chief justice and the high court’s registrar general.“I stop short of issuing a Rule of Contempt to give a last chance to the high court administration to rectify the faults in connectivity so that proper justice can be rendered to the litigants at large, particularly when we are restricting learned advocates and the litigants to appear in court in person and confining hearing merely to the virtual mode,” ordered the judge and listed the hearing, which was disrupted, for Saturday on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/not-part-of-such-circus-judge-rebukes-officials-after-glitches-in-virtual-hearing-101626459614569.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar blames Centre for intermittent vaccine supply||At the Friday’s Covid-19 Review meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that despite promises made by the centre, that after June, production of Covid-19 vaccines would increase and supply would be uninterrupted in July, supply continues to remain interrupted. This even as the state government is contemplating opening up more services, including factories and malls, for those fully vaccinated. Pawar said, “We were assured that the production of vaccines would become 100% by the end of June and so by July, supply would be uninterrupted. However, that has not happened. Even in July we have had to shut down some centres for vaccination because there were no vaccines.” Pune district has seen over 5.52 million people get the Covid-19 vaccine, of which 4.25 million have got their first shot, while 1.26 million got their second shot. Pawar also said that the state government is contemplating opening up more services, including starting public places like malls, for those who fully vaccinated and with a certificate for the same. He said, “Even though people have the option to get vaccines from government or private hospitals, we have asked companies and factories, and employers to vaccinate their staff with both the vaccines; then they can r-open the companies. Also in the case of malls, although we have started retail shops, the situation is that the people do not just shop in malls, they tend to spend more time and roam around. This is the reason why malls and shops inside the malls are shut. However, if people have got both the vaccine shots and are fully vaccinated, then we can think about allowing the malls to open. Malls can allow those with certificates of being fully vaccinated to enter their premises.” However, Pawar also added that despite being fully vaccinated, people must ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed, including wearing of masks and social distancing at all times. He said, “It is important that we start the economic cycle. Unlike the first wave, we do not want to shut down everything if there is another wave, and so vaccination is important.” Ongoing restrictions to continue in Pune Ajit Pawar said that the ongoing restrictions, including the weekend restrictions and the curfew post 5 pm would continue in Pune. He said, “Pune is still at level 3 as of now. We also have a few districts in Maharashtra which have reported 0 positivity in the past few days, however, to avoid a third wave, we will continue with the ongoing restrictions.” He also warned of stricter action against people crowding popular tourist spots during the weekends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-blames-centre-for-intermittent-vaccine-supply-101626451993264.html
17-07-2021||Pune||Pune toppers delighted with SSC results after tackling online classes||PUNE SSC students, despite struggling to get access to their marks on Friday, were then elated with the results.Soham Mhetre, a student of Zeal Institutes’ Silver Crest School scored 98%. “It was a difficult year, to be studying completely online, but my parents, teachers and school helped me get through this year. They provided me with every facility I needed to study. I accepted the fact that this pandemic would continue and made most of the situation and am satisfied with my marks,” said the student, planning for a Master’s in robotics.While DES Secondary School got a 100% result, Chinmay Nitin Bhave secured the first rank in his school with 98.40%. Shankeshwari Dyaneshwar Lashkare would have liked her father, a labourer to know her score of 95% in the SSC exams, but sadly, he died a month ago. Her mother, a housemaid is thrilled.“I am a student of Dr Nanasaheb Parulekar School in Yerawada. It has been a tough year, starting with the fact that with lockdown, I had no means of studying online, until the school gave us a mobile phone to attend classes through an NGO. It was difficult to study because of network issues, calls getting cut in between and understanding the teachers. I would revise every day after the lecture was over. I want to be a lawyer when I grow up,” said this Maths-loving girl. Aksharnandan Secondary School student Trunaya Parineeta Unmesh scored 83.20%. “We faced a lot of technical issues at the beginning of this academic year, but teachers and parents helped us. We could reach our teachers whenever we needed them, so there wasn’t a problem. I just had to push myself to study. There were internal assessment assignments that I completed and I was doing pretty decent on my tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/high-scorers-delighted-with-ssc-results-after-tackling-online-classes-101626449413190.html
17-07-2021||Pune||SSC results: 99.96 pass percentage for Pune division||Pune division, which includes Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur districts, reported a pass percentage of 99.96 for Class 10 students in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams, results of which were declared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Friday.Girls in Pune district only marginally did better than the boys with a 99.97 pass percentage versus 99.93 per cent. In Ahmednagar district, girls recorded a 99.98 pass percentage and boys had a 99.96 pass percentage. In Solapur district, girls were at 99.97 per cent as against the boys at 99.95 per cent.State board officials noted that a total of 1,575,806 students appeared for the Class 10 board exams. Of this, 265,714 were from Pune division. A total of 265,801 assessments were submitted by schools in the Pune division. Of these, 265,704 students passed in the division.As per the board, 102,476 fresh candidates from Pune division scored 75 per cent and above in the exams, and 116,172 students received 60 per cent and above. A total of 44,928 students from Pune division scored 45 per cent and above. And, 2,128 students scored 35 per cent and above.Of the 957 students in the state who received 100 per cent marks, 79 are from Pune division. Of the 4,922 students whose results were reserved, 597 are from Pune division.“The results of these students are reserved as most of them are repeater students and their previous report card records are not available with the board. As soon as these records are updated their results will be declared. This will increase the pass percentage for Pune division as well,” said Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE.A total of 179 students from the division are eligible for a re-exam. Whereas 72 students passed with ATKT (allowed to keep term) in Pune division.“Also, nine schools from across Maharashtra have reported zero pass percentage. Of these, two are from Pune division. We will be investigating as to why these schools have a pass percentage of zero,” said Patil.Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur districtsOf the 130,029 candidates registered from Pune district, 130,023 candidates appeared for the exam and 129,962 candidates passed for a total pass percentage of 99.95 for Pune district.A 99.97 pass percentage was reported in both Ahmednagar district and Solapur district for fresh candidates.For repeater candidates, 92.95 pass per cent was seen in Pune district, 97.82 pass percentage in Ahmednagar district and 83.28 pass percentage in Solapur district. This gave the Pune division a total pass percentage of 91.86 for repeaters.Of a total of 0.202 million students, 45,762 students from Pune division received additional marks for folk art, classical vocal, drawing sports and other extracurricular activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-results-99-96-pass-percentage-for-pune-division-101626437952850.html
17-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police lodge case against Bhushan Kumar for alleged rape||Mumbai Police have registered a case against T-series managing director and film producer Bhushan Kumar after a 30-year-old woman accused him of raping her on the pretext of giving her a job, officials said on Friday.Kumar, son of music baron, the late Gulshan Kumar, however, has denied the allegations and accused the woman of extortion.The offence was registered on Thursday at DN Nagar police station in Andheri (West) on the basis of the complaint filed by the 30-year-old woman, who is an aspiring actor, the officials said.According to the complaint, the woman has known Kumar, 43, since 2017 and has accused him of raping her several times between 2017 and 2020. HT has seen a copy of the complaint.In her complaint, the woman has alleged that she met Kumar at a hotel in Mumbai in September 2017, when he gave her his contact details. She has further alleged that Kumar called her to his bungalow on October 14, 2017, where he raped her. Kumar allegedly recorded the act and threatened to make the video public if she approached the police, the woman said.She did not file a complaint earlier as she was frightened, the woman has said.“We have registered a case under sections 376 (rape) , 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Milind Kurde, senior police inspector of DN Nagar police station. Kumar’s team, however, has issued a statement calling the allegations “completely false”, saying that the woman “has already worked for T-Series banner in Film and music videos”.“The complaint filed against Mr. Bhushan Kumar is completely false and malicious and the contents of the same are denied,” said the statement. “It has been falsely alleged that the lady in question was sexually exploited between 2017 to 2020 on the pretext of giving her work.”According to the statement, the woman allegedly approached Kumar in March 2021, seeking help to produce a web-series. “Thereafter, in June 2021 after the lifting of lockdown in Maharashtra, she started approaching T-Series banner in collusion with her accomplice demanding huge sum of money as extortion amount,” the statement said.“Consequently, a complaint was filed by T-Series banner against the attempted extortion with the Amboli police station on 1st July 2021. We also have evidence in the form of audio recording for the extortion attempt and the same shall be provided to investigating agency. The present complaint filed by her is nothing but a counter blast to the complaint filed against her and her accomplice for the offence of extortion,” the statement added. Earlier, an unidentified woman had accused Kumar of seeking sexual favors in exchange of a three-movie contract. The woman alleged on Twitter during the #MeeToo movement that the film producer invited her to his bungalow and threatened to destroy her career when she resisted his sexual advances. Kumar refuted the allegations. She, however, did not file a complaint then.T-Series is a music record label and a film production company founded by Gulshan Kumar. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rape-case-filed-against-bhushan-kumar-of-tseries-101626422532660.html
