18-07-2021||Other||Former VC accuses Allahabad University of delaying pension, varsity says return books first||: The Allahabad University (AU) has not issued the mandatory ‘no dues’ certificate to former acting vice-chancellor Prof RR Tewari after his retirement, a move that has resulted in the former VC’s pension being held up.The university administration has said that the ‘no dues’ certificate has been held back as professor Tewari was yet to return 30 books that were issued to him. AU PRO Jaya Kapoor maintained that pension process of Prof RR Tewari had got delayed as he had not yet returned some books and other items and owing to which the ‘No Dues’ certificate had not been issued by the department concerned. Professor Tewari, who retired on June 30, 2021 after over 39 years of service, claimed he was being harassed by the university administration.“I have even written to the varsity to deduct the amount of the 30 odd books that they claim were issued to me from my pension but nothing has been done till date,” he said.Prof Tewari has written to the VC Prof Sangita Srivastava, registrar Prof NK Shukla and head of department of electronics and communication Prof RS Yadav on the issue as well. In his letter Prof Tewari claimed that the committee set up by the department to look in to his case was harassing him and was not even ready to receive the items of the department that he wanted to handover to the university. He claimed that he had returned 81 additional items to the varsity. Usually, all pension related work of a retiring teacher or employee is completed in the last three months of their service period itself. The pension book should be handed over to the employee so that the pension starts immediately after his retirement.Professor Tewari was appointed at AU on January 10, 1982 and retired on June 30, 2021 said that he was greatly disturbed by the delay in his pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-vc-accuses-allahabad-university-of-delaying-pension-varsity-says-return-books-first-101626632960653.html
18-07-2021||Noida||Anticipating third wave, GB Nagar arranges 6,800 litres/minute oxygen for 800 ICU beds||NOIDA: To deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has ramped up production and supply infrastructure of medical oxygen in the district. Officials said on Sunday that about 6,800 litres per minute (LPM) oxygen has been arranged for 800 intensive care unit (ICU) beds available in the six government health care facilities in the district. GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that the medical oxygen plants have been set up on the premises of four government hospitals and two block-level health centres in the district. “The 800 ICU beds can be converted into paediatric intensive care units (PICUs). Besides, we are also making efforts to provide oxygen concentrators in the rural areas, with more oxygen cylinders. The health department has been asked to ramp up bottling facilities for these cylinders and conduct a regular oxygen audit of the hospitals in the district,” he said. The DM further said that keeping the safety and well-being of children in mind, the district administration is planning to create a paediatric task force for effective treatment of infected children in different government and private hospitals in the district. “We have also decided to develop a system based on technology in the integrated Covid-19 control room in Sector 59, which can keep a close tab on oxygen supplies on a real-time basis and the audit of its usage,” he said. The six health centres with the oxygen facility are: Covid-19 hospital in Sector 39, Child PGI in Sector 30, ESIC hospital in Sector 34, Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, community health centre in Bisrakh and primary health centre in Dadri. Meanwhile, GB Nagar chief medical officer, Dr Sunil Sharma, said that the health department has decided to ask all the private hospitals in the district to develop exclusive PICU wards in their facilities. “Though there is no dearth of PICU beds at government facilities, we’ll rope in private hospitals to minimise the crisis. The private hospitals will be asked to create at least 10 PICU beds on their premises. It will definitely reduce pressure on government health centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/anticipating-third-wave-gb-nagar-arranges-6-800-litres-minute-oxygen-for-800-icu-beds-101626632360759.html
18-07-2021||Noida||Six months on, over 6k Covid warriors yet to take first jab in GB Nagar||After the statewide vaccination drive for Covid warriors began in January, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration identified over 51,000 beneficiaries, including 29,630 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 21,432 frontline workers (FLWs), for inoculation in the first phase. However, even after six months, while over 6,000 of them have yet not taken their first shot, more than 16,000 beneficiaries have not taken their second vaccine doses yet, says data available with the district administration. Of the 29,630 HCWs who registered for the inaugural phase of vaccination in January this year, 3,592 of them have not taken the first jab. Not only that, among the 26,038 HCWs who have at least taken the first shot, 11,578 of them have not turned up to take the second jab, said officials. Dr Sunil Sharma, GB Nagar’s chief medical officer, said despite repeated appeals, many of the HCWs didn’t turn up for the vaccination. “The HCWs are doctors, nurses, paramedics, technical staff and sanitary workers. As per the survey of the district health department, it has been found that the maximum number of beneficiaries not turning up for the jabs drive are from the nursing category. Either they have shifted somewhere else after the lockdown curbs were relaxed or they have left the vocation. Now, we have started intimating all the hospitals in the district to provide the updated details of these absentees. Most of them were associated with private hospitals, medical colleges and nursing training schools,” said Sharma. Giving vaccination details of FLWs, the CMO said of the 21,432 beneficiaries registered for vaccination under the FLW category, 3,034 of them have not taken the first jab. “The FLWs include personnel from state and central police organisations, i.e. armed forces, home guards, prison staff and civil defence volunteers, including disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, revenue officers engaged in containment and surveillance activities. Among the 18,398 FLWs who have taken the first shot, 5,096 of them have not come for the second dose,” said officials. He further said only 31,359 beneficiaries have taken both doses of the vaccine so far, which is a little over 61% of the 51,062 registered Corona warriors. “The rate of taking the first dose was much higher as nearly 87% of them had taken their maiden jab. This dilly-dallying approach has really irked the health department officials,” he saidSuhas L Y, district magistrate of G B Nagar, said almost all the FLWs registered for vaccination have been inoculated. “Most of the absentees have either been transferred to other places or have taken the jabs outside the district. If any FLW in the district is found hesitating to take the shot, we’ll ask them to take it as soon as possible,” he said. Explaining the reason behind the low percentage of vaccination among HCWs, Ajit Kumar, the director (public relations) of Sharda hospital, said most of the HCWs were sceptical about the accuracy and efficacy of the vaccines during the initial phase of the inoculation drive. “Even doctors and paramedics were not very enthusiastic about taking the jabs. But, they seem to have changed their minds after the higher mortality rate observed during the second wave of Covid-19. Now the problem is that the government is not giving free vaccines to private hospitals and the HCWs of our hospital do not want to venture out at public places to get the jabs. As a result, they are paying to take vaccines in the hospitals now,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-months-on-over-6k-covid-warriors-yet-to-take-first-jab-in-gb-nagar-101626632301456.html
18-07-2021||Other||52-year-old man’s head severed, body dumped in field in tiff over loan repayment||New Delhi: A 52-year-old man was allegedly abducted from Delhi and killed in an agricultural field in Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, where his headless and decomposed body was recovered by the local police on July 16, four days after the crime, police said on Sunday.The accused, Riyasat, allegedly killed Shahzad with the help of his nephew and a friend, after the victim failed to repay a loan of ₹25,000. Riyasat and his associate, Javed, have been arrested; his nephew, Nadeem, is still absconding, the police said.Riyasat told the police that he loaned ₹25,000 to Shahzad on three to four occasions on interest, and that the victim was required to return a certain amount per day over a fixed period, to return the loan and pay the interest. Shahzad last borrowed ₹4,500, and was to return ₹100 daily for two months as part of the loan deal. It meant that apart from the principal amount ( ₹4,500), Shahjad wasto pay ₹1,500 as interest, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram. “Shahzad stopped paying the daily amount after 12 days. When Riyasat demanded his money back, Shahzad picked up a fight with him. To avenge his insult, Riyasat abducted Shahzad with the help of Nadeem and Javed, and took him to Baghpat in UP,” the DCP said.Police said on July 13, a missing person’s report was registered for Shahzad was filed at the Seemapuri police station by his family members. His family told the police that Shahzad left home on July 12, but did not return and his mobile phone was also not reachable. He worked as a house painter.When the police and Shahzad’s family members were looking for him, a headless and decomposed body was found in a field in Baghpat on July 16. The Seemapuri police learnt about it and took Shahzad’s family members to Baghpat, where they identified the body by its clothes and identification marks on the body. The head was missing, the DCP said.“We registered a case of kidnapping, murder and destruction of evidence under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 365, 302 and 201 at the Seemapuri police station and investigation was taken up,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.During preliminary investigation, the police team probed the role of Shahzad’s daughter-in-law and her family members, after learning that she had filed a rape case against him and his brother last year. However, no evidence was found against them. Then, the police came to know that Shahzad used to borrow money from Riyasat, who lived in the same neighbourhood. It was also established that Shahzad was last seen with Riyasat. When Riyasat was questioned, he confessed to the murder and revealed the role of Nadeem and Javed.“We arrested Riyasat and Javed on Saturday night. Riyasat disclosed that he lured Shahjad to Baghpat in his Esteem car in the name of providing him a contract to paint a house and also eat mangoes in a farm. Javed and Nadeem joined them on the way. They offered liquor to Shahzad, and when he was drunk, Riyasat and Nadeem took him to the field and killed him with a meat cleaver. They severed Shahzad’s head and threw it in a canal near Muradnagar while returning to Delhi,” DCP Sathiyasundaram said.Police said they are trying to find the missing body part, and arrest Nadeem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52yearold-man-s-head-severed-body-dumped-in-field-in-tiff-over-loan-repayment-101626632181221.html
18-07-2021||Gurugram||Heavy rain predicted in Gurugram, orange alert issued||The city is likely to get relief from humidity over the next two days with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a heavy rain alert on Sunday, even as isolated pockets of Gurugram received light rainfall.A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh predicted a “heavy to very heavy rain with thunderstorm or lightning” at isolated places in Gurugram on Monday and Tuesday.The meteorological centre also issued an orange alert for Gurugram, informing authorities to be prepared for thunderstorms or lightning. “An orange alert has been issued in Gurugram district for Monday and Tuesday due to heavy rain predictions. We are expecting impacts like waterlogging in low-lying areas or disruption in electricity and water supply. Due to rain, roads might be slippery, along with low visibility, so traffic authorities should be prepared,” said an official from the Chandigarh meteorological centre.The monsoon officially arrived in Delhi-NCR last Tuesday, but the city has only received light rain so far, with humid weather conditions continuing.On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius (°C), which was two degrees above normal and a minimum temperature of 30.6°C, which was four degrees above normal.According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, the temperature in the city is likely to reduce over the next three days due to rain. Over the next few days, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 28°C-32°C, and the minimum temperature is likely to be around 26°C-30°C.Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram improved from the moderate to the satisfactory zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulleting, with an air quality index of 72.The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the satisfactory to moderate category over the next five days, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/heavy-rain-predicted-in-gurugram-orange-alert-issued-101626632123144.html
18-07-2021||Gurugram||Three-storey building collapses in village near Gurugram, 4-5 suspected trapped inside||A three-storey building in Khawaspur village, located around 20 kilometres from Gurugram in Farrukhnagar block collapsed around 7pm on Sunday, with four to five persons suspected to be trapped in the debris, according to the police.Officials said that after frantic efforts, one person was rescued from the debris. He suffered serious injuries and was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. Teams from the Gurugram Police, fire brigade and health department are engaged in the rescue work, while a team from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is expected to reach the spot soon, officials of the district administration said.The incident took place around 7pm and the building that collapsed was located next to a warehouse, the police said. The spot where the incident took place is located around 2.5 kilometres from the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.Rajiv Deswal, the deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that nearly four to five people are likely to be trapped under the debris. “We have already rescued one person, who was stuck in the debris. The police teams reached the spot as soon as information was received through the security guards deployed in the area. Fire tenders and rescue teams also reached and are carrying out a rescue operation,” he said.Locals who were at the spot said that the brick and concrete building was around 15 years old and that the warehouse workers lived there. “The building is quite large, but only a few workers were staying there. The bricks were not plastered and the walls were exposed to elements. The structure was not safe and this, perhaps, led to the collapse,” said Tej Singh, a resident of Khawaspur.Deswal said they the one person who was suffered severe injuries to his legs. He has been admitted to a private hospital and is reported to be stable. “We are suspecting at least four more labourers are trapped inside,” he said.The building is adjacent to a food grain warehouse and labourers were inside the building when it suddenly collapsed. A majority of the people were out for dinner, officials said. “No one has exact details of how many people are trapped and we have called force from Bhondsi also,” Deswal said.The district administration said that ambulances, fire tenders, earthmovers and JCB machines were made available for the operations.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that rescue teams were rushed to the spot and they engaged in rescuing the workers stuck in the debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/threestorey-building-collapses-in-village-near-gurugram-4-5-suspected-trapped-inside-101626632121959.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Vegetable prices go up on back of rains, fuel rates||With monsoon setting in across the country last week, and fuel prices on the up, the prices of meat, fruits and vegetables in the national capital have increased over the past seven days, a hike that traders said will soon reflect on the cost of more perishables in the coming days.The retail price of onions touched ₹50-60 per kg on Sunday, against an average of ₹40 a week ago, the price of potatoes went up from ₹25-30 per kg to ₹40 per kg, and price of raw chicken touched ₹240 a kilo in some parts of the city, against last week’s ₹200-220.Prices of fruits and vegetables usually increase as monsoon covers the country, because of transportation and storage hurdles. This year, however, the record prices of automotive fuels, led to a hike in the price of vegetables even before large parts of northern India started witnessing monsoon rains, said traders across agricultural product markets in Delhi.“Soon the price rise will start reflecting in food grains. Edible oil costs more than usual in any case. Any further increase will make things very difficult,” said Ankita Aggarwal, a resident of Delhi’s Indra Vihar neighbourhood.“The prices have increased in the wholesale markets such as Azadpur, Okhla and Ghazipur. So, as a result, retail prices have increased as well. Prices usually go up in the monsoons, but this year prices have witnessed significant increase very soon. They are likely to go further up in the coming days. Prices of most vegetables have gone up,” said Sandeep Gupta, a retail vendor of fruits and vegetables in south Delhi’s Mehrauli market.Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agricultural produce market, said: “There has been at least a 20% increase in transportation costs over the past week. It will obviously reflect in the wholesale and retail prices of fruits and vegetables. The central government should work towards reducing prices of diesel and petrol at the earliest.”Iqbal Qureshi, a poultry trader and vice-chairperson of the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur, said there was a similar situation in the poultry market. “We are paying higher transport costs for live chicken because of the increase in prices of petrol and diesel. So, retail rates of chicken and eggs have gone up.”On Sunday, the cost of petrol in Delhi touched ₹101.84 a litre, and diesel went for ₹89.87.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 has seen saw petrol crossing ₹100 mark in various cities, particularly those in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vegetable-prices-go-up-on-back-of-rains-fuel-rates-101626632120624.html
18-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram in lockdown till July 26, restaurants and bars allowed to open till 11pm||Amid the recent dip in Covid-19 cases across the state, the Haryana government extended the ongoing lockdown for another week, till 5am of July 26, according to an order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Sunday. However, the government issued further relaxations, with restaurants, bars and clubs allowed to open for an additional hour, till 11pm.The order pertaining to the Mahamari Alert Surakshit Haryana stated that a night curfew will be in force from 11pm to 5am.As per the latest order, restaurants and bars, including those in malls and restaurants, are allowed to operate from 10am to 11pm with a 50% seating capacity. Earlier, these establishments were allowed to open only till 10pm. Home delivery from restaurants and fast food joints has also been permitted up to 11pm.However, owners of clubs and restaurants sought further extension in timings, as per the licence fees paid by them.Satya Sarathi Mohanty, the director of Waka Waka Club at Bristol Hotel on MG Road said that the government must extend the timing by two more hours, as a large number of clubs have already paid fees for the purpose. “The closing of operations by 10 or 11pm ensures that the patrons have to stop entertainment by 9.30pm. This is causing financial losses to club owners and visitors also don’t enjoy (the experience). Either the time should be extended or fees charged from us should be adjusted in the coming months,” said Mohanty. Clubhouses, restaurants and bars located at golf courses have been allowed to operate from 10 am to midnight, with 50% seating capacity. The members of golf courses must follow Covid-19 safety protocols and they must allow entry of players and visitors in a staggered manner, the order stated.Gyms have also been allowed to operate from 6am to 9pm at 50% of their strength to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and social distancing.Apart from these directions, the order stated that relaxations announced over the past few weeks would remain in force.The government, last week, extended the cap on at weddings, funerals and cremations from 50 to 100. It also permitted weddings outside of homes and courts, while the number of people allowed to gather in open public spaces was also increased to 200. The order issued by the state chief secretary last week had also allowed the reopening of cinema halls, spas and swimming pools, with reasonable restrictions.“The deputy commissioners of districts concerned are directed to work out the modalities of implementing the above relaxations strictly,” said the order by Vardhan.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that all business establishments must follow the Covid-19 protocols and also follow the timings as stipulated in the lockdown order. “I would also appeal to all citizens to wear masks and follow social distancing. Everyone should also get vaccinated on priority,” said Garg.10 new cases reportedThe district health department of Gurugram on Sunday recorded 10 new Covid-19 cases and eight recoveries, according to the daily health bulletin. There was no death reported due to Covid-19, while the active case count was at 74 on Sunday.According to the health bulletin, 180,799 infections, 179,806 recoveries and 919 deaths have been recorded in the district since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last March.The health department also vaccinated 5,266 people on Sunday, taking the total number of vaccinations in Gurugram to 1,649,638.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-in-lockdown-till-july-26-restaurants-and-bars-allowed-to-open-till-11pm-101626632065176.html
18-07-2021||Other||BSES plans to cut off power purchase from 6 plants outside Capital||After exiting the power purchase agreement (PPA) with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for the Dadri-1 plant, the two BSES distribution companies (discoms) in Delhi are now looking at giving up the electricity purchased from at least six more power plants located outside the national capital,the Reliance Infrastructure-led BSES said on Sunday. “Apart from Dadri-I, BSES discoms in Delhi have initiated the process with the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission for exiting the PPAs with the remaining power plants in this category. The PPA with five of these plants -- Unchahar-1, Farakka, Dadri 1, Auriya gas, and Anta -- has already crossed its shelf life of 25 years. The Kahakgaon -I plant will attain its shelf life in August, while the PPA with the Dadri plant will expire in April next year,” said a discom official on the condition of anonymity. The move comes in the wake of the Central Electricity Regulatory Authority allowing BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) to exit PPAs with NTPC’s Dadri-1 power plant, which completed 25 years of service on November 30 last year.“The seven power stations are supplying expensive power, above ₹6 per unit, to the BSES discoms. These power plants supply around 830 megawatt (MW) of power to BSES,” said the official. When asked about how the two discoms - -BRPL and BYPL, which supply power to around 4.5 million consumers in Delhi--will meet the growing power demand of the city, the official said it will resort to renewable sources of energy. “Replacing the power supply we get from these plants with substantially cheaper green power, available at around ₹2.50 per unit, will help us save around ₹800 crore annually and ₹20,000 crore over a period of 25 years. There will be no power shortage in Delhi even if we give up on electricity from these plants,” said a second BSES official. This year, the highest peak power demand in the Capital touched 7,323 MW on July 2. The city’s all-time peak demand is 7,409 MW recorded on July 2, 2019. “It is true that the substantial difference in the prices of power will help in neutralising cost increase by absorbing the impact of inflation and other factors, including the cost of coal and gas, and will also ease the pressure on future tariff hikes,” a senior official in the power department said.Besides, the savings may also help in creating headroom for recovery of the past revenue gap (regulatory assets). Due to non-cost reflective tariffs, revenue gaps (regulatory assets) of the Delhi discoms have reached ₹51,646 crore as of March 31, 2020, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bses-plans-to-cut-off-power-purchase-from-6-plants-outside-capital-101626632064110.html
18-07-2021||Gurugram||Two arrested for sexually assaulting minors||Two persons were arrested on charges of sexually assaulting minor girls in Rajendra Park and Shivaji Nagar on Saturday night, in unrelated incidents, the police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that both suspects were arrested and sent to 14-day judicial custody on Saturday. In the first case, a 40-year-old labourer was arrested for allegedly molesting his 14-year-old daughter while his wife was away for domestic work in Om Nagar. The girl’s mother alleged that on Friday, when she returned from work, her daughter told her that her father abused her, assaulted her and touched her inappropriately. When she resisted, he threatened that she would be raped, the police said. The girl’s mother told the police that she is the sole breadwinner of the family and that her husband stayed home. She said that he is an alcoholic and she fears for her daughter’s safety. “I am fearing to leave my daughter alone, as he might rape her any day in my absence. My daughter is unable to sleep and eat for the past week. I need protection for my daughter or the man needs to be arrested at the earliest,” she said in her complaint. A case under sections 294 (obscene acts), 323 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the Protection Of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at the Shivaji Colony police station. In the other case, a 24-year-old man was arrested for trying to rape a seven-year-old girl in Kherki Majra village in the Rajendra Park area. According to the child’s mother, who works with an NGO in a school, said that the man was inside her home and undressing her daughter when she returned home around 11am on Saturday. She said that the house was locked and when she forced it open, the carpenter they had recently hired was allegedly trying to rape her. The mother raised the alarm, following which neighbours gathered and caught hold of the suspect. The suspect was booked under Section 6 (sexual assault) of the POCSO Act at the Rajendra Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minors-101626632063009.html
18-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori resident booked for spreading fake news as drive restarts on Sunday||Faridabad authorities resumed the ongoing demolition drive in Khori village, which was suspended on Saturday, a day after Indian authorities replied to the United Nations Human Rights Council over a statement released by its six special rapporteurs that called for the drive to be halted. Last month, the Supreme Court directed the Haryana government and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad to remove “all encroachments”, consisting of around 10,000 residential units, in the Aravalli forest area, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge in the rule of law” and talk of “fairness”. On Friday, experts from the United Nations Human Rights Council called on India to halt the eviction of around 100,000 people, including 20,000 children, from Khori village in Faridabad, which began last Wednesday, and said “it is particularly important that residents be kept safe during the pandemic”.In response, the Permanent Mission of India to the Office of the United Nations issued a statement on Saturday, saying, “It is unfortunate that the special rapporteurs have chosen to issue a press release just two days after sending a joint communication to this Mission and not waiting for a response.”The police said that the demolition process remained peaceful. Around 2,000 personnel, including 500 women personnel, were deployed in Khori village on Sunday. The drive started around 10am and went on till 5pm, for which 17 earthmoving machines and five Poclain machines were used.Garima Mittal, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, said the demolition drive was recorded through drone cameras, with the date, time and location stamping on photos and videos done to ensure authenticity.The deputy commissioner of Faridabad, Yashpal Yadav, said, “We have started full-scale demolition and we are implementing the Supreme Court orders in letter and spirit. All structures will be demolished as per the orders and not just those that have been vacated. The drive is being conducted peacefully and we have not faced any challenge so far, except people not cooperating.”Meanwhile, social activists and residents alleged that situation has worsened in Khori village and that there has been no let-up in the demolitions even after the United Nations’ experts raised urged an immediate halt.“On Sunday, demolitions started from the Durga temple side, and the number of police deployed there is much higher than what we had seen until now. They have encircled Khori Gaon from all sides and are restricting movement in and out. Volunteers and residents from Khori who have been distributing food are now stuck in this police blockade. They are not being allowed to leave,” said Neelesh Kumar, a social activist with Basti Suraksha Manch.RehabilitationWith the demolition drive entering the fourth day on Sunday, over 470 people have registered for the rehabilitation scheme, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad said on Sunday. The administration has arranged a temporary shelter for displaced residents of Khori village at Radha Swami Satsang Beas, near Surajkund. However, members of Mazdoor Awaas Sangharsh Samiti, an organisation working for the rehabilitation of residents of Khori village said that residents are not willing to stay at the temporary shelter.Mohammad Salim Khan, a member of Mazdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti, whose house was demolished on Friday, said, “Of the thousands of houses demolished so far, not even 5% of the people have been given temporary shelter. People are being forced to go to the shelter home, whereas we want to collect our belongings from the debris. Even the registration for rehabilitation is being conducted without any ground survey.”The MCF on Sunday asked residents to collect their belongings from the demolished houses in Khori.Man booked for spreading false newsThe police booked a Khori resident on Saturday for spreading fake news about residents committing suicide. The suspect, identified as Mohammad Abrar, was booked under Section 505 (2) (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code by the Surajkund police.The police said that Abrar concocted a story about a Khori resident killing her two daughters and committing suicide after their house was demolished, and posted it on social media platforms.OP Singh, the commissioner of police, warned residents against spreading fake news that may disturb the peace. “A probe in the matter is underway and an Investigating Officer (IO) has been appointed. We are investigating and action will be taken against everyone in accordance with the rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-resident-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-as-drive-restarts-on-sunday-101626632061985.html
18-07-2021||Other||Day after expulsion from SAD, Bagga joins AAP||A day after being expelled from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for a period of six years, Chaudhary Madan Lal Bagga joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday, in the presence of AAP’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, and AAP MLA from Jagraon, Saravjit Kaur Manuke.During the induction ceremony at a local marriage palace near Jalandhar Bypass, Chadha targeted the Congress government for being caught up in infighting and forgetting about people’s concerns. Welcoming the former SAD leader and his associates on behalf of party supremo Arvind Kejriwal, Chadha said Bagga’s entry had made the AAP stronger in Ludhiana as well the state. Meanwhile, Cheema reiterated that some more senior leaders from SAD and Congress party, “who could relate with AAP’s vision of serving the people” were in talks with the party and are likely to switch sides in the coming days.Bagga said he was unconditionally embracing the AAP, as the rising prices of fuel, electricity and essential commodities were affecting the common man.‘Will not condemn SAD’Speaking to the media on the sidelines of the function, Bagga said he will not condemn the Akali leadership and party just because he has joined AAP. “Earlier, SAD was in alliance with the BJP and now it is in alliance with the BSP. There is no platform where I could serve the residents. So I have decided to bid adieu to Akali Dal and join the AAP,” said Bagga.It may be recalled that Bagga, who was aspiring for a SAD ticket from Ludhiana North constituency in the 2022 assembly elections, was left high and dry when the party reserved the seat for a BSP candidate after brokering an alliance. It is for the second time that Bagga has quit SAD. Earlier in 2017, he had resigned from the party and contested as an independent after SAD got into an alliance with BJP and reserved the seat that he had his eyes on, for a saffron party candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-expulsion-from-sad-bagga-joins-aap-101626631041093.html
18-07-2021||Other||2 Ludhiana men lose lakhs to women who promised them spouse visa to Canada||Marrying in the hope of securing a spouse visa cost two Ludhiana residents heavily as their wives failed to keep the promise. The men, both Canada aspirants, spent lakhs of rupees to send their wives abroad only to be disowned by the latter.In the first case, complainant Jaswinder Singh said he had come in contact with the accused, Sukhvir Kaur Chatha of Boghiwal village of Malerkotla, in 2017. The woman said that if he bore the expenses of her immigration to Canada, she would take him to the country on spouse visa. They solemnized their marriage on August 23, 2017 and a week later, Sukhvir left for Canada. Jaswinder spent around ₹35 lakh for arranging a visa and air ticket for her. In December 2017, Sukhvir allegedly visited her parents’ house for a month and went back. After that she stopped talking to him and rarely attended his calls.Jaswinder said that neither did his wife keep her promise of taking him abroad nor did she keep in touch with him. Dejected, he lodged a police complaint on August 28, 2020. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dalbir Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR was lodged after a 11-month long investigation. The Jamalpur police have lodged a case against Sukhvir under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In the second case, the Macchiwara police booked Satvir Kaur of Lalheri Road of Khanna, her father Pushpinder Singh, mother Nirmal Kaur and a relative Jatinder Singh of Mukerian, who is settled in Brampton, Canada, on the complaint of Kashmira Ram of Uddowal Kalan village of Macchiwara.In his complaint, Kashmira Ram said he had solemnised his son, Rajan Kumar’s marriage with Satvir Kaur, who had promised to arrange a spouse visa for his son after reaching Canada. He added that they spent ₹25 lakh for sending her to Canada. After reaching Canada, she refused to take her husband to the country and snapped all contact.ASI Vipan Kumar, the investigating officer, said the victim had filed a complaint on June 2, 2021. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-ludhiana-men-lose-lakhs-to-women-who-promised-them-spouse-visa-to-canada-101626630681249.html
18-07-2021||Other||2 Delhi residents booked for forging letterhead, vouchers of Avon Cycles||The Sahnewal police have booked two South Delhi residents for allegedly forging the letterhead and vouchers of Avon Cycles, Ludhiana, and trying to lure a Gurugram-based company to enter into a business deal with them. The matter came to fore when the lawyers of the Gurugram-based company sent the letters and vouchers to the general manager of Avon Cycles for confirmation.After finding the documents fake, the general manager, Balwinder Singh, lodged a complaint against the accused, identified as Santosh Kumar Singh and Raj of South Delhi.The complainant said a representative of the Gurugram-based company, Batx Energies Private Limited, was approached by the accused in Delhi in January this year. The duo had claimed that they were associated with Avon Cycles, and can help them get a big contract with Avon cycles, for which they would take their share. The accused also produced a letterhead of Avon cycles which was addressed to Batx Energies, along with some payment vouchers. However, the employee of Batx Energies Private Limited took the pictures of the documents produced by the accused, for verification. He added that the company representative further shared the documents with the CEO of the company who further asked the company advocate to verify it. The advocate of the Gurugram-based company contacted the advocate of Avon Cycles regarding the letter issued to their company. After cross checking, it was found that Avon cycles had never issued any such letter or payment voucher to the respective company. Thereafter a complaint was also lodged with the Ludhiana police on February 24.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said police had tried to contact the accused, Santosh and Raj, however, their mobile phones were switched off. A case has been registered under Section 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-delhi-residents-booked-for-forging-letterhead-vouchers-of-avon-cycles-101626630441223.html
18-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata vaccination scam: Plea filed in SC against HC order refusing CBI probe||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court challenging a Calcutta high court order in which the latter refused to direct a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged fake Covid-19 vaccination centres being run in Kolkata by a man impersonating as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).Also Read | Kolkata vaccine scam: CBI searches office of fake IAS officer Debanjan DebThe petitioner, Ajit Kumar Mishra, claimed in his plea that the high court “failed to appreciate” that West Bengal's agencies cannot carry out a “fair and impartial” probe as the case allegedly involved leaders from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Additionally, Mishra alleged that the role of officials belonging to West Bengal’s Department of Health and Family Welfare may also come under the scanner and hence, no state agency can be entrusted with the probe.Also Read | TMC rolls out dos and don’ts for MLAs in wake of fake vaccination scam probe“The possibility of an administration being run in parallel to that of the government of West Bengal, by a consortium of influential people connected to the corridors of power under the aegis of a particular political party being the ruling party of West Bengal, cannot be ruled out,” the plea mentioned further.Also Read | TMC alleges link between vaccination scam accused and Raj BhawanThe Calcutta high court, on July 9, dismissed a plea seeking a CBI probe into the alleged scam, remarking that the state agencies had “woken up” and initiated an investigation and, therefore, a probe by the central agency “was not necessary.”Also Read | Fake vaccination drive: TMC MP Sen clarifies after photos with accused surfaceIn June, the Kolkata Police busted the alleged scam, being run by 28-year-old Debanjan Deb, who was masquerading as an IAS officer. TMC Lok Sabha MP Mimi Chakraborty was among those who ended up getting “vaccinated” at the camp.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-vaccination-scam-plea-filed-in-sc-against-hc-order-refusing-cbi-probe-101626627923845.html
18-07-2021||Other||‘Marks for cash’ scam busted in Assam; 2 arrested||Police in Assam’s Kamrup (Rural) district have arrested two persons for allegedly offering to alter marks of students appearing for Class 10 board exams this year in lieu of cash, officials said. “After collecting evidence, we detained 7 persons for questioning. Of them, a school principal and a data entry operator have been arrested. Further investigations are underway. More arrests will take place if we come across any other persons involved in the racket,” Kamrup superintendent of police Hitesh Chandra Roy said. The Assam government decided to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and instead devised an evaluation formula based on results of previous years and internal assessments. Results of the evaluation process were to be declared by the end of this month. Following raids at several places on Saturday, police arrested Prasanta Das, a data entry operator at the office of inspector of schools and Aqqas Ali, principal of Majartop higher secondary school, for their alleged involvement in the racket. “We received information about irregularities in offices of inspectors of schools and on Saturday raids were conducted at Kamrup district. Other inspectors of schools are also on our radar. If anyone tries to fudge marks of students, stringent action would be taken,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday. According to police, based on confidential complaints that some persons in the inspector of schools office were colluding with school authorities to give marks to students appearing for Class 10 boards in exchange for money, the raids were conducted at several places on Saturday. A case (329/21) has been registered against the accused at Changsari police station under sections 465, 466, 471, 199, and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for forgery, forgery for cheating, using a forged document, false statement and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/marks-for-cash-scam-busted-in-assam-2-arrested-101626625940947.html
18-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: State seeds corporation gets three BIS certifications||The Bureau of Indian of Indian standards has conferred the ISO9000:2015 to Bihar State Seeds Corporation (BSSC) for implementing quality management system as well as other certifications for environment management system and anti-bribery management system. BSSC managing director Adesh Titarmare received the three certificates from the Bureau of Indian Standards recently, according to a press release. With this, the BSSC is the only government body to get certified in three different categories, Titarmare said. The BBSC has been working relentlessly for providing quality seeds to farmers for last few decades. It also started home delivery of seeds to farmers during Covid-19-triggered lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharstate-seeds-corporation-gets-three-bis-certifications-101626624200330.html
18-07-2021||Other||Cops attacked in Purnia, 3 held||Three women constables were injured when a joint team of Kishanganj and Purnia police was attacked during a raid to rescue a minor girl from a lawyer’s house at Madhopara locality in Purnia, officials said on Sunday. Three of five accused persons were arrested for the attack. The girl, however, could not be recovered. The injured women constables of Kishanganj police are undergoing treatment at Purnia district hospital, SHO of additional Khazanchi Hat police station (Purnia town areas) Sanjay Kumar Singh said.Officials said the police team comprising women constables were made hostage and thrashed allegedly by the henchmen of the lawyer. Police also lodged an FIR against five persons, including the lawyer, under various sections of IPC on the basis of a written complaint of SHO women police station Kishanganj Pushp Lata, Singh said, adding that two of the accused were absconding.“We have arrested three persons, including lawyer Saidul alias Badruddin, a woman and one other person,” said the SHO.On Saturday evening, the Kishanganj SHO led a police team to recover an eight-year-old daughter of a woman hailing from Kishanganj. The woman had lodged a complaint with Kishanganj women police station a few days ago, alleging that the lawyer, who is her brother-in-law, had abducted her daughter and kept her in his Purnia-based house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-attacked-in-purnia-3-held-101626624140331.html
18-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga blast: NIA interrogates accused in Beur jail||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) interrogated Haji Salim Kashim, accused in the June 17 parcel blast at Darbhanga railway station, for the second consecutive day at Beur jail Sunday.The special court had given three days to the NIA for interrogation of Salim at the Beur jail. They interrogated Salim for more than eight hours on Saturday.NIA court, Patna, public prosecutor Manoj Kumar Singh said, “The court granted three days to NIA for interrogation of Salim at the Beur jail from Saturday to Monday,” he added.Sources said that a six-member team of NIA on Sunday came to the Beur jail and took Salim from the hospital ward to another separate cell for interrogation. Kumar said, “The NIA earlier did not take Salim on remand on the grounds of his illness. He was earlier admitted to the IGIMS after he complained of prostate problems. Now, he is getting treatment at the Beur jail hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-blast-nia-interrogates-accused-in-beur-jail-101626624080329.html
18-07-2021||Other||West Champaran hooch deaths: 46 held for involvement in sale of liquor; show-cause issued to five cops||Bettiah and Bagaha police on Sunday arrested 46 people for their alleged involvement in the sale of liquor at Maguraha Deoraj village in Ramnagar block of West Champaran while show-cause notices were issued to two sub-divisional police officers (SDPOs) among five police officials in connection with 16 suspected hooch deaths in separate villages in the district over the week, officials said. Two chowkidars belonging to Sabeya and Jogiya villages have also been suspended, police said.A press release, issued by the West Champaran district administration, said that around 263 litres of liquor was destroyed and all 46 arrested accused have been sent to jail in this regard on Sunday. A day after the suspension of Lauriya police station in-charge KP Yadav, besides shunting out all the staff attached with the police station, the district administration on Sunday issued show-cause notices to Narkatiaganj SDPO Kundan Kumar and Ramnagar SDPO Arjun Lal, besides three other police officials, including station house officers (SHOs) of Sikarpur (in Narkatiaganj) and Ramnagar.In yet another development, two villagers lost their eyesight following the consumption of spurious liquor a week ago. Nur Alam Khan (45), a resident of Harniya Tola of Maguraha Deoraj, left for treatment at a hospital in Nepal on Sunday, while Sukhal Miyan reportedly undergone treatment at Ramnagar. “Though I recovered from the illness after the treatment, my eyesight has gone forever,” said Sukhal Miyan talking to HT. The development came after the deaths of 16 persons in separate villages falling under Lauriya and Ramnagar constituency of West Champaran recently. In a written statement to the district administration on Saturday, family members of 12 deceased accepted the deaths occurred owing to consumption of spurious liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-champaran-hooch-deaths-46-held-for-involvement-in-sale-of-liquor-show-cause-issued-to-five-cops-101626624020955.html
18-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: 5-yr-old swallows battery, saved by IGIMS docs||A five-year-old, who inadvertently ingested a nickel battery of the size of a one-rupee coin, was saved as doctors extricated the cell in the nick of time at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institute on the pattern of AIIMS, here on Saturday. “The cell, charged after mixing with saliva, was transmitting current. It was embedded in the oesophagus for the last five days. It was corroding the oesophagus and eschar formations (crusty dead tissue that falls off from the mucosal surfaces) were already evident. If not removed, the cell would have perforated the oesophagus and slipped into the bronchus (lungs), which could have become fatal,” said Dr Vinit Kumar Thakur, additional professor and officiating head of the paediatric surgery department, IGIMS, who performed the procedure. The child, who hails from Ara town of Bhojpur district, is stable and recuperating at the institute, he added. “We just hope he doesn’t develop stenosis and stricture (abnormal narrowing of the oesophageal lumen),” said Dr Thakur. The procedure, lasting around 30 minutes, was done under general anaesthesia using the oesophagoscope, a type of endoscopy that doesn’t require incision as the flexible endoscope is inserted through the mouth into the oesophagus. The endoscope uses a charge-coupled device to display magnified images on a video screen. Dr Ramdhani Yadav, Dr Sandeep Rahul, both from paediatric surgery, and Dr Nidhi from the department of anesthesiology, assisted in the procedure. Gorak Nath, a milkman and the father of the child, does not have the faintest clue how his fourth child ingested the battery. “Some years back, my son was operated on for cleft lip and cleft palate. He may have ingested the battery when he went to defecate,” he said. “My son was writhing in abdominal pain since July 11. I took him to the sadar (district) hospital in Ara the same evening, but he did not show any relief the next day. I then consulted two private doctors in Ara who suggested chest X-rays and came to the conclusion that the child had ingested a coin. Without wasting much time, I got him to the IGIMS last Friday and the procedure was done the next day,” said Gorak Nath. “My child is doing better and is responding to hunger and thirst,” he added. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said the procedure costs ₹5,000, whereas it could have cost around ₹25,000 in a private facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-5-yr-old-swallows-battery-saved-by-igims-docs-101626624020229.html
18-07-2021||Patna||RJD stages protest against inflation, fuel price hike||The two-day “halla bol” agitation against inflation and soaring fuel prices of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) took off on Sunday with party workers and leaders taking out marches riding bullock carts, horse carts and bicycles across block headquarters.Party leaders also brandished empty liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders and banners during the march, while shouting slogans against Central and state governments for increasing sufferings of people amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Party workers also torched effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar.Exhorting the party workers, Leader of Opposition and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that inflation has broken the backbone of public. “People are dying of hunger. The Centre used to say it will reduce inflation. Fuel prices are skyrocketing and their leaders are silent. Those at the Centre returned to power by taking the people for a ride in the name of bringing back good days. But, people are now crying for help,” said Yadav.Former minister Shyam Rajak led the protest at Phulwari Sharif block of Patna, while other prominent leaders and legislators took the command in their respective blocks. “Today’s protest is a trailer of a grand show on Monday when a large number of people will join in the district-level protest,” said RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari.A day ago, the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) concluded its 10-day protest by taking out a cycle march in the state capital against burgeoning prices of essential commodities and unprecedented hike retail cost of petroleum products. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, AICC in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das and BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha led the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-stages-protest-against-inflation-fuel-price-hike-101626623960988.html
18-07-2021||Patna||All is well in JD (U), says Nitish; praises Kushwaha||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday put to rest all speculations about any rumbling in the party, saying that “it is moving in the right direction”.Addressing the newly appointed office-bearers of the JD (U) through a virtual meeting, Kumar said, “All is well in the party. There is no confusion in the party and everybody is working together.”However, the meeting gave ample hints for a bigger role for Upendra Kushwaha, whose party Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) merged with the JD (U) in March this year. Kushwaha was later made a member of the state Legislative Council .That Kushwaha is being projected as the party president is apparent from CM Kumar’s lauding the former’s effort to make JD (U) the “number one” party. “Kushwaha’s dream of making JD (U) the number one party in the state is laudable. We will definitely achieve this,” Kumar said, while asking party office-bearers to emulate Kushwaha by going to the people. Joining the meeting from Delhi, party national president and Union minister RCP Singh clarified that he will continue to work as minister and party president diligently. “I became a minister on July 7. I will perform the role of a minister firmly along with working for the organization with the same zeal. But, if the party decides, I will definitely give this responsibility to a strong colleague,” said Singh, hinting at a possible change of guard in JD (U) in the near future.Targeting the Opposition, the CM said the JD (U) was never worried about votes. “Instead, we worked for everybody. What did they (Opposition) do for women, except making tall promises. When they got the opportunity, he (referring to Lalu Prasad) made his wife the CM,” he said. Meanwhile, Kushwaha, on his part, clarified that there was no confusion nor dispute between him and RCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/all-is-well-in-jd-u-says-nitish-praises-kushwaha-101626623960274.html
18-07-2021||Other||BSP back to social engineering, Maya plays Dalit-Brahmin card||Lucknow: The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) plans to replay the ‘social engineering’ formula (Dalit- Brahmin alliance) to regain power in the 2022 assembly elections. BSP chief Mayawati has called upon the Brahmin community to support the BSP in the coming assembly elections. “After forming government, the BSP will take care of their ( Brahmins’) dignity and protect their interests as well,” she said. To win the support of the Brahmin community the BSP has decided to organize Brahmin conferences across the state. National general secretary of the BSP, Satish Chandra Mishra,, considered the Brahmin face of the BSP, will launch the Brahmin conference in Ayodhya on July 23. Riding on social engineering, the BSP had formed majority government in the 2007 assembly elections. Addressing a press conference, the BSP chief said with the support of the Brahmin community the BSP had formed government in the 2007 assembly elections. In the 2017 assembly elections, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) lured the Brahmin community with various promises and the community supported the BJP. The BJP formed government with the support of the Brahmins but instead of working for the welfare of the community, it committed atrocities on them. They were being harassed and exploited and were repenting their support to the BJP , she said. To woo the Brahmins before the coming assembly elections, the BJP was again playing various tricks to misguide them, she said. The Brahmins were now aware of the election stunts of the BJP and they would not fall in the trap set by the saffron brigade. They should know that the BSP was their well-wisher and should stand solidly behind it in the assembly elections, Mayawati said. Reminding the Brahmins of the loyalty of the Dalit community with the BSP, Mayawati said the BJP and other rival political parties used all the tricks in the books to wean away the Dalit community in the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP organized ‘khichadi’ feast of their leaders with the members of the Dalit community, as well as a rath yatra to win the support of the Dalits during the 2017 assembly elections. The leaders of the Congress too visited Dalit households with various gifts. The rival political parties tried to win the support of the Dalits with money power, she said. The Dalit community did not fall in the trap, she said. They joined the ‘khichadi’ feast and other programmes organized by the rival parties but in the elections, they voted in support of the BSP. “I am proud of the Dalit community’s support, the Brahmins should also learn a lesson from them and support the BSP wholeheartedly in the 2022 assembly elections,” she said. Mayawati said the Brahmin community supported and tried the BJP for five years. How much would they test and canvass in support of a party that side lined them after the support in the elections? she asked. They should support the BSP for their security, dignity and progress, she said. The BSP chief said, despite defeat in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections, there had been no decline in the BSP vote percentage. The seats of the BSP had declined but its share in the vote was higher than the SP, she said. Expressing solidarity with the farmers, Mayawati said the BSP MPs would raise their voice in support of the farmers and demand withdrawal of the three farm laws in the mnsoon session of the Parliament commencing from Monday (July 19). The party MPs had been directed to raise public issues, including hike in the price of essential commodities, unemployment and slowdown in Covid vaccination, she said. BJP state unit spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said the BSP government in 2007-12 indulged in the policy of appeasement. The upper castes were sidelined and now when the elections were is knocking on the door, BSP chief Mayawati was wooing the Brahmins. The Brahmins were an intellectual community and knew that BJP worked for their welfare and dignity. In the 2022 assembly elections, the Brahmins would again support the BJP, he said. Samajwadi Party state unit spokesperson, bdul Hafiz Gandhi said the SP respected all communities and castes. Mayawati’s attack on the opposition showed her undeclared alliance with the BJP, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-back-to-social-engineering-maya-plays-dalit-brahmin-card-101626623360202.html
18-07-2021||Other||In election year, BJP set to cash in on rural poll win||LUCKNOW: Undeterred by the opposition’s massive criticism about the conduct of panchayat polls, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to play up its first ever sweep of rural elections in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in the run up to the 2022 assembly polls. These wins, party strategists believed, had not only ended the domination of opposition parties, mainly the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, in rural UP but also helped demolish the ‘myth’ that farmers were unhappy with the BJP governments at the centre and the state, a party leader said. The party has decided to felicitate newly elected block development council (BDC) members and gram pradhans or village heads at 825 blocks at the local level between July 26 to 31 and after that it would felicitate district panchayat chairpersons and kshetra panchayat (block pramukhs) chairpersons in the state capital. The wins hailed by top party leadership would also be an integral part of the party’s election campaign and would be mentioned prominently in its meetings, BJP leaders said. The plan for felicitation of rural representatives, including gram pradhans or village heads, was shared by UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal before the party leadership at the virtual state working committee meeting on Friday. These newly elected members in rural UP would also be used to spread ‘vaccine awareness’ as well as to ensure that Covid protocol was followed. The party also intends to deploy health volunteers in rural UP. “In each of the nearly 56,000 villages and 12,,000 wards, two health volunteers including a woman, would be deployed. We intend to create ‘swasthya swayamsevaks’ (health volunteers) and these volunteers would be screened and tasked with their responsibilities before July 20,” Bansal said. A village-centric three-day special vaccination campaign would also be carried out from July 23, that would focus on drivers, rickshaw-pullers and vegetable vendors. “They may be working in urban areas, but all of them have a rural background,” a BJP leader said,, explaining that in the run up to 2022 UP polls the party’s rural focus would continue. “As you know,, 299 of the 403 assembly segments have a rural character and that’s why national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh has repeatedly been focusing on concentrating in rural areas,” a BJP leader said, adding it was for this reason that the recent sweep of rural UP was special for the party. “A special booth verification campaign, a drive to ensure that most villagers have access to free ration scheme of the government would also be undertaken,” a BJP leader said. The ruling BJP said candidates backed by the party won 67 of the 75 zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts and 648 of the 825 block pramukh or kshetra panchayat chairpersons’ posts. In 2015, when the Samajwadi Party government was in power, it had won 623 of the 816 seats for the block pramukh polls and 60 of the 74 zila panchayat chairpersons’ post. After SP, BSP had won the most seats in rural UP. That is the reason why the BJP leaders feel that the party’s domination in these rural polls was an important development. As to the criticism of misuse of official machinery and the fact that the party in power usually sweeps these indirect elections to the zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons’ posts, top ministers in the Yogi Adityanath government said a move to provide for direct elections was also under consideration. “It is under consideration,” deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said while targeting Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had on Saturday visited a Samajwadi Party’s woman worker whose saree was pulled by some people, alleged to be BJP workers, in Pasgawa block of Lakhimpur Kheri. After her meeting, Priyanka demanded cancellation of polls in all such areas where violence was unleashed. The Samajwadi Party had played up the incident as ‘disrobing’ of democracy by the BJP. In January 2020, the then additional state election commissioner Ved Prakash Verma had written to the state government to consider the proposal of amending the clause in the 73rd Constitutional Amendment that provides for indirect elections to these zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukh posts. HT is in possession of the letter written by Verma to principal secretary, Panchayati Raj favouring a proposal for direct elections to zila panchayat chairpersons and block pramukh polls. “That missive was sent in response to a centre’s query of December 30, 2019 to the state on the subject. The point is that only the parliament can carry out an amendment if direct elections are to be held for zila panchayat and block level chief’s posts. And that means it would have to be considered at the appropriate level,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-election-year-bjp-set-to-cash-in-on-rural-poll-win-101626623120211.html
18-07-2021||Other||MP tourism minister asks party workers to pay ₹100 for selfie||Madhya Pradesh tourism and culture minister Usha Thakur said party workers will have to pay ₹100 for taking selfies with her.Talking to media in Indore, Thakur said, “Selfies waste too much time of ours. Sometimes we reach the programme an hour late, therefore, I have decided that Mandal workers of the Bharitya Janta Party will have to pay ₹100 for taking a selfie. The money will be given to the Mandal treasurer. The money can be used for the welfare work of the party.”She further said, “I don’t like garlands because it has religious importance so I have asked to replace bouquet with books. This will upgrade the BJP party office library.”Earlier too, Thakur hit the headlines for her controversial suggestions. During the second wave of Covid-19, Thakur appealed to people to perform Yagya to purify the environment to get rid of the Covid-19 virus.Thakur, who is spotted without a mask most of the time, said the virus will not attack her due to her vedic lifestyle, including reciting Hanuman Chalisa and performing yagya with cow dung cakes. However, Congress took a jab at her statement. MP Congress Committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “BJP has now emerged as a party of businessmen as they see profit and loss in everything. A party worker, who works on the field and helps an MLA in winning the election, now has to give money to take a picture with the same MLA. Such attitude is going to be proved cost dearer for these leaders in the upcoming election.” However, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Minister Usha Thakur was saying it in a casual mood. People were laughing there. A politician also has a right to crack a joke.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mp-tourism-minister-asks-party-workers-to-pay-rs-100-for-selfie-101626622160746.html
18-07-2021||Other||18-year-old commits suicide in Patiala; father booked for abetment||Patiala An 18-year-old man, of Passiana village, committed suicide by hanging himself with a ceiling fan on Saturday late evening, after an altercation with his father. Police have booked his father and his lover. The victim’s mother had died in 2017 and since then, his father had entered into an affair. Police added the victim’s uncle is the complainant, who has alleged that his father and the lover tortured the victim, both physically and mentally, leading him to commit suicide. A case has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18yearold-commits-suicide-in-patiala-father-booked-for-abetment-101626619700627.html
18-07-2021||Other||Patiala lad tops state in NTSE||Patiala A Class-12 student, Karan Noor Singh, 17, has topped the state in the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) that the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) conducts. Enrolled at the Our Lady of Fatima school, Karan, who took coaching from a local private institute, scored 157 on 200. “I will continue my studies with dedication for board examinations. My teachers and family led me to this success,” he said.Students passing NTSE with distinction get ₹1,250 per month for higher secondary studies and ₹2,000 per month for undergraduate and post-graduate level.His father GS Sarao, who is an executive engineer in the Public Works Department, said Karan’s mother Ranjit Kaur, who is professor of Fine Arts at the government women college, ensured Karan stayed focused even during the Covid-19 pandemic. “My son’s dream is to take admission in IIT, Delhi in computer sciences stream,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-lad-tops-state-in-ntse-101626619461048.html
18-07-2021||Other||AAP protests outside Singla’s house, alleging harassment of sarpanch||Sangrur Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers protested outside the house of Punjab education minister and local MLA Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday to oppose the alleged harassment of the party’s sarpanch from Gharachon village of the district. They also broke police barricades on their way to the house. The issue pertains to suspension of the sarpanch, thrice, after he reportedly refused to allow panchayat land to be taken by private players. The protesters also burnt the effigy of the minister and alleged that democratic values were being killed.In a press note, the AAP alleged that sarpanch Gurmail Singh had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court to save 23 acre of village land, which was being given to private players. AAP’s Sangrur unit district chief Davinder Singh Bandesha and youth leader Narinder Kaur Bharaj said, “The party will intensify the agitation against the Congress government and the party will face consequences of its arrogance in next year’s assembly elections.” The minister has previously rubbished all these allegations, claiming that the sarpanch had only four members supporting him and seven against him in village panchayat on all important resolutions. In another protest, scores of government employees hailing from Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla districts held a protest opposite the PWD Rest House to oppose the Sixth Pay Commission report and privatisation. They also appealed to employees of Punjab, UT and pensioners to join their protest in Patiala on July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-protests-outside-singla-s-house-alleging-harassment-of-sarpanch-101626619100748.html
18-07-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh govt orders probe in 3 cases against suspended IPS officer GP Singh||Chhattisgarh government has ordered probes in three different cases against suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh who was also booked for sedition, officials confirmed on Sunday.The probes will be conducted by the three senior IPS officers of Chhattisgarh police, as per the issued orders.On July 8, GP Singh, who was suspended by the state government after the raids of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offence Wing (EOW), was booked for sedition by Chhattisgarh police.Three orders in this regard (HT has seen its copies) were issued by the Director-General of Police on July 14 and July 15.As per the first order, a probe has been ordered on the complaint of one Duralabh Agarwal of Raipur, in which he alleged that IPS officer Singh, who was investigating a case of police atrocity against his father and uncle in 2013, hushed up the case. The complaint in this regard was registered with the Chhattisgarh DGP and others on July 12 2021, which will be probed by senior IPS officer Ashok Juneja.Another probe was ordered over the complaint of activist Manjit Kaur Bal, in which it was alleged that the IPS officer had helped one criminal Kamalkant Tiwari by forging documents and also gave him protection. The complaint in this regard was also filed with the DGP on July 12 and will be investigated by Inspector General of Police, Raipur, Anand Chhabra, as per the issued order."My request is to arrest Kamalkant Tiwari, who is the project officer in panchayat office, Durg. He is escaped on paper in court but protected by GP Singh since 2015 without bail and getting promotion," Bal said.The third case will be investigated by Inspector General of Police, Durg range, Vivekanand Sinha, in which one Gaynendra Yadav of Rajnandgaon alleged that GP Singh had ‘misappropriated’ the money which was recovered from Maoist leader, Pahad Singh, when he was posted as the IG Durg Range in 2018.It is worth mentioning that searches were conducted at around 15 locations linked to Singh, an additional director general-rank officer, from July 1 to July 3. Investigators have claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids.An ACB statement on July 3 said the documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises established that he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”.“Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said.Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of the ACB and the EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-govt-orders-probe-in-3-cases-against-suspended-ips-officer-gp-singh-101626618440594.html
18-07-2021||Bhopal||11 districts in MP to see heavy rainfall; IMD issues yellow alert for state||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a yellow alert for Madhya Pradesh as per which isolated places in 11 districts, including Rewa and Damoh, are likely to receive heavy rainfall. It also issued another yellow alert, predicting thunderstorm with lightning in Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur and five other divisions in the state.Both these alerts are valid till Monday morning, an official said. Yellow alert means authorities are advised to be updated on the situation.The rainfall activity in Madhya Pradesh is expected to go up due to a trough that runs from the central part of the state to south Tamil Nadu, the IMD said."A north-south trough runs at 0.9 km above mean sea level from central Madhya Pradesh to south Tamil Nadu across Vidarbha, Telangana and Rayalaseema," senior meteorologist P K Saha from the IMD's Bhopal office told PTI. "This is going to increase the rainfall activities in MP," he said.Narvar area in Shivpuri district of west MP received the highest rainfall of 142 mm in the 24 hours that ended 8.30 am Sunday. Likewise, Badwara in Katni district of east MP recorded 35 mm rainfall in the same period, he added.Since over the last fortnight, people in large parts of Madhya Pradesh, including the state capital of Bhopal, have been witnessing humid and sticky weather with maximum temperature shooting up to 40 degrees Celsius in some districts. "But a good spell of rain is likely to turn the weather pleasant across MP," Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/11-districts-in-mp-to-see-heavy-rainfall-imd-issues-yellow-alert-for-state-101626612493426.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi receive rainfall; IMD predicts downpour at isolated places||Light to moderate rains lashed several parts of Delhi on Sunday, bringing some relief to the continuous heatwave. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the national capital will witness a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain or thunderstorms, while heavy rains at isolated places are predicted for today and tomorrow.On Sunday morning, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 28 degree Celsius, which was one notch above the season’s average. The maximum temperature settled at 36.4 degrees Celsius.Monsoon in the national capital has been delayed by over two weeks and the rain deficit during this month is around 50 per cent, Hindustan Times earlier reported. Strong rainfall was witnessed for two days after the monsoon arrived on Tuesday but there hadn’t been much rainfall since Thursday.#WATCH | Rain lashes parts of Delhi; visuals from Mandi HouseDelhi to witness "Generally Cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers. Heavy rain at isolated places", as per India Meteorological Department pic.twitter.com/Evxpahgfh0On Saturday, some parts of the city, including those in Dwarka and South Delhi, received light rainfall towards the evening. However, the mercury was above the normal temperature levels.The IMD has said the usual monsoon onset date in Delhi and NCR regions is on June 27 and the maximum rainfall is seen from July 10 till the end of August.The weather department on Sunday also predicted intense rainfall over the country’s northern region till July 21. Moderate to severe thunderstorms are likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and east of Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. States such as Punjab and Haryana are also likely to witness increased rainfall activity till July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-receive-rainfall-imd-predicts-downpour-at-isolated-places-101626617271421.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi cancels Kanwar Yatra; DDMA issues notification||There will be no Kanwar Yatra in Delhi this year too, as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday issued a notification cancelling the annual pilgrimage over fears of it contributing to a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic."The upcoming Kanwar Yatra will commence from 25.07.2021 and in spite of being banned/suspended by the Uttarakhand government, there is an apprehension of gatherings/congregations/processions during Kanwar Yatra-2021. Therefore, in view of persisting Covid-19 situation, it is decided that Kanwar Yatra-2021 should not be permitted in order to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi," DDMA's notification stated.It further empowered all district magistrates in Delhi, as well as their respective district deputy commissioners of police to ensure strict compliance of the order, and to further adequately sensitise the field functionaries about these instructions for strict compliance, in letter and spirit.The DDMA's decision comes a day after the Uttar Pradesh government, too, cancelled the yatra, despite permitting it earlier. The UP government's order came after the Supreme Court, on Friday, instructed it to reconsider its decision to allow the pilgrimage despite concerns over Covid-19, giving it time till Monday to do so. The top court further warned it would cancel the Kanwar Yatra if Uttar Pradesh does not.Also Read | Kanwar yatra called off this year: UP govtOn Tuesday, the Uttarakhand government announced it will not allow the movement of Kanwariyas this year. Rajasthan has also called off the pilgrimage, which is also unlikely to take place in Bihar and Jharkhand. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh latest to cancel Kanwar Yatra: List of other statesThe Kanwar Yatra, which was cancelled last year as well, sees thousands of Lord Shiva devotees, most of whom travel on foot and, more recently on trucks, to Haridwar in Uttarakhand to collect holy water from the Ganges river. The pilgrimage mostly begins in late July and goes on till the first week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-cancels-kanwar-yatra-ddma-issues-notification-101626615208350.html
18-07-2021||Other||Ahead of Eid, Covid-19 containment to continue in Jammu and Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday said it has decided to continue with the existing Covid-19 containment measures for the week except for allowing district magistrates to allow shops to open an hour early two days ahead of the Eid-ul-Azha on Wednesday, officials said.The government has also decided to allow the phased opening of higher educational institutions after July 31 subject to vaccination of the students and staff.“It has also been seen that the daily cases in the past few days have shown an uneven trend. As such, there is a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in these districts,” said an order by chairman state executive committee (SEC) and chief secretary, Arun Kumar Mehta.Last week, the administration lifted the weekend curfew from 16 out of the total 20 districts of the UT.The order had permitted all the outdoor shops and traders to open in these 16 districts on all days from 7 am to 7 pm with a daily night curfew from 8 pm onwards.The businesses may now be allowed to open by 6 am in these districts.“Deputy Commissioners may allow shops as per the above order to open at 6 am instead of 7 am to avoid the rush on July 19 and 20 as per their assessment,” the order said.Eid-ul-Azha will be celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir on July 21.The routine Covid-19 cases in J&K have come down to a large extent with daily cases remaining between 143 and 224 since July 10 and a single or two daily deaths.The administration permitted public and private educational institutions to seek personal attendance of limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.“Higher educational institutes and skill development centres may be considered for phased re-opening for onsite learning after July 31 subject to the vaccination status of the students and staff,” it said.In a review meeting on Friday, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha directed the officials to be well-prepared in advance to deal with the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic or any future health emergencies.Atal Dulloo, additional chief secretary, health and medical education department informed that the positivity rate in J&K has reduced to 0.3%.“18 districts are in Green Zone as per new set indicators with 99% of the population in 45 and above age group now vaccinated with the first dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-eid-covid-19-containment-to-continue-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101626615442537.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar hospitalised owing to chest pain||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar was hospitalised on Sunday as she was complaining of chest pain from Saturday night. Deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar said the chest pain is probably related to Covid recovery. According to the mayor's office, Pednekar had chest pain since last night and so she went for a check-up, following which she was hospitalised.Kishori Pednekar contracted Covid last year when she was admitted to the Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri.According to the Global Hospital where she was admitted on Sunday, the mayor is suffering from epigastric pain. "Honourable mayor is presently stable and she is under the care of Dr Praveen Kulkarni, senior cardiologist at Global Hospitals, Parel," said Dr Jigna Shrotriya, medical superintendent at the hospital. A statement from the mayor’s office also said that her condition was stable.The mayor posted a tweet responding to false reports floating around her health condition from the hospital and said she had dal-khichdi some time back.Dear @indiatoday I am very much alive and taking treatment at the Global Hospital. Also FYI ate Dal Khichdi some time back. I am sure as a leading media group you all are aware of basic Journalistic principles Please bother to verify such news. That's least one can expect. pic.twitter.com/4bkDBLqBc8The 58-year-old Shiv Sena leader became the mayor of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-hospitalised-owing-to-chest-pain-101626614397850.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rain updates: 25 dead, 6 injured, says BMC; IMD issues red alert for city||Heavy rains lashed Mumbai on Saturday night, resulting in landslides which further triggered wall collapse in some areas of the city and its nearby areas. The heavy overnight showers led to waterlogging in several areas of the metropolis, bringing it to a grinding halt.Here are some latest updates on Mumbai rains:(1.) Total number of deaths and injuries in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra’s capital city has risen to 25 and six respectively, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Of these, 23 deaths and six injuries took place due to landslides in Mahul and Vikhroli, while one person died in Bhandup due to a house collapse. In Andheri, one person lost his life short circuit.Click here to follow all latest updates on Mumbai rains(2.) Landslides lead to deaths of 17 people in Mahaul while five others were injured. Six people lost their lives in Vikhroli while one person was injured.(3.) Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a high-level meeting with officials at 6pm over the rain situation in Mumbai, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) announced, according to news agency ANI.(4.) State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray visited the affected locations and took stock of the relief works being undertaken by various agencies. Later, he took to Twitter to announce that the state government and BMC are providing all necessary financial and medical assistance to those affected.Also Read | 'Sheer force of rain water...': Aaditya Thackeray visits locations of Mumbai landslides(5.) The India Meteorological Department (IMD) turned its "orange" alert for Mumbai to "red" following heavy rains. The weather body has forecast "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall at some places, with "extremely" heavy rainfall at isolated places.Also Read | As rains pound Mumbai, IMD bulletin predicts more showers along western coast(6.) Vijay Wadettiwar, the cabinet minister for relief and rehabilitation, described Sunday’s incidents as “normal.” Speaking to ANI, Wadettiwar said that red alert was issued and people were evacuated to safe places, adding that “such incidents are normal amid 500 mm rain in a day.”Santa Cruz received around 235-270mm of rain while Chembur saw 200mm y'day. Red alert was issued & people were evacuated to safe places from danger zones. Such incidents are normal amid 300mm rain in a day. Sad that 21 people died: Maharashtra Minister Vijay Wadettiwar pic.twitter.com/FzWFWrXAi2(7.) The BMC has urged citizens to boil water before drinking as heavy rains have stopped the Bhandup water purification complex, which is one of the major sites supplying water to Mumbai.Also Read | Boil water before drinking: Civic body's advice to Mumbaikars amid heavy rains(8.) Nine flights were diverted from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) as operations were suspended temporarily between 12:42am to 5:24am, ANI reported quoting airport authorities. Flight operations resumed from 5:24am onwards and are proceeding as per schedule, it added.(9.) Central Railway shared a list of trains which were affected due to the rains. As of 4:30pm on Sunday, 11 trains were short terminated, six were cancelled, three short-originated and nine were rescheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rain-updates-25-dead-6-injured-says-bmc-cm-thackeray-to-hold-high-level-meet-101626612883358.html
18-07-2021||Other||Assam MLA didn’t pass Class 12th exam, RTI query reveals||All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Assam’s Sonai constituency, Karimuddin Barbhuiyan is under scanner for allegedly faking his educational qualification, HT has learnt. In his affidavit submitted to the Election Commission of India before this year’s assembly election, Barbhuiyan claimed that he graduated from Choudhury Charan Singh University, Meerut in 2019. In the 2016 election, he claimed to have cleared the higher secondary examination in 1987 and passed an engineering diploma in 1990.Responding to an RTI query, Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) revealed that Karimuddin Barbhuiyan appeared for the Class 12th examination in 1987 but did not pass. A case has already been filed against Barbhuiyan in Gauhati High Court and the court will hear the case on August 4.Barbhuiya won the assembly election this year from the Sonai constituency of Cachar district under the AIUDF banner. He also contested the same constituency in 2016 but was defeated by BJP’s Aminul Haque Laskar. In 2016, while submitting the nomination, he revealed that he passed the higher secondary examination in 1987 and completed a diploma in engineering in 1990. But this year, the details of his higher education changed and he said that he graduated from Choudhury Charan Singh University, Meerut, in 2019.Supporters of former BJP MLA and former deputy speaker of Assam assembly Aminul Haque Laskar filed several RTIs regarding Barbhuiyan’s educational qualification. In response to two back-to-back RTIs regarding his higher secondary education, it was revealed that Barbhuiya failed to pass the class 12 examination in 1987.He was enrolled with the Guru Charan College, Silchar for appearing in the examination. An RTI was filed to the college and the college authority in response said that they don’t have Karimuddin Barbhuiyan’s records except for his roll number. With the help of the roll number, another RTI was filed to Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC), and in response, the council stated that as per records available with the Council, Karimuddin Barbhuiyan failed that year.Aminul Haque Laskar moved to the Election Commission of India before this year’s assembly election but the ECI didn’t pay much attention to it. Karimuddin Barbhuiyan was allowed to contest and defeated Aminul Haque Laskar after securing more than 70,000 votes. Later, Aminul went to the Gauhati High Court and filed a case against Karimuddin Barbhuiyan for faking documents. The court has asked both Aminul and Karimuddin to appear for a hearing on August 4.Aminul Haque said, “In his affidavit, Karimuddin Barbhuiyan has revealed that he has completed his Graduation in 2019 from Choudhury Charan Singh University. But responding to an RTI, the university has said that Karimuddin Barbhuiya’s name isn’t there among students who graduated in 2019. In fact, he mentioned that he has completed his graduation in distance education mode, but the university does not have a distance education facility. Similarly, his engineering diploma is fake because the institute from where he passed, doesn’t exist. Now, Assam Higher Secondary Education Council is saying that he never passed the 12th class examination. So how can he became a graduate?”Aminul Haque demanded Barbhuiyan’s resignation. He said, “Assam Assembly is a holy place where legends like Gopinath Bardoloi have worked. There were highly educated MLAs and also there were MLAs with less education. But there was never a person who faked his educational qualification. Karimuddin Barbhuiyan has insulted the state assembly. In past, strict actions were taken against MLAs in Manipur and some other states for similar activities. I think Karimuddin Barbhuiyan should resign himself accepting his crime before Gauhati High Court takes the move.”Karimuddin Barbhuiya however didn’t try to defend himself and said he will prove his side in court. Talking to Hindustan Times, he said, “Former deputy speaker Aminul Haque Laskar is trying to defame me because I defeated him in the election. He has done that in the past and I am not surprised that he is doing it again. The matter is in Court and I will present my side with all the documents on the day of the hearing. I believe in the court and I am sure justice will be provided,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-mla-didn-t-pass-class-12th-exam-rti-query-reveals-101626611420467.html
18-07-2021||Dehradun||After HC rap, Uttarakhand govt increases stipend of medical interns from ₹7k to ₹17k||Uttarakhand government on Sunday approved to increase the stipend of interns in medical colleges from monthly ₹7000 to ₹17000, officials said. The approval to the increase in stipend was provided by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Dhami said doctors and paramedic staff have provided valuable services during the epidemic and to lessen its impact on the state. The decision followed protests by interns and the Uttarakhand high court directing the state government to consider increasing the stipend of the interns. On July 7, the HC directed state health secretary Amit Negi to consider the possibility of increasing the stipend being paid to the intern doctors. “For, on the one hand, according to Amit Negi, it is difficult to attract the doctors to the state, yet, on the other hand, the stipend being paid to the intern doctors is too low as compared to the other states. Therefore, the state government should consider the possibility of increasing the stipend of intern doctors within the state,” said the HC order. The issue of increasing the stipend of interns was raised by advocate Abhijay Negi, the counsel of one of the petitioners in the bunch of PILs filed in the HC on the Covid-19 situation in the state. The July 7 HC order pointed out that “the stipend being paid to the intern doctors is significantly lower than the stipend paid by the other states. “According to him (counsel Abhijay Negi), while the intern doctors in Uttarakhand are being paid a monthly stipend of ₹7,500, the intern doctors in Himachal Pradesh are being paid ₹17,000 and in Chhattisgarh, they are paid ₹17,900/- per month as stipend”. “Thus, according to the counsel, it is essential that the stipend being paid to the intern doctors should be increased so as to motivate them to become a front-line warrior to tackle Covid-19. This is extremely necessary as the third wave is only four weeks away according to the expert opinion. Thus, the counsel suggests that the state must gear up and strengthen its healthcare system to take on the third wave as it strikes the state, possibly in the second week of August 2021,” the order said.Last month, interns at Dr Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani, the main referral hospital, held protests, demanding an increase in their stipend. They warned of boycotting their work in the coming days if their stipend was not increased.Dr Arun Kumar, a junior doctor said, only ₹7500 as a stipend was being given to the junior doctors in the state for the last 12 years, whereas the Central government gives a stipend of ₹23,000 to the junior doctors interning in the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-hc-rap-uttarakhand-govt-increases-stipend-of-medical-interns-from-rs-7k-to-rs-17k-101626610700431.html
18-07-2021||Pune||Higher cutoffs, more competition likely this year for Class 11 admissions in Pune colleges||More students have scored higher marks in the Class 10 exam this year as compared to the previous year. This is likely to fuel more competition for admissions in top colleges in Pune and the rest of the state.As many as 957 students across the state have scored 100 per cent while over one lakh students have scored above 90 per cent, as per the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE).The passing percentage of students this year was 99.95 per cent in Maharashtra which is 4.65 per cent more than last year. As per the board, in 2020, over 83,000 students scored above 90 per cent marks with 242 securing a perfect 100 per cent. Whereas this year, 104,633 students discord more than 90 per cent.Class 11, first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions in Pune are done under the centralised admission system under which each college in the city enrols students.Prof Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said that the cut off last year for Arts in Fergusson College was as high as 97.6 per cent.“For Science, the cut off was around 97 per cent. This time it is likely that the cut off may increase given a lot of students have scored well. However, our cut off may increase marginally for Science and Arts streams,” said Pardeshi.He also added that around three to four years back, the state government had permitted to increase students capacity by 10 per cent in college. “There is a possibility of that. However, there are limitations to infrastructure like teachers, practical rooms and other factors. These have to be taken into consideration before increasing the intake of students,” he said.In 2020, along with Fergusson College, Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC) also had a cut off of 97 per cent. Popular colleges like Sir Parshurambhau (SP) College had a cut off of 92.6 per cent for Science. Cut off for Modern College was 94.8 per cent as per the Class 11 admission portal.Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said that prominent colleges will witness a higher cutoff this year as many students have scored good marks.“The education department in the past few years has asked colleges to increase the capacity by 10 per cent. There is a possibility that colleges which can take more students, will apply for the same,” said Zunjarrao.The Common Entrance Test (CET) for Class 11 this time will be held before August 21. And then the results will be declared and the admission process will start by September end. CET for Class 11 admissions is not mandatory as per the board. However, preference will be given to students who are attempting CET. It is likely that students who have scored above 90 marks may not apply for CET as their score is better. Zunjarrao added that there is a possibility that like last year, the admission process may take a lot of time for Class 11 giving only a few months to finish the yearly syllabus for Class 11.“Last year, the admission process was so much delayed that we had only three months to finish the entire syllabus for the year. So, the simultaneous admission process should be started so that due time remains to finish the syllabus and there is no need to reduce the syllabus this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/higher-cutoffs-more-competition-likely-this-year-for-class-11-admissions-in-pune-colleges-101626606560136.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 26 with more relaxations||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions in the state till July 26 to keep a check on the spread of the viral disease.As part of the new guidelines, the government has provided more relaxations including extending the timings of restaurants, bars and gymnasiums. The night curfew will now be imposed from 11pm to 5am instead of 10 pm to 5 am on all days of the week.“Now after duly considering the fact although the Covid-19 positivity rate and the number of new Covid-19 positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the pandemic, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 (2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned in my capacity as chairperson, state executive committee hereby extends the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana for another week, i.e, from 19/07/2021 (5am onwards) to 26/07/2021 (till 5am),” an official order read.Here are the new relaxations provided in modification of earlier orders:> Restaurants and bars (including those in hotels and malls) can now open from 10am to 11pm with 50% seating capacity and in adherence with Covid-appropriate behaviour such as sanitisation, social distancing.> Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast food joints is allowed upto 11pm.> Gyms can now remain open from 6am to 9pm with 50% capacity. Here too, all Covid related norms such as sanitisation, social distancing will have to be followed> Club houses/restaurants/bars of golf courses can remain open from 10am to 11pm with 50% seating capacity with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Members or visitors shall be allowed to play in Golf courses by the management in a staggered order in order to avoid overcrowding.The Haryana government also said that relaxations which were introduced in earlier orders will continue.Some of these are as follows:> Only 100 people will be allowed to attend marriages and funerals while upto 200 people will be allowed in open spaces.> Swimming pools are open for only those athletes/swimmers which are competing or practicing for an event.> Colleges and universities are only allowed to open for doubt clearing sessions, practical classes in labs, practical exams and offline exams.> Cinema halls (inside malls and standalone) can only open with a maximum 50% seating capacity.Haryana has till now recorded nearly 7.7 million cases and 9,593 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. The daily tally on Saturday continued to remain below 50 as 41 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the state have dropped to 823 and the recoveries are over 759,000.As the overall pandemic situation in the state has been improving, the government decided to reopen schools for classes 9-12 from July 16 after a gap of almost three months. However, it has not been made mandatory for students to attend offline classes and those who wish to will have to get a written consent from their parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-july-26-with-more-relaxations-101626603849877.html
18-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan develops mobile app for purchase, sale of organic products||Now purchase and sale of organic products in Rajasthan can be done online using Raj Kisan Organic mobile application, developed by the agriculture department for coordination and negotiation between farmers and the buyers.Rajasthan agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said as the demand for organic products was increasing,more and more farmers were switching to organic farming with more than 20,000 becoming members of around 90 organic producer groups registered with the Rajasthan State Organic Certification Organization. However, these farmers found it difficult to find a structured market to sell their produce, a problem that the new app named Raj Kisan Organic promises to solve by providing an interface to farmers and the consumers of organic produce.Individual farmers or farmer groups can register themselves by downloading this app from Google play store and directly sell their products to registered buyers. Till date, 160 farmers and 29 buyers have got themselves registered on this app.Commissioner, agriculture department, Dr Omprakash said that the farmers are also required to enter the details of the certificate issued by relevant authority verifying their credentials in the mobile app before they can upload the details of organic cultivable land, crop name, salable yield, price of produce etc which allows interested buyers to contact the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-develops-mobile-app-for-purchase-sale-of-organic-products-101626603020602.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Boil water before drinking: Civic body's advice to Mumbaikars amid heavy rains||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Sunday has asked citizens to boil water before drinking as heavy rains stopped the Bhandup water purification complex, which is one of the major sites of water supply to the city. The torrential rain that intensified from Saturday night flooded the water purification complex on Sunday, following which the civic body shut the plants down.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said that the plants will be resumed in a few hours as water recedes from the station, but the filtration process will take time to be up and running. Hence, boiling the water will be the best precaution as of now.Follow live updates of Mumbai rains“Efforts are being taken to restore Mumbai’s water supply by restarting the water purification system in the complex, which may take up to a few hours. After water supply is restored, the administration appeals Mumbaikars to boil water before drinking,” BMC said in a statement. After the water purification plant is restarted, the entire system will be cleaned.The city has been receiving record rainfall since Saturday night which led to massive flooding in almost every part of the city. A BMC statement said Vihar Lake, with a storage capacity of 27,698 million litres, has started overflowing following the overnight rain. Vihar lake is the smallest of the water bodies that are part of the supply mechanism to the metropolis, PTI reported. In June, the civic body issued an alert against bacterial disease leptospirosis after heavy rains lashed the city. It was said that people who walk through stagnant water and have injuries in their feet are at risk of contracting this infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/boil-water-before-drinking-civic-body-s-advice-to-mumbaikars-amid-heavy-rains-101626602557748.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||'Sheer force of rain water...': Aaditya Thackeray visits locations of Mumbai landslides||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on Sunday visited the sites of landslides in Mumbai, and said that the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are providing all necessary financial and medical assistance to those affected.Also Read: 22 dead, several injured in Mumbai landslides after heavy rains“I visited the three locations of landslides where the sheer force of rainwater and mud broke through retaining walls into homes. Relief work is going on and all necessary financial and medical assistance is being provided by the government of Maharashtra and BMC,” Thackeray tweeted.I visited the 3 locations of landslides where the sheer force of the rainwater and mud broke through retaining walls into homes. Relief work is going on and all necessary financial and medical assistance is being provided by the Govt of Maharashtra and BMC. pic.twitter.com/2ztQAmX2T2The state tourism minister further described heavy rains which lashed Mumbai last night, eventually triggering landslides, as being caused by a “weather system of extremely heavy rainfall” accompanied by thundering and lightning. “Some parts crossed 200 mm of rain in a span of three hours. These were mini cloudbursts in a short span with full fury of nature,” Thackeray posted in a subsequent tweet.Last night Mumbai faced a weather system of extreme heavy rainfall accompanied by thundering and lightning, some parts crossing 200 mm of rain in a span of 3 hours. These were mini cloudbursts in a short span with full fury of nature. (1/n) pic.twitter.com/JYC21qAbIQThe minister also praised agencies such as the BMC, Mumbai Police, Mumbai Fire Brigade and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), whose teams, he said, “worked to evacuate and rescue people from incidents like Mithi breaching danger levels.” Thackeray added that mini pumps and pumping stations had pumped out 4423.50 million litres of water till now.At least 22 people have lost their lives and several others injured in Mumbai and one of its suburbs, following heavy rains that lashed the city and its surrounding areas on Saturday night and Sunday morning. Expressing his condolences over the loss of lives, prime minister Narendra Modi announced ex-gratia of ₹200,000 each for the families of those who were killed and ₹50,000 for those injured.The ex-gratia amount will be given from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted to inform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sheer-force-of-rain-water-aaditya-thackeray-visits-locations-of-mumbai-landslides-101626600726270.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||What caused monster thunderstorm twice Everest's height over Mumbai | 5 points||Parts of Mumbai on Saturday received the heaviest one-day on July in the last seven years which led to landslide and several deaths and injuries. Weathermen have found that a monster thunderstorm is behind the torrential rain, which was not predicted by the system. The thunderstorm had a cloud top height of 60,000 feet above the ground, higher than Mr Everest.Here are 5 points about what happened:1. The height of the thunderstorm is nearly 25,000 feet higher than the cruising altitude of commercial airlines, experts have said.Just look at the cloud top height of this thunderstorm! It has clearly touched a height of around 18 km (around 60,000 feet) above the ground. This is nearly 25,000 feet higher than the typical cruising altitude of commercial airlines. #MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/eSOhWE8KMzFollow Mumbai rain live updates here2. In a month like July when the monsoon is active in the country, such thunderstorms are uncommon. Experts have compared this to the one that was seen in 2005.3. A monster thunderstorm is a collection of many thunderstorms. One of the reasons could be the increased number of a dry spell at a stretch, which can be linked to an overall rise in the number of unnatural weather events.4. An independent forecaster @IndiaWeatherMan said the monster thunderstorm came up over Raigad district in the evening. Then it slowly moved northward along the west coast towards Mumbai, without losing its strength, which is unique.Also Read: Experts stumped as record-setting thunderstorm hits Mumbai, contrary to forecasts..which will result in further increase in rains for Mumbai. Mumbai’s average July rainfall is 830mm Santacruz already recorded 850mm till now. My personal forecast is Mumbai will get over 500mm till next weekend with 2-3 extremely heavy spells. #MumbaiRains5. For the past few days, Mumbai has been receiving moderate rains, but mostly small-area, isolated downpours, which are "almost impossible" to predict.What will happen next?According to the IMD, an off-shore trough at mean sea level runs from Maharashtra coast to Karnataka coast, which is likely to persist during the next 5-6 days and a shear zone runs roughly along latitude 17 degree north in mild tropospheric levels and may persist for the next two days. Under its influence, Maharashtra will continue receiving heavy to very heavy rainfall during next 5-6 days. Konkan, Goa, part of Karnataka will also receive isolated heavy rainfalls, the IMD has predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-caused-monster-thunderstorm-twice-everest-s-height-over-mumbai-5-points-101626600205975.html
18-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka allows cinema theatres to operate, reduces night curfew time. All you need to know||The Karnataka government has further relaxed restrictions related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in view of the decline in infections. The decision to relax lockdown norms was taken during a meeting called by chief minister B S Yediyurappa at his Bengaluru residence on Sunday. At the meeting, Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr C N Ashwathnarayan, other ministers and senior officials were present. The decision around the relaxation of lockdown norms includes reopening of cinema theatres, higher educational institutions and night curfew.Here’s all you need to know about the new guidance:Karnataka had imposed restrictions in the middle of the raging second Covid wave and was made stringent from May 10 when the state’s daily new infections exceeded 50,000. The government started easing the restrictions from June 14, followed by more relaxations from June 21 and July 5. The night curfew initially was in force between 7-5pm and was later changed to 9-5pm. From Monday, the night curfew will be in force from 10-5pm.The Karnataka government has further relaxed the restrictions as the daily Covid-19 cases have come down substantially. On Saturday, the state reported 1,869 new Covid-19 cases, 42 related deaths and 30,082 active cases.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-allows-cinema-theatres-to-operate-reduces-night-curfew-time-all-you-need-to-know-101626599414266.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board’s water production at all-time high: Raghav Chadha||After nearly a week of shortage, Delhi’s water production on Sunday reached an “all-time high” of 955 million gallons per day, Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said. “I’m pleased to inform that today Delhi’s water production by the Delhi Jal Board is at an all-time high of 955 MGD against the usual 910 MGD. Due to sufficient availability of raw water in River Yamuna as well as engineering solutions, we have managed to push our optimum levels,” Chadha tweeted. Over the last one week, Delhi has been witnessing a “severe water shortage”, which was attributed to Haryana not releasing the requisite water quantity to the Capital. Last Sunday, the DJB also filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking directions for the Haryana government to release Delhi’s share of water. The most affected areas were Old and New Rajinder Nagar, Greater Kailash, Prem Nagar, Punjabi Bagh, Tughlakabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar, Okhla, Raja Garden, Tagore Garden, Tilak Nagar and Subhash Nagar. Revealing the data of the water shortage, DJB had said that Yamuna River’s level at Wazirabad pond dropped from 674.5 feet to 667 feet, bringing down the Chandrawal water treatment plant’s capacity from 90 MGD to 55 MGD; Wazirabad plant’s capacity to 80 MGD from 135 MGD and Okhla plant’s capacity to 12 MGD from 20 MGD. The situation worsened on Monday, when the water level in Yamuna fell to its lowest since 1965, according to DJB. In a statement, the board said that Yamuna’s level went down by 7.5 feet because Haryana withheld Delhi’s share of water, which is 120 MGD. Through the week, however, as monsoon hit the national capital and the neighbouring states on July 13, 16,000 cusecs of water was released by Haryana. “Even though water was released by Haryana on Tuesday, it takes a few days to reach our water treatment plants. Till Friday we were monitoring the status of our WTPs very closely and ensuring that free tankers were doing the rounds in the affected areas,” said a senior DJB official. The official explained that the water tankers were being monitored through a water tanker distribution management system (WTDMS), which tracks the tankers in real time every 10 seconds through GPS through their journey. “The WTDMS makes available the date on movement of tankers on any given day along with trip and duty performance report at the click of a button. This has significantly improved the water tanker system in Delhi,” the DJB official added. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also hailed DJB’s efforts and assured that measures were being taken to provide uninterrupted water supply across the city. “Govt is doing its best to provide water to all. Our engineers are working 24x7 against all odds,” tweeted Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-s-water-production-at-all-time-high-raghav-chadha-101626599179965.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai water supply disrupted after heavy rains enter water purification complex||Water supply in most parts of Mumbai was disrupted on Sunday, after heavy rains inundated the Bhandup water purification complex, forcing Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to shut down the water filtration plants at the complex. “Efforts are being taken to restore Mumbai’s water supply by restarting the water purification system in the complex, which may take up to a few hours. After water supply is restored, the administration appeals Mumbaikars to boil water before drinking,” BMC said in a statement on Sunday afternoon. Ajay Rathor, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulics department said the purification system had to be shut down along with power supply as a precaution immediately after water entered the complex. “We are draining the water, and cleaning the system,” he added.Due to the disruption, the Island city and its western suburbs did not receive the regular municipal drinking water supply on Sunday morning. Water supply to parts of the eastern suburbs was also affected. The BMC statement added that while the drinking water supply system will restart in a few hours, it may take longer for the filtration system to recover. “Therefore, after water supply is restarted, Mumbaikars should boil water and then drink it,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-water-supply-disrupted-after-heavy-rains-enter-water-purification-complex-101626595580335.html
18-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police seizes heroin worth ₹25.88 crore; one arrested||The special task force (STF) of the Kolkata Police on Saturday seized more than five kilograms of heroin from a drug dealer who came to the city from Kanksa in West Bengal’s West Burdwan district. Solomon V Nesakumar, joint commissioner of police (STF) said, the arrested man, Tapas Roy, 36, is a notorious drug dealer. The heroin seized from him is worth ₹25.88 crore in the international drug market. The arrest was made on E M Bypass after apprehending the accused, who was travelling on a motorcycle. Roy has been charged under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. He will be produced in court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-police-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-25-88-crore-one-arrested-101626594139702.html
18-07-2021||Other||Greater Chennai Corporation plans a memorial park for Covid-19 victims||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to establish a park with the memorial for victims of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The proposed park is expected to come up under the Mint flyover in the heart of the city, reported Tamil Daily Hindu Tamil. The civic body is planning to utilise the 3 acre land under the flyover identified earlier for Amma Weekly Market, the report further said.The space for weekly market was set aside by the previous government, where it planned to sell commodities at subsidised price.Ever since the pandemic started, Tamil Nadu has reported 25.3 lakh cases in which 24.7 lakh recovered while 33,652 perished, according to government data. The second wave of Covid-19 was very intense and Chennai was among the worst affected districts in Tamil Nadu. More than 8,000 people died in Chennai city limits during the second wave and thousands of people lost their livelihood due to the pandemic’s effect on the economy. Covid-19 left a scar on the city and its people.Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Regional Deputy Commissioner (North) D Sneha inspected the proposed spot on Saturday and discussed the possibilities of establishing the memorial park in the area. The officials of the civic body said that they will convene a meeting shortly to discuss the modalities of establishing the memorial park under the flyover. The meeting will also discuss the features and facilities in the park, the officials said. The final draft for the proposed park will be completed in one week, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-chennai-corporation-plans-a-memorial-park-for-covid-19-victims-101626591151464.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||The epidemic to follow the Covid-19 pandemic||The last salary that 40-year-old Pushpa Awale earned, working as a member of the housekeeping staff at a private firm received was exactly a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown on March 24, 2020 to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. At the time, she had only about ₹3000 saved up. Her husband, 45-year-old Avinash who worked in a construction site, earned ₹10,000 a month; she earned ₹1000 less.At first, Awale thought that the Chembur-based sales company where she worked would reopen within a few weeks. Fifteen months on, Awale has still not been called back to work. Avinash’s income too has drastically reduced as the pandemic hit real estate and construction sector. He now works as a daily wage labourer which pays him a few hundred rupees doing odd jobs on certain days of the week. Awales’ sons, aged 19 and 20, are both high school graduates, but neither has been able to find employment this past year.The lockdown started on March 25, 2020 and continued with full restriction till July and with reduced restriction till April 2021, when the restrictions were again increased in the light of second wave of infections. The loss of wages and livelihood is one of the most significant impacts of the pandemic that has infected over 31 million people in the country and killed more than 400,000 till date.The biggest impact of the loss of livelihood is on the Awales’ food intake, indicating that for the most vulnerable in the city, a silent epidemic of hunger and malnutrition follows close on the heels of the pandemic.Study findings“On most days, we survive on dal and rice,” said Awale, who lives in Mandala, a slum pocket in Mankhurd. She makes vegetables only on days she can afford to buy some onions and tomatoes; milk is no longer part of their daily diet and they now drink their tea without it. It’s been a year since they have eaten either chicken or fish. “On some days when my 19-year-old son throws a tantrum, I buy one egg for ₹6 for him for a meal,” she said. Her elder son, who is 20, lives with her mother in the Bainganwadi, in Govandi (also in the same ward) since the lockdown. “It became very difficult to feed all four of us, so I sent him away,” Awale said.The M-East ward is home to over 800,000 people (as per the 2011 census), including a large number of migrants; many work in the informal sector. There are over 250 slums pockets in the ward, 13 resettlement colonies and it is also home to one of the country’s largest open dumping grounds. Human development indices like life expectancy, education and per capita incomes are among the lowest in M-East. Indeed, food insufficiency among its residents is a known fact.A study of 26,000 households conducted over a period of two months, between November and January by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ Community-Led Action Learning and Partnership (CLAP) in the city’s M-East ward (Mankhurd, Govandi, Shivaji Nagar, Cheetah Camp, Trombay and Deonar) revealed an increase of 47% in the number of unemployed in the ward, and 12.5% of loss of livelihood opportunities from the job market itself since the restart of economic activities taking the unemployment rate to nearly 12% across 26 bastis spread across the ward. Nearly 58% of males in the informal sector and 25% in the formal sector lost their livelihood during the lockdown as compared to 10% and 6.5% for females. What’s more, the average income of the residents decreased by 47%.“The survey revealed the monthly average income of a household at ₹12500, indicating the hand-to -mouth lifestyle prevalent across the ward. In events like lockdown, where all economic activities were severely restricted, sustaining basic needs of everyday life became a challenge,” the as-yet unreleased report stated.Skipped meals“I skipped many meals to ensure my children could be fed whatever little food we had,” said Sakina Khatun (38) who lives with her three sons, aged 11, 13 and 20, and a daughter-in-law in Mankhurd’s transit camp slum. Khatun worked as a shrimp peeler at the dockyard but lost her job in the lockdown.For every 5kg of peeled shrimps, she would get ₹200. On days, when her hands got too scraped with the continuous shrimp peeling, she would make up to ₹400. “I called my employer many times, but he says there is no work. My eldest son managed to get a temporary job of spraying sanitiser in the ward but he too was left without work during the second lockdown,” she said.The family does not have a ration card through which they could get subsidised rice and wheat under the Public Distribution System. They have an LPG connection but affording a cylinder worth ₹860 became impossible during the lockdown. “I cook on a chulah most days,” said Khatun, adding that she and her daughter-in-law went to bed hungry on many days, to ensure that her “boys” have something to eat.“The pandemic has set the ward and its people back by nearly 10 years,” said Sandeep Wadhe, a resident of a resettlement colony in M-East and a facilitator with the CLAP project.“The daily nutrition of people has been hit the hardest. When the money runs out, the poor first compromise on the food intake,” he said.NGO, volunteer groups, PDS helped someMany non-profits and philanthropic organisations distributed dry rations and cooked meals in the ward, but the access wasn’t equal. “Some people were getting more ration than required, while those who were in dire need could not get access it at all,” said Avinash Madhale, CLAP’s programme coordinator. The survey covered 97,414 people and aimed to understand the impact of the pandemic on education, health, housingrr and water and sanitation, besides livelihood. The initiative has also helped the TISS team to draw out a vulnerability index, mapping the families that were in the worst conditions during the pandemic.“The urban poor were already in a bad shape, struggling to survive. The pandemic has worsened their condition further,” said Mukta Srivastava, the state’s convener for the Anna Adhikar Abhiyan or Right To Food Campaign.A survey carried out under the campaign in March showed that a large number of urban poor depended on the rice and wheat given through Public Distribution System as well as the rations kits distributed through NGOs. “Many people we interviewed said that they could not afford to cook vegetables. Fish and chicken was out of question. As we move ahead, this section of the population will face a long lasting impact on not just their health and nutrition status, but also social, economic and psychological, too,” said Srivastava.“The food insufficiency has blown up to a much bigger problem with the pandemic,” said Jameela Begum, a local resident and facilitator with CLAP. “Not just childhood malnutrition, the cases of adult malnutrition and other diseases are likely to shoot up,” she said.Another study that looked at malnutrition and deteriorating health of residents of the ward – this one brought out by non-profit Praja Foundation in 2018 – revealed that on average 51% of children were malnourished in the years between 2013 to 2016.“On days I have nothing to eat, the local vendor gives me one vada pav. I survive on that,” said Laxmi Dhondu Jadhav (70), a senior citizen residing in Patilwadi in Deonar. Before the lockdown, Jadhav worked in the Dana Market in Sanpada sorting food grains. Post-lockdown, she is unemployed.On days when Jadhav gets a cooked meal, distributed by a non-profit or the civic body, she ensures to save some for the next day.“I may not be well to do, but I have always earned a salary to feed my family. It’s difficult for me to take charity,” said Sudalai Pillai (27), who worked as an assistant to a tennis coach. When Pillai’s salary of ₹13,000 stopped in April 2020, he asked for money from his employer to sustain. The next few months, he sent messages to the parents of the children he coached asking for money. He took up a housekeeping job on a two-month contract.“My worst fear is not being able to feed my three-year-old daughter,” Pillai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-epidemic-to-follow-the-covid-19-pandemic-101626589322875.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Monster thunderstorm twice Mt. Everest’s height dumps over 250mm rain in Mumbai||The Saturday thunderstorm in Mumbai deposited 235mm of rain at the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz. While early Friday’s extreme rainfall totalling 253mm was confined to the western suburbs, on Sunday, more than 204.5mm rain fell in 24 hours, including 180mm to 270mm received across the city. Weather experts were amazed by the monster thunderstorm which, as per the images from the weather department’s doppler radar, had a cloud top height of nearly 18kms, or 60,000 feet.According to the IMD, most locations in Mumbai received well over 150mm of rain in just a few hours ending at 3:30 am Sunday, leading to severe water logging, interruption in water supply and at least 18 deaths. The storm, which was described by expert meteorologists and forecasters as “massive” and “monstrous”, formed initially over Raigad district late Saturday, then slowly moved north along the west coast till it reached south Gujarat.“To have a thunderstorm track northward like that and maintain [its] strength is unique. No forecast models predicted such extreme rains. It was supposed to be [a] normal monsoon day [with] around 20-60mm rains,``tweeted independent forecaster @IndiaWeatherMan.The intensity of rains began to subside between 3:30 and 4am for most parts of the city, as the cloud formation moved on to Palghar district.Sridhar Balasubramanian, an expert tracking weather at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B), attributed the intense spell to an offshore vortex, adding that IIT-B had recorded over 250mm of rain in just three hours (between midnight and 3am), touching 305mm by 7am. “Luckily, this freak event happened during the wee hours when traffic and movement of people were minimal,” he Tweeted.The incident marked the fifth thunderstorm for Mumbai this month alone, pointed out Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University Of Reading, England. “Such thunderstorms are definitely more frequent in June (6.1 days) than in July (2.9 days),” he said.Deoras pointed out that easterly winds in the mid-atmospheric levels are bringing relatively dry air over the warm and moist air conditions in lower levels, which are brought by westerly winds, making the situation ideal for convective instability, which is further facilitated by day time heat. “Further, the vertical wind shear is significant, which is prolonging the lifespan of thunderstorms,” Deoras said.Similar observation was made by another independent forecaster Athreya Shetty. “Upper level winds seemed to be almost absent, hence there was no movement of the thunderstorm system. The winds that were there seemed to be due to a mini temporary circulation over Mumbai Metropolitan Region, hence the net wind movement was negligible,” he Tweeted.The absence of upper level winds further exacerbated the intensity because of the sheer height of the cloud structure which had formed over Mumbai. Images from the IMD’s doppler radar showed that the thunderstorm had a cloud top height of nearly 18kms, or 60,000 feet. “To put in other words, the vertical extent of this monster thunderstorm is approximately twice that of Mount Everest!” Deoras said.As per IMD’s impact based forecast issued at 3am this morning, Mumbai has been placed under a red alert, “indicating heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated locations” for the rest of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monster-thunderstorm-twice-mt-everest-s-height-dumps-over-250mm-rain-in-mumbai-101626588799581.html
18-07-2021||Bangalore||Met department issues orange alert for Karnataka coast till July 21||Karnataka's coastal, northern interior and southern interior regions will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, according to a report in the Udayavani newspaper on Sunday.Quoting weather report portals, the newspaper said that seven districts of Karnataka – Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu – have been put on orange alert. Three districts on the eastern side of the state - Chitradurga, Ballari, and Davanagere – have been put on yellow alert for three days starting July 19.The southwest monsoon has been active in the northern interior Karnataka region. Gokarna received 11cm of rain followed by Agumbe at 10cm.The monsoon has already left a trail of destruction on the coast and Malnad area of the state. Two people have died in flood-related issues in Kodagu. A huge landslide that occurred at the Kulashekar-Thokur section of the Southern Railway cut off the traffic between Mangaluru and Roha on the Konkan Railway route for three days.Palakkad division authorities have stated that the line has since been cleared and the first train to arrive today was Marusagar Express to Mangaluru Junction passing the portion of the track that was affected by the landslide.Incessant rains lashing the state have filled 18 reservoirs, including the major ones such as Krishnarajasagar in Mandya, Kodasalli, and Supa in Uttara Kannada district, Harangi in Kodagu, Linganamakki in Shivamogga. All these reservoirs have seen copious inflow.Bhatkal town in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday experienced inundation following the flooding of the Choutini River. This is the first time that Bhatkal has experienced flooding in the last decade.In Honnavar, three villages have been flooded due to a swollen Gundibala river. The river has inundated farmlands and water has entered the houses in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/met-department-issues-orange-alert-for-karnataka-coast-till-july-21-101626587851974.html
18-07-2021||Bangalore||IMD issues orange alert for coastal districts of Karnataka till July 21||Coastal Karnataka, the interior parts in the northern region and southern interior Karnataka will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, according to a report in the Udayavani newspaper on Sunday.Quoting India Meteorological Department (IMD), the newspaper stated that seven districts of Karnataka - Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu - have been put under orange alert till July 21. Three districts on the eastern side of the state - Chitradurga, Ballari, and Davanagere - have been put on yellow alert for three days starting July 19.The southwest monsoon has been active in the northern interior Karnataka region. Gokarna received 11cm of rain followed by Agumbe at 10cm.The monsoon has already left a trail of destruction on the coast and Malnad area of the state. Two persons have died in flood-related issues in Kodagu. A huge landslide that occurred at the Kulashekar-Thokur section of Southern Railway cut off traffic between Mangaluru and Roha on the Konkan Railway route for three days.Palakkad division authorities said that the line has since been cleared and the first train to arrive today was the Marusagar Express.However, the incessant rains that have been lashing the state have filled 18 reservoirs, including the major one such as Krishnarajasagar in Mandya, Kodasalli, and Supa in Uttara Kannada district, Harangi in Kodagu, Linganamakki in Shivamogga. All these reservoirs have seen copious inflow.Bhatkal town in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday was inundated following the flooding in the Choutini River. This is the first time that Bhatkal town has experienced flooding in the last decade.In Honnavar, three villages have been flooded due to a swollen Gundibala river. The river has inundated farmlands and water has entered the houses in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-coastal-districts-of-karnataka-till-july-21-101626587585829.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's water supply hit as Bhandup water complex inundates in heavy rainfall||The supply of water in the entire Mumbai region was affected on Sunday after the heavy rainfall inundated the Bhandup water complex, which houses Asia's biggest water treatment plant.Officials said that the damage to the water treatment plant's master control centre was caused after the late-night heavy downpour.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) hydraulics department said the water supply will resume shortly for the financial capital."The failure happened due to heavy rainfall of post-midnight. The BMC is checking whether the systems at the control centre that are waterlogged are functional. The water supply will resume after this," the BMC department said.Also read: 20 dead, several injured in Mumbai landslide after heavy rainsOfficials added that the timings for supply are different throughout Mumbai, so some parts of the city may have received water on Sunday morning. In an early morning bulletin, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Mumbai witnessed a sudden change in climatic conditions, adding over 100 mm rainfall in six hours.The heavy monsoons showers pummeled the city over the weekend bringing the suburban train services on both Central Railway and Western Railway to a grinding halt.A red alert warning was issued for Mumbai by the IMD in view of heavy rainfall, indicating warning and alerts authorities to take action for any possible damage to life and property.Following the heavy rains, Western Railway announced the suspension of suburban services due to waterlogging at multiple locations. "@WesternRly Currently No local train services are running in both UP and DN direction till further notice due to waterlogging at multiple locations," divisional railway manager of Western Railway's Mumbai division tweeted.Also read: Several places inundated in Mumbai due to incessant rainCentral Railway said that due to waterlogging in tracks at Dadar, Parel, Matunga, Kurla, Sion, Bhandup and other locations, train services on the main line were suspended between CSMT and Thane. "CSMT to Vashi services, including Bandra/Goregaon suburban services, are also not working," said Shivaji Sutar, chief spokesperson of Central Railway.Mumbai witnessed crippling heavy showers with a record 944 mm rainfall in 24 hours on July 26 in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-water-supply-hit-as-bhandup-water-complex-inundates-in-heavy-rainfall-101626584402637.html
18-07-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal warns of strict action against Covid-19 norm violators||Amid reports that people in West Bengal are not following the appropriate Covid-19 behaviour, state chief secretary HK Dwidevi on Saturday directed the district administrations to take steps against those violating the norms.Violators will have to face strict action as per provisions of the disaster management act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including fine, Dwidevi told all disaster magistrates at a virtual meeting, according to official sources."The CS has instructed the DMs to take serious action against the violators. Anyone coming out of the residence between 9pm and 5am without any valid reason must be dealt with as per the rule book," a source said.The district administration should also check if shopkeepers, vendors, and others are following the guidelines and not keeping markets, malls or restaurants open beyond the permissible time, the sources said.The West Bengal government has extended ongoing restrictions till July 30 but permitted certain relaxations, such as allowing Metro Railway to resume operations at 50% seating capacity on weekdays.The local train services, however, remained suspended except the staff special trains. Public buses, taxis, and autorickshaws have been permitted to operate in the state at 50% capacity.Meanwhile, the state's Covid-19 death toll rose to 17,988 on Saturday after eight fresh fatalities were reported, while 899 new cases took the tally to 15,17,380, the health department said in a bulletin.Kolkata reported no Covid death after three months.In the past 24 hours, 1,042 patients recovered from the disease taking the total number of people who have been cured of it to 14,86,059, the bulletin said. The discharge rate also improved to 97.94%.The number of active cases currently is 13,333.Since Friday, 57,010 samples were tested in West Bengal pushing the number of such clinical examinations to 1,50,86,865 till now, the bulletin said.On Saturday, 3,77,632 vaccine doses against coronavirus were administered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-warns-of-strict-action-against-covid-19-norm-violators-101626586611417.html
18-07-2021||NA||LIVE updates: Death toll in Mumbai due to rain related incidents rises to 31||The death toll in rain-related incidents in Mumbai, triggered by heavy rains Saturday night, has risen to 31, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, adding that six people have been injured. Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a high-level meeting to review the rain situation in the city. Also, Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra's tourism minister, visited the locations to take stock of the situation, and review the relief work. Taking to Twitter after his visit, Thackeray praised all the agencies involved in relief work, further stating that the state government and BMC will provide all necessary financial and medical assistance to those affected.Follow all the updates here:Death toll in Mumbai rises to 3131 deaths and six injuries have been reported in Mumbai, of which 10 deaths and one injury were reported in landslide incident of Vikhroli followed by 19 deaths and five injuries in landslide at Chembur. Compound wall of housing complex collapses in ThaneDue to incessant rains, the compound wall of the Cosmos Launch housing complex at Manpada in Thane collapses, damaging several vehicles.NDRF announces end of rescue ops in ChemburSearch and rescue operations end in Chembur's Bharat Nagar area, announces National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).Pune receives incessant heavy rain#WATCH | Maharashtra's Pune receives incessant heavy rainAs per India Meteorological Department, Pune will witness "Generally cloudy sky, light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas)" tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/xD5cI8KhGiMaharashtra's Pune receives incessant heavy rain. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune will witness "Generally cloudy sky, light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas)" tomorrow.Maharashtra CM calls for high-level meet at 6pmMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to chair a high-level meeting of officials through video conference at 6pm today, in view of the situation following heavy rains in Mumbai: Chief Minister's OfficeSuch incidents are 'normal': Maharashtra minister Vijay WadettiwarSanta Cruz received around 235-270mm of rain while Chembur saw 200mm y'day. Red alert was issued and people were evacuated to safe places from danger zones. Such incidents are normal amid 300mm rain in a day. Sad that people lost their lives: Vijay Wadettiwar, Maharashtra ministerNine flights were diverted from Mumbai airport: OfficialsNine flights were diverted after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) temporarily suspended flight operations between 00:42-05:24 hours today as safety precaution. Flight operations recommenced with effect from 05:24 hours and are proceeding as per schedule: CSMIA officialsBoil water before drinking, BMC advises citizensBMC has asked Mumbai residents to boil water before drinking after flooding of the water purification complex at Bhandup due to heavy rains affected pumping and filtration equipment, says official.BJP MLA calls BMC 'complete failure' in disaster managementBMC is a complete failure in disaster management. Why has it faltered in saving people's lives? They should answer. We demand CM Thackeray to initiate an inquiry in the BMC: Ashish Shelar, BJP MLADeath toll rises to 23: BMCDeath toll due to landslides in Mumbai rises to 23. 16 dead and five injured in Mahul while seven dead and one injured in Vikhroli.Over 4400 million litres of water pumped out: Aaditya Thackeray"Apart from our minipumps, our pumping stations pumped out 4423.50 million litres of water," says Aaditya Thackeray.Visited locations of landslides: Aaditya ThackerayI visited the 3 locations of landslides where the sheer force of the rainwater and mud broke through retaining walls into homes. Relief work is going on and all necessary financial and medical assistance is being provided by the Govt of Maharashtra and BMC. pic.twitter.com/2ztQAmX2T2I visited the three locations of landslides where the sheer force of the rainwater and mud broke through retaining walls into homes. Relief work is going on and all necessary financial and medical assistance is being provided by the Govt of Maharashtra and BMC: Aaditya Thackeray, Maharashtra ministerBJP MP visits landslide siteVisited the Vikhroli landslide site. Reviewed the situation and instructed the officials for the measures of quick rehabilitation. Each and every karyakarta of BJP NE Mumbai is standing strong with the affected families. pic.twitter.com/69HHCew2yOBJP Lok Sabha MP Manoj Kotak visits landslide site, instructs officials to come up with quick measures of rehabilitation.After wall collapse, 2 women stood on wooden ladder for two hours over fear of electrocutionTwo women stood on a wooden ladder in their shanty for over two hours out of the fear of getting electrocuted after a wall near their locality collapsed in Mumbai's Mahul area on Sunday following heavy rains. Fifteen people died after the compound wall came crashing down on some houses located on a hillock after a landslide at Bharatnagar locality in Mahul around 1 am, an official said.BMC probe ordered in wall collapse, says Nawab MalikMaharashtra Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik said the state government will take a decision to shift the people who are living in a dangerous situation to a more permanent settlements immediately. The BMC will investigate this incident, the Anushakti Nagar MLA said.Uddhav Thackeray expresses grief over deaths in landslides, announces compensationMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday expressed grief over the deaths in accidents at Chembur and Vikhroli due to torrential rains, the Chief Minister's Office said. The chief minister also announced that the government would pay ₹5 lakh each to the heirs of the deceased and offered free treatment to the injured, the CMO said.Mumbai records highest one-day rainfallParts of the city recorded the heaviest July one-day showers in seven years, according to the weather office, which forecasts moderate to heavy rain or thundershowers over the next 48 hours. Colaba weather station reported 19.68 centimeters (7.748 inches) of rain in the 24 hours through 8:30 a.m. Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s Mumbai unit. That’s the highest since July 16, 2014.Aaditya Thackeray reaches ChemburMaharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray reaches the site where a wall collapse has claimed the lives of 17 people in Mumbai's Chembur, reports ANI.Mumbai's water supply hit as Bhandup water complex inundates in heavy rainfallThe supply of water in the entire Mumbai region was affected on Sunday after the heavy rainfall inundated the Bhandup water complex, which houses Asia's biggest water treatment plant.Officials said that the damage to the water treatment plant's master control centre was caused after the late-night heavy downpour.No respite from rains, Mumbaikars take a dip in waterlogged streetsMumbai woke up to rain-drenched roads, a sight the city has gotten so familiar with over the past week or so, on Sunday as overnight downpours kept major sections and stretches waterlogged. But rains never dampened the spirit of Mumbaikars, many of who were seen taking to the waterlogged streets this morning to enjoy a dip.President Kovind condoles death in Mumbai landslidesमुंबई के चेंबूर और विक्रोली में भारी वर्षा के कारण हुए हादसों में कई लोगों के हताहत होने की खबर से अत्यंत दुःख हुआ। शोक-संतप्त परिवारों के प्रति मैं संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूं तथा राहत व बचाव कार्य में पूर्ण सफलता की कामना करता हूँ।Death toll in Mumbai landslides rises to 20The death toll from landslide in Mahul rose to 17 after 5 more were brought dead to civic run Rajawadi Hospital, officials from BMC's disaster cell said. Additionally, two more people have been reported to be injured.PM Modi announces ex-gratia for kin of deceasedPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced compensation from Prime Minister National Relief Fund for those killed in the house collapse in Mumbai."Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to wall collapses in Mumbai. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those injured," PM Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi expresses grief at deaths in Mumbai landslidesPrime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his concern at the deaths in two separate landslides in Mumbai on Twitter."Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery," PM Modi said in a tweet.15 people killed in rain-related landslides in MumbaiIn two separate incidents of landslides reported in the city overnight, 15 people were declared dead and at least two were reported injured, said BMC's disaster management cell.The two incidents took place due to incidents reported at Mahul and Vikhroli area of eastern suburbs, the BMC officials said.Mumbai inundates due to incessant rainMumbai and its suburbs received heavy rainfall overnight and several houses, streets and railway tracks were flooded even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rains on Sunday. Waterlogging was also reported on the Eastern Express Highway at Chunabhatti area on Sunday morning.3 dead, 2 injured in VikhroliIn a separate accident, three people died and two were injured after four to five houses collapsed due to a landslide in the Vikhroli area due to heavy rainfall overnight. The accident was reported at around 2.40am.12 dead, several injured after wall collapses in Mumbai's Vashi Naka areaAt least 12 people were killed and two others were injured in Mumbai's Chembur area due to landslides following heavy rains that lashed the city and its suburbs on Saturday night and on Sunday morning, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/live-12-killed-in-mumbai-after-house-collapses-due-to-rain-says-ndrf-101626577258703.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Sarojini Nagar export market shut for violating Covid-19 norms||Authorities in Delhi have closed the export market in Sarojini Nagar until further orders for "grossly" violating Covid-19 norms. The order issued by sub-divisional magistrate (Vasant Vihar) Ankur Prakash Meshram said during an inspection on Saturday he found that the market was "extremely crowded with Covid-19 norms being grossly violated and no social distancing being followed at all"."...various directions have been issued from time to with regards to ensuring CAB in Sarojini Nagar Market, latest being CEO New Delhi DDMA minutes of meeting No.SDM/VV/2021/1935 dated 9th July 2021, and it has been found that market associations have not complied with these directions," the order read.It said that even though Covid-19 cases have gone down significantly, due caution needs to be maintained. The order also stated that although a meeting with all the stakeholders of the market was held on July 9, they failed to comply with the directions.The market associations of Sarojini Nagar have called a meeting on Sunday, reported news agency ANI.Several Delhi markets, including Karol Bagh and Lajpat Nagar, have been closed over the past few days for overcrowding and flouting Covid-19 norms. Last Sunday, Sadar bazaar was partially shut for three days due to overcrowding and violation of physical distancing norms. The Delhi government previously ordered a shut down of Lajpat Nagar market and Rui Mandi in Sadar Bazar for violation of Covid-19 norms.Delhi on Saturday recorded 59 Covid-19 cases and four deaths while the positivity rate dropped to 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. The four new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 25,027.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-sarojini-nagar-export-market-shut-for-violating-covid-19-norms-101626574732754.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||22 dead, several injured in Mumbai landslides after heavy rains||At least 22 people were killed and several others injured in Mumbai and one of its suburbs after they were trapped under houses that collapsed due to landslides following heavy rains that lashed the city and nearby areas on Saturday night and on Sunday morning, officials said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths in Chembur and Vikhroli and announced the victims' families will be given ₹200,000 each. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted.Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to wall collapses in Mumbai. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those injured.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC's) disaster management cell, the accident in Vashi Naka of Mumbai's Mahul area was reported at around 6.30am when the retaining wall of a house collapsed due to a tree fall, it said."Three bodies have been recovered and five to six more people are feared trapped in the debris of the building that collapsed in Vikhroli area following incessant rainfall in Mumbai," National Disaster Response Force's (NDRF's) deputy commandant Ashish Kumar told news agency ANI earlier.Also read | Several places inundated in Mumbai due to incessant rainBMC's disaster management cell said the 17 people were brought dead to the Rajawadi Hospital and two were discharged after being treated for their injuries.In a separate accident, fic people died and two were injured after four to five houses collapsed due to a landslide in the Vikhroli area due to heavy rainfall overnight. The accident was reported at around 2.40am.Watch | Mumbai rains: Over 20 die after landslides hit city, PM Modi announces compensationThe city reported heavy rainfall overnight especially between 12am to 2am. Waterlogging was reported at several places in the city, including Borivali, Kandivali, Malad, Andheri, Chembur, Kurla, Gandhi Market, Hindmata, etc.Also read | No respite from rains, Mumbaikars take a dip in waterlogged streetsAccording to BMC, the island city recorded a rainfall of 156 mm followed by eastern suburbs reporting 143 mm of heavy rainfall and western suburbs reporting 125 mm of rainfall between 8pm on Saturday and 2am on Sunday.The Central Railway and Western Railway suspended suburban train services due to waterlogging in the tracks after the overnight heavy downpour. "@WesternRly Currently No local train services are running in both UP and DN direction till further notice due to water logging at multiple locations," Mumbai Central's divisional railway manager (DRM) tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-updates-landslide-vikhroli-chembur-bharat-nagar-22-dead-several-injured-after-heavy-downpours-101626574611191.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Several places inundated in Mumbai due to incessant rain||Mumbai and its suburbs received heavy rainfall overnight and several houses, streets and railway tracks were flooded even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rains on Sunday. Waterlogging was also reported on the Eastern Express Highway at Chunabhatti area on Sunday morning.KS Hosalikar, head of SID at Climate and Research Services in Pune, said Mumbai and nearby areas received rainfall early in the morning as well. "Extremely Heavy rainfall realized so far and severe floodings observed due to very very intense spell in a very short time," he added.#MumbaiRains Rainfall in Mumbai and around at 3.30am 18 th Jul. Extremely Heavy rainfall realized so far & severe floodings observed due to very very intense spell in a very short time. @mybmc & State DM Authority @DisasterState & other agencies are on job with full force.TC pic.twitter.com/f2nEcil4ssThe Maharashtra government, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the North Konkan districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad are on alert.State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has said that the situation is being monitored. "As of 3 am, rainfall measured by IMD. Some places have crossed 200 mm now. Mumbai has faced an extremely intense system of precipitation accompanied by thundering. The BMC pumps are operational and officers are on ground," Thackeray tweeted.As of 3 am, rainfall measured by IMD. Some places have crossed 200 mm now. Mumbai has faced an extremely intense system of precipitation accompanied by thundering. The @mybmc pumps are operational & officers are on ground. Call 1916 for support please. pic.twitter.com/iL75RXdT6QThe India Meteorological Department's (IMD's) Regional Meteorological Centre has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in Mumbai during the day. The IMD has also forecast showers in central Maharashtra on July 18 and 19. "Isolated extremely heavy rainfalls very likely over Ghat areas of central Maharashtra on 18th and 19th," IMD tweeted.Mumbai Rainfall update : pic.twitter.com/FeDNGJunvVHeavy rainfall on Friday left many key parts of the city inundated with commuters facing hassle as buses were diverted and trains were delayed on the harbour line due to waterlogging on the tracks. Torrential downpours have been besieging the financial capital since Tuesday night, and as per the regional meteorological department's prediction rains.Mumbai on Friday marks the heaviest rainfall event of the season so far, and the second-largest quantum of daily rainfall (in July) recorded over the past 10 years. The city recorded a total of 253mm of rainfall in about 4.5 hours on Friday morning, according to data from the IMD's monitoring station in Santacruz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/several-places-inundated-in-mumbai-due-to-incessant-rain-101626571903945.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||WATCH: No respite from rains, Mumbaikars take a dip in waterlogged streets||Mumbai woke up to rain-drenched roads, a sight the city has gotten so familiar with over the past week or so, on Sunday as overnight downpours kept major sections and stretches waterlogged. But rains never dampened the spirit of Mumbaikars, many of who were seen taking to the waterlogged streets this morning to enjoy a dip.In videos shared by news agency ANI of the Mumbai rains on Sunday, a group of men could be seen in the middle of waterlogged streets near King's Circle in the Sion area of the city.#WATCH | A group of men were seen enjoying dips in the middle of the waterlogged king circle in Mumbai’s Sion this morning pic.twitter.com/heybEk4VN7In the video clip, a group of five to six men could be seen dipping into the waist-high rainwater on the streets. More footage shared by the news agency showed severe waterlogging at the Borivali east area in Mumbai, following the heavy rainfall on Sunday morning.#WATCH | Maharashtra: Rainwater entered Mumbai's Borivali east area following a heavy downpour this morning pic.twitter.com/7295IL0K5KSevere waterlogging was also reported on the LBS road near the Sion station, while train tracks remained underwater at the Chunabhatti station in Mumbai. The heavy rainfall on Sunday comes as yet another contrast to the drier, sunnier morning a day ago. The India Meteorological Department (IMD)'s monitoring station in Santacruz recorded just 31mm rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Saturday, followed by 9mm through the day. This, again, was in contrast to the sudden thunderstorms in the city on Friday which deposited 253mm of rain in just 4.5 hours.The rainfall on Friday marked the heaviest downpour of the season so far and the second largest quantum of daily rainfall (in July) recorded over the past 10 years, according to the IMD.The met department has placed Mumbai under an orange category storm warning alert from July 18 to 20, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”, along with chances of extremely heavy rainfall (over 204.5mm in 24 hours) in some parts.Jayanta Sarkar, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, told HT earlier in the week that there will be widespread rainfall over the Konkan coast during the next few days, indicating more than 75% of all monitoring stations will receive some measure of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/watch-no-respite-from-rains-mumbaikars-take-a-dip-in-waterlogged-streets-101626570541437.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||Woman started scuffle with cop to let husband flee, say UP cops on viral video||An inquiry has been ordered by the Uttar Pradesh police into a scuffle between a police officer and a woman in Kanpur, a statement by the Kanpur Rural Police said on Sunday but stressed that the officer, seen holding down a woman in widely-circulated photographs and a video clip, did not initiate the fight.The statement, citing another video clip that has since emerged of the incident on Saturday, said the woman started the scuffle to enable her husband to flee and the officer fell on the woman while trying to stop her.The officer, sub-inspector Mahendra Patel, has nevertheless been transferred to the district's police lines, the statement said.Police said the incident took place when a team of police officers went to Durgadasspur village in Bhognipur locality, about 60 km from Kanpur city, where they found some people gambling. The team caught Shivam Yadav, who according to the police, allegedly threatened a candidate in the panchayat elections a few weeks earlier.His family members attacked the police and managed to let Shivam Yadav run away from custody.His wife, Arti, later cited a photograph and a truncated version of the video clip of the incident, to allege that the police officer dragged her to the ground, sat on top of her, and assaulted her.Soon after, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a photograph of the incident, to attack the Bharatiya Janata Party government and demanded action against the officer involved.(After perusal of the complete video, this story has been corrected to show that the policeman and the woman fell down in a scuffle initiated by her and that he did not throw her to the ground.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cop-accused-of-beating-woman-sitting-on-top-of-her-in-up-s-kanpur-dehat-101626567052155.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Light rain in few areas, temp high||Four days after the onset of monsoon, a hot and humid spell continued in the Capital on Saturday as rain stayed away for most of the day and mercury rose to above normal temperature levels once again. Some parts of the city, including few areas in Dwarka and South Delhi, received light rain late evening on Saturday.Weather forecasters, however, said relief is in sight and predicted “moderate to heavy rainfall” across Delhi-NCR on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an “Orange alert” for Sunday, with heavy rainfall expected in isolated pockets.“The monsoon trough has shifted slightly northwards and is crossing over west Rajasthan, Haryana and east Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to reach close to Delhi late on Saturday night, which may result in light rain overnight. Besides, mostly moderate rainfall across the city with intense showers in isolated pockets is expected on Sunday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre.Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said, “Moderate showers are likely to continue till July 20,” said Palawat.The city received strong showers for two days after the monsoon arrived on July 13, albeit 16 days behind schedule.However, the showers mostly halted since Thursday, after which Delhi has seen only traces of rain. Weather experts noted that Saturday was “mostly dry” with just light rain in parts of Dwarka -- southwest and near the sports complex -- and some areas in south Delhi. The maximum temperature touched 38.8°C, four notches above the season’s normal, and the minimum settled at 28.1°C, a degree above normal.A senior IMD official said high temperatures during the monsoon are not unusual: “This is because high humidity levels and inadequate intermittent rainfall causes the mercury to rise. It feels even hotter because of the combined effect of heat and humidity.”Independent weather experts expect July to be mostly dry. The delayed onset of the monsoon in the Capital may mean that Delhi, which usually gets the bulk of its showers in July, receive most of its rain only in August. So far, the rain deficit for July is around 50%. Meanwhile, Palawat said Delhi is likely to cover a large part of its rainfall deficit in the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-in-few-areas-temp-high-101626560326791.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||HC issues notice to BCI on plea seeking ban on present dress code for lawyers||The Allahabad high court has issued notice to the Bar Council of India (BCI) on a plea seeking a ban on the present dress code of black coat and robes for lawyers, even as the Lucknow bench of the high court directed the Centre and the high court administration to file their responses on the issue by August 18.A division bench of justices Devendra Kumar Upadhyay and Ajai Kumar Srivastava issued the notice on Friday to the BCI on a public interest litigation filed by lawyer Ashok Pandey. Considering the importance of the issue, it asked all the respondents to come up with their stand on the next date of hearing.The petitioner has challenged the provisions of the fourth chapter of the BCI Rules, 1975 framed under section 49(i)(gg) of the Advocates Act 1961, alleging that the same are ultra vires (beyond the powers) to the Constitution, violating articles 14, 21 and 25. The petitioner has demanded from the court that it should direct the BCI to frame fresh rules for prescribing a new dress code for lawyers across India in view of the country’s climatic condition.The PIL has also sought quashing of a circular framed by the HC administration, which mandates wearing black robes for appearing before the court.Arguing before the bench, the petitioner said the present dress code of wearing a coat and a gown and tying a band around the neck is not suitable for the climatic condition of India.“The advocate’s band is a religious symbol of Christianity and a non-Christian cannot be compelled to wear it,” he submitted.The petitioner also said, “Wearing a white saree or salwar kameez is a symbol of widows according to the Hindu culture and traditions and there was no application of mind on the part of the BCI while prescribing the present dress code for lawyers in the country.” The petitioner added, “Even a mad man will not go for a coat and a gown in summer but sadly, lawyers and judges are wearing those proudly. The black robes prescribed by the BCI and the HC administration is unreasonable, unjust, improper and violative of the fundamental rights of lawyers guaranteed under articles 14, 21 and 25 of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-issues-notice-to-bci-on-plea-seeking-ban-on-present-dress-code-for-lawyers-101626556588742.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Gangster arrested after gunfight in Rohini Sec 37||The city police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man, an alleged top operative of the notorious Ashok Pradhan gang and named in at least 13 cases of murder, after a shoot-out outside the Rohini helipad near Sector 37. Police said the accused, identified as Gaurav alias Monti, who is one of Pradhan’s chief aides, sustained bullet injuries to his leg when police returned fire.Police said Gaurav had allegedly demanded ₹50 lakh recently from a businessman and threatened to kill him if the money was not paid. Police said that on June 26, Gaurav allegedly shot dead a man who worked for the businessman, and left a slip of paper ordering the latter to pay up.DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said, “Around 10.15pm, we saw Gaurav coming on a stolen motorcycle. When police tried to stop him, he opened fire, our team returned fire. He was hit in his legs and was caught.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-arrested-after-gunfight-in-rohini-sec-37-101626554206138.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||5 held for issuing threats to govt officials, scribes in J&K||J&K Police on Saturday arrested five persons, including a Srinagar municipal corporation official, who were allegedly running an ‘intimidation machinery’ that used to prepare a strategic hit list of government officers, journalists, social activists, lawyers and political functionaries. The police said that incriminating digital equipment were recovered from the residences of the accused.Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar termed the arrest a major breakthrough as the arrested persons were “secretly working” for a blog ‘kashmirfight.wordpress.com’.“In a J&K-wide operation, houses and properties at multiple locations, including Sanat Nagar and Raj Bagh in Srinagar, Batpora in Hazratbal, Poonch, Jammu and Hawal in Pulwama, belonging to the accused were searched. Armed with search warrants granted by competent court of law, police teams carried out searches of the suspect premises and recovered a large amount of cell phones, digital storage devices and computing platforms. In one house alone, 32 mobile phones, one tablet, two laptops, four storage devices, seven memory cards and one dongle were found.”The IGP said that the accused are Nazish Yasrab Rehmani and Tabish Akbar Rehmani of Sanat Nagar, Sofi Mohammad Akbar of Rajbagh, Peerzada Raqif Makhdoomi of Batpora, Hazratbal, and Javed Khalid of Poonch.“Kashmirfight.wordpress.com was being run by a white-collar terrorist syndicate whose task was to prepare a strategic hit list of government officers, journalists, social activists, lawyers, and political functionaries who were assessed by the syndicate to be responsible for harming the overarching objectives of furthering and sustaining the Pakistani-supported terrorist programme with the eventual aim of secession of Jammu and Kashmir from the Indian union and its eventual annexation in Pakistan,” he added. IGP Kumar said with the arrest of the kingpins and the discovery of a huge number of digital devices and the analysis of the data therein, it is expected that the ultimate plans behind the murder of journalist Sujat Bukhari, advocate Babar Qadri, and businessman Satpal Nischal would come to the fore.“The blog site had designed a modus operandi wherein the name of the victim was first published, he was profiled by giving detailed justification as to how and why he is a legitimate target for the terrorists and subsequently his actual execution by the terrorists.”Sofi Akbar is working as a secretary at the Srinagar MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-held-for-issuing-threats-to-govt-officials-scribes-in-jk-101626552617843.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur calls on PM Modi, discusses Covid situation in HP||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday and apprised him of the Covid situation and vaccination programme being undertaken in the state. The CM urged the Prime Minister to sanction bulk drug and medical devices park for the state which would not only boost industrial activities but also go a long way in generating employment opportunities. He demanded funds for construction of proposed airport at Nagchala in Mandi. He also discussed issues regarding strengthening the road connectivity in Himachal. He urged the Prime Minister to approve the document for financial assistance sent to the central government under the tourism infrastructure development project. He invited PM Modi to inaugurate 111 MW Sawra-Kuddu hydropower project and 210 MW Luhri Stage-I project constructed by Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited and to lay foundation stone of 66 MW Dhaulasidh project. He held discussion on strengthening information technology and connectivity in the state. The PM assured to provide every possible assistance for development of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-calls-on-pm-modi-discusses-covid-situation-in-hp-101626551839035.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid positivity rate drops to 0.3%||As the Covid positivity rate has reached to 0.3% in J&K, the UT administration doesn’t want to take any chances, especially when there is every possibility of third wave hitting the country.Currently, there are 2,076 active positive cases in 20 districts of the UT, 18 of which have already been named under ‘Green Zone’ with most of the activities already restored. In May, there were more than 50,000 active positive cases in J&K.Now, a slew of measures are being taken to keep the disease under control which has already consumed 4,363 lives with most of the deaths taking place in Srinagar and Jammu districts.On Friday, J&K’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had done a district-wise assessment of the situation with the Covid task force, deputy commissioners, and superintendents of police. Sinha had instructed the officials to increase RT-PCR testing in areas with high positivity rate, besides telling officials that micro-containment zones at panchayat levels will play a major role in tackling the situation.Sinha directed the officials to be well prepared in advance to deal with the possible third wave of coronavirus or any future health emergencies. “Health experts have cautioned the world against the third wave of Covid. We need to be vigilant and put our all-out efforts to save precious lives by intensifying vaccination drives, increasing testing, improving contact tracing, ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour being followed by the people, besides focusing on improvements in all critical factors of preventive care, effective clinical and patient care management,” Sinha had told the officers.Sinha also directed the DCs and SPs to ensure adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, following of Covid protocols like wearing masks, and implementation of restrictions a guidelines in their respective districts, especially in tourist places.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,19,755. Atal Dulloo, additional chief secretary, health and medical education department, said the positivity rate in J&K has reduced to 0.3%. “Besides, 18 districts are in Green Zone as per new set indicators with 99% population in 45 and above age group is now vaccinated with first dose,” he added. The government has already imposed restrictions on the day picnickers at top tourist resorts of Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonmarg after visitors were found flouting SOPs. Across J&K, the doctors have already issued warning to people against lowering the guards with decline in the daily cases. Officer on special duty in the health and medical education department, Dr Shafqat Khan, said that Covid threat is real and that has to be taken seriously.“ A third wave is unavoidable in case people don’t follow SOPs. Some South-East Asian countries are already facing a third wave-like situation. Everyone should get vaccinated,” he added. UT logs 179 new infectionsJammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported one Covid-related death and 179 fresh infections in 20 districts.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 277 with active positive cases falling to 2,076. Officials said there were 112 cases in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw 62 infections and one death. Highest 59 cases were recorded in Srinagar district followed by 15 in Doda and 13 each in Jammu and Pulwama districts.The overall number of people who have recovered has reached 3,13,375. Since the pandemic started, J&K has logged 3,19,755 total cases and the death toll has climbed to 4,363.After the most devastating month of May, June saw 25,197 cases and 416 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-covid-positivity-rate-drops-to-03-101626551837948.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination of 18-45 age group to resume in Himachal on July 19||The vaccination of 18-45 age group will resume in Himachal Pradesh on Monday (July 19), health minister Rajiv Saizal said on Saturday.The inoculation drive for this group had slowed down in the end of June and was completely stopped on July 14 due to shortage of doses. Saizal said the state has a stock of nearly five lakh doses available and the supply of vaccine has also been smooth.However, unlike previously, the people of this particular age group will be given the jab at common sites along with other age groups and priority groups.Before, the people aged between 18 and 44 years were being provided jabs at separate sites. Saizal said the vaccination drive was going on smoothly in the state and till date, 33.6 lakh people have been given the first dose, which is 62% of the total population.Similarly, 10 lakh people have been given the second dose as well, which is around 22% of the total population. “In percentage coverage of population, Himachal is the top state in terms of vaccination,” he claimed. 27 infected with black fungusThe health minister further said that the state has reported a total of 27 cases of black fungus to date. Six patients have died, five are under treatment at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, three at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda and rest have recovered, he added. Saizal said the state has also made arrangements for the anticipated third wave of Covid. “I hope it does not happen. But, if the third wave comes, the state is fully geared up,” he said.He said the state health department is ramping up required facilities at health institution while most of the arrangements were already put in place to deal with any situation.Meanwhile, a suspected case of black fungus has been reported in Una district. The patient, a 77-year-old woman has been referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh.Una chief medical officer Dr Raman Sharma said the woman was infected by Covid two months back and had recovered. After recovery, she suffered some problem in her mouth and was diagnosed by a private lab, the doctor said, adding that her reports are being analysed. 113 Covid cases reportedHimachal on Saturday recorded 113 fresh Covid cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,04,337 while death toll mounted to 3,489 after one more patient died of the contagion. Of the new cases, 28 were reported in Chamba, 20 in Kangra, 19 in Mandi, 14 in Kullu, 11 in Shimla, eight in Hamirpur, seven in Bilaspur, four in Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Una. The recoveries reached 1,99,720 after 138 people recuperated. Active cases have come down to 1,110. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,159 cases followed by Mandi (27,558), Shimla (25,487), Solan (22,364), Sirmaur (15,354), Hamirpur (14,483), Una (13,387), Bilaspur (12,821), Chamba (11,686), Kullu (9,016), Kinnaur (3,283) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,739).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-of-18-45-age-group-to-resume-in-himachal-on-july-19-101626551785352.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flashflood aftermath: Hotel occupancy in HP’s Bhagsu, McLeod almost drops to nil||Dharamshala tourism industry that had just started limping back to normalcy after pandemic-induced lockdowns and curbs has again been hit hard by the July-12 flashflood incident. The occupancy in the hotels of Bhagsunag and McLeodganj area has dropped to almost zero that was nearly 90% in the preceding weeks. Addressing a press conference, Ashwani Bamba, president of Dharamshala Hotel and Restaurant Association, said the “irresponsible reporting” of a localised incident depicting it as a cloudburst on social media and some news channels has triggered a sense of fear among the tourists and they have been cancelling their bookings. He said the bookings for not only July but August were also cancelled and the hotel industry has suffered losses up to ₹500 crore. He said the Bhagsunag incident was not a cloudburst, but water from a nullah changing its course. He said the nullah was packed with debris and there was no space for free flow of rainwater. “The shuttering of culvert which being constructed on nullah upstream was not removed, as a result of which rainwater changed its course and with great force came on the road and caused damaged,” he added. “But the way this episode was depicted on social media, with the headlines suggesting that entire Bhagsunag has swept away in a cloudburst created an atmosphere of fear and panic,” he said, admitting that encroachment on the nullah and drains by some hoteliers had also led to the flooding. “Visuals of sliding cars at Bhagsunag were merged with increased water level of Gaj rivulet and Boh landslides were shown as that of Bhagsunag only to create sensation,” he said, adding that after a long shutdown due to coronavirus, there was a hope of good tourism and in fact, it had picked up from 40-50% during weekdays up to 90% on Saturdays. “This incident has not only affected tourism in Upper Dharamshala, but in the entire state,” he said. Bamba said the hotels had also called back their staff and if the situation doesn’t improve, they may again be rendered jobless. “We wish to convey to everyone that situation is very much normal in Bhagsunag and other tourist hubs and there is nothing to be afraid of,” he said, assuring the tourists that they will be safe and comfortable. Meanwhile, Dharamshala mayor Onkar Nehria, who was also present in the press conference, said the municipal corporation has issued notices to hoteliers who have encroached upon nullah, and the illegal structures will be demolished. He said some people have voluntarily started demolishing their illegal structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flashflood-aftermath-hotel-occupancy-in-hp-s-bhagsu-mcleod-almost-drops-to-nil-101626551784160.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fugitive wanted since 2017 held with pistol, cartridges in Chandigarh||A supplier of illegal weapons was held with a pistol made in the USA along with four live cartridges, a black air pistol and an empty magazine along with a plastic grip knife, the police said on Saturday.The accused was identified as Shiv Charan, alias Shibbi, 28, of Mastgarh village in Mullanpur of Mohali district. The accused has already been declared a proclaimed offender in a case registered in September 2017 under Sections 147, 148, 149, 307 506 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act at Sector-31 police station.The accused was arrested from a naka near the bridge in Sector 23 when a pedestrian was stopped by the police. A case under the Arms Act was registered on July 17.Shiv Charan already had seven cases registered against him and is wanted in all the cases.Had robbed a Kajheri resident of ₹70K, set a vehicle on fire On July 14, one Karan Walia of Kajheri village had reported that accused Shiv Charan along with his accomplices Sunil, Sokat, Anil, alias Bora, and others had attacked him with sticks and iron rod, near the 66KV station in Kajheri. Walia had alleged that the accused had stolen ₹70,000 he was carrying and his Apple watch.A case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 427, 379, 506 of the IPC was registered. The complainant was injured and admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.The attack was reported just a few days after accused Shiv Charan along with Sunil, alias Nathi, had set Walia’s car on fire. On July 10, a Chevrolet Cruze bearing Delhi registration number parked at BJ Enclave, Sector 50, was set ablaze.Walia had alleged that the accused had even threatened him after setting his vehicle on fire. A case under Sections 435 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fugitive-wanted-since-2017-held-with-pistol-cartridges-in-chandigarh-101626551599891.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Pak bunker mein saamp ki mausi||Around 22 years ago, Indians were left awestruck by the visuals and stories of our soldiers braving impregnable inclines and freezing climes to evict Pakistan Army intrusions from Kargil. Years later, an abandoned Pakistani ‘sanger’ or stone bunker at Point 4355 (14,288 feet) in the Mashkoh LOC sector has come to be reoccupied by a ground lizard species equally adept at braving the vagaries of deep freezes! This bunker, which is located just below Vikram Batra Top, had stymied the Indian Army’s advance up the Safed Nullah during the Kargil War. These are high-altitude skinks, which amaze the observer with their ability to weather tonnes of snow. Not more than 14cm in length, these skinks are cousins of the ‘baamani’ or ‘saamp ki mausi’ – the red-tailed lizards seen slithering in gardens in the plains and sometimes staging a furtive entry into houses.India is home to 62 species of skinks that are a group of carnivorous lizards that gulp down or swallow their prey (insects) just like our house lizards. However, due to ignorance, oftentimes slithering skinks are confused with venomous snakes and killed, though they do not possess a toxic bite. On the other hand, in some Indian cultures skinks are considered a good omen. If a human hand touches their pink or reddish tail, it is supposed to invite good fortune! As I cautiously peered over the parapet of the ghostly bunker at Point 4355 as part of a conducted tour by the Army, gentle wildflowers and shy skinks below me mingled comfortably with danger in this ‘live Kargil War museum’. There was expended machine-gun ammunition, a decaying radio set and a live rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) lying in the bunker’s rubble and an unexploded hand-grenade on the path up to the bunker. No human is allowed into these abandoned bunkers by the Army as there is the additional hazard of Pakistani soldiers having mined and booby-trapped their temporary abodes with covert explosives before retreating across the LoC. Tiny skinks can comfortably crawl over unexploded shells without triggering a blast but were an unwary Himalayan Brown bear to lumber in, a catastrophic outcome is probable. The piles of boulders or stones that the Pakistanis had heaped together to shape the bunker in 1999 were put to effective use by skinks in later years as they hibernate in crevices of moss-covered stones when several feet of snow erase the brief shimmer of summery green meadows. At last, the rocks have returned to one of the utilities Nature had intended them for: as a refuge for creatures rather than for Pakistanis to wage destructive wars at the proverbial heights of madness.My curiosity greatly aroused, I sought a perspective from Kaushik Deuti, a scientist with the Zoological Survey of India and lead author of the seminal volume, Skinks of India. “The skink species in the bunker could either be the Himalayan Rock skink (Asymblepharus himalayanus) or Ladakh Rock skink (Asymblepharus ladacensis). Both species belong to a genus of mountain skinks known as Asymblepharus and are found not only all along the Himalayas but also in the Karakoram and up to Tien Shan mountains, Central Asia. In India, we have four species from this genus. These skinks are adapted to surviving cold and feed on small ground-dwelling insects of high altitudes,” Deuti told this writer.By July, skinks of the ‘wuthering heights’ complete their breeding cycle. Researcher Nitin Jamdar of the BNHS had in 1985 collected eggs of the Himalayan Rock skink at 7,500-8,500 feet. The yellow and pale cream eggs had been placed in two rows of four each by the female and resembled corn grains but with a squarish appearance. During courtship rituals prior to mating, the male skink develops an orange belly to attract females.Deuti drew attention to a fascinating adaptation. “The lower eyelids of these mountain skinks bear a transparent disc (window) through which they can see even with their eyes are closed. The reason for this evolutionary development may be to screen ultraviolet radiation from the sun that can lead to impaired vision. Mountaineers use special sunglasses as the shine from rocks and ice often baffles them. In the same way, these skinks that live inside moss-covered rock crevices may have developed a transparent lower eyelid which they pull up every time they need to venture out of their crevices in search of prey,” said Deuti.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-pak-bunker-mein-saamp-ki-mausi-101626551239658.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: The timeless charm of travel||Isn’t there something enchanting and magical about journeys? I have always felt so. During train journeys, one gets to meet all manner of people, while enjoying the cool breeze at the window seat. When it comes to aeroplane rides, the food and hospitality are unrivaled, as is the systematic way in which everything proceeds. Travelling on water offers a mesmerising view of the ocean, though I haven’t had much experience with this mode of travel. It makes one think isn’t our entire life a journey with its vicissitudes? My most vivid childhood memories are of our family trips to Kasauli. At the outset of the journey, the trip unfolded like a choreographed reel. Dad would unfold his newspaper, and mom would wonder if any important item had been left at home and whether the doors had been bolted properly. My elder brother, who had just stepped into adolescence, would play rap at high volume – much to everyone’s annoyance– while someone or the other would start getting pangs of hunger or thirst midway. The young ones would find a reason to quarrel and would be handed comics – the now quaint Chacha Chaudhary, Pinky and Babloo. Today the young ones are handed a spare mobile instead. The sheer predictability of the journey does nothing to kill the charm. The moments are pure delight as in the heart of hearts everyone is looking forward to the destination. And after all the initial commotion, there is a phase of calmness, too; usually after the home-packed meal has been consumed and the vehicle is filled with the aroma of pickles. At this time, everyone enters a kind of reverie, pondering over his or her life or simply enjoying the passing greenery, or dozing. Here I often feel a bit scared lest the driver also take a nap! Nowadays, the many roadside dhabas and eateries have made carrying ghar ka khanna redundant. The travel party starts seizing these eateries with delight and soon everybody is hungry. As the destination comes closer, an air of restlessness pervades in the car. My father would always take a break at the point as it refreshes everybody and subdues the monotony-induced urge to speed! Finally, upon reaching Kasauli, we would stretch and yawn, get off and collect our bags. Everyone would look at the verdant beauty surrounding us, inhale the fresh air and marvel at the beauty of the mountains as one settled to enjoy a relaxing weekend. This is not to deny that some journeys can be extremely difficult to undertake and challenge us to the core. These too, they say, must be taken up for the growth they bring during the process. But, all in all, journeys have the potential to recharge and rejuvenate us, provided they are taken in the right spirit.As the American novelist Louis L’Amour said, “A journey is time suspended”. With the sweet sounds of chirping birds, with soothing music playing in the car (after prevailing over the brother with Herculean effort) and with my own company to enjoy as I look out of the window – journeys undoubtedly transport me to some other dimension. reemaban@gmail.comThe author is an assistant professor of psychology at Rajiv Gandhi Government College, Saha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-timeless-charm-of-travel-101626550818337.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||ED arrests Punjab-origin Dutch national in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it has arrested an Indian-origin Dutch national from the Indira Gandhi International Airport here in connection with a money-laundering probe initiated against him on the Netherlands government’s request. Originally from Phagwara in Punjab, the accused, Shivlal Pabbi, had migrated to the Netherlands in 1981. He was trying to flee to Paris when he was arrested, the central probe agency said. Pabbi was later produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mohali that remanded him to Enforcement Directorate custody till July 23, it said. The ED alleged, “Pabbi, who became a Dutch national in 1984, committed cheating and forgery in the Netherlands through fraudulent documents prepared in connivance with his Indian associates. He ran a hawala or banking without a permit in the Netherlands under the garb of trading in readymade garments.” The proceeds of the crime generated by Pabbi were laundered through Pakistani individuals based in Dubai, who transferred the money to him and his brother’s NRE (non-resident external) accounts in Phagwara, it claimed. This money was “invested in the development and construction of Mayfair Resorts and Cabbana Resort and Spa situated in Phagwara on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway”, the ED said. It stated that Cabbana Resort and Spa, spread over several acres, is a renowned venue known mainly for hosting luxurious weddings and corporate events. “The Enforcement Directorate initiated money laundering investigation against Pabbi and others at the request of the Netherlands government,” the official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-arrests-punjab-origin-dutch-national-in-money-laundering-case-101626550637826.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP neglected weavers, but Samajwadi Party always stood by them, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said that weavers, who play an important role in UP and the country’s economy, were facing neglect and injustice from the government.The SP chief was speaking at a gathering of weavers who came to meet him at the party’s state headquarters from different parts of Uttar Pradesh.“The BJP neglected the weavers’ community, while the SP has always been with them. The BJP hardly cares for the poor, weavers and farmers. The SP government had introduced a scheme for electricity at flat rates to weavers, but the BJP enhanced power tariff. The price rise has hit weavers badly, their trade is ruined,” he said at the meeting organised by the Bunkar Adhikar Sangh (an association of weavers).Yadav said that on return to power, his party’s government would consider all the demands of weavers sympathetically and will also form a weavers’ commission.The last SP government had helped in the development of the carpet industry of Bhadohi in eastern Uttar Pradesh, built Awadh Shilp Gram for artisans, and had started facilities for weavers at Mubarakhpur in Noida, the party chief said.The weavers who participated in the meeting came from Barabanki, Ambedkarnagar, Meerut, Varanasi, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Sant Kabir Nagar, Mau, Bijnor, Hapur and Etah districts, said SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.SP says it has no problem with Priyanka meeting two of its workersThe Samajwadi Party (SP) has no problem or objection to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s meeting with two SP women members in Lakhimpur Kheri district of the state, the SP’s state spokesperson and former Uttar Pradesh minister Rajendra Chaudhary said.“We have no problem, no objection,” Chaudhary said.Earlier last week, the two women had met SP national president Akhilesh Yadav after the party raised the issue of misbehaviour with the women during the filing of nominations for the block pramukh polls. The SP chief had attacked the BJP government and the state police over the incident.Akhilesh Yadav had assured them that the party will struggle for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-neglected-weavers-but-samajwadi-party-always-stood-by-them-says-akhilesh-yadav-101626550578359.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Punjab DGP Saini to pay ₹2.5 lakh as monthly rent for attached house in Chandigarh||A day after a local court ordered provisional attachment of House Number 3048, Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, where former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini lives, the court has directed the district collector to levy a monthly rent of ₹2.5 lakh till further court orders. The Punjab Vigilance Bureau had sought the property’s attachment, claiming it was purchased by Saini using “tainted and black money”, without any sales deed, resulting in losses to the government exchequer.In the detailed orders, the court of additional district and session judge PS Grewal directed the district collector to carry out attachment of the two-kanal house by affixing a notice there and to receive a monthly rent of ₹2.5 lakh from Saini till further court orders.The court also directed the district treasury officer not to release the rent deposited.Also, notices have been issued to Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, the registered owner of the house, and his son Nimratdeep Singh, a serving executive engineer in Punjab, as to why this provisional attachment not be made absolute.According to the bureau’s probe, Jaspal bought the property, but it was actually purchased by Saini, who was retired and was shown to have taken the house on rent after renovations in October 2018. However, no money in the shape of rent has ever been received.Instead, ₹6.4 crore were paid by Saini to Jaspal without any sale agreement. Later, a fabricated agreement was placed on record, which was neither on stamp paper nor attested by any witness, and is signed only by Saini and Jaspal.The house in question is among 39 properties, worth at least ₹80 crore, that the bureau claims were amassed by Nimratdeep through corruption. He was previously also booked by the bureau on corruption charges in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expunjab-dgp-saini-to-pay-2-5-lakh-as-monthly-rent-for-attached-house-in-chandigarh-101626550457721.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Career uncertainty is normal, natural||The growing-up years are sure to be dotted with of a certain amount of uncertainty, ambiguity and unpredictability. The trend and shape of things to come is ever unknown. Life itself is an intricate maze, a mysterious pathway, replete with milestones and speed bumps en route. Who can be sure of what the future holds? And that is verily the essence and the charm of life as well.But at the age of 18 or 19, or even 25, it is normal and natural to feel burdened by parental expectations, peer pressure and self-doubt. None of us who have made even the faintest of marks in life, were confidence personified when it came to the years to come. We had no idea about the contours of the meandering route along which our career would ultimately unfold and undulate. Thus, for those who are worried about exams, results, no exams and no results, in these uncertain times, I have only one piece of advice. Please try and chill a little! One of the early forays in this column of mine was titled, ‘Parents, please take a chill pill!’ The same advice holds good for youngsters as well. While the parents of today must appreciate the fact that piling on the pressure is not the best way to get the best out of their progeny, members of ‘Gen Zee’ must also follow suit by relaxing their minds a little. Or a lot.Prince Charles of the United Kingdom, when he was young, could have been reasonably sure of his ascension to the throne one day, but today, at 72, he is still in the waiting room, so to say! Nothing is certain in this world of ours, and we cannot expect it to be so. What is surely in our hands is the effort we make, the qualities we bring to the table and the determination that we possess, to make successes out of our lives.The results are never in our control, as the scriptures also tell us. Our mandate is to slog and toil, to persevere and persist. I have counselled hundreds of civil services aspirants in the past few years, and I have categorically told them to hope for the best, but to prepare for the worst. And in any case, Plan B is never a bad option. Many people manage to grab an opportunity in life, which is akin to their first or second or third preference as a career option. What is wrong with that? It is only when someone wanted to be a lead actor, but ends up selling tickets at a cinema hall, is he justified in holding a grouse or two!Sundar Pichai, Indira Nooyi, Jeff Bezos, Satya Nadella, Elon Musk, Kiran Majumdar Shaw, PV Sindhu, MS Dhoni, Deepika Padukone and Sunita Williams, all highly successful individuals, could hardly have tom-tommed their success before their careers actually panned out in the resplendent manner that they eventually did. It is another matter that most of these stars of varied skies have proven to be humble, even great, icons, though not all of them.Feeling low at times and worrying a tad more than necessary is a usual for teenagers and even for those older. But to dwell in the realms of anxiety and stress, aided and abetted by a tendency to overthink, is an avoidable manner of living. Lord Alfred Tennyson, in his memorable poem, ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade’ wrote the following lines so touchingly- “Ours is not to wonder why, ours is just to do or die.” While Tennyson was alluding to the selfless sacrifice made on the battlefield by the cavalry during the Crimean war, we need not be as fatalistic. Yet, we need to soldier on despite seeming hardships and reverses which are a part of the surprise package of life that we were unwittingly presented at birth.The key, in the ultimate analysis, is to keep at it and to try and improve the prospects for success in our lives and careers. Then, whether we end up in a career of our choice or not, we will have done our bit. Let’s leave the rest to destiny. vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-career-uncertainty-is-normal-natural-101626550278888.html
18-07-2021||Other||Mumbai’s vaccine drive gets shot in arm as pvt firms donate doses to BMC||At a time when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is facing a shortage of vaccines on a weekly basis, corporate companies are coming forward with donations to facilitate the free mass immunisation programme for the general public. BMC gets the doses from the Central government. But often due to inconsistent supply of the doses, it faces shortage of vaccines, which is affecting the immunisation programme in the city that has a population of around 20 million. To facilitate the vaccination, corporate companies like Citi Bank and Godrej, through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, are vaccinating the general population through BMC’s free vaccination programme.“Both the Citi Bank and Godrej approached us with the noble intention to vaccinate 100,000 people each. So rather than directly donating the vials to BMC, we have asked them to directly provide free vaccinations to the general public through Co-WIN app. A national drug manufacturing company has also promised to donate 50,000 vials in the coming days,” BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said. Citi Bank along with Jaslok Hospital approached the G-South ward office to vaccinate 100,000 slum dwellers from Dharavi, the biggest slum in Asia.“They have collectively applied to us for free vaccinations. We are also assisting them in beneficiary mobilisation with the help of eight-nine non-government organisations (NGOs). We approached Dharavi Sports Complex, the first quarantine centre in Dharavi, which readily agreed to provide the premises for the drive,” said G-South’s ward officer Kiran Dighavkar.“If everything goes as planned, we will be able to start the vaccination programme by Wednesday,” he added.The hospital did not divulge much information. A senior official of the hospital said, “It is still in the initial stage of planning.”Similarly, Godrej has decided to inoculate 100,000 people at their vaccination camp in Vikhroli through CoWIN app. “People who want to get vaccinated at BMC centres would be directed to Godrej’s camp through the CoWIN app. Despite getting vaccinated in a private centre, these people won’t be charged,” said Dr Gomare.Despite repeated attempts, the company did not respond to HT’s calls and messages over the issue.In June, the Union health ministry declared that the Centre will buy 75% of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while the private sector will continue to procure the remaining 25%, with the service charge being capped at ₹150 per dose over the fixed price of the vaccine.Private hospitals and corporate companies buy Serum Institute of India’s (SII) locally manufactured Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield at ₹600, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at ₹1,200 and Russian Sputnik V vaccine at ₹948.Recently, many smaller private companies have also approached BMC to donate vaccines within their capacity. “These private companies don’t have the financial strength to donate 100,000 vaccines. But it is really encouraging to see that they are willing to contribute in the smallest ways by donating doses ranging from 5,000-20,000,” said Dr Gomare.Amid the shortage of vaccines, BMC has administered the first dosage to 54% of the population above 18 years who are eligible for the mass immunisation programme in the city. A total of 6.2 million doses have been administered so far, of which almost 5.8 million doses are of Covishield. There are only 1.1 million beneficiaries who have received both the Covishield doses, while 4.6 million are waiting for the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-vaccine-drive-gets-shot-in-arm-as-pvt-firms-donate-doses-to-bmc-101626550217156.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula youth lands ₹32 lakh job with Amazon||Anuj Bansal, 21, a computer science engineering student at Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), Sector 26, Chandigarh, has been recruited by Amazon with a package of ₹32 lakh per annum.This is the highest-ever package offered to a CCET student. A resident of Sector 10, Panchkula, Anuj has been hired as a software engineer. “I dedicate my achievement to my parents who have always supported me,” he said.Last year, the highest annual package offered to a CCET student was ₹12 lakh, while the average package was approximately ₹5 lakh, which remained the same this year as well.According to the placement data shared by CCET, American Express has also recruited a student from the college for ₹11.27 lakh per annum, while O9 Solutions has hired four students for ₹9.12 lakh per annum.Among the companies that recruited students from the college for the first time were Godrej, Gemini Solutions, Jungle Works, uTrade and Infosys.Principal Manpreet Singh Gujral said, “For the last two years we have been trying to bring in more core companies for placements.”Online recruitmentsDue to the Covid-19 pandemic, the placement process and interviews were held online. KG Sharma, dean, training and placement at CCET, said, “Since the online mode was new, a few companies were not very much comfortable with it, especially non-IT recruiters. Placements in computer science engineering, and electronics and communication engineering streams were unaffected during the pandemic and students achieved better opportunities this year.” However, due to the pandemic, companies were hesitant to recruit students of civil engineering and mechanical engineering.Established in 2002, CCET is affiliated to Panjab University and offers bachelor of engineering courses in the four aforementioned streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-youth-lands-32-lakh-job-with-amazon-101626550101534.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Resurgence of a cult 1961 Hindi novel in English storytelling||It was a cherished dream of mine to study English honours at Lady Shri Ram College for Women in New Delhi. Looking back, I wonder why this preference for LSR over Miranda House, which was the most happening college in the 1970s. Perhaps, it was because several seniors of the smart set in our school in Shillong were studying there and some of my classmates also had their hearts set on the college or it was maybe because the college, which is located in Lajpat Nagar, had been the subject of animated discussion for the goings-on that had inspired Pachpan Khambe Laal Deevaren, the debut novel of the Hindi fiction writer Usha Priyamvada. I was but a child of six when the novel was released, but it seemed to have caught the imagination of my mother, sister-in-law and cousins for striking new ground in telling a woman’s story. Ours was a family that had more books on the shelves than money in the bank and reading was a constant passion.I think it was the poetic name that struck me most about the novel. Even though circumstances at home did not allow my dream to be fulfilled and I went to the Government College of Women in Chandigarh instead, I would always cast longing glances at the red walls and try to count the pillars, as though it was a magic mantra, when our cab or auto-rickshaw passed by the college on our way to my brother’s house in Delhi’s Greater Kailash. All these memories came flooding as I held a mint-fresh copy of the novel, which has been brilliantly translated into English by Daisy Rockwell, in my hands. I stayed awake all night as I read this well-told story, chronicling the dreams and disappointments of the ill-fated love affair of Sushma and Neel set in the vintage Delhi of the 60s.A sense of déjà vuAs one gets immersed in the story of Sushma, a working woman and sole provider for her large family, there is a strange feeling that one has experienced this before not just in literature and cinema but in life as well. This is especially true in the homes of large middle-class families that were ravaged during the Partition. In such circumstances, many women were compelled to seek education and join the workforce, but with strings attached, which kept them trapped despite achieving economic independence. Kamla Dutt, who was witness to the feminine struggle of the 60s mentions the travails of the daughters of Partition at the hands of their own mothers in the poem, ‘City Named After Goddess Chandi’: “It was a bad year for the city/Named after Goddess Chandi/ So many daughters had taken their lives/Mothers of Partition/ with too many daughters/Then had turned hard/ Fury of semi-educated mothers unparalleled/ Their daughters, their rivals/ their shame…”So, it is with Sushma, the protagonist of the novel, who feels trapped in a prison with 55 pillars and red walls, where even her prince charming, Neel, cannot reach her. She introduces herself to him with a touch of bitterness saying: “Age: 33 years; home: poor; Hindi teacher…is there anything else you would like to know?” Behind these red walls, Sushma, in spite of her relative youth and elegance, is resigned to the regimented loneliness of her life until she meets the persistent Neel, but even then the walls and pillars do not make way for her to experience love and togetherness as she is locked in the mental and social paradigms, which her family imposes on her. She must support her younger siblings, even at the cost of her own happiness.Datedness and women’s writingOn the challenge of translating this novel, which is set over half a century ago, the remarkable translator, Daisy Rockwell, says: “The descriptive choice brings fashion to the fore in ‘Fifty-five Pillars’, and attracts the critique of ‘datedness’ to the writing. The clothing styles belong so clearly to the era that we feel we are flipping through an old issue of Femina magazine, circa 1960. And yet, I have no doubt that old issues of Femina also contain valuable clues for the mapping of women’s history!”In fact, Rockwell, with a PhD in South-Asian literature began with translating the works of Hindi writer Upendranath Ashk who hailed from Punjab. A painter-scholar she has also translated from Urdu ‘The Inner Courtyard’ by Khadija Mastoor and ‘A Gujrat Here, A Gujrat There’ by famed author Krishna Sobti. In fact, all three novels could well be dismissed as ‘dated’. Interestingly, even Usha Priyamvada, whose books extremely popular in Hindi were never translated into English, initially dismissed the idea of having this particular novel translated. Now, all of 90 years and long settled in the US, Usha wrote to Daisy saying: “Translate my most recent novel. I fear that one is too dated.” But for a literary scholar like Daisy there was no ‘this’ or ‘that’ and she says: “Fifty-five Pillars gives us readers, more than 55 years later, a window into a particular moment in women’s history, when women with apparent freedom and advanced education struggled for independence and autonomy.”It is a point well made and this novel may prove to be a flagship for Indian Novels Collective as Ashwani Kumar, one of the moving forces behind the collective, says the effort is: “To bridge the gap between the English reader and classics of Indian literature by making available quality translations and building reader communities that celebrate Indian storytelling.” Published with care by Speaking Tiger, it is indeed a cherished addition to the bookshelf of this writer who once longed to know college life beyond those 55 pillars and red walls so enticing in youth!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resurgence-of-a-cult-1961-hindi-novel-in-english-storytelling-101626550100332.html
18-07-2021||Other||SGPC chief inspects site at Golden Temple where tunnel-like structures were found||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Saturday inspected the site of Golden Temple’s upcoming Jora Ghar (shoe-house) where some tunnel-like structures were recently found. She said a team of the archaeological department will visit the site on Monday for investigation after which a decision on the structures will be taken. Stating that the SGPC is committed to preserving the heritage of the site, she said the structures will not be touched until the truth about its history is established. “If it is related to the Gurus or Sikh history, then it will be preserved for the Sangat,” she said. Replying to a query, Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “So far, no concrete historical facts have come to light about the structures, but it is being speculated that these may have been buried during the demolition of the area for the construction of Galiara (corridor) around Sri Darbar Sahib.” She further said some people were deliberately trying to tarnish the SGPC’s image. “I appeal to the Sangat (devotees) to read the facts. In fact, it was the SGPC that brought these structures to light, so there is no question of any historical or Sikh heritage being destroyed by the Sikh body,” she said, adding, “Everyone should wait till the report is received from the archaeology experts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-chief-inspects-site-at-golden-temple-where-tunnel-like-structure-were-found-101626549977808.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh launches scheme to help children affected by Covid-19||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Saturday launched Parvarish, a scheme for the development and rehabilitation of children affected and orphaned due to Covid-19.The scheme was formulated by the Union Territory Child Protection Society under the department of social welfare, women and child development, Chandigarh. The scheme has been notified in the Chandigarh Administration Gazette.The scheme has been framed considering the effects of Covid-19, which has taken a toll on lives and has left many children vulnerable and orphaned due to the loss of their parents or breadwinner of the family.The scheme will extend to Covid orphaned children or children who have lost one parent due to Covid and the surviving parent has surrendered the child; Covid orphaned children who are living with extended families/guardians; children who have lost one parent due to Covid and are living with surviving parent/extended family; and Covid positive children of UT.For children who have lost one or both the parents due to Covid and have been placed in child-care institutions, their educational, medical and nutritional expenses will be borne by the department of social welfare and a fixed deposit of ₹3 lakh will also be made in the child’s name. The amount can be withdrawn after they attain the age of 21 years.Children’s education in govt schools to be free of costThe education of children studying in government schools will be free of cost and children studying in private schools will also be provided with an annual financial support. Further, the eligible beneficiaries after attaining the age of 18 years will be provided financial support if they pursue short-term diploma courses, graduation or equivalent three-year degree courses or professional degrees. The beneficiaries under the said scheme can avail the benefits from March 2020.Financial support under the scheme will also be extended to Covid positive children wherein monthly financial assistance of ₹2,500 will be provided for three months to meet their nutritional needs and it will be applicable to children found Covid positive after January 1, 2021.In addition to financial and educational benefits, children will also be provided with counselling/grief counselling and need-based therapeutic intervention to help them overcome the trauma associated with loss of parents.On the directions of the social welfare secretary, the District Child Protection Unit is conducting a survey of 800 families as per data provided by the department of health, who have lost a member due to Covid in UT, to identify children who have lost their parent(s). As per the senior officials of the department, a total of 112 children have been identified who have lost one parent or been orphaned. Over 1,300 kids who tested positive for Covid will also be covered under this.UT social welfare secretary Nitika Pawar said, “Other children reported under this will also be covered. Eligible beneficiaries covered under the scheme can contact the District Child Protection Unit at 0172-2643654.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-launches-scheme-to-help-children-affected-by-covid19-101626549737782.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||Four booked under anti-conversion law in UP’s Pilibhit, three held||Four persons have been booked in Pilibhit district under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion law in a case of alleged abduction and unlawful religious conversion of a “minor” girl by marriage, police said.The case was registered on Friday and three of them have been arrested while the fourth accused was absconding, they said.Circle officer of the area Prashant Singh said the main accused-- 21-year-old Munna alias Mohammed Amir-- of Bisalpur area of Pilibhit acquainted the girl from another community a few days back. “According to a complaint lodged by girl’s father, Amir allegedly kidnapped the girl with the help of three family members on Wednesday when she was returning home from a nearby market. They forced the girl to convert to Islam and married her off to Amir. Her family claimed that the girl was recovered from the house of Amir’s relatives on Thursday,” said Singh. Police have booked Amir and his relatives --Anees Ahmed, Nasir Ahmed and Nazeer. So far Amir, Anees and Nasir have been arrested.Meanwhile, family members of Amir have claimed that the girl was being forced by her kin to give false statements against Amir. “The girl is not a minor and she was friends with Amir. The girl’s family was against their relationship so they eloped. But the family members of the girls found her and are now claiming that she was kidnapped by Amir and our other relatives,” said Parvez Ahmed a relative of Amir.Police officials declined to comment on the claim. “The girl will be presented before a magistrate and further investigation will be done on the basis of her statement,” said the CO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-in-up-s-pilibhit-three-held-101626549680842.html
18-07-2021||Other||Carjacking suspect’s death:3 Punjab cops booked for culpable homicide||Three assistant sub inspectors (ASIs) of the Punjab Police have been booked for culpable homicide after the Special Investigation Team (SIT), which was constituted to look into the death of a Hoshiarpur resident in police firing near Amritsar in December last year, submitted its report.As per the daily crime dairy of Amritsar (rural), an FIR was registered on Friday against ASIs Vinod Kumar, Darshan Singh and Surinder Kumar under Sections 304/34 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code in Jandiala Guru police station.Inderjit Singh, 40, the victim, was accused of snatching an SUV from a doctor in Haryana’s Ambala district on December 8. A team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) unit of Amritsar police commissionerate that intercepted him had claimed that its members resorted to firing after the 40-year-old tried to run over them at a check-point near the Nijjarpura (or Manawala) toll plaza on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway.The SIT, headed by the then inspector general of police (border range) SPS Parmar, was constituted after the victim’s family moved the Punjab and Haryana high court in March, terming the encounter as a “murder”. The court had asked the probe team to submit its inquiry report as to why no FIR was registered against the accused policemen so far. The HC bench had also directed sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikas Hira to submit a magisterial report in the case on April 20.The SIT, in its report to Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana, stated that it was found that the police party used excessive force by opening fire at the victim to stop his SUV. The victim received two bullets and succumbed to the injuries in the hospital, reads the daily crime diary.Notably, the SIT also got some technical evidence examined by the forensic department. A mobile phone of a farmer, who had shot a video of the incident, was sent for forensic examination for retrieval of the recording that was allegedly deleted by CIA personnel. Besides, footage of the closed-circuit television cameras installed at the toll plaza was also examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/carjacking-suspect-s-death-3-punjab-cops-booked-for-culpable-homicide-101626549679412.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula’s daily Covid count drops to zero||In cheer for Panchkula residents and health workers, no new Covid-19 case was reported in the district on Saturday.On June 21 as well, the district’s daily tally was zero, for the first time since May last year. However, an old untraced case was found and added later that day.Covid cases have been declining since the beginning of July. However, there has been a slight rise over the last four days, with 4-6 infections being reported.“The daily count had dropped to 1-2 cases per day, so we were worried about why the cases had started increasing. Contact tracing revealed that all new cases were from one family, who had recently gone out for a dinner with relatives who were Covid positive,” said Dr Mankirat Kaur, spokesperson for the civil surgeon.She said people must continue to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, like wearing mask, maintaining social distance and frequently sanitising hands.The doctor also requested patients with symptoms to strictly follow home isolation.UT, Mohali clock three cases eachWith just three cases each from Mohali and Chandigarh, the tricity clocked only six new infections on Saturday, a first in over 15 months.In more positive news, no virus-related death was reported in the tricity for the sixth consecutive day. So far in July, the tricity has recorded nine deaths, including seven in Mohali and one each in Chandigarh and Panchkula.The active cases declined from 149 to 131 in the past 24 hours. Besides 20 in Panchkula, Mohali has 58 Covid patients and Chandigarh 53. The daily positivity rate also remained below 0.3% across the tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkulas-daily-covid-count-drops-to-zero-101626549678439.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder, Bajwa bury the hatchet, meet over dinner||The rift in the Punjab Congress has sparked off a realignment of forces with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and senior leader Partap Singh Bajwa burying their differences and coming together ahead of the state polls early next year. Capt and Bajwa broke bread over dinner at the former’s farmhouse in Mohali’s Siswan on Saturday. Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh and cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi also joined them. Bajwa said he and Capt have forgotten their past differences and come together to strengthen the Congress as the chief minister is working to make good on the 18-point agenda before the state elections. “All original Congressmen who are loyal and wedded to the ideology of the party are coming together for the cause of the party,” said the Rajya Sabha member, who has been a strident critic of Amarinder for most part of his current tenure. Their meeting, which came amid talk of the state unit revamp and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation to the post of the state unit president, is being seen as the beginning of the realignment of forces in the state Congress. While Amarinder has strongly opposed the move to appoint Sidhu as the state unit president and is upset over premature public statements and leaks, Bajwa, a former president of the Punjab Congress, has been advocating that “dyed-in-the-wool” Congressmen should be given their due before the new entrants. Senior leader and MP Manish Tewari welcomed the duo’s dinner meeting. “Good to see @Partap_Sbajwa & @capt_amarinder together along with our Hon’ble Speaker @RanakpINC & @iranaosodhi. Partap who I know since 1983 and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead. He is an old dyed in the wool Congress man,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-bajwa-bury-the-hatchet-meet-over-dinner-101626549497880.html
18-07-2021||Other||Jan Aushadhi medicines found hidden in bathroom of Amritsar civil hospital||The health department on Saturday discovered Jan Aushadhi medicines, worth over ₹1.5 lakh, hidden in the bathroom of the Amritsar civil hospital. As per initial findings, the medicines were being illegally sold at inflated rates without issuing bills to the patients. The computer records were also allegedly distorted to hide the actual sales. The hand of some officials of the Jan Aushadhi department and a data entry operator is being suspected. As the Jan Aushadhi stores are run by the Indian Red Cross Society, the role of its officials will also be looked into.Earlier on July 12, three pharmacists of the department, Sachin Arora, Baljeet Singh and Amanpreet Singh, had been terminated from services after the Red Cross found that the department had been in losses for long.Rakesh Sharma, chairman of the Employees Welfare Association of the health department, said, “We have requested the deputy commissioner to order a probe into the matter. The audit report and computer records should be checked to see if they match. We found that the data entry operator was the only person who used to sell the medicines even though it was not his job. We don’t know how long this has been going on.”He added, “This is a big scam. Poor people who come here to get treatment at affordable rates but are fleeced while purchasing medicines.”Senior medical officer Dr Chander Mohan said, “After discovering the medicines hidden in the bathroom, we formed a committee to probe how many medicines were pilfered from the Jan Aushadhi department and how many were bought from outside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jan-aushadhi-medicines-found-hidden-in-bathroom-of-amritsar-civil-hospital-101626549437710.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Singapore court dismisses plea by couple convicted of assaulting Punjab-origin maid||SingaporeA court in Singapore has dismissed an appeal by a couple here against their conviction for assaulting a domestic helper from India, according to a media report.The couple, who are Singapore permanent residents, was convicted of multiple charges of causing hurt to their helper, Amandeep Kaur, 27, at the time of the offences in 2016, after a trial in the state courts, The Straits Times reported.Farha Tehseen, 40, was sentenced to one year and nine months’ jail last year, while her husband Mohammad Tasleem, 42, was given four months. Farha was also found guilty of one count of criminal intimidation.On Friday, high court justice Kannan Ramesh held that Kaur’s testimony during the trial corroborated with other evidence of her abuse, including medical reports.He also said the couple’s explanations about the injuries “fly in the face of the medical evidence”, noting that the doctors who testified during the trial also did not accept their accounts.The judge did not accept the couple’s arguments that, among other things, the trial judge wrongfully believed Kaur’s version of events and treated the inconsistencies in her testimony as immaterial.Justice Ramesh noted the couple’s intention to accept their sentences if their appeal was unsuccessful. He allowed Farha to defer her sentence until November 1 - when Tasleem is likely to have already been released from prison - so that at least one of them can take care of their two sons, one of whom is autistic.Tasleem will start his jail term on July 19.Kaur worked for the couple between November 9 and December 31, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singapore-court-dismisses-plea-by-couple-convicted-of-assaulting-punjab-origin-maid-101626549317770.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||13 govt schools in Ludhiana dist to get ₹65L for new classrooms||The central government has released fresh grants of ₹65 lakh to the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan office, Ludhiana, which will be used by 13 government schools in the district to construct 20 new classrooms.The classrooms at Government Senior Secondary School, Hargobindpur, have become unsafe and they will now be able to construct three new ones for which ₹9.78 lakh has been allotted to it.Two classrooms each will be constructed at Government High School, Begowal; Government High School, Bhamian Kalan; Government Senior Secondary School, Sohian; Brahmanand ji Bhurriwale Government Senior Secondary School and Government Senior Secondary School, Lalheri. Each of these schools will receive ₹6.52 lakh.One classroom each will be constructed at Government High School, Kotla Shamshpur; Government High School, Sehan Daud; Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaini Baringa; Government Senior Secondary School, Lalori Kalan; Government Senior Secondary School, Mansooran girls; Government Senior Secondary School, Rupalon and Government Senior Secondary School, Sahibana. Each of these will get ₹6.26 lakh.GSSS, Lalheri, had 560 students last year which has now increased to 740 students. The school has 13 classrooms and require more accommodate students. Principal Baljit Singh said, “We had written to the district education department to provide us funds and now, we have received grants to construct two rooms.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Hargobindpur, more rooms are needed to accommodate students as some of their rooms had been declared unsafe and were demolished. Principal Gurmeet Kaur said, “We have 650 students and we have temporarily set up library in another room. The school offers vocational courses, science, commerce and humanities streams and to adjust students, we need more classrooms.” District education officer (secondary) Lakhvir Singh, said, “This move will help the schools provide a conducive environment to study. With increase in enrolment in majority of the government schools, more rooms were required and as per the demand of the schools, grants were issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-dist-to-get-65l-for-new-classrooms-101626549198329.html
18-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: UP resident bludgeons labourer to death over monetary dispute; nabbed||An Uttar Pradesh resident allegedly bludgeoned a farm labourer to death in Jangpur village of Dakha following a dispute over ₹5,000 on Friday. The village sarpanch nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police.The accused has been identified as Anurag Singh of Banda district of Uttar Pradesh.The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of sarpanch Amarjit Singh. He said the victim Shiv Narain, 32, was his employee and used to take care of his fields.On Thursday night when the sarpanch went to his fields, he found that Shiv Narain had got into a scuffle with the accused. He intervened and pacified the duo. Later, Shiv Narain told him that he had borrowed ₹5,000 from Anurag Singh and the latter was pressuring him to return the money.Singh added that Shiv Narain had promised the accused to return the money next month.“On Friday night, when I reached the village, I found Anurag Singh assaulting Shiv Narain again. The accused pushed him onto the ground and bludgeoned him to death with stones. I nabbed the accused and informed the police,” said the sarpanch.Inspector Jagjit Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-up-resident-bludgeons-labourer-to-death-over-monetary-dispute-nabbed-101626549138753.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly couple loses ₹45K, car to robbers in Ludhiana||Four miscreants robbed an elderly couple of ₹45,000, important documents, house keys and their car after threatening them at knife point at their home in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Block-F on Friday morning. The victim Paramjit Singh, 76, is elected president of Kabir Co-operative house building self-supporting society.He said that at around 5am on Friday, the four unidentified accused barged into the house after scaling the boundary wall. They held him and his wife at knifepoint and stuffed pieces of cloth in their mouths so they could not raise the alarm. They remained in the house for 30 minutes before decamping with the valuables. They also took the digital video recorder of the CCTV camera inside the house before fleeing. Paramjit said the robbers were conversing in Punjabi.Inspector Surinder Chopra, station house officer of Dugri police station, said a case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused and police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-couple-loses-45k-car-to-robbers-in-ludhiana-101626549137598.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||24-year-old dies after falling off moving bus in Ludhiana, driver booked||A 24-year-old man died after falling off a moving bus near Daheru Bridge on Friday.Khanna police have booked the bus driver, Karnail Singh of Payal, on the complaint of Mohammad Suleman of Devariya, Uttar Pradesh, father of the victim, Imam Hussain.In his statement, Suleman said he and his son were travelling in the bus headed to Ambala. As all seats were occupied, his son was standing near the door.He alleged that when the bus reached Daheru Bridge, his son fell off from the bus as the driver was driving recklessly. As Hussain died on the spot, the driver fled on foot leaving the bus behind.ASI Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the accused driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24yearold-dies-after-falling-off-moving-bus-in-ludhiana-driver-booked-101626549079340.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly secretariat advises staff not to wear T-shirts, jeans in office||The Uttar Pradesh assembly secretariat has advised its staff not to turn up in office wearing T-shirts and jeans.An office memorandum has been issued in this regard, asking all the officers and employees to don only formal wear while attending office.“I have been directed to say that the personnel working in the Vidhan Sabha secretariat will not wear T-shirt, jeans or other such clothes during office hour. All officers and employees are expected that during office hours they will wear formal dresses in accordance with the dignity of the state assembly,” said Narendra Kumar Mishra, joint secretary (state assembly) in the office memorandum dated July 15, 2021, sent to all the officers and employees of the assembly secretariat.“There is nothing unusual in the office memorandum. A number of youngsters are being recently seen wearing T-shirts and jeans. Many dignitaries, including foreign delegations, often visit the assembly secretariat. Such an informal dress code does not suit the dignity of a Constitutional institution like the state assembly. We have only advised the staff and there is no penalty. The officers and employees need to uphold the dignity of the institution,” said a senior officer.State assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit also said there was no order and only an advisory had been issued to the staff, asking them not to wear T-shirts and jeans while in office.“This is only an advisory and not an order. It’s not binding on any officer or employee. The Uttar Pradesh assembly is a Constitutional body. The advisory is optional for employees,” said the speaker.Asked whether there would be any such advisory to the legislators as well, he replied in the negative. Others, however, said if employees wore T-shirts and jeans in the secretariat, they would even do the same during the sessions of the house.“There is a dress code (formal) for the staff during the sessions. This is to ensure that the officers and staff present in the house are identified there,” said a retired officer of the assembly secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-secretariat-advises-staff-not-to-wear-t-shirts-jeans-in-office-101626549018399.html
18-07-2021||Other||Bagga expelled from SAD, says will join AAP||Amid reports that its senior leader Chaudhary Madan Lal Bagga was set to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) expelled him from the party for six years on Saturday evening. Soon after development, Bagga announced that he will be joining AAP on Sunday. He also stated that he had already tendered his resignation before the party expelled him.SAD leaders, however, maintained that they had not received any resignation letter and that he was expelled for anti-party activities.Bagga has been elected councillor twice and was given the rank of a state minister during the SAD-BJP regime. Before expulsion, he was serving as the senior vice-president of the trade and industry wing of SAD.As per information, Bagga was aspiring for a party ticket from Ludhiana North constituency for the 2022 elections. However, the seat was reserved for Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) by the high command after the two parties entered into an alliance in the state. Upset over this, Bagga had decided to join the AAP. Earlier too, Bagga had resigned from the SAD after he was denied a ticket from the constituency during the 2017 polls when the seat was reserved for a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate under the SAD-BJP alliance. Bagga contested the assembly elections as an independent and finished fourth in the elections. He had rejoined the SAD ahead of Lok Sabha elections in 2019.Terming Bagga as a ‘traitor’, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said he was involved in anti-party activities and thus expelled from the party. Meanwhile, Bagga said he wants to serve the people and that cannot be done without a platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bagga-expelled-from-sad-says-will-join-aap-today-101626548957129.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||LG encroaching on Delhi govt’s turf, says Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday objected to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal holding meetings with bureaucrats and instructing them on works that come under the purview of the elected government, in a letter that is likely to further intensify the conflict between the AAP dispensation and the LG who represents the Centre.Sisodia called the LG’s actions “murder of democracy” and violative of the Supreme Court judgment.“Over the last few months, you have been calling prominent officials of the Delhi government to your office and issuing directions related to work of their departments. I have also come to know that you are issuing directions to the officials on subjects that come under the purview of the elected government, without even keeping the ministers in the loop, and later officials of the LG secretariat are pressuring the bureaucrats to implement such orders,” Sisodia said in the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT.The deputy CM “humbly requested” Baijal to desist from such “activities”. “Under the Constitution, the Delhi LG can take decisions only on police, land and public order,” Sisodia said, citing the Supreme Court order of July 4, 2018.The LG’s office did not comment on the matter.The four-page letter came a day after the Delhi Cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal decided that a panel of government-appointed prosecutors will deal with the cases related to January 26 violence during farmers’ tractor rally against three farm laws passed last year, even as Baijal endorsed a panel of lawyers suggested by the Delhi Police.The Delhi government has maintained that appointment of lawyers comes under their purview and that the LG can only give his opinion on the Delhi government’s decision in rarest of the rare cases.Sisodia said that the “pattern” was observed by all Delhi ministers over the past three months, and that it coincides with the time when Parliament cleared the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha in March.On April 28, the Union ministry of home affairs notified the Act, effectively making the LG in-charge of the national capital. According to the amended law, the elected government will have to seek the opinion of the LG before any executive decision.On April 29, after the notification by the Centre, the LG issued an order asking the Delhi government to seek opinion of the LG before the Cabinet or any of its ministers take any executive action with regard to matters related to land, police, law and order, subordinate legislations, granting of parole, Delhi finance commission, establishment or reconstitution of statutory bodies and matters specified under Rule 23 of the ‘Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993’.Citing the Supreme Court verdict, Sisodia said the LG has no independent decision making powers and he is bound by the aid and advice of the council of ministers. However, the deputy CM did not mention the GNCTD Act in his letter.Sisodia described the LG as a “good-natured and well-meaning” person, saying he was writing the letter to him only because it concerned the preservation of democracy and the Constitution “at a time India is in the 75th year of its independence”.“You (Baijal) can use your time in this post to be remembered as someone who was a good person but weakened the democracy, or you can strengthen democracy instead. People will then remember you as someone who did not buckle under BJP’s pressure and left the tenets of democracy stronger than before,” Sisodia wrote.If the Centre-appointed governors and lieutenant governors sideline elected governments to take decision on all matters, it will be the end of democracy which was earned by our freedom fighters and ancestors after a long struggle and many sacrifices, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-encroaching-on-delhi-govt-s-turf-says-sisodia-101626548479801.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for molesting 13-year-old girl||A man was booked for molesting a 13-year-old girl in her house in Meharban here on Friday. The accused, who hails from Hoshiarpur, had been in a relationship with the girl’s mother for five years. In her complaint, the victim’s mother said the accused had come to the house in her absence and asked her teenaged daughter to remove her clothes, after which he molested her and threatened her. The girl’s siblings were alerted by the girl’s wails, and raised the alarm after which the accused fled. The accused had been living in a rented accommodation near the complainant’s house and would visit her on the weekends. The 35-year-old woman’s husband had left her and their four children after learning of her affair. Assistant sub-inspector Kamaljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been lodged under Sections 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The accused is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-molesting-13-year-old-girl-101626548897854.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bursting crackers on busy roads may send you behind bars in Ludhiana||Revellers, who are part of wedding processions, can often be seen bursting crackers or indulging in celebratory firing along roadsides, which can lead to road mishaps, and injuries. With easing of Covid norms and the ceiling on guests upped to 200, the Ludhiana commissioner of police on Saturday extended the ban on bursting crackers on busy roads and the ban on carrying weapons to marriage palaces for two months. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal extended the bans under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). He said, “As most of the road is taken over by the procession, bursting crackers on the roads adds to the woes of commuters.”Agrawal also ordered marriage palace owners to make sure that no guest brings weapons to the venue. “If firearms are discharged, we will also book the owner of the marriage palace,” said the police commissioner. Dail down loudspeakers after 10pm The commissioner of police has banned playing loud music between 10pm and 6am. Now, permission must be sought before hiring a disc jockey or blaring loudspeakers at any event between 10pm to 6am. “Playing loud music at night disturbs the elderly and those who are sick as well as birds and animals,” the police said. A 100m silence zone has been created around hospitals, schools, colleges, universities and courts.Install CCTVs at petrol pumps within 30 daysThe commissioner of police has also ordered owners of petrol pumps, LPG gas agencies, marriage palaces and money exchange shops to install CCTVs on their premises within 30 days. “These establishments can be targeted by miscreants. Therefore, we have asked owners to be more vigilant to avoid such instances.” The sale and breeding of the Thai Magur, an invasive fish, has also been banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bursting-crackers-on-busy-roads-may-send-you-behind-bars-in-ludhiana-101626548837573.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Masses in Ludhiana back to brazenly defying Covid norms||Freed of restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the second wave of the novel coronavirus, huge crowds can be seen milling around markets, bus stops and at other public places. Despite experts predicting an imminent third wave, the majority of the residents can be seen forgoing masks and defying social distancing norms.  After months of restrictions, residents could be seen thronging popular markets, especially those in the old city areas such as Chaura Bazaar, Saban Bazaar, Field Ganj, Karimpura, and Akalgarh Market. Despite the government mandating social distancing at restaurants, it is not being practised at most establishments and gym goers can be spotted working out without masks. With the night curfew lifted, the revellers are back at their favourite haunts — the Sarabha Nagar main market, Gol Market in Model town, and Dugri market. This has led to an increase in vehicular traffic in the areas at night and late in the evening. Roadside vendors in Ghumar Mandi, Model Town and other areas are also doing a roaring business in the absence of police checks. Sunday lockdown restrictions had been rolled bacj on June 27, while the night curfew was lifted on July 12 much to the relief of traders, restaurateurs and other businessmen. Chaura Bazaar Shopkeepers Association general secretary Gurcharan Singh Chann said, “Everybody is aware of the guidelines. People should behave responsibly to keep themselves and others safe.” A resident of Field Ganj area Tarandeep Singh says locals have become lax after the number of cases in the district has come down. Fearing another lockdown, which may cripple their business further, traders and restaurant owners are also asking patrons to follow guidelines to prevent a resurgence in infections. Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh says the hospitality sector is reeling under losses since the outbreak and will not be able to survive another lockdown. “Locals should take all the precautions while moving out and about as every sector will be hit if there is another lockdown,” said Singh, adding that hotel owners had been asked not to allow customers without masks to enter their establishments and ensure that their staff is vaccinated. Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town market association, said, “Residents should keep their guard up and avoid travelling to the hills. The positivity rate is low at the moment and we must do our best to keep it that way.” Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said, “The administration and police are doing their best to enforce Covid norms and action is being taken against violators. Special vaccination camps have been organised to vaccinate those involved in the hospitality sector. Residents must also behave responsibly. I will also take up the matter with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/masses-in-ludhiana-back-to-brazenly-defying-covid-norms-101626548668214.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||Approaching motherhood, this forest sentinel thrives in a male bastion in Uttar Pradesh||The love of nature and readiness to tackle challenges has helped Shweta Rani enter a male bastion as a forest guard in western Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district.The 29-year-old was the first woman from her native village in Jalesar tehsil of Etah district to go for a government job.A farmer’s daughter, she was one of the 94 women who joined the forest department among the 563 candidates selected in 2016. She is in the seventh month of pregnancy, but revels in her job as a forest guard in Aligarh. The eldest among three sisters and two brothers, she studied in government schools and did her graduation in science from the Government Degree College in Jalesar. She is among the 243 women forest guards who have joined service after clearing competitive exams in recent years, says Ashok Kumar, the chief forest conservator of forest, (human resource department) in Lucknow.Describing herself as an admirer of Swami Vivekananda, Shweta Rani says she is unfazed by the vagaries of the weather that she has to face in the field. “Whatever the weather, working in the field motivates me. We have to look for government land or seek permission if it is a nagar panchayat for plantation. My doctor has advised precaution as I am in the seventh month of pregnancy, but I feel that I can do my job even if the temperature exceeds 40 degrees Celsius,” she says.It was her love of nature that made her not accept a state police job for which she was selected. Instead, she chose the forest department. Her first posting was in Ghazipur in eastern UP where she had to do a 10am-5pm office job which was not to her taste. She got married to Deepak Singh, a policeman, in 2019 and was posted to the social forestry department in Agra. Her husband is posted in Etawah district of western Uttar Pradesh. “Initially, when I joined the forest department in 2016, I was posted in an office. But I always loved a field job and was happy to be part of the plantation drive this year as the authorities chose me to supervise the plantation drive on Gonda Road, Amarpur Rajbagh in Aligarh district,” Shweta Rani says. She is thankful to Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Aditi Sharma, conservator of forests for Aligarh division, and divisional director (Social Forestry) Diwakar Kumar Vasistha for reposing faith in her. Putting Shweta’s position in perspective, Aditi Sharma says, “A woman staffer was tough to be found when I joined the forest department in 2006. The forest department was a male-dominated arena and somewhat continues to be so as it tests one’s strength and agility. But we now encourage women joining the department as their presence rules out the requirement of women police in certain circumstances.”“In fields like social forestry, women are an asset as they have more convincing power in spreading greenery and thus, we motivate girls in our team,” Sharma adds. Sharma says not only are there few women serving as forest guard but also not many are joining the Indian Forest Service as officers in the state. At present, there are 11 Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers in the Uttar Pradesh cadre.“Women officers include the chief conservator at Lucknow and the conservator at Aligarh Division. There are women DFOs in Ayodhya, Ballia, Ghaziabad and Unnao. A senior woman IFS officer is with the forest corporation in Lucknow. Four women IFS officers of the UP cadre are at the Centre on deputation. There are 11 women IFS officers in the Uttar Pradesh cadre at present,” Aditi Sharma says. “In 2006, when I joined the Indian Forest Service, there were only two other women IFS officers joining at the national level. Besides me in Uttar Pradesh, there were other two others in Jharkhand and Arunachal Pradesh. There is a steady increase in women joining the forest service in recent decades,” Sharma states. “There are not many forest guards who come directly through the State Commission for selection. The women forest guards include those joining service because of the dependent quota for deceased staff. These women take up the job of forest guard after the death of their father or husband,” she says. “Women forest guards in the field are mostly deployed for plantation and nursery, wildlife conservation and forest protection work,” Sharma explains. Ashok Kumar, the chief forest conservator of Forest, (human resource department) in Lucknow, says, “There were 94 women forest guard who joined in 2016 and 149 women forest guards did so in 2019. There are 243 women forest guards coming through selection in Uttar Pradesh.” “Girls like Shweta Rani are joining the forest department, yet their number is low. In Aligarh district, there are only four women staffers including Shweta Rani,” says divisional director (Social Forestry) Diwakar Kumar Vasistha. These women staffers include those who have joined in place of their departed husband. Not all four are in a field job like Shweta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/approaching-motherhood-this-forest-sentinel-thrives-in-a-male-bastion-in-uttar-pradesh-101626548538219.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows vaccination of bedridden||The state government on Saturday allowed Covid-19 vaccination of bed-ridden patients. The state public health department appealed to citizens to send details of such patients to covidvacc2bedridden@gmail.com and said such patients would be vaccinated after they are registered online. The patient’s name, address, telephone number as well as a doctor’s certificate declaring that the patient will be in that state for at least the next six months will have to be sent to the email address. The doctor has to certify that the patient can be vaccinated. Also, a relative or caretaker has to give consent for the vaccination, informed the health department. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 8,172 Covid-19 cases, further proof that cases are showing a constant decline over the past fortnight. From 11,000-12,000 daily cases in June, the caseload has now come in the 8,000-9,000 range. In the first 15 days of July, the total number of Covid-19 cases was 127,884, with 2,298 deaths. In the corresponding period in June, there were 179,579 Covid-19 cases and 4,831 deaths.The daily average cases in July are 8,525, with an average of 153 deaths daily. In contrast, the average cases and deaths in June were 11,971 and 322 deaths respectively.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said it indicated a declining second wave. “The virus has been declining and this trend indicates the same,” said Dr Awate. “The decreasing number is due to various factors like acquisition of natural immunity due to the infection or through vaccination process being undertaken across the state,” he added.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, attributed the drop to various reasons. “The large scale vaccination being undertaken has blunted the severity of the virus and hence we are seeing less patients as well as reduced mortality,” said Dr Mehra. “The lockdown was responsible for reducing the transmission, which translated to fewer patients and consequently, reduction in death rate,” he added.The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,205,190, of which Mumbai’s share is 15,690. There were 220,851 tests done on Saturday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,950. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 100,429, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 126,851. Pune tops with 16,339 active patients, followed by Thane with 15,793 and Mumbai with 10,672. Pune also leads with 17,615 deaths, followed by Mumbai clocking 15,690 and Thane with 10,630.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-vaccination-of-bedridden-101626548357136.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka meets women victims of nomination day violence in UP’s Kheri, demands justice||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded that the state election commission should countermand the recent block pramukh (kshetra panchayat chief) elections in the Pasgawan block of Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh in view of allegations of violence against women there.Priyanka also demanded that all those behind the alleged nomination day violence on July 8 be brought to book. The election was held on July 10.The Congress leader, who is on a three-day visit to the state, went to Semra Ghat village of Pasgawan block area in Lakhimpur Kheri, about 130 km from here. She met the Samajwadi Party worker (who was party’s block pramukh candidate) and her proposer who were victims of the alleged violence in the elections. The Congress leader said there was no point in providing reservation to women in the panchayats when they were not being allowed to file their nomination.Both these women had allegedly been misbehaved with on the nomination day. The Samajwadi Party worker had alleged that she was not allowed to file her nomination.The authorities had lodged an FIR in the incident and arrested three people. Six police officials, including Mohammadi deputy police superintendent, had been suspended after the government took strong note of the incident. “Filing of nomination (for panchayat election) is her right. This right was taken away from her…She was targeted and attempt were made to pull away her saree and tear her clothes. One can imagine what she went through. She had a small child with her. A 19-year-old boy was also with her. She had her family with her…The circle officer, who tried to save her, has been placed under suspension and the administration is maintaining silence,” said Priyanka, while speaking to media persons after meeting the victims there.“I have come here as a fellow woman to extend my support to her, to assure her that every woman of the state and that of the country is with her in her fight for justice,” she said.She further said, “The violence took place in all the districts (during block pramukh polls). Bomb explosions were there at some places, violence was witnessed at some other and atrocities were committed against the women… I have come here to meet her because she is a woman. She is my sister as well… I demand that the election should be countermanded. Whosoever is occupying such a high position can see this is not the way any election is held and so it should be countermanded.”“Not alone in Pasgawan, fresh elections should be held in all other blocks of the state where such violence took place,” she told reporters.“The purpose of reservation to women in a democracy was their empowerment. However, situations have come to such a level that women are being misbehaved with,” Priyanka said.The Congress leader targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi again for his congratulatory message after the panchayat elections and said, “Re-election is ordered whenever such things happen. Why should re-election not be held? Can anybody be allowed to win election by indulging in violence? We have a video. Everything is clear whatever happened there. The police is seen not helping her. Only one or two persons came for her help. Do you want all democratic norms should be thrown to the winds? Prime Minister Narendra Modi is praising and congratulating the government.”In a social media post, she said she would write to the state election commission to get justice to the victims of panchayat poll violence.“I will write a letter to state election commission to demand justice for all the sisters and citizens who became victim of BJP-sponsored violence,” she said in a tweet earlier on Saturday.A large number of party workers welcomed Priyanka at Bakshi Ka Talab on way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Later, she held meetings with the party’s office bearers from different districts at the UPCC headquarters here on Saturday evening.(With inputs from Deokant Pandey in Lakhimpur Kheri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-meets-women-victims-of-nomination-day-violence-in-up-s-kheri-demands-justice-101626547398190.html
18-07-2021||Other||PM Modi-Pawar discussed coop banks’ issues, vax drive; Maharashtra CM, Cong kept in loop: NCP||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Saturday has raised speculations in the political circles. The NCP, however, said Pawar met Modi to raise concerns over the Banking Regulation Act amendments – which the party feels could jeopardise the autonomy of cooperative banks – and other issues. The meeting that took place at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) fuelled speculations in the backdrop of political events that have been happening in Maharashtra as well as the national Capital, along with the Enforcement Directorate’s action against NCP leaders Anil Deshmukh and Eknath Khadse. Besides Modi, Pawar also had meetings with defence minister Rajnath Singh and commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal in Delhi in the past two days, ahead of the Parliament’s session that begins on Monday. Incidentally, former chief minister (CM) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis was also in Delhi at the same time. Hours after PM and Pawar’s meeting, party’s national spokesperson and minorities affairs minister Nawab Malik addressed a press conference in Mumbai to clear the air. Malik claimed Pawar mainly discussed the amendments related to the banking regulations. He said that the new amendment in the Banking Regulation Act is expected to hit the cooperative banking sector very badly and thus PM has been requested to intervene to change the amendment as it will prove to regressive for the sector. Pawar also discussed the issue of vaccinations, said Malik.“Pawar’s meeting was scheduled earlier. Pawarsaheb met Goyal, BJP’s group leader in Rajya Sabha, on a courtesy call after the latter’s appointment as leader of the House. Meanwhile, yesterday [on Friday], Singh had convened a meeting at his office with two former defence ministers, one being AK Antony and the other being Pawar. People are linking these meetings for speculating about the MVA government in Maharashtra. But the speculations have no substance,” Malik said.He categorically clarified that there was nothing more to read out of it and that Pawar had already informed CM and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and Maharashtra Congress in-charge HK Patil about the meeting. The NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress are part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition. “CM was informed about the meeting by Pawarsaheb when they met two days ago. Similarly, Patil was informed about the meeting early this week. The meeting was scheduled to take place much before, but got delayed due to time constraint. Pawarsaheb had already spoken with PM over phone on the issues in the banking and cooperation sector, but the latter insisted upon a personal meet. Pawarsaheb also requested PM to formulate a policy to ensure the smooth supply of the vaccines to all states,” added Malik.On his twitter handle @PawarSpeaks , the NCP chief posted a copy of a letter submitted by him to PM. “Through a letter, I have drawn the kind attention of our Hon’ble PM towards issues and conflicts in the wake of certain developments in the co-operative banking sector (sic),” said Pawar in the post. Later in the day, Pawar tweeted, “I reiterated in the letter that the aims and objectives of the amended Act are well-intentioned, and many provisions are necessary. Erring board and management must definitely be acted upon strictly and the depositors’ interests should be protected. But at the same time, it should be ensured that while doing so, the co-operative principles laid down in the Constitution are not sacrificed at the altar of over-zealous regulation.”According to NCP insiders, Pawar requested PM to avoid ‘unwarranted’ action against the cooperative sector as well as against leaders from the ruling political parties in Maharashtra. On Friday, ED had attached properties worth ₹4.2 crore of former home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Several leaders from MVA are facing ED probe.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “I don’t think there will be any political upheaval in Maharashtra anytime soon as the three ruling parties know that they have no option but to stay united or else they will face dire consequences. I think there was nothing unusual in PM-Pawar meeting and it was a routine meeting ahead of the Parliament session. They must have discussed farm laws, proposed changes in the cooperative sector, reservation to OBCs and Marathas.”Political analyst Hemant Desai said that though NCP is claiming other reasons, the meeting between PM and Pawar has political implications behind it. “NCP has been ambiguous on many fronts and has never taken a strong stand against BJP and Modi. NCP had not opposed the farm bills in the Parliament and has also not cleared the air on Ajit Pawar’s swearing-in with Fadnavis for their 80-hour government. BJP is also in search of new allies ahead of the 2024 elections. So it would be wrong to say that there was nothing political in the meeting,” opined Desai. Malik said that NCP stands firmly with the other Opposition parties in both the Houses of the Parliament and will join hands with them to raise voice against the rising prices of fuel, inflation, vaccination issues, tension on borders and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-modi-pawar-discussed-coop-banks-issues-vax-drive-maharashtra-cm-cong-kept-in-loop-ncp-101626547397081.html
18-07-2021||Other||ABAP against Kanwar yatra, says human life as important as religious practices||The Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, has urged devotees not to take out the Kanwar yatra this year too due to the threat of Covid-19. ABAP president, Mahant Narendra Giri said that human life was as important as religious practices and thus the best option is that the Kanwar yatra is called off this year as well. “On behalf of the Akhara Parishad I would like to appeal to the Shiva devotees not to take out the Kanwar yatra in view of the predicted third wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The devotees should make Parthiva Shivlinga (Shivalinga made from clay) in their households and offer the water of Ganga or for that matter even of the local pond, of their village to lord Shiva,” Giri said. “Although the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath wants that kanwar yatra should be taken out by following all the laid down Covid-19 protocols, at the same time it is the moral responsibility of the devotees to see that their deeds should not, in any way, enhance the possibility of triggering the third wave of the pandemic. Religious practices are important but human life is more important,” the ABAP chief said. The ABAP chief’s appeal has come at a time when the apex court has asked the center not to permit states to take out Kanwar yatra and the UP chief minister has sought opinion of the religious organisations involved in arranging the yatra. “It is advisable that the pujan (prayers) of lord Shiva should be either done through making a Parthiv shivlinga at home or if at all the devotees decide to visit the neighbouring Shiva temple, they must follow the laid down protocols,” the ABAP chief said. Chief patron of Juna Akhara and general secretary of ABAP Mahant Hari Giri said, “Akhara parishad has taken the right decision. During the Kanwar yatra, the religious sentiments are quite high, and devotees often forget to maintain social distancing and hence run the risk of getting infected. All of us need to work jointly to avoid the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abap-against-kanwar-yatra-says-human-life-as-important-as-religious-practices-101626547097050.html
18-07-2021||Other||Curious case of Mumbai’s Mithi River leaves BMC concerned||On multiple occasions this year, the city has witnessed a delay in the time taken for logged water to recede from the streets or nullahs, following heavy rain in some flooding spots. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also noticed that the Mithi River took longer to drain its water into the sea in the past two or three instances after a downpour. This has caused some storm water drains in the suburbs – that empty water into the Mithi River – to stock up to full capacity, leading to waterlogged streets. This has also led to an apprehension if Mumbai is staring at more floods in the coming years. On Friday morning, Mithi’s water level rose to 3.9 metres (m), prompting BMC to evacuate residents who live on the river’s banks. A senior civic official said, “The area received 200mm of rainfall between 4am and 8am on Friday morning, which led to the swelling of the river. Previously, a combination of factors – over-flowing of the Powai lake, that discharges its water into the Mithi River; and high tide, due to which water from this river cannot empty into the sea – had contributed to similar situations.” The official said, “On Friday, Powai lake did not overflow, and there was no high tide during the four hours of heavy rainfall. Despite this, Mithi took longer to drain water into the sea.”Civic officials ruled out lack of desilting of the city’s storm water drains. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s storm water drains department, said, “We noticed that Mithi was taking longer to drain its water into the sea on Friday. Because of this, some nullahs that empty water into Mithi, such as the nullah at Kalpana Cinema in Kurla, also filled up and the areas that these nullahs cater to were inundated. I inspected Mithi and other waterlogged areas on Friday. However, I have noticed that water has receded fast enough from other streets throughout the monsoon. So this is not due to improper desilting. Mithi is a natural rain water draining system, and has been doing its job properly. There is no problem as such with it.”Civic officials are not sure why Mithi’s water level rose to 3.9 metres with only one factor in play, that is 200mm rainfall in just four hours. The senior civic official said, “Over the past few years, Mumbai has seen erratic rainfall patterns. As per the natural topography, Mithi should drain all its water into the sea. However, if the sea is not accepting the water, an in-depth study will be needed to know if this is attributed to climate change or rising sea levels.” Experts believe that it is time that BMC starts integrating climate change in its policy making. “For example, the Brimstowad project (aimed at overhauling drains) has no mention of rising sea levels. The CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone) notification of 1998 says plains that are likely to get inundated with sea water, especially during monsoon, should have no construction, but we have ignored them. Also, we have destroyed to a large extent Mithi’s floodplains, which is bound to affect the water flow,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee of non-profit organisation Conservation Action Trust (CAT).City-based naturalist writer-photographer Sunjoy Monga said, “The delay in the time taken for water to recede from the city is attributed to a lot of reasons, including nullahs being over clogged with garbage and muck. We need to inculcate civic sense among the citizens of Mumbai. Rampant construction and concretisation without understanding the dynamics of water over the years are an invitation to situations where we will face such problems repeatedly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/curious-case-of-mumbai-s-mithi-river-leaves-bmc-concerned-101626547037062.html
18-07-2021||Other||Gender test racket busted in Kurukshetra, three held||A joint team of the local health department and Kurukshetra police have arrested three people for running pre-birth sex determination racket at a shop on Salarpur road of Kurukshetra. The accused have been identified as Avnish Kumar and Akash Kumar of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh and Rajinder Singh of Kaithal.Health officials said the accused failed to provide any certificate or documents to run the ultrasound centre.Police said accused were running the centre illegally in a herbal medicine shop. Police have seized an ultrasound machine and a tablet from their possession.Deputy civil surgeon RK Sahai said they got information about the accused and a team was formed with the help of police. The trio was arrested from the illegal ultrasound centre.Police said investigation is on and they have registered a case under the Pre-Conception & Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gender-test-racket-busted-in-kurukshetra-three-held-101626546740074.html
18-07-2021||Other||Union govt being run by corporates: Tikait at Sirsa mahapanchayat||Scores of farmers attended a mahapanchayat by violating Section 144 imposed by the local administration in Sirsa on Saturday demanding release of five farmers who were arrested on sedition charges in early morning raids on Thursday for allegedly attacking Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa on July 11.Police had used heavy barricades to stop farmers from reaching Shahid Bhagat Stadium but farmers managed to reach the mahapanchayat venue by removing barricades.The Sirsa administration had deployed massive paramilitary troops along with the Haryana Police to stop the protesters.Addressing the mahapanchayat, BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait alleged that the Union government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is being run by ‘corporates’.“Some BJP workers have the misconception that their party is in power at the Centre. The Modi government is being run by big corporate. That’s why they have failed to hold a dialogue with farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. If any other party had been in power, they could hold a meeting with farmers to end the deadlock,” Tikait added.Tikait said BJP stalwarts like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi are confined in a “jail” and are not allowed to speak.“Leaders who had been raising voices of people when they were in Opposition are not allowed to speak when their party is in power. The government wants to shift the farm agitation from Delhi borders to Haryana-Punjab borders. That’s why the BJP leaders are provoking farmers in these areas,” Tikait said.Reacting sharply to more than 100 farmers being booked on sedition charges, Tikait said the Supreme Court has questioned the relevance of sedition law, terming it ‘colonial’. “But the Haryana government has imposed the colonial law on farmers to stop the dissent voice,” he added.“We will hold a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on September 5 to launch a mission against BJP in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab, where assembly polls are due,” he added.In the afternoon, a 20-member committee of farmers met officials of the Sirsa administration to discuss the release of arrested farmers. The meeting ended without any result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-govt-being-run-by-corporates-tikait-at-sirsa-mahapanchayat-101626546620722.html
18-07-2021||Lucknow||‘Kanwar sanghs have cancelled yatra’: Uttar Pradesh govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday announced that the Kanwar sanghs (associations of pilgrims) have cancelled this year’s Kanwar Yatra on the appeal of the state government. The state government’s additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said this in a short statement issued on Saturday evening. The yatra was scheduled to start on July 25. “The Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled by the Kanwar sanghs on the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government,” Sehgal said.The Uttar Pradesh government spoke to Kanwar sanghs in various districts since the Supreme Court on Friday nudged it to reconsider the state’s decision to hold the yatra despite Covid-19 concerns. The top court asked the state government to inform it by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a “symbolic” Kanwar Yatra. The annual pilgrimage held in the Hindu holy month of Shravan involves Lord Shiva devotees generally walking barefoot with pitchers of holy water from the Ganga or other rivers hung on Kanwars (bamboo or wooden slings) and then offering the water to the deity at Shiva temples. Sehgal said that last year, too, the Kanwar sanghs had cancelled the yatra. On Tuesday, the Uttarakhand government cancelled this year’s Yatra but the UP government said the Yatra was allowed in Uttar Pradesh with Covid safety protocols. Following this, the Supreme Court took cognizance of the issue and, on Friday, asked the UP government to reconsider its decision to allow the Kanwar Yatra in the state with a limited number of pilgrims. The apex court asked the government to consider a complete ban on the physical movement of kanwariyas in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanwar-sanghs-cancel-yatra-uttar-pradesh-govt-101626546559270.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Farmers may meet police today over march to Parliament||Ahead of their proposed July 22 march to Parliament, farmer leaders are scheduled to meet Delhi police on Sunday to discuss the protest, said a member of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of more than 40 farmer groups – which is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.Earlier this month, SKM announced a peaceful march to Parliament on July 22, and said that they will stay there for the entire duration of the monsoon session. Parliament will convene for the monsoon session on July 19. “A nine-member delegation will meet Delhi police officials at around 12 noon tomorrow to discuss the proposed protest and how it can be conducted peacefully,” an SKM member said, asking not to be named.Demonstrations near Parliament are not allowed.According to SKM, from July 22 onwards, batches of 200 farmer volunteers and leaders will march towards the Parliament in a peaceful manner. The daily batches of protesters will comprise farmer leaders and volunteers drawn from various organisation across the protest camps at Delhi borders.A special protest march has also been scheduled on July 26 and August 9 by women farmer leaders and volunteers.This will be the second interaction between the farmers and the Delhi police after the two sides held a series of meetings ahead of the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 on the occasion of Republic Day this year. The rally descended into chaos with the several groups of farmers straying from the pre-decided route and clashing with the police at several points in the Capital, including the Red Fort.Thousands of farmers are protesting on Delhi borders since November last year against the three farm laws that seek to deregulate farm trade. The farmers want the three agricultural laws repealed, and say that the legislation will leave them at the mercy of large corporations. The government has said the laws will bring competition and widen farmers’ access to markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-may-meet-delhi-police-today-to-discuss-july-22-march-to-parliament-101626545177000.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Book DTC ticket on app, get 10% off on bus fares||Passengers travelling in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses will get a 10% discount if they buy their journey tickets from the city administration’s One Delhi mobile application and other partner apps, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday.The proposal to offer the discount was approved by the Delhi Cabinet, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. However, the 10% discount offer is going to go live for the public from Friday even as its final round of testing will start from Monday, and will last for 2-3 days, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.In the same meeting, the Cabinet also approved the bid for procurement of 160 low-floor air conditioned buses that will be on the roads by November.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the government has revamped the One Delhi app which, in addition to e-ticketing, will also show real time information and ETA of buses and the nearest available EV (electric vehicles) charging stations. Passengers can also book pink tickets, meant for female passengers as their journeys are free of cost. Besides, monthly or yearly bus passes can also be issued using the app by just scanning the QR code inside the bus, and selecting ticket fare or source and the destination stop. The app is available both in English and Hindi.“The Delhi government, in the past few years, has been striving to revolutionise how public transport is perceived in the country. The Cabinet’s decision is a welcome step especially in the middle of the ongoing pandemic, to reduce the spread of the virus through surface contact. When we launched the common mobility card in 2018, we saw a large number of private car users shift to public transport. I am hoping that state of the art buses, with increased surveillance and safety features, and right incentives like the ones we’re offering through e-ticketing apps and the common mobility card, will be a much-needed push for the people of Delhi to adopt public vehicles as their default mode of transport,” said Gahlot.The Delhi government’s contactless ticketing app has been undergoing extensive trials under a special task force since July 2020, and initial trials have shown that tickets booked through the app account for 6% of total ticketing being done, a government spokesperson said.Delhi has a combined (DTC and cluster) fleet size of 6,750 and witnesses an average daily ridership of 4.9 million passengers, which is more than Metro’s average daily ridership of about 2.5 million.A senior transport official said the move is also expected to save the government’s revenue on printing, manpower and data storage. The department also envisages the app-based ticketing system to help in generation of better passenger on-boarding data that can be analysed to rationalise routes and provide better services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/book-tickets-on-app-get-10-discount-on-bus-fares-in-delhi-101626545116983.html
18-07-2021||Delhi||Govt nod to new DERC chief||The Delhi government has approved the appointment of justice (retired) Shabihul Hasnain as the new chairman of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC), paving the way for the annual revision of power tariffs in the national capital.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the appointment of the new DERC chief on Twitter on Saturday. “Delhi government approves the appointment of Justice Shabihul Hasnain (Retd) as the new Chairman of Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC). Providing cheap and uninterrupted power supply is one of the key priority areas for the Delhi government. My best wishes to him for a successful stint,” Kejriwal tweeted.Hasnain succeeded justice (retired) SS Chuahan who completed his tenure on July 4. Now, the three-member commission has two people - the chairman and member AK Ambasht.A senior government official said the annual revised power tariffs are likely to be issued soon. “With the appointment of the new DERC chief, we can expect the tariff order anytime now. The new chairperson will review it once. The tariff order is, otherwise, ready and there is unlikely to be any hike in electricity charges this time again,” said the official on condition of anonymity.The annual revision of electricity tariffs in Delhi has been delayed by nearly three months. On April 1 this year, the Centre wrote to all state power regulators to issue tariff orders before April every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/derc-gets-new-chief-revised-power-tariffs-in-delhi-soon-101626544997587.html
18-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic police file 17 FIRs against e-challan violators over fake or wrong number plates||In January this year, the Mumbai traffic police received a complaint from the chief minister’s office that industrialist Ratan Tata had received two e-challans for offences which he had not committed.Investigation revealed the traffic violations were committed by one Gitanjalli Shah, owners of Narendra Forwarders Pvt Ltd, who had duplicated Tata’s vehicle number plate.But Shah is not be the only person who has been driving around in Mumbai with a duplicate number plate.The Mumbai traffic police decided to send their personnel door-to-door to recover 2.9 million unpaid e-challans which add up to a whopping ₹315 crore.Teams of constables have been asked to visit the addresses of violators who have not paid e-challans of more than ₹5,000 targeting top 25,000 people who collectively owe ₹120 crore to the traffic department.According to Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (traffic), on visiting the houses of traffic violators, they found that several defaulters were using either fake, non- registered or stolen vehicle numbers.The drive which started from June 14 has not only seen Mumbai traffic police collect ₹1 crore in fines, it has also revealed that there could be many vehicle owners who are either using fake number plates or non registered vehicles.In a months period since the drive started, Mumbai traffic police has registered FIRs against 17 vehicle owners for allegedly using fake number plates or unregistered vehicles. Separate FIRs are registered against these vehicle owners. Of the 17, 12 were using fake number plates, two were using unregistered vehicles and three were found allegedly plying stolen vehicles.The exercise to go door-to-door was initiated after traffic police officials found that several e-challans, in the past six years, had not been reached the violator and was being delivered to someone else.“We verify the addresses and issue a notice to pay the fine amount. There are several addresses where the vehicle owners have moved out or have meddled with the number plates to mislead the traffic officers and cameras,” said Kishore Shinde, senior police inspector of Mankhurd traffic station.Traffic police officers now realise that this could be one of the reasons why the e-challan system was not operating efficiently and had a backlog of 2.9 million unpaid e-challans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-cops-to-go-door-to-door-to-collect-2-9-million-unpaid-echallans-101626543616896.html
18-07-2021||Patna||IAS officer files police complaint against Bihar CM over ‘forgery’||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Bihar created a flutter on Saturday when he lodged a complaint against 21 people, including chief minister Nitish Kumar, on charges of forgery.“The matter pertains to forgery. Those named in the complaint include people from top to bottom. I will not take any names”, complainant Sudhir Kumar, who is currently a member of the state revenue board, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. However, when asked whether the chief minister has been named in the FIR, he replied “yes”.Kumar, a 1987 batch IAS officer, is out on bail after spending three years in jail in connection with a job recruitment scam.Kumar said he reached the Gardanibagh police station around 12 noon on Saturday and submitted a 35-page complaint before station house officer Ramanuj Ram. He alleged that the SHO abruptly left the police station with complaint papers after spotting CM’s name and returned around 4 pm. “Look at the state of rule of law in Bihar where an IAS officer is kept waiting for four hours. No FIR has been lodged. I have been simply handed over a receipt of my complaint...,” Kumar told PTI.Patna superintendent of police, Upendra Sharma, said the complaint had been received. “Further action will be taken only after reading the complaint,” he added.The chief minister’s office was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/top-ias-officer-files-police-complaint-against-bihar-cm-others-101626538516746.html
18-07-2021||Pune||Your space: Reopen schools in Covid-safe areas||The Maharashtra government has barred private schools from hiking fees for the academic year 2021-22. A recent survey shows majority of parents prefer offline classes if Covid norms are followed. What steps should the government take to ensure parents are not financially strained; students get quality education and private schools stay afloat. No clarity from school administration There is no clarity from school administration. They are still charging miscellaneous fees like meal and transport charges. It is unclear what has been waived and what is still there. When we reach out to schools, they say it’s only a relaxation in time and not the fee amount. The state government should intervene and instruct schools to charge only tuition fee. We are ready to send children to schools provided Covid norms are in place. Priorities for education-focused efforts after the coronavirus pandemic should include ensuring that school infrastructure and facilities are safe, and measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease in the event of a future outbreak. Jyoti Shinde Fee issue should be addressed on priority We have to accept the new normal life and protect our children from the deadly virus. The elders have to venture out for a living. Parents, government and school administration should have to find a way to restart schools and free children from the lockdown. We need to find an amicable solution instead of blaming each other. The fee issue should be addressed on priority and other aspects in a phase-wise manner. Mayur Patil Reopen schools after proper planning Many kids are bored of online classes and want to rejoin schools. In the new normal, we have to find some solution. All are mentally prepared to face the situation. The government should frame SOPs (standard operating procedure) for school education. As lockdowns ease and schools start to reopen in some places across our region, it’s as good a time as any to take stock and look at the likely future of education. School reopening plans should account for underlying risk factors, including student attendance rates, percentage of economically disadvantaged students, student-teacher ratio, average years of teacher experience, and the presence of vulnerable groups, including girls. Poonam Gaikwad Paradigm shift in school education To succeed in life and at work, they will need all the social, emotional and academic support via rich and flexible learning experiences that will differ vastly from schooldays of their parents. Before Covid-19, the focus has been heavily weighted on classroom experience. I think we will see a shift where schools will create a foundation of inclusive, flexible, data-driven buildings and spaces that will enable students to learn beyond those walls. Omer Shah Evolve new ways of teaching There are teachers who teach in the traditional way. And there are great teachers who are also model learners. They learn with the kids. They don’t feel like they have to know everything, but they have to show what great learning looks like. Overall, it means inspiring students onto a path of lifelong self-learning. And that can include learning about new technology, which they can learn with the kids. If they can explore new ways of doing things, they can all grow together. Sandy Patole Education has gone beyond classroom In many ways, the classroom has become a physical barrier and just a way of holding onto the past. We are no longer bound by limitations that used to require us to have 30 kids in a classroom with one teacher. Now we can rethink that model. It can be multiple teachers with multiple kids. They can be places where kids can move around more flexibly. They don’t have to do the same thing at the same time in the same way. Schools have been exploring this for some time – technology changes the success rate. Sahir Sayyad Plan dynamic mode of education Water and hygiene facilities will be a crucial part of schools reopening safely. Administrators should look at opportunities to improve hygiene measures, including handwashing, respiratory etiquette (coughing and sneezing into the elbow), physical distancing measures, cleaning procedures for facilities and safe food preparation practices. Administrative staff and teachers should also be trained on physical distancing and school hygiene practices. The ability of teachers to keep adapting and innovating will be crucial. What we want educators to do is not be bound by the structure of a 40-minute lecture, classroom dynamic, or assessment that’s connected to a curriculum, but recognize their goal and mission to expand upon every student’s potential. Shrikant Hingane Reopen schools under strict safety norms Considering that many countries are starting to slowly lift restrictions on activities, the long-term effects of keeping schools open on community transmission are yet to be evaluated. Some modelling studies suggest that school reopening might have a minor effect on wider transmission in the community, but this is not well understood. Further studies are underway on the role of children in transmission in and outside of educational settings. Government should promote and put in place respiratory and hand hygiene, physical distancing measures and use of masks in transportation such as school buses, in accordance with local policy. Government or local authority should have to provide tips for how to safely commute to and from school, including for public transportation. Organise only one child per seat and ensure physical distancing of at least 1 metre between passengers in school buses, if possible. This may require more school buses per school and if possible and safe, keep the windows of the buses, vans, and other vehicles open. Reshma Gore Restart schools on trial basis In countries or areas where there is intense community transmission of Covid-19 and in settings where physical distancing cannot be achieved, school administration should have to report, monitor, rapid testing and tracing of suspected cases. Most of the parents and students don’t want remote teaching. Children are desperate to go to school. Even parents are ready to send their children to schools. Therefore, the government should have to make a firm decision and restart school at least a few days a week on a trial basis. School administration should have to fix timetables and call each class on alternate days. Sanjay Sharma Prepare flexible mode of school education It’s crucial that schools plan ahead and look at what additional measures they can put in place to help ensure students, teachers and other staff are safe when they return and communities are confident in sending their students back to school. Going back to school will likely look a little different from what you and your child were used to before. It’s possible that schools may reopen for a period of time and then a decision may be made to close them again temporarily, depending on the local context. Because of the evolving situation, authorities will need to be flexible and ready to adapt to help keep every child safe. Shrikant Dalwale Strengthen future learning trends Schools at the centre of a community ecosystem of learning and support is an idea whose time has come, and some of the emerging practices amid Covid-19, such as empowering parents to support their children’s education, should be sustained when the pandemic subsides. School administration should have to engage students in accelerated learning interventions to reverse crisis-related learning loss and strengthen future learning trends. They should have to engage teachers in training and coaching so they can help students catch up, and ensure that school environments are safe and protected and engage parents by capitalising on their current involvement in remote learning to improve future outcomes. Ashish Menon||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-school-education-101626529636421.html
18-07-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Marathi theatre and political insensitivity||I was actually writing about something else, something more “light-hearted” when I read the news that a political programme took place at Kalidas Natyagruh in Nashik which was attended by the former chief minister and a current minister in the state cabinet. By attended, I mean that they were on stage and gave speeches. Shortly thereafter pictures of the event started circulating. And I just could not get myself to write the piece that I was writing. It is common knowledge that one of the worst hit sectors in this pandemic is the entertainment sector. The worst hit amongst the entertainment sector is theatre. There are a large number of people who depend on theatre for their daily meal. During the first wave, the official association of backstage workers in Mumbai reported that they had nearly seven hundred plus members. This includes make-up artists, light, sound and music operators, set labour and the likes who earn (or “earned”) on a daily basis. A large number of theatre artists came forward and started various funds for them. It ranged from providing a monthly stipend to workers, groceries. Some even helped out onstage artists who had no other means of supporting themselves. After a long hiatus, theatres restarted briefly at fifty per cent capacity. Even the audience was supportive and co-operated in every way possible. But the second wave seems to have crushed not only the activity but also the resolve of many theatre artists. During the first wave, artists had adapted to the online form of performance. Though it was in no way a substitute for the real experience, it still showed that we were not ready to give up. I believe one of the reasons this has not happened during the second wave is because of the constant uncertainty. Not to forget the fact that most of us were affected directly by the second wave. Towards the end of the previous year, theatres had become operational again and we were slowly but surely inching back towards normalcy. But after the second lockdown, even though things have started opening up again, the unlock procedure seems random. For theatre to survive it requires dedicated theatre practitioners and a loyal audience. But it also requires the state support. The only reasons that it has thrived in so many countries in the West is because it is an organised sector. There are laws, rules, unions, concessions, insurance policies for theatre artists. There is nothing of that sort here. But these are just normal everyday problems associated with theatre. I know that there is nothing new in the paragraph I wrote earlier. But despite all this, there are people who practice it regularly and sincerely. I am also aware of the counter-argument, that nobody has forced anyone to be a theatre-practitioner. They can do something else and provide for themselves and their families. True. And many of us have! So many have done all sorts of odd jobs too. But then we would be losing out on an art form, a part of our culture and a means of expression too. That is unacceptable. And if we are to talk in terms of money then theatre has the potential to be a major revenue earner for the state, but unfortunately that is completely overlooked. But let us keep all this aside for a moment. When it is public knowledge that theatre artists are grappling everywhere in the state, how can our leaders be so insensitive and organise a programme in a venue that is made for theatre performances? And how come that is not a safety hazard? And that includes leaders from the current government as well as the opposition! Then we know what to expect even if there is a change in power. It is high time that theatre practitioners unite under a single banner and leave aside their disputes that seem petty now. Many of the influential artists are affiliated to different political parties. But this event at Nashik has showed that the insensitivity is beyond political parties and ideologies. If this incident does not spark a movement, a permanent change, then I am afraid that the time and resolve for any kind of change is past us. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-marathi-theatre-and-political-insensitivity-101626523756160.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Narrow escape for Chandigarh BJP leaders as farmers damage vehicles||In the first such incident in Chandigarh, farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws attacked the vehicles of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon and mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Saturday. Police said Tandon and Sharma escaped unhurt but their vehicles were damaged in the incident at the Motor Market in Sector 48. At least 250 members of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta were rounded up for the attack and taken to the Sector 31 police station. While police are working to identify those who attacked the leaders, they have registered a case against 25 people by names. “We have booked 25 persons and those involved in the attack are being identified. No one will be allowed to disrupt the law and order,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. The FIR has been lodged under Sections 147, 148, 149, 341, 427, 307, 506, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 49 police station. A tractor of the protesters has been impounded. Also read: Tipped to be Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu meets Jakhar for ‘guidance’Were attending a thanksgiving function by tradersSince Friday, a video had been doing the rounds, appealing farmers to gather at the Motor Market where a function will be organised to honour BJP leaders. The party had apprised the police of the video and after assurance from senior police officials, its leaders had gone for the function. As soon as their vehicles drove in, the protesters, carrying black flags under the banner of Naujawan Kisan Ekta, raised slogans against them. “The market association of Sector 48 had organised a thanksgiving programme to honour BJP leaders. When we reached the venue, protesters were gathered there but they were stopped by police. Through the one hour of the function, the protesters continued to raise slogans and even played loud music to disturb the event,” said Ravi Kant Sharma, Chandigarh mayor. As soon as he and Tandon left the venue in separate cars, the protesters armed with bricks, stones and lathis attacked their vehicles, damaging both front and rear windshields. Sharma said a protester lied down before his official vehicle and others managed to open a door. “A youth armed with an iron rod even tried to enter but was restrained. These were goons carrying out the attack under the garb of farmers’ agitation,” he alleged. Police caught unprepared?Raising concerns over the police arrangements, Tandon said, “Someone has to be answerable for this. The police were told well in advance about the video, but still there were lapses, which led to the attack. I have apprised home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda about the incident.” On the police’s part, SSP Chahal said adequate force was deployed and action was underway against the attackers.SKM demands immediate release of farmers Sanyukat Kisan Morcha leader and president of All India Kisan Federation (AIKF) Prem Singh Bhangu and Vipin Kumar, a member of the Lawyers’ Defence Committee for Farmers, in joint statement strongly condemned the use of police force against farmers who were protesting peacefully. Stating that one farmer was injured and 25 were arrested, they demanded the immediate release of the arrested farmers, withdrawal of the case registered against them and peaceful resolution of the incident through negotiation with farmers. Saturday’s incident is the latest in the backlash that BJP leaders have been facing from farmers in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana against the Centre’s farm laws.On June 26, police had to use water cannons to disperse protesting farmers when they broke barricades on the Chandigarh-Mohali border in a bid to march towards the Punjab Raj Bhawan to hand over a memorandum to governor VP Singh Badnore, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. The protesters, led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, were stopped near Sector 17 in the heart of Chandigarh and prevented from heading to Raj Bhawan. Finally, Rajewal handed over the memorandum to the Chandigarh deputy commissioner for giving it to the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/narrow-escape-for-chandigarh-bjp-leaders-farmers-damage-vehicles-101626518656540.html
18-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong chief decision binding, Sidhu must apologise: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has refused to meet former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, seen as a favourite to become the new Punjab Congress president, till he tenders a public apology for his offensive tweets and statements against him. Capt Amarinder, who is upset over the central leadership’s handling of factionalism in the Punjab Congress ahead of the elections, told this to Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs, during a meeting on the impending revamp of the state unit, said Congress sources. Rawat, one of the three members of the panel set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the crisis, discussed with the chief minister the names of probables and urged him to have a meeting with Sidhu, but Amarinder refused to meet him. “Capt told the state in-charge that he will not meet Sidhu till he tenders a public apology for putting out hundreds of derogatory tweets and statements in the media against him,” said a person aware of discussions between the two leaders. Capt’s annoyance with Sidhu pertains to the latter’s tweets and a spate of media interviews accusing the CM of colluding with Badals, promoting mafia raj and allowing corruption in the government. Though several ministers had demanded action against Sidhu for repeatedly targeting the chief minister in public, the high command was not seen to have acted on this. Also read: Hoardings greeting Navjot Sidhu as PPCC chief spring up in Amritsar‘New state chief will be accepted by all’The two-time CM, who is opposed to having his trenchant critic in the top party position in the state, also told Rawat that the appointment of the new state chief was the prerogative of the Congress president. “Had a fruitful meeting with @harishrawatcmuk. Reiterating that any decision of @INCIndia President will be acceptable to all. Raised certain issues which he said he’ll take up with @INCIndia president: @capt_amarinder,” the CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted. Amarinder had, in a letter to Sonia on Friday, cautioned the central leadership that if Sidhu, a Jat Sikh like him, is appointed the state unit chief, it could lead to a split in the party, besides making a mention of resentment over the neglect of senior and traditional Congressmen. He has repeatedly advocated for a Hindu face for the position. The party high command is said to be working on a truce formula of four “working presidents” with the state chief to balance the caste and religious equations. In his meeting with Rawat, Amarinder again conveyed his displeasure over the way the central leadership handled the infighting, particularly insufficient consultation, premature announcements and deliberate leaks, said the people quoted above. Also read: Party will suffer if Sidhu is made state unit chief: Captain to SoniaSidhu’s meeting spreeSidhu, who seems confident of his appointment and prepping to hit the ground running, set out from Patiala in the morning to meet party leaders and his first of port of call was the incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar’s residence in Panchkula. The meeting lasted nearly 45 minutes during which he sought Jakhar’s support and margdarshan (guidance). “He (Jakhar) is an elder brother and a guiding force,” Sidhu told reporters after they came out together. Jakhar also said that Sidhu is “very capable and does not need any guidance”. Jakhar, appointed president of the state Congress in May 2017, was considered close to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The two drew apart in the past four months following the state chief’s criticism of some of the CM’s decisions. Thereafter, Sidhu reached cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s residence in Chandigarh where party MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Barindermeet Singh Pahra, Devender Singh Ghubaya, Kulbir Singh Zira, Darshan Singh Brar were already represent. “Sidhu said that he has been told by the high command to start working,” one of them said. The Amritsar East MLA later also visited cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and and Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh before heading back to Patiala with Warring, Brar, Zira and Ghubaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tipped-to-be-punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-meets-jakhar-for-guidance-101626507676296.html
