19-07-2021||Other||Nine-year-old boy drowns after falling into pit in outer Delhi||A nine-year-old boy drowned after he fell into a pit filled with rain water near an agricultural field in Metro Vihar Phase-2 in outer Delhi’s Narela industrial area on Monday, said police. The police are yet to ascertain how the boy fell into the pit.  Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the Narela Industrial Area police station received a call at 1.18pm that a boy drowned in a pit and was taken to a nearby hospital. “A police team reached the hospital and learnt that the boy, identified as Govind, was dead,” said the DCP. The boy’s family told police that he left home in the morning and went to the field to attend to nature’s call. When he did not return, his family members panicked and started looking for him. A neighbour informed the boy’s father that his son drowned after falling into a pit near an agricultural field. Local residents rescued the boy and rushed him to the hospital, where doctors declared that he died of drowning.“Prime facie, it appears that the boy was passing by the pit and slipped. He may have not seen the pit since it was filled with rain water. An inquest proceeding under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was initiated,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nineyearold-boy-drowns-after-falling-into-pit-in-outer-delhi-101626719251511.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||Prasar Bharati, IIT-K to collaborate on NextGen broadcasting tech||Prasar Bharati, India’s Public Service Broadcaster and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) will set up a Center of Excellence for Media and Broadcasting Technologies at IIT-Kanpur, as a follow up of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the two entities.Prasar Bharati and IIT Kanpur will explore the development of direct to mobile broadcasting capabilities with an aim to align these emerging technologies with the global standards for 5G. India as the largest open markets for digital video content and smartphones will benefit immensely from the indigenous development of converged 5G standards for direct to mobile broadcasting. In a future scenario, where both audio and video broadcast content can be directly delivered to smartphones and mobile-phones over a common broadcast infrastructure, India will also be able to establish global leadership in convergence between radio and television broadcasting. “With audiences increasingly shifting away from traditional broadcasting to OTT platforms and audio-video content consumption over mobile data, it is critical for the public broadcaster to be able to reach audiences directly on their mobile phones, smartphones and other smart devices. We see this research collaboration with IIT-Kanpur as critical to the development of an indigenous technology ecosystem for direct to mobile broadcasting.“We also look forward to India specific standards for 5G broadcasting to emerge from this technology trial. I am thankful to the Prasar Bharati Board for according its approval to this Center of Excellence. I am also thankful to the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting for its continued support to Prasar Bharati as we modernise our broadcasting infrastructure and take efforts towards realising the Prime Minister’s vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” said Shashi Shekhar Vempati, CEO, Prasar Bharati.“We are excited to work with Prasar Bharati in emerging technologies for broadcasting. The direct to mobile converged platform trial will enable the transition to the next generation technology deployment. The development of technologies such as automatic speech recognition for subtitling and archival content retrieval through audio and text query have significant potential of making broadcast content available in various Indian languages. We are grateful to Prasar Bharati for funding these projects towards collaborative translational research for developing indigenous eco-system,” said Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT-Kanpur.Three projectsThe research projects will be taken up by IIT-Kanpur in three areas, leveraging funding provided by Prasar Bharati:• Next Generation Broadcast Technology Trial (Direct to Mobile Broadcasting, Convergence with 5G)• Automatic Speech Recognition for Speech Subtitling (Making Broadcast Content in various Indian Languages Accessible)• Archival Content Retrieval through Audio and Text Query||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prasar-bharati-iit-k-to-collaborate-on-nextgen-broadcasting-tech-101626719250987.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Low turnout at PTM in Delhi as rain keeps people away||A large-scale parent-teachers’ meeting (PTM) across Delhi government schools, along with teachers from institutions run by the city’s civic bodies, kicked off on Monday and will continue till July 31, a move that is part of the state’s efforts to bridge the learning gaps brought about by online classes during the pandemic.The turnouts across schools was, on the day, were lower than officials expected, likely due to the heavy downpour in the Capital, which received 69.6mm of rain till XXXpm. Officials in several schools in areas such as Trilokpuri, Rohini, Najafgarh, Badarpur, Janakpuri, Seelampur, and Lajpat Nagar said they expect more parents to arrive in the coming days.“Heavy rainfall in our area since last [Sunday] night affected the attendance. Even then, half the parents of students in Class 6 came for the session. Most of the parents wanted to know when schools will reopen... Many also asked for more online lessons that keep internet data and bandwith constraints in mind. We have taken these suggestions into account and will work on such localised study plans on different subjects and upload them on YouTube,” said Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8.Delhi deputy minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, thanked parents for attending the meets despite the rain.“Despite incessant rains, the enthusiasm shown by our teachers and parents for the PTM is commendable. This shows that our parents and teachers are committed to the education of children and their better social-emotional well-being,” said Sisodia in a statement.The state education department this year decided to include teachers in municipal teachers because around 170,000 students move from corporation schools — that offer education only up to Class 5 — to state government schools in Class 6. This was done to ensure that the transition of students from corporation to Delhi government schools is smoother because classes have been held online since March last year and parents did not get a chance to get acquainted with the teachers at Delhi government schools.On Monday, school authorities were seen operating helpdesks at the entrance of several schools before being ushered towards the classroom for a meeting with the teachers, with distancing and other Covid-appropriate protocols in place. Parents were also told about school management committees and the parent-outreach programme of these committees. Each teacher was asked to maintain a record of available smartphones among students.Naghma (first name), whose daughter studies in Class 7 at a Delhi government school in Badarpur, said, “Though we have a low-end smartphone, it belongs to my husband, who goes out for work every day. We have requested the school to provide worksheets instead of online lessons, but they insisted on continuing online classes, because they are more interactive.”Teachers involved with the PTM said despite asking parents to bring in the required documents and information on Monday, many were not able to do so. Neelam Raghuvanshi, a Class 6 teacher at a government school in Trilokpuri, said, “We have been apprising parents of various Delhi government schemes, including financial assistance under the Laadli scheme. We had asked parents to bring in documents related to these and those who could not bring in today, can bring in on Wednesday.”Her corporation school counterpart Anu Yadav helped in tracking students who transitioned from MCD schools. “Many students or their families are in touch with me or have my number. So, they reach out to me regularly. Tapping into that network, we were able to find the updated contacts of many Class 6 students whose old numbers are defunct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-turnout-at-ptm-in-delhi-as-rain-keeps-people-away-101626719249789.html
19-07-2021||Other||Delhi rain: Man drowns in waterlogged Pul Prahladpur underpass||New Delhi: A 27-year-old drowned in the waterlogged Pul Prahladpur underpass on Monday afternoon, while reportedly taking selfies and videos on his cellphone, the police said. The underpass was shut for all traffic on Monday morning due to the incessant rains, inundating several areas and resulting in long snarls on several important thoroughfares. Police barricades were placed to block the roads leading to the underpass, which was filled with rain water since morning. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the police received a call at 1.37pm reporting a drowning beneath the railway underpass at Pul Prahladpur. Fire department rescue teams and divers were called in for rescue efforts. However, after an hour-long operation, the man’s body was fished out of the underpass. The man was identified as Ravi Chautala, a resident of south Delhi’s Gautampuri in Jaitpur, around 200 metres from the underpass. The body was sent to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for an autopsy and the man’s family was informed about his death, said Meena. “Locals revealed that Chautala went deep into the water to take selfies or videos. Inquest proceedings are being conducted”, he added. Chautala is survived by his parents, four siblings, his wife and a 10-month-old daughter. He worked in a PPE kit-manufacturing unit in Okhla. His sister, Preeti, said that he left home in the morning for work and she last spoke to him around 11.40am. “I called to ask if he reached office and was carrying his lunchbox. Around 3pm, someone called on my father’s mobile number and informed that my brother had drowned. My parents and sister have gone to the mortuary,” she said. “I still don’t understand what he was doing at the underpass. He was supposed to be at his office. It’s very unusual because he never leaves his workplace like this. We don’t believe he came to the underpass to take selfies or shoot videos,” said Preeti, adding that her brother bought a new mobile phone just two days ago. Police said they were scanning the CCTV cameras to ascertain when and how Chautala reached the underpass and if anyone else was accompanying him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-rain-man-drowns-in-waterlogged-pul-prahladpur-underpass-101626719189224.html
19-07-2021||Other||Constable’s car falls into caved-in road in Dwarka||New Delhi: A Delhi Traffic Police constable received minor injuries after his car fell into a caved-in portion of a road in Dwarka Sector 18 during incessant rain on Monday.Officials said the constable, identified his first name Ashwani, who was driving his i20 car when it fell into the ditch, was rescued by locals and passersby. Ashwani, who is posted in Patel Nagar traffic circle, was returning after meeting his friend in Dwarka. Police said the car was later pulled out from the 5-6 feet deep ditch using a hydro crane.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said the incident took place at Atulya Chowk in Dwarka Sector-18.The constable told the police that the doors of his car got jammed due to the impact of the fall and that he was pulled out by the public after removing the rear windscreen of the car. He did not receive any serious injury, police said.The incident attracted attention as several people gathered around the spot while the local police arrived with a crane and pulled out the car.The movement of vehicles on the road was stopped after which the civic agencies began operation to fill the ditch, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constables-car-falls-into-caved-in-road-in-dwarka-101626719129158.html
19-07-2021||Other||This group of skilled workers looking for buyers for their locally-made jeans||A group of five skilled tailors, who used to work in a jeans manufacturing company in Mumbai but were forced to return to their homes in the Jasra development block of Prayagraj district, have stayed back and with some support set up a jean’s making workshop. In just one year, the group has employed 20 workers who are now working in their small factory manufacturing jeans.As the main tailor of the team (called a master in Hindi) Kamlesh Pal recalls, it was the first week of April 2020 when the effect of nationwide lockdown was felt by all. “I owned a small factory at Ullasnagar of Mumbai and with the staff of 16 persons, our world changed overnight. All the workers of my factory were either from my village Parsara or from Kaushambi and we all decided to return as suddenly all orders dried up and we had nowhere to sell the product,” said Pal. However, the situation was equally challenging for these expert tailors back in their village. But with the support of the NRLM block mission manager Ved Prakash Dwivedi, timely help arrived in the shape of a self-help group (SHG) of the block of which their wives were members. A loan of ₹7 lakh was provided to them and these expert tailors opened their workshop wherein their wives too were engaged. The first few months were fine for the group of 20 people who operated the factory, but the second wave of the pandemic brought back the challenging times.The team comprising of expert workers like Pravesh Prajapati, Ram Bahadur, Shiv Bahadur, Pramod Prajapati, Tej Bahadur Pal and Preetika Shukla among others are putting best of their efforts but lack an avenue to sell their jeans to a wider range of buyers and the sluggish pace of the retail market is posing huge problems for them. “We have prepared dresses for students at government schools as well besides the jeans. First, it was the problem of procuring the raw material and now is the finished product (Denim jeans) for which we are struggling to find a market. Today we have around 500 jeans prepared but there are no buyers,” said Kamlesh. National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) block mission manager Ved Prakash Dwivedi said, “The need of the hour is that the final product of these expert tailors should get proper branding as their product is of top quality. The only problem is they should get exposure to the market in the city.” Gradually the branding will be done so that the goods will start selling well, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-group-of-skilled-workers-looking-for-buyers-for-their-locally-made-jeans-101626718769811.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||ED remand of Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law extended till July 20||A special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court on Monday extended Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody of Girish Chaudhari, son-in-law of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, till Tuesday. Chaudhari has been arrested by the central agency in the money laundering case registered by it connection with the Bhosari land deal.ED on Monday produced Chaudhari before the special court as his earlier custody remand ended. The agency, on August 28, 2019, booked Khadse, his wife Mandakani, Chaudhari and the owner of the land, Abbas Rasalbhai Ukani, in a money laundering case. ED’s enforcement case information report is based on a first information report (FIR) filed by Maharashtra anti-corruption bureau (ACB) against the Khadse family in 2017. ACB had later closed the case, but ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal.The case pertains to the purchase of a 1.31-hectare plot at Bhosari village in Haveli taluka of Pune district on April 28, 2016 by Chaudhari and Mandakini for ₹3.75 crore, against the market value of ₹31 crore. ACB had alleged that Khadse and the other two had caused loss of ₹61.25 crore to the state exchequer by dealing with the land.In its remand application seeking extension in Chaudhari’s custody, ED had earlier stated that the piece of land was already acquired by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) back in 1971, which developed and allotted it for different industries.It was further alleged that Chaudhari had purchased the land after securing finance of ₹2 crore from a company named Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited. During investigation, ED recorded statement of Benchmark Buildcon’s former director Manjunath Omkar on Tuesday. In his statement Omkar claimed he was offered ₹15,000 salary per month for becoming the director and that he has never seen any work being carried by Benchmark Buildcon and that it was just a paper company.“The source of funds for purchase the said land is not genuine and it has been routed through various companies. These companies which are used by Chaudhari to channelise funds for the purchase of the said land are nothing but shell companies which were used for layering of funds,” ED had claimed in its earlier remand application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-remand-of-eknath-khadse-s-son-in-law-extended-till-july-20-101626718470988.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Pegasus snooping allegations: Won’t be surprised if CM’s phone is tapped, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah must come forward and clarify on the alleged snooping of prominent people in the country through Israeli spyware Pegasus. Raut added that this incident was the “biggest threat to the freedom on this country”. The Rajya Sabha MP and party’s chief spokesperson said there is an atmosphere of fear among the people and that several sections of people including politicians, journalists, editors have been living under shadow of fear for the past several years.He said that phone calls of over 1,500 prominent people from the country, including serving ministers, editors, leaders, some chief ministers, were tapped. “Still, names of many people whose phones were tapped are yet to come out. Mainly, journalists’ and editors’ phones were tapped this time around, and this is serious. For the past several years, politicians, journalists and editors are living under a shadow of fear that they are being watched and phones are being tapped. The PM and home minister must come forward to address the issue and clarify on it. If foreign apps are used to tap phones of prominent people then it is the biggest threat to the freedom in this country,” Raut said in New Delhi.International media on Sunday reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including that of two serving ministers, more than 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware which is sold only to government agencies. The government, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it “has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever”.Raut said such incidents of snooping are a sign of a weak government. “This is a sign that the country’s government and its administration are weak. We do not have stringent cybercrime law and therefore, anybody wakes up and taps our phones. Similarly, the government is not confronting these issues; therefore, there is an atmosphere of fear among the people,” he said.When asked if Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s phone was also tapped, Raut said, “I do not have the full list of the people whose phones were tapped. But I will not be surprised if the phone of Maharashtra CM was also tapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pegasus-snooping-allegations-won-t-be-surprised-if-cm-s-phone-is-tapped-says-sanjay-raut-101626718469111.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Have great respect for Stan Swamy’s work, says Bombay HC judge||Hearing the bail application of Elgar Parishad accused Father Stan Swamy after his death, the Bombay high court (HC) said it had great respect for the work of the tribal rights activist. HC judge SS Shinde observed that he was a wonderful person, and hence though they had very little time, he made it a point to attend the online funeral service. “Swamy’s service was gracious and while the legal matter against Swamy was a different issue, it was not expecting the death of the priest before it passed judgment on the bail application,” he said. The HC clarified that it had dealt with medical bail applications of Elgar Parishad accused including Swamy, Varavara Rao and Hany Babu on humane consideration by acceding to their request to be transferred to private hospitals of their choices despite vehement opposition from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Maharashtra prison authorities.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the application of Swamy, was informed by senior counsel Mihir Desai that he was seeking permission for Fr Frazer Mascarenhas to participate in the magisterial inquiry into the cause of Swamy’s death. Desai submitted that as the process for such inquiries mandated the participation of family members and as Fr Mascarenhas was permitted by the HC to meet Swamy while he was at Holy Family Hospital from May 28 till his death on July 5, he should be allowed to participate in the inquiry as well.However, NIA through advocate Sandesh Patil opposed continuation of the medical bail plea and said that issues pertaining to the inquiry could not be taken up in the same application, following which the court said it would consider the request of Swamy’s counsel on Friday (July 23).While referring to the criticism hurled at the HC and NIA for the cause of Swamy’s death, the bench said, “We ensured we remained fair while passing orders on Swamy’s medical bail application as well as the applications filed by the other co-accused in the Elgar Parishad case like P Varavara Rao and Hany Babu by permitting them to be shifted to the hospital of their choice, though there was vehement opposition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-great-respect-for-stan-swamy-s-work-says-bombay-hc-judge-101626718409090.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Institutes seeking fee revision will have to submit hard copy of proposal: Maharashtra FRA||After not working for months due to need of a new team, newly appointed members of the Maharashtra Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) recently got together to discuss the need for better mechanisms in place. For starters, the authority has discussed the need for institute fee proposals to be submitted in hard copies along with the online submission of soft copies. “Since there is no authenticity of documents submitted in online portal, three hard copies of the fee proposal will be asked from the institute along with relevant online proposal,” stated a document shared by FRA as part of the minutes of the meeting made public last week.FRA has also formed separate sub-committees to look into grievance redressal and to determine norms for charging fees by unaided private institutes in the 2022-23 academic year. In a statement released by the authority recently, they also suggested that they might charge processing fee from institutes seeking approval or an upward revision of fees to maintain routine expenses covered by FRA.“The regulating authority might charge processing fee for conducting Common Entrance Test (CET) and charges for fixation of fees, etc., as maybe decided by the authorities. The processing fee maybe be decided considering the day-to-day expenditure including salaries, allowances, administrative expenses, honorarium, infrastructural expenses in pursuance of its function,” said a statement released by the authority last week. It further states that the processing fee can range from a minimum of ₹15,000 to 0.05% of the annual fee charged by the institute, whichever is higher.Established in 2004, FRA is a quasi-judicial body responsible for regulating fees of all unaided private professional colleges in the state. Every year, institutes submit proposals for changing their fee structure to the authority, which considers a number of indicators such as nature of the course, number of students, teaching and non-teaching staff, infrastructure and other facilities at the college before fixing the fees. In March this year, the term of the previous members of FRA had ended and the new members took over only last month. “The newly formed sub-committees have one month’s time to submit their recommendations to FRA, following which permanent decisions will be taken and shared with the institutes,” said a senior FRA member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/institutes-seeking-fee-revision-will-have-to-submit-hard-copy-of-proposal-maharashtra-fra-101626718349681.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Pegasus link to Maharashtra: Congress seeks probe||Maharashtra Congress has demanded a thorough probe by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to find out if there was any Pegasus link in the state and why a team of its publicity department had gone to Israel during the Devendra Fadnavis regime which was in power till October 2019.The demand has been raised by the state Congress in the wake of the report that spyware Pegasus, which is sold by NSO Group of Israel, may have been used to conduct surveillance on around 300 Indians including cabinet ministers, opposition leaders, scientists and journalists. State Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the state government should investigate to find out if snooping and phone tapping took place in Maharashtra using Pegasus software during Fadnavis government.“The illegal and unauthorised phone tapping done by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, who headed state intelligence department during Fadnavis government, is being probed and the truth will soon come to the fore. But there are also doubts if there are any Maharashtra links to Pegasus leaks and if any IPS officer posted at Mantralaya was working on it. A few officials from the office of the director general of information and public relations (DGIPR) of the state had visited Israel during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The questions including if they got any training, by whose permission they had gone, did they submit any report to the government, how many times did they go to Israel, were there any scheduled meetings in Israel, had the government any correspondence with NSO or any presentation was made to the state government need to be answered. A probe into the issue will throw light on these questions,” Sawant said.He added that Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijay Singh had, in January 2020, alleged that a few officials in Maharashtra were involving in tapping. “We are now demanding a probe in this issue. The snooping and tapping of phones using Pegasus and alleged role of the Central government is very serious in nature. We suspect that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states would have been directed by the Centre on the similar lines. The tapping that took place during Fadnavis government is one of such routine practice in BJP-ruled governments,” he said.The Nationalist Congress Part (NCP) has slammed the Centre over revelations related to Pegasus hacking. State NCP president Jayant Patil on Monday said it is a breach of privacy if authorised by the Central government and if not it is a cyberattack on sovereignty of the country. “There is only 1 agenda. Did GOI authorize #Pegasus on any part of civil society? If yes - it’s a shocking state-sponsored breach of privacy & abuse of freedom. If not - it’s a cyber attack on India’s sovereignty which we must know & then fight together. Choose (sic),” Patil tweeted on Monday.Party’s national spokesperson Nawab Malik said there must be an investigation and responsibility be fixed on those involved in it. “Nothing is more serious than illegal snooping. The company (NSO Group) has clarified that they sell their software only to governments and not to private organisations. If it is not sold to a private organisation, which agency of the country snooped upon journalists, opposition leaders, ministers, judges, lawyers? This needs to be investigated. If done by the government, there’s nothing bad than this and if not, then the responsibility of those officers or agencies involved in it be fixed and action must be taken,” Malik said.The BJP, however, played it down. “The veracity of Pegasus-related reports has neither been proved nor the source of the information been revealed. When the source and validity of the original story is under doubts, there is no point in commenting on any side links related to it,” said Maharashtra BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pegasus-link-to-maharashtra-congress-seeks-probe-101626718349138.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Registration for FYJC CET to begin on Tuesday, exam on August 21||Despite announcing on Friday that registration for optional common entrance test (CET) for first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants will begin on July 19, no such process began on Monday, leaving thousands of students worried. An official statement from the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Friday evening clarified that registration for the optional CET exam will begin at 11am on Tuesday and the window will be open until late on July 26.At present, only state board Class 10 students have received their results, while those from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) are still awaiting their results. State board officials clarified that all interested students can register for CET whether or not their results are announced. “Registration is being done to understand how many students are interested in appearing for the exam, so students from all school education boards can complete the process in this week,” said a senior official from MSBSHSE. Students can log on to http://cet.mh-ssc.ac.in to complete their registration process.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead formulate based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. While other boards are yet to announce results, MSBSHSE released SSC results on Friday (July 16) amid server crash issues. According to the circular released by the board on Monday, an optional CET exam based solely on SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted. This two-hour paper will be conducted in physical mode on August 21 from 11am to 1pm. Further details will be shared by the board soon.The latest circular also mentions subject-wise details of the topics that will be considered for CET exam. On Friday, the state board had announced that registrations for CET exam will begin online from Monday, which left students and schools in a state of confusion all day.“The state board informed us that a link for student registrations interested in CET exam will be released soon. And while the officials mentioned July 19 as the day for commencement of this process, no link for registrations had been shared by the board till evening,” said Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar. This delay has left SSC students more anxious, especially after lakhs of them struggled to access their results on Friday due to a server crash. Scheduled to be announced on Friday afternoon at 1pm, the official results website crashed within hours, keeping lakhs of students across the state from accessing their results till Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-registration-for-fyjc-cet-to-begin-on-tuesday-exam-on-august-21-101626718289086.html
19-07-2021||Other||Library for personnel, families: Muzaffarnagar SSP’s effort gets great response||Nisha Choudhary joined the police force 10 years ago when she was 19 years old. She actually wanted to be an army officer but didn’t get the proper guidance and access to books required to fulfil her dreams.Ten years later, Nisha, who is posted as a constable in Muzaffarnagar, has access to a good library set up by the efforts of SSP of Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav. She is now preparing for the civil services and the library set up for police personnel and their families has come as a boon for her.A visibly happy Nisha said that she also motivated her husband and their 7-year-old son to join the library, and they became members immediately after its inauguration on Sunday. “My son is preparing for the Math Olympiad and he has received some good books from the library for preparation,” said Nisha.The police library, established in the police lines, was inaugurated by head constable Rajesh Singh’s 8-year-old daughter, Prakriti, on Sunday.SSP Abhishek Yadav, whose brainchild the library is, believes that books offer an exposure to the richness, beauty and brilliance of this world to all of us in a manner that is incomparable to anything else.“Children of police personnel miss the exposure due to the lack of well-stocked libraries which are easily accessible and cheap. Keeping this in mind, Muzaffarnagar Police has inaugurated its very own Police Library for its staff and families,” he said.“A lot of police personnel prepare for competitive exams while working and we have tried to create a storehouse of books to aid them in that process and also provide them a space to study peacefully since barracks are rarely quiet or peaceful,” explained Yadav, who had also opened a ‘Police Cafe’ inside the police lines to provide police personnel a comfortable, hygienic and stylish place to have food and snacks with steaming coffee.Constable Abhishek Tyagi has been given the responsibility to look after the library. According to him, the library is receiving an overwhelming response from Day One. “Fifty persons have joined the library on the very first day and more than 200 persons have visited it,” said Tyagi, who himself is fond of books and is also an avid reader.The SSP said that the library is stocked with more than 1,000 books from varied fields like school education, competitive exams, finance, health & fitness, self help, autobiographies and biographies, spiritual, fiction (Hindi and English), inspirational and others. It also has an e-Learning Centre with four desktops that allows free access to the internet to those interested in online study.He further said that “Access to the library, reading there and e-learning centre is free. There is a membership card with a monthly fee of ₹50 only if you want to issue a book and take it with you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/library-for-personnel-families-muzaffarnagar-ssp-s-effort-gets-great-response-101626717929869.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s underpasses flooded, traffic movement disrupted||Four underpasses in the city, one each at Hero Honda Chowk and Iffco Chowk and two at Rajiv Chowk, were shut to traffic due to severe water logging following heavy rain on Monday that left the traffic flow across the city in a complete disarray. The underpasses at Iffco Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and the bidirectional one at Rajiv Chowk were opened by evening, according to the district administration.Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said over 1,100 traffic police officials were deployed across the city from 5am. According to the police, a total of 4,500 personnel were deployed on city roads. A release issued by the district administration on Monday stated that 13 earthmovers were dispatched to various locations to deal with snarls.Despite the arrangements, the severity of water logging was such that traffic movement was disrupted on arterial roads due to the limited space available for vehicles on main carriageways, what with rainwater occupying most of the road space and pedestrians weaving between vehicles in an effort to stay clear of the waist-deep water on service roads.Throughout the day, Gurugram traffic police issued alerts social media, cautioning commuters to avoid severely waterlogged stretches in Suncity Township, Iffco Chowk, Naharpur, Hero Honda Chowk, Medanta underpass, Signature Towers, Iffco Chowk underpass, Galleria Market road, Kanhai Chowk, Wazirabad Chowk, Huda City Centre, Sector 4/7/9 Chowk, Himgiri Chowk, areas near the Mini Secretariat, Basai Road, Sheetla Mata Road, Bilaspur Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Narsinghpur and MDI Chowk.The worst-affected traffic stretches were Sohna Road, Sheetla Mata Road, Basai Road, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Hero Honda Chowk, and Rajiv Chowk, where rainwater accumulation led to snarls, confusion and vehicle breakdowns.At the Iffco Chowk and the Rajiv Chowk underpasses, traffic police officials barricaded the entry points around 9am, while at the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, they stacked sandbags to prevent commuters from entering the underpass as all four structures were heavily inundated.Using motor pumps and suctions tankers, rainwater was cleared from the bidirectional underpass at Rajiv Chowk, Iffco Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk by evening and opened to traffic, said a release from the district administration.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said the unidirectional underpass at Rajiv Chowk has higher rainwater accumulation than the other three and they are expecting to reopen the road around midnight.“Except for the Medanta underpass, all three underpasses have been opened. Dewatering operations at the Medanta underpass are ongoing and we are expecting to open it around midnight. All motor pumps at the four underpasses were operational. However, the intensity of the rain was higher than its outlet capacity, due to which there was heavy rainwater accumulation,” said Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI.With the Medanta underpass closed, and the CH Bakhtawar Singh Road and Rajiv Chowk flooded, vehicles could be seen travelling in all directions on each of the two carriageways of the CH Bakhtawar Singh Road and highway.On Sohna Road, most of the road space remained unusable due to the ongoing elevated corridor project. There was waist-deep rainwater on the stretch at places that not only rendered the city’s second most congested stretch unusable.As a result, traffic flow on the entire Sohna Road, from Vatika Chowk to Rajiv Chowk, was affected, which subsequently led to congestion on the stretches leading towards Bakhtawar Chowk.“From my balcony, I could see the entire Sohna Road under water, several broken down vehicles being pushed by drivers towards higher ground and traffic moving at a snail’s pace. Rainwater from Sohna Road also flooded my society roads and the service lanes outside. Due to a family emergency, I left my house and it took me nearly 45 minutes to reach the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway,” said Saurabh Kumar, a resident of Sector 47.Tomar said by 3pm, traffic flow started normalising on most roads.“By 3pm, traffic started returning to normalcy, barring three major stretches. On Sohna Road and Basai Road, there was heavy police deployment that ensured traffic congestion was not severe for more than two hours. However, on Sheetla Mata Road, the water logging was far too severe, due to which traffic movement was affected till late evening,” said Tomar, adding that the traffic police have written to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) regarding severe waterlogging on Sheetla Mata Road, requesting for more motor pumps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-underpasses-flooded-traffic-movement-disrupted-101626717634650.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram gets 39% of total rainfall in 33 hours, surplus by 88mm||Over the past two days, Gurugram received 185mm of rain, which is about 39% of the total average rainfall of 472mm that it receives each monsoon, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The rainfall over the past two days has been so heavy that the city is already rain surplus (as on July 19), even though monsoon reached Gurugram only last Monday, after a delay of 16 days.According to a bulletin issued by IMD Chandigarh on Monday evening, Gurugram (city) received 185mm of rain between 8.30am on Sunday and 5.30pm on Monday.Although the exact figures on the rainfall from late Sunday to Monday morning are not available, IMD officials said judging by the intensity, the downpour on Monday could be the highest daily rain recorded during monsoon in the city. An official with IMD Chandigarh said the weather department started maintaining records for Gurugram only from this year. “From Sunday 8.30am till Monday 8.30am, Gurugram received 145mm of rainfall and from Monday 8.30am till 5:30pm, the city received a further 40mm of rainfall. This is most likely the highest daily rainfall received by Gurugram during the monsoon,” the official with IMD Chandigarh, cited above, said on condition of anonymity. The official said Gurugram, at present, has received 88mm of surplus rainfall as compared to the seasonal average, from June 1 till present, which is 243mm. The average rainfall for the whole monsoon season (June to September) for Gurugram is 472mm, according to IMD Chandigarh. With 185mm, Gurugram on Monday achieved 39% of the season’s total rainfall, the official explained. Prior to the rainfall over the past two days, the city received 160mm of rainfall on August 20 last year and 100mm of rainfall on September 9, according to the End of Monsoon Season reports of the IMD. In August 2020, in around six hours of rain, widespread flooding of arterial roads and underpasses was reported in Gurugram. Three underpasses on the Golf Course Road at DLF Phase 1, Genpact Chowk, and Bristol Chowk, two in Cyber City next to Shankar Chowk and Cyberhub, two on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk were flooded and shut for traffic. In July 2019, the city received 80mm of rainfall, according to the End of Monsoon Season reports of IMD. Meanwhile, the meteorological centre in Chandigarh on Monday afternoon issued an orange alert for Gurugram for Tuesday, predicting, “heavy to very heavy rain with thunderstorms/lightning at isolated places.” As part of the orange alert, officials said there might be widespread water logging in low-lying areas, short-term disruptions of water and electricity connections, traffic congestion, low visibility and slippery roads. With continuous rain, temperatures in the city dropped on Monday, with a maximum temperature of 26.7 degrees Celsius (°C), which was eight degrees below the normal, and a minimum temperature of 23.2°C, which was three degrees above normal. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, the temperature in the city is likely to reduce over the next three days owing to the rain. The maximum temperature is expected to remain at 32-33°C, and the minimum temperature is likely to remain at 23-25°C. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “As the Delhi-NCR has received heavy rain today (Monday), the intensity of rain is likely to reduce over the next few days. On Tuesday, the region is likely to receive light to moderate rain but after that, it will reduce gradually.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-gets-39-of-total-rainfall-in-33-hours-surplus-by-88mm-101626717633366.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram building collapse: Three dead, one severely injured||After a three-storey building collapsed on Sunday evening in Khawaspur village of Farrukhnagar, leaving three people dead and one severely injured, police on Monday detained the manager of the company that owned the building and its premises.Police said the structure was owned by Deluxe Cargo Logistics and served as a residence for its employees. It is located on the Pataudi-Farrukhnagar road, around 2.5km from the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.The police said there were fewer residents than usual in the building as it was a Sunday. The unharmed residents are in a state of shock and they were shifted to different premises on Monday.The police said the debris was cleared after a 19-hour rescue operation but the reason for the collapse is still unclear. The three people who died were identified as Robin (34) (single name), Pradeep Sharma (39) and Tiny Bhardwaj (24). A fourth resident, Pradeep Choudhary (36), was rescued on Sunday evening with severe injuries.Based on a complaint from an employee of Deluxe Cargo Logistics, a case was registered against the company owner, Ravinder Kataria, and manager, Krishan Kaushik, under sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 34 (common intention) and 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that carries a maximum punishment of 10 years at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday.The police said that Kataria is allegedly on the run and his mobile phones have been switched off since Sunday night. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams, civil defence, police and fire brigade carried out rescue operations even as incessant rain delayed work on Monday morning, officials said.Shri Niwas, an assistant commandant of NDRF, said so far, there is no report on the cause of the collapse but the building had required repair. “Our two teams, comprising 60 personnel, reached the site on Sunday night and the operations got over by 3pm on Monday. We faced challenges due to weather conditions and there was also no building plan, which further delayed our operations. Our canine squad played an important role in identifying the location where people were trapped under debris,” he said.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said they have formed a team to probe the collapse. He said NDRF and SDRF were contacted as soon as he received information of the collapse, around 7.30pm on Sunday. “Initially, we feared that over 20 persons were trapped under the debris, but preliminary reports and locals revealed that there are only four persons. Two others managed to escape before the building collapsed,” he said.Garg also already directed the Pataudi subdivisional magistrate to conduct a probe into the case. Vijay Kumar (35), a resident of Bhiwani, who has been working with Cargo Deluxe for the past year and is the complainant in the case, said the building was not in a good condition and they had already informed the manager and owner about this. “Around 7pm, my colleague and I were sleeping when we heard loud cracking sounds. We rushed out without a second thought and as soon as we stepped out, the building collapsed in front of our eyes,” Kumar said.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said they have recorded statements of the employees who resided in the building and strict action will be taken against those responsible. “Our teams reached the spot within 10 minutes of receiving the call and coordinated with other agencies. The area has been cordoned off,” he said.The police said the company owner, Ravinder Kataria, is a former chairman of the Nagar Parishad, Gurugram. Officials of the Deluxe Cargo Logistics did not respond to requests for comment.RS Bhath, the district town planner of the enforcement wing, said the department will look into the legality of this building and whether permission was taken to construct it. “The DTCP team remained on the spot during the entire rescue operation and supported the police and other agencies. A probe to identify the reasons behind the collapse would be conducted by the district administration, while we will look into the legality of the structure. As the building was old, there could be several reasons (for the collapse),” said Bhath.Niwas said they used live detector types 1 and 2, cutting tools and lifting bags in the rescue operation. “Bhardwaj’s body was retrieved from the staircase and it seemed that he tried to run from the first floor to the roof when the building collapsed on him,” he said.Dr Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsies, said that the trio died of excessive bleeding. “There were severe head injuries; multiple fractures all over the body,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-building-collapse-three-dead-one-severely-injured-101626717632382.html
19-07-2021||Other||Building collapse: ‘When I turned back, I saw the building breaking into pieces’||Six persons were inside a three-storey building in Khawaspur village on Sunday night, when one of them felt a mild tremor and a sound from the walls. He immediately raised the alarm and rain out to alert other colleagues; however, only two of them made it out safely.Twenty-six-year-old Vijay Sharma, of Bhiwani, who alerted the people inside, said that seconds after they stepped out, the building came down in a heap, trapping the four others inside.Sharma said that he woke up around 6.30pm as he suddenly felt tremors, following which he ran out of his room and raised the alarm. “I suddenly realised that the building was on the verge of collapsing and my colleague and I rushed out,” he said Before leaving, he knocked on the door of another colleague but he was fast asleep, he said. The six people worked the night shift and woke up around 7pm every day, Sharma, who is a shift in-charge, said. Sharma and Ajay Kumar Mishra (38) ran towards the exit and as soon as they stepped out, they saw the building come down in a heap. “When I turned back, I saw the building breaking into pieces,” he said. Sharma said the company had bought the warehouse around 18 months ago and had shifted their base here. The warehouse and the three-storey building were in the same compound and barely at a distance of 10 metres. “The employees of another company also slept in the same building. There were multiple issues here and substandard material was used in construction. There were incidents of plaster falling off many times and we had complained to the owner and manager several times, but they did not pay heed,” he said. Mishra, a native of Madhubani in Bihar, who has been employed with the company as a shift in-charge for the past six years, said that he was sleeping when the walls started cracking. There were four rooms on the first floor, of which three were occupied. One of the workers, Robin, was on the ground floor and we could not inform him. Sharma saved my life and I am indebted to him for risking his life while raising the alarm,” he said. Both Sharma and Mishra, who have been married for five years and have two children each, said they wanted to return to their families now. Sharma said that, however, they regret that they couldn’t do more to save the others. “I rushed to the security guard and informed the police control room and Farrukhnagar police station. A PCR reached within minutes followed by several teams. We were in our night suits and could not even pick up our belongings,” he said. The employees said they had no other place to sleep and were still waiting for their employer to check on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/building-collapse-when-i-turned-back-i-saw-the-building-breaking-into-pieces-101626717630857.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Basements flooded, entry cut off in low-lying areas||Following heavy rains on Monday, residences in low-lying areas were inundated with rainwater, as basements flooded, while many societies were cut off from the main roads in DLF Phases 1-3, Malibu Towne, Essel Towers, Sector 47, Sector 37 and Suncity township.Residents said that the severity of waterlogging was such that arterial roads in the colonies accumulated rainwater up to the waist level.In DLF Phase 3, some residents had to leave their homes and take shelter in their neighbour’s homes.“Our entire drawing-room was filled with rainwater and water started seeping into our rooms as well. There is little else we could do and had to temporarily seek shelter at my neighbour’s house, located on the floor above. I finally returned home after seven hours, and practically everything in the house was drenched,” said Rahul Sharma, a resident of DLF Phase 3.In societies of Suncity on Golf Course Road and Essel Towers on Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, waterlogging was so severe that the entrances to their township and condominium were rendered inaccessible, forcing residents to stay indoors.“The entrance to the condominium was completely filled with rainwater. As it is the main entry and exit point, I waited for officials to clear the rainwater with motor pumps and finally, ventured outdoors in the afternoon,” said Tina Khanna, a resident of Essel Towers.Basement parking lots in sectors 37 and 47 were also underwater.“The entire colony road was flooded and the rainwater also seeped into the basement parking. My car was filled with rainwater and its battery has stopped working. I have no choice but to call a mechanic on Tuesday. Without any transport, I could not even procure daily food items and am relying on food deliveries,” said Anand Rungta, a resident of Sector 47.Dhruv Bansal, the spokesperson for Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of all RWAs in the city, said that the problem, especially with townships, such as Malibu Towne, DLF Phases 1 and 3, Suncity, is that the existing drains are outdated.“Drains were set up according to the occupancy in the 1990s and 2000s. The occupancy in these townships has nearly doubled or tripled. The existing drains, hence, cannot meet with the expansion and are severely outdated. As a collective group of RWAs, we will take up the matter with the MCG for redressal,” said Bansal.The office of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Sector 14 was also left in knee-deep water following the rain. In videos uploaded to social media platforms, DTCP officials could be seen carrying files amid knee-deep water to another location.Despite repeated calls, RS Batth, district town planner (DTP), could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/basements-flooded-entry-cut-off-in-low-lying-areas-101626717629739.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Heavy rain washes away Gurugram’s monsoon preparedness claims||Around 40mm of rain, from 8am to 5pm on Monday, left the city waterlogged to such an extent that four underpasses were shut, arterial roads rendered unusable, several residences and offices flooded, and traffic flow majorly disrupted.This was only the second heavy spell of rain this monsoon in the city and it has already exposed the chinks in the monsoon preparedness measures, and washed away claims of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) that steps were in place to prevent waterlogging.The city received 185mm of rainfall from 8.30am on Sunday to 5.30pm on Monday, according to the meteorological department.In several residential colonies, neighbours were cut off from one another, while on major roads, at Subhash Chowk and Rajiv Chowk especially, pedestrians held hands to navigate the waist-deep rainwater. Many parents were also spotted carrying children on their shoulders to school.Residents took to social media to highlight the water logging, with a post comparing Sohna Road — the city’s second most congested stretch after Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway — to a swimming pool. That post was widely shared by evening. In Malibu Towne, Suncity and condominiums on MG Road, in DLF Phases 1 and 3, as well as the government office of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Sector 14, flooding at the main entry and exit points trapped people on the premises.The rain started around 2.30am on Monday and continued with varying intensities till 5pm. By 7am, the district administration officials shared alerts on social media groups cautioning citizens that the city’s main stormwater drain, the Badshahpur drain, which carries nearly 70% of Gurugram’s rainwater, was up to its brim.“Badshahpur drain (running) at full capacity. Till its level comes down there will be waterlogging as it is the (main) source for drainage of water. Let’s hope rain intensity weakens or stops,” the alert shared by deputy commissioner Yash Garg said.With Badshahpur drain overflowing by 9.30am, most city roads were inundated and Gurugram traffic police officials issued regular updates on social media to caution road users. The inundated stretches included Suncity Township, Iffco Chowk, Naharpur, Hero Honda Chowk, Medanta underpass, Signature Towers, Iffco Chowk underpass, Galleria Market road, Kanhai Chowk, Wazirabad Chowk, Huda City Centre, Sector 4/7/9 Chowk, Himgiri Chowk, near the Mini Secretariat and Basai Road.By the afternoon, Sheetla Mata Road, Bilaspur Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Narsinghpur and MDI Chowk were also added to the list. Meanwhile, a portion of the roof of Ambience Mall near the Sirhaul toll collapsed and a part of an arterial road in Sector 65 also caved in.According to a release issued by the district administration on Monday evening, 113 pump sets, 32 tankers, and 14 earthmovers were deployed at 113 critical water logging points in the city and over 127 complaints were received from residents at the administration’s control room.Garg, in a release, said of the 113 critical places identified by the administration, Hero Honda Chowk, sectors 4, 7, 9, 9A, 10, 10A and 15, and Palam Vihar were the worst affected as they are located on an incline. The release said rainwater is being pumped out from these areas.At the two underpasses at Iffco Chowk and one at Rajiv Chowk, traffic police barricaded the entry points to keep motorists away, while at the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, they stacked sandbags to prevent commuters from entering, as all four were severely inundated.In the aftermath of a 196mm spell of rainfall on August 19 and 20 last year — which left seven underpasses, major roads and low-lying houses flooded — the MCG and GMDA jointly prepared a drainage plan for the city, to ensure that the situation does not repeat.After visiting several major waterlogging points, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on June 24 said that the city is prepared for the upcoming monsoon.“The main reason behind the city’s waterlogging was due to the overflowing of the Badshahpur drain. With the drain running at full capacity for most of the day, there was no outlet for rainwater to recede. Hence, areas across the city were flooded,” said TL Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.Sharma said rainwater travels from east to west in Gurugram, with areas in the east, such as Ghata, Golf Course Road, located on the upstream and areas such as sectors 4, 7, 9 and 10, Laxman Vihar and Sheetla Mata Road located in the downstream.“More than 60% of upstream areas were cleared of rainwater by 6pm. In the downstream, we are anticipating that water will be cleared by midnight, provided there is no more rain. We are deploying extra motor pumps at all the affected areas and dewatering work is ongoing,” said Sharma.A ward-wise report was also sought from all MCG executive engineers, seeking explanations for water logging, the shortfall in measures and a list of motor pumps available with them, Sharma said.Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA, also said Badshahpur drain being at capacity was one of the main reasons behind Monday’s water logging. “The Badshahpur drain was overflowing since early morning, there was no outlet for rainwater to recede. Along with high rainfall, this led to severe water logging across the city. Our teams have been working since 7am and operations are still ongoing. By 8pm, except for Laxman Vihar/sector 4 area and a 200-metre portion of Sheetla Mata Road, rainwater was cleared from all major roads,” said Kumar.GMDA officials said that a Covid-19 care facility at Tau Devi Lal Stadium was also inundated with rainwater. In May, the facility was filled with rainwater following spells of rain, just days after it was inaugurated by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/heavy-rain-washes-away-gurugram-s-monsoon-preparedness-claims-101626717569921.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to set up state-level board to promote GI products||The Uttar Pradesh government will set up a state-level board under the chief secretary with a view to resolving problems of producers of GI (geographical indication) products in a holistic manner, besides promoting export of all such local products through branding and marketing.“A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari here on Monday. The main function of the proposed board would be to chalk out strategy for development of GI products and issue necessary guidelines for the execution of the same,” said a government spokesman. Geographical Indication (GI) is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possesses qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin. Among such products include handicrafts, wooden toys, stone carving, textile, and handloom products.“The board will also develop a mechanism to identify new potential products for GI registration, their documentation, setting up producers’ groups, branding, marketing and quality control of current GI products,” the spokesman added. The proposed board will have a maximum of three representatives on a rotation basis from fields such as board of departmental promotion of industries and internal trade, MSME and export promotion, agriculture, horticulture and food processing, handicraft, textile, directorate of industries, export promotion bureau, foreign trade, GI Registry (Chennai), textile committee (Mumbai) and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The Uttar Pradesh export promotion bureau will have the mandate to execute the plans and policies to be made by the board. Earlier, it was said in the meeting that division-level committees also having Central government’s senior officials had already been set up for export of GI products. It was said the state export promotion bureau had prepared an action plan to create public awareness and provide support through the stakeholders in the 26 districts with GI products. The CS directed officials to complete the ongoing work with regards to developing a mechanism for bar-coding of GI products by the end of current month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-set-up-state-level-board-to-promote-gi-products-101626716488889.html
19-07-2021||Other||816 fresh Covid cases and five deaths in Pune district on Monday||PUNE As per the authorities, Pune district reported 816 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours on Monday. Five Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Four deaths were reported from Pune rural and one from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No death was reported from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 500,690 Covid cases and 8,600 deaths as of Monday. PCMC has reported 255,182 cases so far and a total of 3,029 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 320,727 total cases so far and 6,026 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,076,599 Covid cases. Of this, 1,042,911 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 17,920 deaths in the district. At present, there are 15,768 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 13,051 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,993,401 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.35%.Across Maharashtra, 6,017 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Monday and 66 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.04%.Currently 561,796 people are in home quarantine and 4,052 people are in institutional quarantine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/816-fresh-covid-cases-and-five-deaths-in-pune-district-on-monday-101626715588776.html
19-07-2021||Other||Ashadhi Ekadashi demand sees sweet potato prices double||PUNE Even as the prices of some vegetables have eased in the past few days, there has now been a sudden spike in the rates of sweet potato and potato, normally in high demand for Ashadhi Ekadashi on Tuesday. The wholesale market on Sunday saw the arrival of 12 trucks, each carrying 120 tonnes of sweet potato, used by a large number of people on Ekadashi. Since the demand is high, prices of sweet potato went up from ₹25 per kg to ₹50 per kg on Monday. “The produce from the Karmala area (Solapur) fetched ₹300 per 10 kg in the wholesale market, while for retail, the price is ₹50 per kg. The sweet potatoes from this area are small in size and sweet in taste, hence, in great demand,” said Shrirang Choudhary, sweet potato farmer. According to Amol Ghule, vice-president of the Adate Association, along with sweet potatoes, potatoes and chillies are also selling well, at ₹12 to ₹14 per kg, wholesale. Shirin Patil, a housewife from Aundh said, “Sweet potatoes are being sold at ₹50 per kg, but they are very good to eat, not just as a fasting food, but there are many health benefits to eating it.” Ghule said, “Last year, due to lockdown, the market had not seen such a surplus produce or sale like this year. We have most of the sweet potatoes coming in from Undargaon, Manjargaon and some other villages in Karmala district, Solapur. The farmers are very happy to see the sweet potatoes get a good price, unlike sales that fell sharply due to corona. This year, however, there seems to be a demand.” On the other hand, prices of lady-finger (okra) and cauliflower fell sharply from ₹60 per kg to ₹40 per kg in the retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ashadhi-ekadashi-demand-sees-sweet-potato-prices-double-101626715530560.html
19-07-2021||Other||Estate department awaits GB nod on sale of PMC-owned flats||PUNE Though the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) standing committee has given its nod for the sale of 1,512 apartments it owns, currently on rent, the scheme has not started yet.The City Improvement Committee and standing committee cleared the scheme which has yet to become functional.Rajendra Muthe, PMC estate department head said, “We are waiting for the nod from the general body for the scheme. It is expected that the general body would approve at the next meeting. After that, execution will start on the ground.”To generate more revenue, PMC had decided to rent out flats owned by the civic body. PMC used to get various flats under various reservations and schemes. Usually PMC uses these flats for the rehabilitation of citizens affected by various circumstances.As many flats are given on rent to such people, the PMC scheme hopes to sell these flats to the tenants.PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane framed this scheme to increase revenue. “The rent amount is very nominal. There are very few chances that the PMC would be able to vacate these flats. Considering that, it would be better to sell them to the tenants. It would help to increase revenue for the PMC,” Rasane had said earlier.Opposition parties opposed the scheme as they claim that it is not wrong to give ownership of the flats to the tenants. The allegation is that a hidden agenda aims to bring these buildings into redevelopment, in the interest of some parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/estate-department-awaits-gb-nod-on-sale-of-pmc-owned-flats-101626715529350.html
19-07-2021||Other||PMC sanctions ₹26.25 crore for ‘green’ hill development in city||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, approved ₹26.25 crore for a hill development plan to be undertaken with the forest department.The forest department already has a forest management scheme for the city, in place since 2000, and this hill project will now align with the forest scheme.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “To develop the hills at Bhamburda and Warje, PMC approved ₹26.25 crore for a period of five years. Every year ₹5.25 crore will be spent. PMC is entering into a joint agreement with the forest department for the same.”Pune city has a total 1,826 acres of forest area. PMC plans to conserve the greenery and several hills in Pune are under this programme.Rasne said, “Under this programme, in the first phase, Pachgaon Parvati, which is mainly known as Taljai hill, was developed along with Bhamburda hill. In the second phase PMC plans to develop hills like Taljai, in the Bhamburda, Warje, Kothrud and Dhanori areas.”PMC budget for forest management 2006-2011 - ₹10.23 crore2014-2019 - ₹80 crore2022-2027 – ₹26.25 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-sanctions-26-25-crore-for-green-hill-development-in-city-101626715530022.html
19-07-2021||Other||Khadakwasla to charge PMC 15% more per litre for water||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have to pay 15 per cent more than the current charges, to the Khadakwasla irrigation division, as the water resources department has decided to increase raw water charges. PMC currently pays ₹ 70 crore to Khadakvasla division for raw water.Normally, the state increases water charges once in three years. However, the order has not yet been issued. Manisha Shekatkar, superintendent engineer of the water supply department, said, “ At present, PMC pays ₹ 3 for 10,000 litres of raw water. The yearly amount goes to ₹ 70 crore. It would not affect to common public as PMC has already increased water taxes under the 24X7 regular and equitable water project.”She further said,” Earlier, the water resources department was increasing rates after every three years. But now, the department has decided to increase rates every year.”A senior official of the Khadakvasla irrigation department said,”The water resources department has limited resources with only one source of water charges. Over the last few years, we are facing revenue problems. Most projects are incomplete as we don’t have enough money. This year, the finance department has asked the water resources department to accommodate financial allocations for projects that have to be taken up in the next financial year, with a higher priority to those where around 80 per cent work has already been done.”PMC is demanding 18.50 TMC of water now. However, the Irrigation department has not approved this water quota for the city. They are still supplying only 11.50 TMC water as per an agreement signed in 2001.Pune draws water from the following sources: Khadakwasla dam, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar .The total ‘live’ storage of the all the four dams is currently 29.05 TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khadakwasla-to-charge-pmc-15-more-per-litre-for-water-101626715528754.html
19-07-2021||Other||Kaithal teacher gets 5-yr jail for writing obscene remarks in girl’s notebook||A government school teacher was sentenced to five-year jail on Monday for allegedly writing obscene remarks in the notebook of a Class 12 student.While pronouncing the judgment, a special court (POCSO and crime against women) of additional district and sessions judge Poonam Suneja also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the convict.As per police investigation report, the teacher was booked under Sections 354 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 10 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The FIR was registered on October 24, 2017 at Siwan police station of Kaithal.In her complaint, the victim had alleged that her English teacher Sanjeev Kumar had written some obscene comments in her notebook and asked her to reply whether she likes him or not.She took the matter to the school principal and later a police complaint was filed against the accused teacher.“The unethical convict has betrayed the trust of the school, students, parents and the society by committing a heinous crime with his disciple. The guilty is not entitled to any kind of leniency for tarnishing the sacred relationship of ‘guru’ and ‘shishya’,” read the judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-teacher-gets-5-yr-jail-for-writing-obscene-remarks-in-girl-s-notebook-101626714029330.html
19-07-2021||Other||Showers across Haryana, waterlogging hits normal life||Light to heavy monsoon showers reported in most parts of Haryana on Monday caused waterlogging in some rural and urban areas of state.As per the rainfall report from the meteorology department of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, the state had reported 31.3mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Besides Sirsa, downpour was reported in all districts of Haryana.A maximum of 111mm rainfall was reported in Gurugram followed by 110.02mm in Mahendragarh, 97.3mm in Palwal, 89.6mm in Jhajjar, 83.5mm in Nuh, 79.4mm in Rewari, 49mm in Faridabad, 36.5mm in Charkhi Dadri, 35.4mm in Sonepat, 17.9mm in Bhiwani, 15.4mm in Ambala, 14.8mm in Kaithal, 13mm in Jind, 10mm in Fatehabad, 7.2mm in Rohtak, 7.7mm in Kurukshetra, and 5.7mm in Karnal.The continuous rain for past couple of days has caused waterlogging in some villages of Karnal as hundreds of acres of standing crop submerged in Bijna, Salaru, Ramba, Darar and Kurali villages in Karnal.Residents of Kurukshetra and Ambala twin cities had to face waterlogging following heavy rain on Monday.Commuters faced problems as most of the roads in Kurukshetra remained under water. In Ambala, many areas including INCO Railway Underpass, Sector 9, Old Cloth Market, and Jagadhari Gate witnessed waterlogging throughout the day. Vehicles of many commuters got choked at the underpass.Water also entered the Ambala municipal corporation office near Jagadhari Gate in the morning and was drained out on priority basis, using pumps. Similarly, parts of Rohtak, Jind and Bhiwani districts also witnessed heavy rainfall throwing the normal life out of gear.The roads and streets were flooded with water due to poor drainage system. The meteorological department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain with thunderstorms in the next 24 hours.Jhajjar deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh, who has additional charge of Rohtak, said rain is beneficial for cotton, bajra, paddy and other crops. “Farmers who did not sow any crop due to delayed rainfall can now sow bajra,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/showers-across-haryana-waterlogging-hits-normal-life-101626713977410.html
19-07-2021||Other||Attendance improves in Haryana schools, response remains low at govt institutions||Reopening of schools for students of Class 9 to 12 in Haryana has so far evoked a mixed response from students amid fears of third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19).Students of private schools have started toturn up for classes but attendance in government schools remained poor on Monday as well. Teachers, however, claimed that the student strength is improving.As per officials of the education department, the attendance on the first day (on July 16) in government schools was below 20% but now it’s improving in Karnal and Ambala.“On Monday, the attendance in government schools reached around 40%. In private schools, 65% of the 50% students allowed to attend classes reached schools,” said Karnal district education officer Rajpal.“The attendance is improving and students - especially those studying in board classes – are showing interest and their attendance (of the 50% allowed) remains around 70-80% in our school,” said Sheetal Sharma, teacher at a government senior secondary school in Yamunanagar.Total 1.05 lakh Class 9-12 students studying in 5,293 private schools of 1.62 lakh attended classes in Haryana by following Covid-19 guidelines on Saturday.As many as 2.06 lakh students of total 5.76 lakh studying in 3,369 government schools visited the school on Saturday, with 72% attendance.The official said 96 students were not allowed to enter the schools on Monday as their body temperature was not normal.School authorities have made consent letter from parents mandatory for attending classes but the poor response may create problem as the government is also planning to resume classes for students of Class 6 to 8 from July 23.The Ambala education department said at least 150 government and private schools have reopened for students but the kids are still confused on government protocol.Some parents were reluctant to send their children to schools as they fear that the third wave of Covid may hit in the next few months.“It is worrisome to send children to schools as there were reports that the third wave may target kids and vaccination of kids has not started yet. So, I am not sending my daughter to school even as she is in Class 12,” said Mamta Rani, of Chalaundi village in Kurukshetra.Shalini Kakkar, parent of a Class 12 girl, said she’ll think of sending her ward to school only after her daughter gets vaccinated.Ram Chander, of Rohtak, said he is sending his son to school since Friday after the government opened schools after three months.Ankit Kumar, a Class 11 student from Charkhi Dadri, said he joined school on Saturday and all students are taking precautionary measures during classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attendance-improves-in-haryana-schools-response-remains-low-at-govt-institutions-101626713849753.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Another all-time low Covid count reported in Haryana||For the third consecutive week, Haryana reported the lowest-ever weekly coronavirus infection count during a spell of decrease in the virus spread, logging 260 cases last week (July 12-18).Last week’s count surpassed the 376 cases reported the week before, which at that point of time was the lowest ever count in a week.The contagion continued its downhill journey for a consecutive 10th week emboldening the state government to ease lockdown restrictions. Opening of offices - government as well as corporate, educational institutions, club houses, restaurants, bars, cinema halls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools for competing athletes, shopping malls and uncapping the number of persons allowed for indoor and outdoor congregations are some of the activities allowed by the government.“The mingling of people and assembling of crowds,” health officials said, “is recipe for a fresh surge. The numbers have dipped to an unprecedented low. They will sooner or later start climbing.”“The contagion has shown a tendency to infect more people once the infection rate hits bottom and restrictions are eased. This happened in February first week when the per week infections came down to 534 but started slowly increasing from the week ahead,” said an official.As of July 19, there were less than 800 active cases across state with Hisar and Panipat being the only districts having 100 or more active cases. The weekly number of fatalities due to the contagion also came down to 49 last week.With the number of cases declining, the cumulative positivity rate which went through the roof in May has also started a gradual descent. The 7.3% cumulative positivity rate is closing in to exit the critical category. Positivity rate of more than 6% is bracketed in the critical category.Eight districts – Ambala, Rohtak, Rewari, Palwal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri and Kaithal are out of the critical category.Nuh is the only district with a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Three more districts – Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Sirsa are also expected to exit the critical category by the weekend, data suggests.The remaining 13 districts in the critical category have also seen a reduction in the positivity rate. Gurugram and Faridabad still have a cumulative positivity rate of over 10% each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-all-time-low-covid-count-reported-in-haryana-101626713730419.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Greater Mumbai civic body sets alarm bells ringing over Covid-19 vaccine crisis||The municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai announced on Monday that it would run vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from only 58 out of 309 government and civic body-run centers on Tuesday, due to paucity of vaccine stock.Due to limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines, 58 out of 309 Government and BMC vaccination centers will be administering vaccine on July 20.Keep watching this space for regular vaccination updates.#MyBMCVaccinationUpdate https://t.co/udSe7eQ8dTEarlier in the day the civic authority took to micro-blogging platform Twitter to post a list of 27 Covid-19 vaccination centres open on Tuesday for administering Covaxin. It also informed that only the beneficiaries who have their second dose due would be allowed into the centres between 9am and 5pm.Maharashtra reported a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines doses a few days ago, three weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced universal adult vaccination against the viral infection.Even as Maharashtra remains the state with highest number of vaccinated people, its health minister Rajesh Tope had last week told the assembly that the stocks were depleting, prompting several of its districts to halt the inoculation drive on days after they ran out of supplies.ALSO READ | Govt: 18 out of 60 adverse events related to vaccineThe shortage of Covid-19 vaccines coupled with many people flouting health and safety norms necessiated to check the spread of the virus, have raised concerns over the impending third wave of the pandemic. Maharashtra on Monday recorded 6,017 single-day cases of Covid-19 infection while 66 people succumbed to the virus in the previous 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. Meanwhile, the state capital Mumbai reported 403 cases of the infection and 14 related deaths in the 24-hour-span.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greater-mumbai-civic-body-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-over-covid-19-vaccine-crisis-101626710334096.html
19-07-2021||Ranchi||Hire locals at Deoghar AIIMS: J’khand CM to Union health minister||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has written to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya suggesting him to review recruitment at the newly set up All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Deoghar district and ensure that locals are given preference in hiring at the premier health institution. In his letter to the Union minister, Soren underlined that his government was legislating law to provide 75% reservation to locals in the private sector, and the Union goverment should also promote giving jobs to locals at the said institute. “We have introduced the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, wherein there is a 75% reservation in private sector jobs with salary of up to ₹30,000. Unfortunately, it has come to my attention that 90% of the security personnel at AIIMS-Deoghar are from outside the state of Jharkhand. This is not conducive to the public good. AIIMS Deoghar should be hiring locally as far as possible so that they get employees, who better understand the community they serve. In this way AIIMS-Deoghar would also contribute to the economic upliftment of the region,” Soren’s letter reads. The new campus of the state’s first AIIMS, that is coming up in Devipur area in temple town Deoghar, is yet to be inaugurated. The premier health institution in tribal-dominated Santhal Parganas division has, however, started its outpatient department (OPD) in a temporary building. The OPD building at the new campus was to be inaugurated earlier this month, but was postponed after controversy started over physical presence of local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey at the inauguration event due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hire-locals-at-deoghar-aiims-j-khand-cm-to-union-health-minister-101626711928404.html
19-07-2021||Ranchi||Pradeep , Bandhu meet Cong leaders in Delhi over party membership status||Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey, the two JVM(P) legislators who had later joined the Congress, met general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal in New Delhi on Monday and urged the central leadership to intervene and ensure that the matter of their switching party being heard by the assembly speaker is disposed of at the earliest. The two legislators have been camping in the national capital for the past few days, meeting senior Congress leaders, Jharkhand Congress in-charge RPN Singh. The two leaders rushed to Delhi after the state Congress leadership told them it was prerogative of the Speaker to conduct hearing in a matter related to anti-defection law.“We discussed the issue of our membership with him, besides measures to strengthen the party organization in the state. Going by the approach of the central leaders, we are hopeful our case will be settled at the earliest,” Tirkey said on phone from New Delhi.Five-term legislator Pradeep Yadav and three-term legislator Bandhu Tirkey had joined the Congress after spilt in the JVM (P) as its president Babulal Marandi declared to have merged the party with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) within months after the assembly elections in December 2019. The BJP made Marandi its legislature party leader.While the election commission recognized the JVM(P)’s merger with the BJP, separate complaints were filed with the assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto, seeking disqualification of Marandi as well as the two legislators who joined the Congress under the anti-defection law.The matter is being heard ever since by Speaker Mahto, who is from the senior ally JMM in the three-party coalition government. Marandi, Yadav and Tirkey are still treated as JVM(P) legislators in the assembly proceedings, including sitting arrangement. Citing the example from the previous government, a Congress leader said the then Speaker Dinesh Oraon had approved BJP membership for six JVM(P) legislators who broke away from the party and joined the BJP after the 2014 assembly polls. While raising the issue last week before the state leadership, Tirkey had also suggested that if the Speaker was taking time in deciding on the issue, they are willing to resign and contest again if the Congress leadership could assure them of party tickets.Congress runs signature campaign against fuel price rise at petrol pumpsContinuing its protests against spiraling prices of petrol and diesel, Congress workers led by state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Monday conducted signature campaigns at the petrol pumps across the state. The Congress workers got signatures of people turning up at the petrol pumps to buy fuel, seeking their opinion over the issue.Oraon said BJP was drunk on power and hence it was least concerned with the sufferings of the common man.“They are drunk on power but people are not going to spare them. Since 1947, all decisions taken by the Congress was for the betterment of people. But this government is least concerned about people’s sufferings and not taking any corrective measures to check the rise of petrol and diesel prices. Sensing people’s anger, BJP has changed the petroleum minister,” said Oraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/pradeep-bandhu-meet-cong-leaders-in-delhi-over-party-membership-status-101626711868992.html
19-07-2021||Other||Two held for 55-year-old man’s murder in Bihar’s Ara district||Two of 11 accused were arrested for murder of a 55-year-old man over a land dispute at Moap Kala under Imadpur police station in Ara district, police said on Monday.The rest of the accused, including a former mukhiya, are absconding, officials said.“Two out of the 11 accused named in the FIR, lodged by the son of the deceased, have been arrested. A rifle has also been seized from their possession,” SHO of Imadpur police station Awadhesh Kumar said.According to the son of the deceased, he, his father and a cousin were on way to their field on Sunday morning when the 55-year-old man was shot at by miscreants, who were ploughing the field at the time. The injured was rushed to a private clinic, where he died during treatment, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-55-year-old-man-s-murder-in-bihar-s-ara-district-101626711748347.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Man’s body found hanging from Sipara bridge in Bihar||A 22-year-old man’s body was found hanging from Sipara bridge under Beur police station on Monday. The police recovered a suicide note from his possession which mentioned a love affair as the reason behind the extreme step.Beur police reached the spot and lowered the body from the bridge and sent it to the PMCH for autopsy. The deceased was a resident of Chapra in Bihar.During the investigation, police found that the deceased was having an affair with a married woman of Siliguri in West Bengal. He eloped with her and came to Patna on Friday.“They stayed at a hotel. The girl’s family came to know about it. They somehow traced the girl and came to the hotel where they assaulted the man. The girl left for Siliguri with her family. He became disappointed and decided to end his life. His friend Sanam Baita told the police that he tried to console him but to no avail,” police said.Trainee DSP Amit Kumar said, “The body will be handed over to the family after completing formalities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mans-body-found-hanging-from-sipara-bridge-in-bihar-101626711688417.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Senior IAS officer seeks security||Two days after lodging a complaint against chief minister Nitish Kumar and others at a police station in Patna, senior IAS officer Sudhir Kumar, currently a member of the state revenue board, on Monday sought security for himself, officials said.The officer, an accused in a recruitment scam, had spent three years in jail before being released last year on bail granted by the Supreme Court. Kumar had lodged a police complaint on Saturday, accusing the chief minister and others of forgery and seeking registration of an FIR (first information report). The police, however, are yet to lodge an FIR though they officially received his complaint. Meanwhile, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav demanded a thorough inquiry and adequate security for the IAS officer. “The chief minister ought to come clean on this issue. He must not shy away from getting the matter thoroughly investigated unless he has something to hide,” he told reporters on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-senior-ias-officer-seeks-security-101626711629086.html
19-07-2021||Other||West Champaran hooch deaths: 56 held for liquor smuggling||Bettiah and Bagaha police Monday arrested 56 people for their alleged involvement in liquor smuggling and seized around 346 litres of liquor during a special drive. In a press release, Bettiah police mentioned that the total seizure included 312 litres of country liquor, 33 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor 10 litres of spirit, besides three motorcycles and a mobile. “All the arrested persons have been sent to jail,” mentioned the press release.At least 16 people died in West Champaran after allegedly consuming spurious liquor recently..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-champaran-hooch-deaths-56-held-for-liquor-smuggling-101626711628439.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Indo-Nepal rail line ready, trains likely from Aug||In a major step towards restoration of rail links between India and Nepal, the new rail line between Jaynagar in Bihar’s Madhubani district and Kurtha in Dhanusa district of the neighbouring country has been completed and a trial run was conducted with a high-speed train at the 34.50 km-long section on Sunday, Eastern Central Railway (ECR) officials said.“Railways, however, intends to open the newly-built railway track for traffic after getting clearance from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS), some time in August,” said ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar. The railway line, completed at a cost of ₹619 crore, has five stations in the section — Jayanagar, Inarwa, Khajuri, Baidehi and Kurtha near famous pilgrimage Janakpur in Nepal. The highest fare will likely be ₹70 for general class and ₹300 for AC for the entire journey, which the train running at 115 km per hour will complete in 23 minutes, according to an ECR press release.During their rule, the British had built a 52-km-long a railway line from Jaynagar to Mahottari in Nepal, mainly to ferry logs of woods from forests. Now, the plan has been expanded to a 69-km-long railway line from Jaynagar to Bardibas in Nepal. The project is being developed with support from the Government of India.Earlier, the Konkan Rail Corporation Limited (KRCL) had supplied two sets of 1600 HP DEMU passenger rakes to operate rail services on the route. Comprising two AC coaches each, apart from non-AC coaches, the DEMU rakes, capable of carrying 1,000 passengers, were handed over to Nepal in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/indonepal-rail-line-ready-trains-likely-from-aug-101626711508358.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 40 new Covid-19 cases, 7 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded 40 fresh coronavirus and seven deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of infections and fatalities to 17,07,884 and 22,728 respectively, the health bulletin said on Monday.The latest deaths were reported from Kanpur at three, followed by one each from Allahabad, Amethi, Mirzapur and Chandauli, it said.A total of 99 persons were discharged after recovery from the infection in the last 24 hours, Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal said.The total number of recoveries in the state reached 16,83,968, he said, adding that the number of active cases stood at 1,188.The recovery rate of the state is now 98.6 per cent, he saidSo far, over 6.35 crore samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, including 2.18 lakh that were collected on Sunday, Sehgal said.About the ongoing Covid vaccination drive, he said a total of 4.3 crore doses were administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-40-new-covid-19-cases-7-more-deaths-101626710985090.html
19-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Two arrested for duping 5,000 women in 5 districts||Two persons have been arrested in a case where over 5,000 women investors were allegedly duped of a total of ₹100 crore in five districts of Bihar over the past three years, police said on Monday. Presenting the arrested accused, identified as Nirbhay Yadav and Pankaj Kumar, before media persons, East Champaran’s superintendent of police Navin Chand Jha said the duo had cheated over 5,000 women in five districts of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi and Sheohar.“They would induce women with a promise of unrealistically high returns on their investments as well as a fixed monthly income of ₹ 2,500 and tricked them into taking loans from the finance companies,” Jha said, adding the scheme was being run for past three years. Police said Nirbhay Yadav and his associates used to run Mother Future Charitable Trust and Mother Future Finance Company, which had offices in the five districts. They would form a group of 20 women and helped each of them in getting the loan of ₹ 22,500 from a micro finance company. “The two then deposited the loan amount in the account of their own companies, promising to give each woman ₹2,500 per month for two years. In the meantime, they shut their offices and fled,” said a police officer. A press release issued by East Champaran police put the swindled amount at over ₹100 crore. According to police, a case was lodged in Madhuban on July 14, 2021, against four accused, identified as Nirbhay Yadav, Meena Devi, Raushan Kumar and Deepak Kumar (all residents of villages under Madhuban police station) on the basis of the statement of one Kaushila Devi, a resident of Khairwa village under Madhuban police station. “During preliminary investigations, we came to know they cheated ₹22,500 from over 5,000 women who either took the loan from Bharat micro finance company or invested their own money in various schemes of the company. To win confidence, the accused ensured lucrative returns for some of the women,” said the SP. Jha said the scam could get bigger and that the police were probing if the finance companies followed rules in sanctioning loans to the women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihartwo-arrested-for-duping-5-000-women-in-5-districts-101626711448355.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Four undertrials escape from Solapur jail||Pune: Four undertrials escaped from a jail at Madha in Solapur district on Monday. One of the undertrial was nabbed by police after a chase, officials said. One of the escapees, identified as Akbar Pawar, pretended that he was having convulsions, due to which the prison staff opened the door of his cell to treat him, a Madha police station official said. “The other three inmates in the cell, Siddheshwar Kaiche, Akash Bhalekar and Tanaji Lokre, fled when Pawar was being treated. When the prison staff ran after them, Pawar too escaped,” he said. The official, however, said Pawar had convulsions earlier, which required hospitalisation on two occasions, and, therefore, he managed to get the prison staff to lower their guard while responding to his medical situation. “Bhalekar was arrested later and efforts are on to nab the other three. All four have serious offences like murder, fake currency and illegal possession of weapons against their names,” the official said. HTC with agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-undertrials-escape-from-solapur-jail-101626710788272.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Centre exempts pulses' importers from stock limits||The government on Monday exempted importers of pulses from stock limits, and also relaxed the norms for millers and wholesalers, in view of softening of prices of the key pulses in the country.Now, the stock limits will be applicable only on tur, urad, gram and masoor for a period up to October 31, it said.However, these entities will continue to declare their stocks on the web portal of the Department of Consumer Affairs, it added.A revised order in this regard has been notified."As part of efforts to control the prices of pulses and other essential commodities, the Narendra Modi government has given concessions to wholesalers, millers and importers in stock limits imposed on them," Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.In a separate statement, his ministry said the central government has relaxed stock limits for millers and wholesalers, and exempted importers from the same considering softening of the prices and feedback received from states and stakeholders."It has been decided that importers of pulses will be exempted from stock limits and shall continue to declare stocks of pulses on the portal (fcainfoweb.nic.in) of the Department of Consumer Affairs," according to the ministry.For wholesalers, the stock limit will be 500 tonnes, provided that it should not be more than 200 tonnes of one variety. For millers, the limit will be the six months' production or 50 per cent of annual installed capacity, whichever is higher.For retailers, the stock limit will remain unchanged same at five tonnes."This relaxation for millers will have a down-streaming effect in terms of giving an assurance to farmers at this critical juncture of kharif sowing of tur and urad," the statement said.Importers, millers, retailers and wholesalers should continue to declare their stocks on the portal fcainfoweb.nic.In case the stocks held by them are higher than the prescribed limits, they should bring it to the prescribed stock limits within 30 days of issue of this notification dated July 19.The decision by the government was taken after a meeting with stakeholders on July 17. All major associations have assured their full cooperation towards declaration of stocks on the web portal and in ensuring there is no hoarding and artificial scarcity, it added.The move comes amid several representations from pulses associations against the government's earlier order with regard to stock limits on pulses.Welcoming the decision, India Pulses and Grains Association (IPGA) Vice Chairman Bimal Kothari said the association's continuous and sustained efforts have borne fruit."We are confident that this will smoothen the supply of pulses in the coming months and stabilise the prices of pulses during the forthcoming festive period," he said in a statement.On June 2, the government had imposed stock limits on all pulses, except moong, held by wholesalers, retailers, importers and millers till October to prevent hoarding and check price rise.The stock limit of 200 tonnes was imposed on importers and wholesalers, five tonnes on retailers, while in case of millers, the stock limit was of last three months of production or 25 per cent of annual installed capacity, whichever was higher.Meanwhile, the government said it has been making continuous efforts to crackdown on prices of essential commodities like pulses and had taken various measures.Wholesale prices of all the pulses (except masoor) have fallen by 3-4 per cent in the past two months, and retail prices over the same period for all the pulses (except masoor ) have fallen by 2-4 per cent, it said.In a short span of two months, there were 8,343 registrations by entities and stocks worth over 30.01 lakh tonnes declared on the web portal.The government also said it is committed to adopting timely measures for curbing prices and has substantially alleviated the concerns and anguish of the common man.At the same time, the policy interventions are monitored closely to gauge the impact and calibrated as per emerging developments to safeguard the interests of all sections of society, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-exempts-pulses-importers-from-stock-limits-101626705678483.html
19-07-2021||Bangalore||Age no deterrent as 55-year-old police constable appears for SSLC exams in Karnataka||A 55-year-old constable with the Bengaluru City Armed Reserve (CAR) Police, on Monday appeared for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) or class 10 exams in Kolar, according to a TV9 report. Manjunath, who joined the force in 1993, showed no apprehension about sitting next to 15-year-old students and writing his paper."Back then, you could join the police even if you were educated only till fourth standard. However, in 1996, the department made the 10th standard a basic qualification (for promotion). Therefore, I'm happy that for the remainder of my service, I'll be eligible for promotion as a head constable," he said.Manjunath, who gave his exam at the Kolar Junior College examination centre, described his experience with a quirky smile. "Many eyebrows were raised when I entered the centre with a hall ticket in my hand and in my name. They were surprised even more when I entered the hall and sat on the seat assigned against the number on my hall ticket. The invigilator was more surprised than anyone else as he himself was younger than me," the examinee, who has a wife, children and grandchildren, said."They all encouraged me to write this examination. It is not just for my promotion but also for my own satisfaction of completing at least SSLC in academics," Manjunath said, thanking his family.Besides Manjunath, two other "unusual" candidates wrote their papers on day 1 of the two-day SSLC exams, which are being held despite concerns over the coronavirus pandemic. One of them is 51-year-old Ashok from Chinnakote in Bangrapet Taluk, while the other, who wished to stay anonymous, is 31. "I have the same spirit and hope to pass this time," the anonymous candidate, who failed five times in the past, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/age-no-deterrent-as-55-year-old-cop-appears-for-sslc-exams-in-karnataka-101626707739060.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Bombay HC stays MCOCA investigation against gangster Sachin Pote, two others||Pune: The Bombay High Court (HC) has stayed the Pune police investigation into the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) case filed against gangster Sachin Pote. The court order came after Pote filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court, seeking quashing of the case lodged against him at Mundhwa police station in February 2021. Besides Pote, co-accused in the case, Ajay Shinde and Vishal Shelkar, have also petitioned the Bombay HC on similar grounds. Justices NJ Jamadar and SS Shinde in their order stated, “The investigation in the CRN 79 of 2021 registered with Mundhwa police station, Pune, is hereby stayed, till the next date. Issue fresh notice to Vishal Satish Modi – the first informant in the respective petitions and application, returnable on September 9, 2021.The petitioners and the applicant are at liberty to serve the first informant, Vishal Satish Modi, by private service and file affidavit of service.” The order further stated, “These connected petitions and the application arise out of peculiar facts. The incident in question, in respect of which, the first informant, Vishal Satish Modi, has lodged the report, allegedly occurred on the night intervening the 15th and 16th of June 2018. Evidently, the FIR has been lodged on the 4th of March 2021. There is a delay of more than 30 months.” “What accentuates the situation is the fact that in respect of the very same occurrence, initially, Nilesh Chavan, who was allegedly fired at, had reported the matter to the police on the 16th June 2018 to the effect that there was an incident of altercation and fisticuffs and the police had recorded a non-cognisable case,” the order read. “From a perusal of the FIR in question, it becomes evident that the incident allegedly occurred at the very same time and place. The FIR is not lodged by the person who was allegedly fired at. Nor is it the case that the police obtained the permission of the magistrate to investigate into a non-cognizable case which was registered on June 18, 2018. The situation which thus obtains is that not only is there a legal impediment for investigation into the said occurrence but there is an inordinate delay in lodging the FIR, in respect of the very same occurrence, by a person, who claims to be the partner of the hotel, where the incident occurred,” the order further said. The court will hear the petitions and applications on September 9 this year. Pote, through his lawyers - advocate Abad Ponda and advocate SM Nimbalkar, had filed a writ petition for quashing FIR number 79/2021 registered against him with Mundhwa police station, Pune, for offences punishable under sections 307, 392, 427, 323, 504, 143, 147, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code; 1860 (Penal Code); sections 3 and 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878; and section 37(1)(3) read along with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, and the order whereby the approval under section 23(1)(a) of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA Act) has been granted by the additional commissioner (crime), Pune. In the writ petition number 1641 of 2021, vide an order dated the 3rd of April 2021, the Bombay High court granted ad-interim relief in that no coercive action will be taken against Pote till the next date, on the condition that he extends full cooperation to the investigation which was directed to continue. The court order came after Pote filed a criminal writ petition in the high court, alleging that the Pune police had lodged a NC against him in June 2018 that was converted into a FIR, two years later. Meanwhile, assistant public prosecutor JP Yagnik submitted that the report lodged by the first informant, Vishal Satish Modi, clearly reveals a cognizable offence and with regard to the antecedents of the petitioner and members of the organised crime syndicate - which the petitioners and the co-accused allegedly formed - the invocation of the provisions of the MCOCA Act could not be faulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bombay-hc-stays-mcoca-investigation-against-gangster-sachin-pote-two-others-101626710008169.html
19-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal minister repeats TMC’s promise to welcome Tatas but not in Singur||West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee has reiterated that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government is ready to welcome the Tata Group to the state although the company was forced to shift its small car project to Sanand in Gujarat during the Left Front rule because of an anti-land acquisition movement at Singur by Mamata Banerjee who was then the face of the opposition. Chatterjee, the industry and information technology minister of the third TMC government, told news agency PTI during an interview that talks are on with the Tatas for big investments in the state. However, he clarified that agricultural land at Singur in Hooghly district will not be used for setting up engineering industries. “Why would the Tatas want to return to Singur? The land has already been given back to farmers. We are planning to come up with agro-based industries there as the area’s economy is based on agriculture,” said Chatterjee, referring to the farmland acquired by the Left Front. After coming to power in 2011, the TMC said that it was open to the idea of setting up industries in Singur but not without securing the interest of farmers. On June 14 that year, the assembly passed the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill 2011. Last month, Banerjee tweeted, “On this day, ten years back, the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill 2011 was passed in the WB assembly after a long & difficult struggle. We unitedly fought for the rights of our farmers & addressed their grievances, bringing in positive change in their lives.”Stating that employment generation is a priority for the TMC government, Chatterjee said the state is ready to offer incentives to companies if they create jobs. He said the government wants prominent industrial houses to set up two large manufacturing units. “We never had any enmity with the Tatas, neither did we fight against them. They are one of the most respected and biggest business houses of this country and also abroad. You can’t blame the Tatas (for the Singur fiasco),” Chatterjee told PTI.“The problem was with the Left Front government and its forcible land acquisition policy. Tata group is always most welcome to come and invest in Bengal,” said Chatterjee, who is also the TMC secretary-general.Chatterjee said the conglomerate has shown interest in setting up another Tata Centre in Kolkata to house its offices.“We already have the presence of Tata Metaliks, one Tata Centre and the TCS. But if they are willing to come up with big-ticket investments in manufacturing or other sectors, there is no problem. Our IT secretary recently told me they had shown interest in setting up a Tata Centre here,” said Chatterjee.Asked whether the state government will walk the extra mile to reach out to the Tatas, Chatterjee said he is already in touch with group officials to attract investment.Known for multi-crop farming, Singur made headlines after Tata Motors set its sight on the land in 2006 to build its cheapest car, the Nano. The Left Front government acquired 997.11 acres along the National Highway 2 and handed it over to the company. Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee offered several incentives to the company as he wanted to create a hub of ancillary industries at Singur. Banerjee called a 26-day hunger strike demanding the return of 347 acres of farmland that was “forcibly” acquired.Following a two-year agitation by Banerjee and several litigations, the Tatas moved out in October 2008. The acquired land was subsequently returned to farmers in 2016.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-minister-repeats-tmc-s-promise-to-welcome-tatas-but-not-in-singur-101626709530475.html
19-07-2021||Other||Church demolition reflects AAP’s anti-minority bias: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday condemned the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi for the demolition of a church in South Delhi, alleging that this action was reflective of the anti-minority bias of the AAP. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that AAP had always pursued an anti-Punjabi agenda be it demanding a share in the State’s river waters for Delhi and Haryana, petitioning he court to register criminal cases against farmers of Punjab for burning stubble and even trying to force closure of Punjab’s thermal power plants. “We have witnessed AAP following the policy of majoritism in Delhi by ordering the demolition of the Little Flower church in South Delhi. No one can tolerate this fascist approach,” Majithia said, claiming that the AAP government had earlier demolished a century-old ‘Piao Sahib’ at Sheeshganj gurdwara in Delhi. Demanding that the church be reconstructed on the same spot at the earliest, Majithia said AAP was not only guilty of persecuting minorities but also involved in a sordid cover-up exercise. “The truth is that the church was demolished on the orders of the AAP government, without giving any notice,” Majithia alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/church-demolition-reflects-aap-s-anti-minority-bias-sad-101626709408794.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Out on bail, criminal and his accomplice arrested for plotting contract murder in Pune||PUNE: The police arrested two criminals for taking up a murder contract to cover the legal expense for their existing criminal case. The contract was given by a locally influential person from Pune. One of the arrested man is currently out on temporary bail in another case and was released during the decongestion process in Yerawada jail during the first wave of Covid pandemic. The man was identified as Rajan Rajmani and his accomplice was identified as Ibrahim alias Hussain Yakub Shaikh, according to the Pune police. Rajmani, a resident of Kondhwa, was in jail in a murder case. The two were found on July 14 by a team of police officials from Kondhwa police station under Lullanagar bridge in possession of three countrymade weapons, six magazines, seven live cartridges, and cash worth ₹1,20,000. Upon interrogation, the two revealed that they had been hired by a local politician from Camp Vivek Yadav to kill a man named Bablu Gawali alias NG. In 2017, Gawali had fired at Yadav which had allegedly prompted him to give a contract on Gawali’s life, according to the police. “In exchange of killing Gawali, Yadav had promised money; safety from prosecution by police, court, jail; and guaranteed bail in the crimes in which he was currently out on bail,” read a statement from Kondhwa police station. The two have now been booked under Sections 115, 120(b), 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of Arms Act and Sections 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/out-on-bail-criminal-and-his-accomplice-arrested-for-plotting-contract-murder-in-pune-101626709348078.html
19-07-2021||Other||Woman, lover booked for husband’s murder||Faridkot A woman and her lover, of different villages in Moga, have been booked for the murder of the husband in Faridkot district. On Saturday, the victim, Beant Singh of Ran Singh Wala in the Jaito subdivision of Faridkot district, was found dead inside his house under mysterious circumstances. His brother, Jagsir Singh, told the police that he was informed that his brother Beant was not well.“When I reached his residence, I found him dead. Beant and his wife had a strained relationship with that woman indulging in an illicit relationship. They strangulated Beant to death, when he caught them red-handed,” he added. Sub-inspector Bhupinder Singh said investigation had revealed that there was an illicit relationship between the victim’s wife and another man. “The woman, along with her lover killed her husband,” he said adding both suspects are on the run. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Bajakhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-lover-booked-for-husband-s-murder-101626708568874.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 6,017 single-day Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally at 403||MahaMaharashtra’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 62,20,207 on Monday after 6,017 fresh infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 66 people succumbed to the viral disease, while 13,051 patients recovered in the same period, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 1,27,097 and 59,93,401, respectively.Monday’s casecount in the state is 2,983 less than that of Sunday when 9,000 cases were reported. The fatalities on Monday are also 114 less than that of Sunday when 180 patients succumbed to Covid-19.Mumbai, on the other hand, recorded 403 cases and 14 deaths on Monday, taking the caseload and death toll to 731,561 and 15,716, respectively. The city saw 455 cases and 12 deaths on Sunday.While Maharashtra had made some early gains in controlling the pandemic situation by imposing lockdown-like restrictions, the situation has been worsening by the day. Daily cases have been soaring in the state for the past one month despite the continuing restrictions.At present, malls and theatres continue to remain shut and shops dealing with essential items can open till 4pm daily. Those selling non-essential items can only open during weekdays, Hindustan Times reported. Restaurants are also allowed to only operate on weekdays till 4pm. Salons and gyms can stay open till 4pm.A slow roll-out of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 has further burdened the health infrastructure. Despite leading the country in terms of total vaccines administered, the acute shortage of doses in Maharashtra has led to shutting down of vaccination centres frequently.The state government has demanded a total of 30 million vaccine doses per month to inoculate eligible beneficiaries at the earliest. A total of 3,95,13,079 beneficiaries have been inoculated, till now, of which 3,04,17,049 have received the first dose and the remaining 90,96,030 have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-6-017-single-day-covid-19-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-at-403-101626707246491.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Trains diverted on Konkan railway route due to soil disturbance||Pune: Soil on track disrupted the railway route between Pune and Mumbai on the Konkan railway route on Monday. Train no. 02015 Mumbai-Pune special train scheduled to depart at 05.40 hrs on July 19 was rescheduled at 15.00 hrs on the same day due to the soil disturbance. Central Railways (CR) diverted trains at Konkan and Mumbai region as the areas have received continuous rains. “We got the notifications from the Konkan Railway about the soil coming on the tracks and accordingly some of the trains going through the lines were diverted today.,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of CR. The other trains that were affected include 04696 Amritsar-Kochuveli special JCO scheduled on July 18 was diverted via Panvel – Karjat – Pune – Miraj – Hubballi – Krishnarajapuram – Erode – Shoranur. Another train 02618 Nizamuddin-Ernakulam special passing Kalyan on July 19 was diverted via Panvel – Karjat – Pune – Miraj – Hubballi – Krishnarajapuram – Erode – Shoranur due to soil on track on Konkan Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trains-diverted-on-konkan-railway-route-due-to-soil-disturbance-101626708268001.html
19-07-2021||Other||Adjournment motion rejected; SAD, BSP MPs protest outside Parliament||Chandigarh Members of Parliament (MPs) from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Monday staged a protested outside Parliament, seeking the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the House last year. Earlier in the day, an adjournment motion moved by SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, seeking discussion on the laws, was rejected by the Lok Sabha speaker. On Sunday, Harsimrat had called for all opposition political parties to support the motion for the cause of peasantry. On coming out of Parliament in protest, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) for turning down the motion, demanding repeal of the three farm laws in keeping with the sentiments of the farming community of the country. Sukhbir was joined by Harsimrat, along with the MPs of BSP, including party’s national general secretary Satish Mishra. They asserted the SAD-BSP alliance would continue to protest till the three farm laws were repealed.“The issues raised by the farmers be discussed in Parliament and accepted by the union government,” said Sukhbir, talking to reporters outside Parliament. He added, “Over 500 farmers have been martyred. It is unfortunate that obituaries were not paid to the farmers in Parliament.” Sukhbir claimed that instead of listening to farmers, the Centre had tried to defame and repress the peaceful movement. “Even now no attempt is being made to talk to farmers and resolve their grievances. Such an attitude does not hold well for a democracy,” he said. According to Sukhbir, the new farm laws were a brazen violation of the spirit of federalism as envisaged in the Constitution, because farmers feel that the laws were designed to pave the way for corporate takeover of agriculture. DHINDSA OF SAD (SANYUKYT) ALSO MOVES ADJOURNMENT MOTION Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president and Rajya Sabha Member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Monday moved adjournment motion for an urgent matter concerning the farmers to be heard. He has moved an adjournment motion notice in Parliament for Tuesday. In the motion, Dhindsa demanded that the rest of the work in Parliament should be stopped and the issue of farmers should be resolved on priority. He appealed to the MPs not to boycott or walk out of Parliament, but raise the voice of farmers inside the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/adjournment-motion-rejected-sad-bsp-mps-protest-outside-parliament-101626707728703.html
19-07-2021||Other||Punjab MPs continue strike over farm laws||Rupnagar Punjab’s MPs continued their long-standing strike against the Centre’s three agricultural laws on then first day of the Monsoon Session of Parliament on Monday. The Parliament session will continue till August 13.MPs Preneet Kaur; Manish Tewari; Ravneet Singh Bittu; Jasbir Singh Gill; Gurjit Singh Aujla; Chaudhary Santokh Singh; Amar Singh and Mohammad Sadiq were part of the protest. Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib, Tewari said, “I have already opposed the black farm laws on the floor of the House. We are holding a strike to ensure that the laws are discussed on the floor of the House this session.” He added that farmers had been sitting on strike for months in every part of the country, including the borders of Delhi. “Hundreds of farmers have lost their lives, but the Modi government stays unaffected. Our struggle will continue till the black laws are repealed.”TEWARI, MANN MOVE ADJOURNMENT MOTION IN LSEarlier in the day, Congress MP Manish Tewari and Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Singh Mann moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protest. Several members have also given notice in Rajya Sabha to suspend business and discuss farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-mps-continue-strike-over-farm-laws-101626707368797.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Pune engineer duped of ₹15 lakh in fake cryptocurrency lure||PUNE: An engineer from Pune was duped of ₹15 lakh by six people who falsely promised him a cryptocurrency. The man had allegedly been investing in it in December 2017, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dheeraj Jagdale (48) of DSK Vishwa area of Dhayari, Pune. At least one of the accused is known to the complainant, according to the police. Jagdale is a mechanical engineer and is into construction business. The six people, including a woman, initially took ₹3 lakh in cash for investment in a German cryptocurrency named Monesh Classic XMRO. However, the cryptocurrency is suspected to be non-existent. At the same time, the people made him pay more money through blockchain called Ethereum and the bitcoin wallet with promise of gains within six months, according to the police. However, the man realised that they were duping him after which he lodged a complaint. The man has paid a total of ₹15 lakh to them. “This has happened in 2017. The entire investment was made in 2017 after the complainant went to an office that the accused had set up in Balajinagar, KK Market. The complaint had been pending with cyber crime cell. The office where the transaction happened has since then shut down and the man kept on trying to get the money from other associates of the man who sold him the idea,” said police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 406 (Criminal breach of trust), 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-engineer-duped-of-rs-15-lakh-in-fake-cryptocurrency-lure-101626707249159.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||NCB seizes drugs, cash and gold worth ₹1.17 crore in Bandra, 3 arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a major drug cartel run by two women at Bandra-Kurla area of Mumbai and allegedly seized 109.8 grams of Mephedrone (commercial quantity), ₹77.92 lakh, and 585.5 grams of gold ornaments worth Rs. 29.4 lakhs from their residences in Bandra and intercepted their three drug peddlers, officials said. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “The NCB Mumbai team received several complaints from local residents of Bandra area and some of them even sent emails about this organised drug gang and their drug distribution activity, especially amongst underage children”. The gang was headed by two women and they have a network of many drug peddlers under their command, he said. They have been selling contraband, especially mephedrone, in Bandra, BKC and Kurla and some of the nearby areas, Wankhede added.The women are notorious drug suppliers and live in an adjacent house in Bharat Nagar area of Bandra (West). They are known to use minor children for drug distribution to consumers.The arrested drug peddlers are identified as Shahnawaz Shahid Khan, Aalam Naeem Khan and Ravi Arhhan Memon.NCB officials were deployed several days to gather information in the particular area in different attire and after getting the specific information a team mounted surveillance near Bori Kabrasthan, LBS Road in Kurla (West) and intercepted two persons identified as Shahnawaz Shahid Khan and Aalam Naeem Khan. After frisking them, the agency seized 56 grams of mephedrone and Rs. 4.20 lakh from their possession on Sunday evening, added Wankhede.After the interrogation both the accused revealed the names of the women who live in Bandra. NCB officials then raided the house of the suspected women and seized 53.8 grams of mephedrone, Rs. 73 lakh and 585.5grams of gold ornaments worth Rs. 29.4 lakh from their residences on Monday, added Wankhede. During further investigation, the officials intercepted one peddler, Ravi Arhhan Memon, from Bharat Nagar area in BKC, Bandra on Monday morning. Three drug peddlers have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The agency is looking for the women to nab them soon. Further investigation is going on, said an NCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-seizes-drugs-cash-and-gold-worth-rs-1-17-crore-in-bandra-3-arrested-101626707011318.html
19-07-2021||Noida||3 men involved in Greater Noida ATM heist arrested||Three men, who were allegedly part of an interstate criminal gang that cut open an ATM in Greater Noida and decamped with over ₹17 lakh cash, have been arrested, police said on Monday.Around ₹2.50 lakh of the cash has been recovered from the trio, the police said, adding seven more accomplishes are yet to be arrested."The gang had cut open an ATM of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Bilaspur area under Dankaur police station limits. The ATM had ₹17.45 lakh in it which the criminals took away with them," a police spokesperson said.The accused were identified and arrested in a joint operation by the officials of the Jewar and the Dankaur police stations, the spokesperson said."While the incident in Bilaspur took place on the intervening night of July 13-14, a similar but unsuccessful case in which the ATM was cut open by gas was reported to the Jewar police on the night of July 9-10," the official said.In pursuance of the case, three of the accused, identified as Nasir, Imran and Shahid, were arrested near an underpass close to Dayanatpur village on Monday, the police said. ₹2.50 lakh of the stolen cash, two country-made pistols along with some ammunition were seized from them while their motorcycle, which is stolen too, has been impounded, the police said.Further legal proceedings in the case are underway and efforts underway to nab their absconding partners who have been identified, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3-men-involved-in-greater-noida-atm-heist-arrested-101626706440776.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Prison data shows dire need for new facilities in state||Pune: There is a crying need for additional new prison space in Maharashtra, what with the number of inmates refusing to come down and having only increased exponentially despite the country being in lockdown for nearly a year due to the pandemic. As per Maharashtra prison data released on July 17 this year for 2019-20, overcrowding peaked in 2019-2020 despite the release of 71,949 inmates, including 10,501 convicts and more than 61,000 undertrials. The central jails released 1,122 people on bail and 380 people on parole in 2019, which too, was a fraction of the number of people released during the Supreme Court (SC)-mandated decongestion process in 2020. The state released more than 10,000 inmates on emergency parole and temporary bail. More inmates were released this year. Still, there are many people stuck inside jails as they are unable to fulfill the criteria mentioned in their conditional bail; either they do not have the money to pay for the bail bond or do not have a guarantor who will take responsibility. There are two private organisations working with the prison department to provide corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds in such cases. While a number of methods are in place to reduce overcrowding, the dire need for more prison space and for reduction in the number of days required to conclude court cases cannot be highlighted enough. In case of Mumbai Central Jail, the lease for the land on which it is built is coming to an end in 2024. Besides, the jail records the highest rate of congestion with a population of nearly 3,000 and a capacity of only 800. Hence, Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police (ADG), prison, Maharashtra, has stated the need for a new facility for the city at the earliest. A 15-acre plot owned by the Women and Child Development Department near the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Chembur, has been identified for the purpose. On July 13, ADG Ramanand had said that the chairman of the committee is the home minister. Also, because Mumbai Central Jail has no scope for extension, the jail department has proposed five new jails in Maharashtra — Mumbai, Gondia, Hingoli, Palghar and Pune. Home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, while releasing the statistics, discussed these proposals with ADG Ramanand on Saturday. Recently, Professor Vijay Raghavan of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) was granted permission by the Bombay High Court to approach the high-powered committee (HPC) formed to provide suggestions on jail reforms. The court did so after the professor suggested strict compliance with the rules of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 with a view to decongest jails. Inmate count in Maha jails The overcrowded jails in the state have underlined the need for more prison space and reduction in the number of days required to conclude court cases 2015-16 Total capacity: 23,592 Total occupancy: 29,806 2016-17 Total capacity: 23,592 Total occupancy: 31,214 2017-18 Total capacity: 23,592 Total occupancy: 32,927 2018-19 Total capacity: 24,032 Total occupancy: 36,366 2019-20 Total capacity: 24,032 Total occupancy: 35,746 Central Jails Amravati March 2018: 1066 March 2019: 1224 March 2020: 1318 June 30, 2021: 1,096 Nagpur 2018: 2,169 2019: 2,253 2020: 2,345 June 30, 2021: 2,406 Aurangabad 2018: 1,091 2019: 1,307 2020: 1,753 June 30, 2021: 1,191 Nashik Road 2018: 3,265 2019: 3,367 2020: 2,756 June 30, 2021: 2381 Kolhapur 2018: 1,941 2019: 2,258 2020: 2,228 June 30, 2021: 2038 Yerawada 2018: 5,036 2019: 5,565 2020: 5,693 June 30, 2021: 5575 Mumbai 2018: 2,766 2019: 3,095 2020: 2,953 June 30, 2021: 2967 Thane 2018: 3,184 2019: 3,296 2020: 3,716 June 30, 2021: 3,647 Taloja 2018: 2614 2019: 3237 2020: 2,635||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prison-data-shows-dire-need-for-new-facilities-in-state-101626706887910.html
19-07-2021||Other||National security, individual freedom attacked: Amarinder on hacking scandal||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday condemned the hacking of private phones of top political leaders, journalists, businessmen, scientists, constitutional authorities and others as a shameful attack on national security by the BJP-led government at the Centre. As the Pegasus spyware scandal unravelled within and outside Parliament, the CM said, “It is an attack on individual privacy as well and a shocking attack on India’s democratic polity by the Union government, which has compromised national security.”The CM added said that with such snooping, which could not have been undertaken by the Israeli company without the central government’s go-ahead, the NDA government had put sensitive information into the hands of global agencies, governments and organisations, with the risk that such information could be misused against the country. “This is not only an attack on individual freedom but also on the security of our nation,” he said, urging the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and take action against the NDA government. “The Central Government cannot get away with this. They have committed a sin, and they have to be made to pay for it,” said Amarinder, adding that “nobody has the right to intrude into the lives of its people, leave alone enter their bedrooms, as this government has done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-security-individual-freedom-attacked-amarinder-on-hacking-scandal-101626706407820.html
19-07-2021||Pune||PKC, SPPU to start online certificate course on epidemiology||Pune: The Pune Knowledge Cluster (PKC) and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have launched a new online certificate course “Understanding and Exploring Epidemiology”. Thes six-week course is free and open for all and is the first such course on epidemiology started in the light of Covid-19 pandemic by PKC and SPPU. Till now, 227 students have enrolled for the course from across the country and the US, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. The course will begin from Tuesday, July 20. “The course is intended for post graduate students in Life Sciences, research scholars and those working or aspiring to work in the field of public health. The course aims to provide introduction to fundamental concepts, principles, measurements, and methods of epidemiological research. The sessions will be taught by eminent faculty in public health. At the end of the course, participants will have understood the practice of epidemiology as it relates to real life and would be able to understand and appreciate public health measures and programmes,” said Dr Aarti Nagarkar, course coordinator and director, SPPU’s Interdisciplinary school of health science. Pune was among the first city-wide clusters approved by the office of the principal scientific advisor to the Union government on August 5. Other clusters include Hyderabad and Jodhpur. It is a step to connect organisations with a high-level of expertise in diverse domains such as science and technology, innovation and entrepreneurship, in and around Pune. The Inter-university Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) has been designated to facilitate the project and the funding for the cluster from the advisor’s office will be dealt with by the office of the director of IUCAA. The cluster includes universities and colleges, research laboratories, research and development establishments at the national and state level that is situated in Pune, and the leading industries based in Pune. “This is one of the first courses that we have started and have already received a good response from health science students and students from across the streams,” Dr Nagarkar said. Some of the topics covered in the online course include Measures in epidemiology, Importance of surveillance in epidemiology, Impact of epidemiology on national and local policy: A case of Covid-19 pandemic and many others. Prominent faculty and experts from the field will be the presenters for the course, according to Dr Nagarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pkc-sppu-to-start-online-certificate-course-on-epidemiology-101626705627773.html
19-07-2021||Pune||One in police custody, 5 on the run for abducting, assaulting 27-year-old in Pune||PUNE: A 34-year-old man was arrested and five others were booked on Sunday for abduction and assault of a 27-year-old man who got into a verbal spat with the father of one of the assailants in Vadgaonsheri area of Pune. A complaint was lodged by Dharmendra Chauhan (27) of Vadgaonsheri and a native of Uttar Pradesh. He underwent surgery at Sassoon General Hospital for internal bleeding caused by liver injury, according to the police. “Chauhan works as a woodcutter in a warehouse and also as a watchman. His employer owns two warehouses. While he worked in one, a man named Sunil More (55) is employed at the other one. Sometimes they used to drink together. They had recently been in a fight in which Chauhan had thrown More outside the premises of the building where he works as a watchman,” said sub-inspector Vivek Sisal of Chandananagar police station who is investigating the case. More’s son and five others, including the arrested man identified as Santosh Trimbak Jogdand (34) of Barate vasti in Kharadi, abducted Chauhan and took him to the riverbanks in Vadgaonsheri and assaulted him. Jogdand was riding the bike on which he was kidnapped, according to the police. A case under Sections for rioting, 326, 364, 506(2), 504, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Chandannagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-in-police-custody-5-on-the-run-for-abducting-assaulting-27-year-old-in-pune-101626704307667.html
19-07-2021||Jaipur||BJP demands ACB probe in alleged mine allotment scam in Rajasthan||The BJP has demanded to hold an anti-corruption bureau probe (ACB) in an alleged mine allotment scam, as reported by a daily. However, the Rajasthan government has denied all the allegations. The report published by a newspaper claimed that the state mines department allegedly changed limestone mines to marble to benefit a firm, bringing a loss of ₹1,000 crore to the state. Limestone mines come under the major mineral category and can therefore be auctioned under rules laid by the Government of India, whereas marble is a minor mineral and auctioned under state government rules. The report alleged that two mines of 74.29 hectares and 10.41 hectares respectively in Pratapgarh district were changed from limestone to marble and allotted to a firm, which brought a revenue loss of around ₹1,000 crore to the state. The survey conducted in 1983-85 called these blocks of limestone. Another committee in July 2019 placed the blocks in the limestone category. However, another committee, in February 2020, called it marble, instead of limestone. BJP spokesperson and MLA Ramlal Sharma accused the state government of allotting natural resources to satisfy its MLAs and said the BJP has already alleged that the head of Rajasthan (CM) is allocating the state’s natural wealth to satisfy MLAs and save the government. He said these allegations are now proving to be right, and the news reports are indicating the same – this seems to be the biggest mine scam of the state where the mine category was changed and mines worth ₹1,000 crore were auctioned starting from ₹5 crore. “The ACB, anyway, works on the instructions of the government by registering many cases and doing political torture; will the ACB try to probe the method of auction and register a complaint to bring the truth out?” he questioned. However, denying all the allegations, additional chief secretary, mines, Subodh Agarwal said, “the government has followed due procedures at every step and the mines were e-auctioned where four bidders participated.” He said limestone and marble have the same chemical composition, while marble fetches a royalty of ₹265 per/ton, limestone gets only ₹80 per ton. Therefore, the auction of the said mineral as marble instead of limestone fetches more than three times revenue. Hence, it is in the interest of the state. “No irregularity has been committed at any level,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-demands-acb-probe-in-alleged-mine-allotment-scam-in-rajasthan-101626703348288.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Had great respect for Stan Swamy’s work, says high court at his ‘bail hearing’||MUMBAI: The Bombay High Court said it had dealt with the medical bail applications of Elgar Parishad accused including Stan Swamy, Varavara Rao and Hany Babu on humane considerations by acceding to their request to be transferred to private hospitals of their choice despite vehement opposition from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and state prison authorities.The two-judge bench comprising justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar, which was scheduled to hear Stan Swamy bail plea on medical grounds, also observed that they had made it a point to attend the online funeral service for the 84-year-old because they had great respect for the work of the tribal rights activist, who the court described as a wonderful person.The judges said the service was very gracious and while the legal matter against Stan Swamy was a different issue, it did not expect the priest’s death before their ruling on his bail application.Stan Swamy died after a heart attack on July 5, just a week after he was shifted out of Taloja jail to the Holy Family hospital in Bandra on May 28 on the high court’s order.Father Stan Swamy, as the Jesuit priest was popularly referred to, was the country’s oldest prisoner charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, (UAPA). The NIA alleged that he was involved in an alleged Maoist conspiracy that led to caste clashes near the Bhima Koregaon village four years ago. The priest was being held at Taloja jail since October last year.A magisterial inquiry is being held into the death since he died while in custody.The judges also referred to the outrage directed at the high court and the NIA for Stan Swamy’s continued custody in Taloja jail since October last year, the bench said: “We ensured that we remained fair while passing orders on Swamy’s medical bail application, as well as the applications filed by the other co-accused in the Elgar Parishad case like P Varavara Rao and Hany Babu by permitting them to be shifted to the hospital of their choice, though there was vehement opposition.”The court also noted that the bench had been quick to accede to the request for shifting Fr Swamy on May 28 when senior lawyer Mihir Desai, who was representing Swamy in the high court, sought the permission and even thereafter when extension of his stay at the hospital was sought.Also Read: The life and death of Father Stan Swamy“Outside, we are speechless. Only you (Desai) can clarify this. You have said on record that you have no grievance with this court in the matter,” observed the bench.On Monday, Desai also sought permission for Father Frazer Mascarenhas to participate in the magisterial inquiry into the cause of Fr Swamy’s death. Desai submitted that the process for such inquiries mandated the participation of family members and since Fr Mascarenhas was permitted by the high court to meet Fr Swamy while he was at Holy Family hospital, he should be allowed to participate in the inquiry as well.The NIA, through advocate Sandesh Patil, opposed the continuation of Swamy’s medical bail plea and said the issues pertaining to the inquiry could not be taken up in the same application. The court said it would consider the request of Swamy’s counsel on Friday, July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/had-great-respect-for-stan-swamy-s-work-says-high-court-at-his-bail-hearing-101626703228133.html
19-07-2021||Other||97-year-old woman recovers from Covid, second-oldest in Assam to beat disease||A 97-year-old woman from Udharbond area in Cachar district of Assam survived Covid-19 after 12-day-long treatment in Silchar Medical College and Hospital. Jyotsna Rani Deb was discharged from the hospital on Monday afternoon and the doctors felicitated her for being the oldest Covid-19 survivor in the hospital. Last year, 100-year-old Mai Handique fromTezpur survived after being infected with Covid-19. She was discharged from the Mahendra Mohan Chowdhury Hospital (MMCH) in Guwahati in September last year after battling for almost 10 days. She is the oldest Covid-19 survivor in Assam till date. Also Read | Assam declares total curfew in 5 districts with high Covid positivity rateThe nodal officer for Covid-19 in Silchar Medical College and Hospital, Dr Riturag Thakuria, said Deb was admitted to the hospital with kyphosis and breathing issues on July 7. He said, “Kyphosis or hunchback is an abnormally curved spine, most common in older women. It makes breathing difficult. Deb tested positive when she arrived at our hospital on July 7. She also had dementia which made our task even more difficult because she did not recognise anything.We had to appoint a doctor to look after her mental stability. Thankfully, she improved slowly and on Sunday, she tested negative for Covid-19. We kept her in the hospital for one more day to observe her and released her on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/97yearold-woman-recovers-from-covid-second-oldest-in-assam-to-beat-disease-101626700828009.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rains continue in Mumbai; IMD issues red alert for city: Latest updates||Mumbai and several parts of Maharashtra continue to be battered by incessant rains which has disrupted normal life. Waterlogging has been reported in several areas of Mumbai and its suburbs including Bhandup, Chembur, Andheri. Incidents of landslides, house collapses and electrocutions have also been seen in the city and surrounding areas.On Sunday, Mumbai received 235mm of rain in four hours, between 12am and 4am and at least 31 people lost their lives in rain related incidents.The rain intensity reduced for a brief period on Monday but picked up as the day progressed and inundation was reported in several areas. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that no fresh deaths were reported in Mumbai on Monday.Here are the latest updates:> The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Mumbai and other districts in the Konkan region. Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in the next 24 hours.> Five members of a family, including three minors, were killed on Monday as a boulder crashed into a slum colony in Thane district’s Kalwa area, according to news agency PTI.> The local train services, which is one of the most crucial modes of public transportation in Mumbai, were briefly disrupted between Thane and Diva.> Three people have been feared drowned in Raigad district on Monday as they ventured out to water bodies.> News agency ANI reported on Monday that a four-year-old boy fell into a manhole in the Nallasopara area of Palghar.> Civic body officials said on Monday that bus services of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) are running normally.> Nineteen people were killed in the Mahul area of Mumbai's Chembur after a retaining wall collapsed on some houses due to a landslide on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-continue-in-mumbai-imd-issues-red-alert-for-city-latest-updates-101626700244022.html
19-07-2021||Pune||51-year-old man arrested for molesting teenage stepdaughter in Pune||PUNE: A 51-year-old man was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday for repeatedly molesting his minor stepdaughter in their house, according to the complainant. The teenager told the police that since 2016, the man has been physically abusing her, touching her inappropriately and using sexual language while conversing with her. According to the police, the girl is a Class 10 student and her stepfather works as a content writer. The man has been remanded to judicial custody by a local court. “The girl lived alone with him. Her mother had passed away in 2016 due to multiple conditions, including diabetes and blood pressure. On Sunday, when the sexual abuse happened again, she ran to a friendly bakery worker whom she called ‘uncle’ and told him everything. He called social workers and then the police,” said police sub-inspector SG Goday who is investigating the case. The girl had also allegedly sustained injuries on her head when the man hit her over an argument about household chores, according to the complaint. The man also beat her up for resisting physical abuse, according to the girl. A case under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 7, 8, 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO), 2012 was registered against the man at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/51yearold-man-arrested-for-molesting-teenage-stepdaughter-in-pune-101626700527218.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll rises a day after recording zero fatalities; 36 new cases reported||Delhi recorded 36 cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Monday, taking the tally of cases to 1,435,565. In the last 24 hours 3 fatalities and 58 recoveries have also been reported. The death toll in the national capital now stands at 25,030, and the total number of recoveries has breached the 14 lakh mark.The national capital had reached a milestone on Sunday when no new fatalities were recorded for the first time since March 2 this year. State government records show that single-day fatalities peaked on May 3 as the fourth wave of coronavirus ravaged the city. 13,210 fatalities were recorded in May and April alone, accounting for nearly 53% of Delhi’s coronavirus deaths.The positivity rate in the national capital now stands at 0.06 per cent after 59,410 tests were conducted. This marks a slight decrease from the 0.07 per cent recorded on Sunday, after 51 cases were reported.Also Read: Disaster body cancels kanwar yatra in DelhiDelhi called off Kanwar Yatra on Sunday due to the prevailing coronavirus situation. “In spite of being banned /suspended by the Uttarakhand government, there is an apprehension of gatherings/ congregations/processions during Kanwar Yatra 2021. Therefore, in view of persisting Covid-19 situation, it is decided that Kanwar Yatra 2021 should not be permitted in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi..,” an order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) said.Delhi is also battling a wave of dengue, the worst since 2019. The national capital has reported 40 cases of the vector borne disease between January 1-July 17 this year in comparison to 32 dengue cases in 2019. The South Delhi Metropolitan Corporation (SDMC), the nodal agency in-charge of controlling dengue in Delhi, issued a statement last week stating that 1,441 construction sites had been inspected as part of an ongoing drive, and mosquito-breeding was reported from 334 of these sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-death-toll-rises-a-day-after-recording-zero-fatalities-36-new-cases-reported-101626700137432.html
19-07-2021||Patna||In favour of holding dialogue with agitating farmers: Bihar CM||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said he was in favour of the idea of holding a dialogue with agitating farmers to resolve the months’ long agitation on Delhi’s borders against the three contentious farm laws.“The Central government has been holding talks with the farmers. The dialogue between the government and agitating farmers shall continue,” said Kumar, after meeting the people with grievances at the customary Janata Darbar at his official residence.The chief minister, however, appealed to the farmers who have been on dharna at Delhi’s borders for months to be considerate and call off the protest in view of a likely surge in the Covid-19 pandemic. “Everyone has the right to protest. But given the pandemic that the country and the world are grappling with, it is not good for the people to remain on dharna continuously for so long,” said Kumar.Also Read | Bihar gets 800,000 additional doses of Covid vaccines this fortnightThe Bihar chief minister stated that the farmers’ protest was confined to a few states, which reaped rich harvests and earned handsomely through procurement. “The new farm laws do not pose any issue for Bihar’s farmers. Farm productivity has increased in Bihar. The state government has toned up its procurement mechanism for the benefit of farmers. After paddy, we have now launched wheat procurement to ensure good return to the farmers of their produce,” said Kumar.Regarding a query relating to reported hacking of phones of some top journalists, leaders and bureaucrats by hiring an Israeli firm under Pegasus project, Kumar said that it was not good thing. “There are some bad aspects of technical evolutions. Sometimes, technologies, which are largely beneficial, can be misused also. But it is not good that the technology should be misused to trouble someone,” said the CM.To another query over rising prices of petroleum products, Kumar said, “I hardly cared about the hike in petrol and diesel prices, which I knew about from the newspapers. Appropriate action will be taken after discussion in the government,” said Kumar.About Shiv Sena’s demand that the Janata Dal (United) walk out of the National Democratic Alliance as it holds divergent views on the Uttar Pradesh government’s population policy, Kumar said he did not take notice of such people. “Every state government is free to adopt the policy that suits them to check population. I am of the view that the rate of reproduction comes down when mothers are educated. And this perception is based on nationwide research,” said the CM, while taking a potshot at Shiv Sena for pursing opportunistic politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-favour-of-holding-dialogue-with-agitating-farmers-bihar-cm-101626699687701.html
19-07-2021||Bhopal||15-yr-old MP boy apprehended for using banned app, blackmailing people||A 15-year-old boy was apprehended on Monday for blackmailing people by making obscene video calls through WhatsApp in Singruali district of Madhya Pradesh, said police. The Class 10 student allegedly created at least 14 WhatsApp accounts with American mobile numbers by using a banned Chinese app. He also diverted funds from different accounts and converted it to cryptocurrency through the dark web, said Birendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police, Singrauli. “A 21-year-old man filed a complaint at Morwa police station that he was being threatened after he received a WhatsApp call. He also said that his gmail ID was hacked.” “Investigation led the cyber police to the 15-year-old boy. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and said he downloaded banned Chinese application ‘Text Now’ by changing his location to UAE. He later created 14 WhatsApp accounts with an American mobile number. He made video calls using these numbers wherein he showed porn videos and took screenshots of the victim,” said the SP. He used the screenshots to blackmail people, and had managed to ensnare six people like this. Police were investigating if the boy acted alone or if he was a part of a bigger group. The boy’s father works in a reputed company in Singruali. The boy was not very good in academics but was focused on technology. He learnt hacking on YouTube and also joined classes of ethical hacking, as the boy’s father told police. Recently , cases of blackmailing through WhatsApp video calls have increased in the state. Cyber cell police also released an order for the district police to create awareness among people about such cyber fraud. “Fraudsters are using this modus operandi as people are afraid of being defamed but we have assured that the complainants’ identities won’t be revealed. That’s why more people are coming forward now,” said Yogesh Chaudhary, additional director general of police, Cyber cell.The boy has been booked under section 388 (extortion) of IPC and IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/15yrold-mp-boy-apprehended-for-using-banned-app-blackmailing-people-101626699327687.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Part of Ambience Mall’s roof collapses due to heavy rain in Gurugram||A part of Ambience Mall’s roof collapsed in Gurugram on Monday afternoon as the city received heavy rain throughout the day.Authorities from the mall said no one was injured in the incident which happened as excess water accumulated on the roof. The mall was closed for the public from 1.30 pm following the incident.A senior official from the mall, said, “Along with heavy rain, some garbage had accumulated on the roof, increasing the weight; leading to water leakage and collapse. It is normal for garbage to get accumulated on the roof during heavy rain.”An official statement released by the mall administration said the mall would reopen on Tuesday after repairs.Also Read | Heavy rainfall causes traffic disruption in Gurugram, other NCR cities“Due to heavy and continuous rains during the night, water leakage occurred at some points and the same is being taken care of. However, the mall management has decided to get all the electrical circuit checked thoroughly as a safety measure to avoid any possibility of short circuit. As such, the mall shall remain closed for the day and shall reopen tomorrow (July 20),” read the statement.Gurugram witnessed continuous rain since Monday morning, leaving several areas of the city heavily waterlogged. At least three underpasses -- at Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, and Iffco Chowk -- were closed due to rainwater accumulation and the city’s main stormwater drain at Badshahpur is running at full capacity.According to records of the state revenue and disaster management department, Gurugram city received 120mm of rainfall from Sunday 8am till Monday 8am. The whole district, however, received over 900mm rainfall during this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/part-of-ambience-mall-s-roof-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain-in-gurugram-101626699027903.html
19-07-2021||Other||Uttarakhand man assumed dead for 24 years, returns||A man deemed dead for twenty-four years, whose last rites related rituals were also held, has returned to his native place, Ranikhet area of Almora district. His family members, however, are not allowing him into the house without the naamkaran (naming) ceremony, HT has learnt. Naamkaran is a traditional Hindu naming ceremony to give a birth name to the newborn according to his or her lunar horoscope and is generally conducted on the 12th day after the birth. Surprised by the sudden return of 72-year-old Madho Singh Mehra on Saturday, his family decided that only after the naamkaran ceremony will he be given an entry into the house. The man’s last rites were conducted by the family thinking of him as dead after his disappearance nearly 24 years ago. “I was a child when our uncle (Tau) Madho Singh Mehra went missing and our family looked for him and waited for 10-year in the hope of his return. When he didn’t return, our family took the refuge of our ancestral deity and asked our priest, who also acts as an oracle, about it. He declared him dead,” said 38-year-old Ram Singh Mehra, nephew of Mehra. Mehra said Madho Singh, a resident of Janoli village on Ranikhet-Khairna state highway, went missing 24-year-ago when he was 48-year-old after a petty dispute within the family. The family looked for him and eagerly waited for his return. They waited for 10 years and then consulted their priest, who declared him dead. When he was declared dead, the search for him ended and the family performed his last rites. The male family members tonsured their heads too. Ram Singh said, “After declaring him as dead by the priest, our family lost all hopes of his return and performed his last rites. The male members also tonsured their heads according to our tradition.” During this period, Madho’s wife Jeewanti spent her life as a widow. She married her son and daughter. Madho Singh was suddenly spotted in the field of the village on Saturday in an emaciated condition. Villagers brought him in a palanquin to the village since he was unable to walk due to weakness. Kuber Singh Mehra, a resident of the same village, said, “He is not only weak to walk but also fails to tell how he reached the village or who brought him.” When asked by the family priest about his return, the priest said since Madho’s last rites had been performed, his naamkaran ceremony will be conducted before giving him entry to the house. Villagers have erected a tent at the courtyard of the house for his stay. Madho’s son works in a private company in Delhi. Ram Singh said, “We informed our family priest who is in Haridwar. He said since his last rites have been performed, so the naamkaran ceremony is necessary for his entry into the house. We are waiting for our priest, till then we have put him in a tent erected at the courtyard,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-man-assumed-dead-for-24-years-returns-101626698727791.html
19-07-2021||Dehradun||U’khand assembly polls: After free power, AAP to announce more populist schemes||With months left for the next state assembly elections to be held in 2022, the Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to announce more populist schemes after promising free power up to 300 units to each household in the state if it comes to power . The announcement about free power, which was made by Delhi chief minister and AAP president Arvind Kejriwal about a week ago in Dehradun, started a debate on political parties promising freebies in elections, with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and main Opposition Congress trying to play the announcement down by terming AAP irrelevant in Uttarakhand politics. AAP has now decided to come up with similar promises each month regarding education, water, health and other basic amenities. Also Read | Free 300 power units promise: AAP launches ‘Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card’ in UttarakhandAAP state president SS Kaler on the said, “The free power promise ahead of next assembly elections has surely rattled both the BJP and Congress as they didn’t anticipate this. Our party president Arvind Kejriwal will now visit Uttarakhand each month and make similar announcements about other basic amenities.” “They will include water, education, health and other basic amenities for the public which are necessary for any state. These won’t be mere announcements but promises which will be fulfilled if AAP wins the 2022 elections.” He said that AAP is the first party in Uttarakhand which is “working for the people”. “The existing parties, both BJP and Congress, have just taken turns to loot the state and do nothing for the people. We will change this by winning the elections in 2022 and work on actual development,” said Kaler. AAP state in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya, meanwhile, said that after the party’s announcement of free power, “Both Congress and BJP are after us.” “They are clearly rattled and calling it impractical. But we have already done that in Delhi and will show them how to do that here too. Not just power, but will work with similar initiatives in other domains also,” he said. Earlier on Saturday, the party’s state unit launched “Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card” under which party’s 10,000 workers would visit households in all the 70 assembly seats and urge the people to register for the free electricity service in lieu of which they would be given this card as a symbol of “guarantee that if the party comes to power, it will fulfil the promise.” The card was launched by Mohaniya in the presence of Kaler and senior party leader Col Ajay Kothiyal (retd) during an event in Dehradun. The BJP and Congress, however, termed AAP irrelevant in Uttarakhand politics and said “none of their gimmicks will work in the state.” BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said, “It is the modus operandi of AAP to make false promises which they can’t fulfil. They are doing the same in Uttarakhand too but they won’t succeed as people are here are aware of their despicable tactics.” The Congress termed such announcements a political gimmick. “They know that they have no political ground in Uttarakhand. Hence they are making such promises months before the elections to garner some votes. But, the people of Uttarakhand are smart enough to not fall in their trap,” said party state spokesperson Garima Dasauni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-assembly-polls-after-free-power-aap-to-announce-more-populist-schemes-101626698427617.html
19-07-2021||Other||Man arrested for trying to sell ivory artwork in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh police have seized seven pieces of ivory artwork worth ₹5.12 lakh and arrested a man who was allegedly trying to sell them in Mahsamund district, official said on Monday. Ivory trade is prohibited in India.Police said they nabbed the accused, Odisha native Sonu Mittal, on Sunday evening on a tip-off. Also Read | Chhattisgarh orders probe into three cases against suspended IPS officer“He was allegedly looking for customers to sell the ivory artwork near a temple under the City Kotwali police station limits of Mahasamund district,” a press note issued by Mahasamund police said. “Mittal was arrested with seven pieces of ivory. The estimated value of the haul is ₹512,000. The accused has been booked under Section 39 and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act. The accused said that he got the items from a friend in Patnagar , Odisha,” said the release. Investigation in the case is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-ivory-artwork-in-chhattisgarh-101626698007708.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||UP govt issues directives for Bakrid; gatherings of over 50 prohibited||AAs Uttar Pradesh gears up to celebrate Bakrid, also known as Eid-ul-Adha, the state government on Monday issued directives for the festival in view of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A government spokesperson said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath chaired a Covid-19 review meeting with senior officials, where he instructed them to make all necessary arrangements in view of Bakrid, news agency PTI reported.“In view of Covid, not more than 50 people should gather at any place at a given time for any event related to Bakrid,” PTI quoted the above-mentioned official as saying. The state government has also asked its officials to ensure that no cows, camels or any other banned animals are sacrificed anywhere.Only designated spots or private premises are to be used for animal sacrifice, the order said urging for special care during cleanliness, according to PTI report.Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 1.7 million cases of Covid-19; on Sunday, its tally went up by 56. Seven more people succumbed to the viral disease while 69 recovered on Sunday, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 22,721 and 1,683,866 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. The active cases in the state have declined to 1,260.Apart from Uttar Pradesh, states such as Assam and Karnataka have also issued guidelines for the festival in order to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 disease.The Assam government has urged people to stay at home during the celebrations and Namaaz at mosque is permitted with not more than five people including the religious head.Meanwhile, Karnataka’s department of Hajj and Wakf has said that not more than 50 people will be allowed to pray in a mosque on the day of the festival. It is mandatory for people to wear masks and a distance of six feet is to be maintained from each other while praying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-issues-directives-for-bakrid-gatherings-of-over-50-prohibited-101626692236221.html
19-07-2021||Other||Uttarakhand to allow fully vaccinated air travellers without Covid test report||Uttarakhand government on Monday extended the ongoing Covid curfew by another week with fresh relaxations under which fully vaccinated air travellers will be allowed entry without the mandatory negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report. RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen negative test report is also not mandatory while travelling to hill districts from plain districts, said the government while extending the curfew till July 27. Also Read | Heavy rains leave 3 dead, many houses damaged in Uttarakhand districtsAnnouncing the new guidelines, Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said, “The government has extended the curfew but with new relaxations under which the major one is allowing the residents to travel to Jill districts from plain districts without having negative report of RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen.” The minister also said multiplexes and water parks in state can now operate with 50% occupancy. “Also, shops would now be allowed to open from 8am to 9pm against the previous timing of 8am to 7pm,” he said. The government has already allowed shopping malls, bars, and restaurants to open with 50% capacity. However, colleges, schools or educational institutions will still remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-to-allow-fully-vaccinated-air-travellers-without-covid-test-report-101626696147536.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Prithviraj Chavan criticises Modi government on Covid vaccination “failure”||PUNE Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan, on Sunday, criticised the Modi government over a series of issues, including its “failure” on the coronavirus vaccination front and the rise in fuel prices.Chavan had also participated in the Congress party’s agitation over the fuel price and other issues.Speaking at press conference, Chavan said that in the last 186 days, since the country-wide vaccination drive began, the Centre has administered one Covid-19 vaccine dose to 360 million people, while only 81.5 million people have received both the doses.“With this pace, only 14-15 crore people will be fully vaccinated by December this year,” he said. According to him, even if the government doubles up the speed of vaccination, the count of fully vaccinated people won’t go above 250 million by the end of this year.“This is a clear failure of the central government. At this pace, it will take a long time for the economic revival,” he alleged. The former Maharashtra chief minister also accused the Modi government of adopting an “easy way” of increasing taxes on fuel to cover up the losses.“Fuel prices surged around 66 times in the last year. A major component of the fuel price is excise duty. When the Modi government came to power in 2014, the excise duty on petrol was ₹9.48 and now it is ₹32.90, which is an almost a 316 per cent increase in excise duty on petrol. For diesel, it has increased by 840 per cent,” he claimed, and added that due to this, the state-run petroleum companies were making a huge profit.The central government was selling the family jewels that are government companies to manage the deficit, he added.He hit out at senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, saying that he was misleading people by giving false information on the fuel prices and blaming the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for the rise in petroleum products in Maharashtra.“The state government charges the same VAT on fuel that was being charged by the previous Fadnavis government,” Chavan said. The Congress-led UPA government had brought 140 million people out of the BPL category with great efforts, but the present regime has pushed 230 million of them back to poverty, he alleged.“Coronavirus pandemic is not the only reason behind it. The situation was the same even before this crisis. According to figures from last seven quarters, the growth rate is coming down,” the Congress leader said. On the recent reshuffle of the Union council of ministers, Chavan said, “As per Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement, the government failed to handle the pandemic, hence, they were changing the health minister. Same is the case with the education minister. Modi government reshuffled the cabinet because the ministers were inefficient. My question to the PM is - why did it take seven years for you to realise that these ministers are inefficient?”He said that all the decisions are anyway taken at the PMO, so changing the faces (of ministers) would not make any difference.Replying to a query on the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) actions against various leaders, Chavan said, “Inquiries should be conducted to punish the wrongdoers, but by following the court procedures. Nowadays, raids, arrests and many more things are happening. However, there is no conclusion of these actions.”He alleged that the central government was using these agencies to blackmail leaders from the rival parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prithviraj-chavan-criticises-modi-government-on-covid-vaccination-failure-101626694827270.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Man drowns in Delhi’s waterlogged Pul Prahladpur underpass||A 27-year-old man died by drowning in the waterlogged Pul Prahladpur underpass on Monday afternoon, police said. The deceased, identified as Ravi Chautala, was taking a selfie or making a video on his mobile phone when he went deep into the water and drowned, the police said.The underpass was closed for all movement in the morning due to the incessant rains that have lashed Delhi-NCR, causing waterlogging and traffic jam. Police barricades have been placed to block the roads leading to the underpass that is nearly half filled with rain water since morning. Also Read | Heavy rainfall causes traffic disruption in Gurugram, other NCR citiesDeputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the police received a call at 1.37pm about drowning of a man in Pul Prahladpur railway underpass. Rescue teams of the fire department and divers were called in but they could not save him. Chautala’s body was fished out of the waterlogged underpass. Chautala was a resident of south Delhi’s Gautampuri in Jaitpur, which is not too far from the underpass. The body was sent to AIIMS for autopsy and the family of the deceased is being informed, said the DCP.“Locals said Chautala waded into deep water to take a selfie or for a video. Inquest proceedings are being conducted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-drowns-in-delhi-s-waterlogged-pul-prahladpur-underpass-101626694287571.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Stan Swamy was a wonderful person: HC while hearing his bail plea posthumously||The Bombay High Court on Monday, while hearing posthumously the appeals filed by late Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, said that he was a wonderful person and the court had "great respect" for his work. The observations were made by a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that had also presided over Swamy's medical bail plea on July 5, when the high court was informed about the 84-year-old priest's death at Mumbai's Holy Family Hospital that day following a cardiac arrest. "We don't have time normally, but I saw the funeral service (of Swamy). It was very gracious," Justice Shinde said. "Such a wonderful person. The kind of service he has rendered to the society. We have great respect for his work. Legally, whatever is there against him is a different matter," he said. The bench also referred to the criticism that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the judiciary had received following Swamy's death. It expressed regret over how, in several cases, undertrials languished in prisons waiting for the trial to begin. The bench, however, also said it had ensured to remain fair while passing orders on Swamy's medical bail plea, as well as on the pleas filed by his co-accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. "You came to us with his medical bail plea on May 28 and we acceded to every prayer, every time," the court said to Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai. "Outside, we are speechless. Only you (Desai) can clarify this. You have said it on record that you have no grievance with this court in the matter," the high court said. The high court further said nobody mentions that this is the court, which granted bail to Swamy's co-accused Varavara Rao in Elgar Parishad case , despite vehement opposition. "We allowed (Rao's) family to meet as we thought human angle has to be seen. In another case (Hany Babu), we sent to hospital of his choice (Breach Candy Hospital-a private medical facility)," the high court said."We never anticipated this (Swamy's death in custody) will happen. What was on our minds, we can't say now as we couldn't pronounce our order," the HC said referring to the pending medical bail plea of the late Jesuit priest. Swamy was arrested by the NIA in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case from Ranchi in October 2020. The tribal rights activist, who was suffering from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments, spent most of his time in custody at the Taloja prison's hospital in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. He was admitted to the state-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai on two occasions and was shifted to the Holy Family Hospital, a private medical facility, on May 28, following the intervention of the bench led by Justice Shinde. On July 5, the bench was informed by the hospital authorities that Swamy had suffered from a cardiac arrest two days prior and was put on ventilator support. He never regained consciousness and was declared dead by the hospital authorities about an hour before Swamy's medical bail plea was taken up for hearing by the high court, it was informed at that time. On Monday, following the high court's observations on it having passed fair orders, Desai said, "Let me say on record that I am extremely happy with various benches of the high court that heard this matter." He, however, urged the court to let Swamy's aide and another priest, father Frazer Mascarenhas, to participate in the magisterial inquiry that was initiated under Section 176 of the CrPC following the undertrial's death. He also urged the high court to direct the magistrate conducting the inquiry to adhere to the UNHRC guidelines on such inquiries, and to ask for a report of the probe to be submitted in the high court. Advocate Sandesh Patil, who appeared for the NIA, on Monday said the central agency was objecting to Desai's request since the high court was hearing appeals challenging a bail order and issues related to the inquiry could not be raised on the same pleas. "Time and again it is projected that the NIA is responsible for whatever has happened, and that jail authorities are responsible too," Patil told the court. The bench, however, told him there could be "no control on who says what outside on the matter". "You take instructions on how many witnesses, how long will the trial take. We have to look at it practically," the court said to the NIA counsel. "The concern is that for how many years can people be asked to languish in jail without a trial. Not only in this case, but the question will arise on other cases also," it said. The high court will continue hearing the pleas on July 23. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The NIA later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stan-swamy-was-a-wonderful-person-hc-while-hearing-his-bail-plea-posthumously-101626692541464.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh denies reports of ED attaching his property worth ₹300 cr||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said that his property, seized by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), is worth over ₹4.20 crore and not over ₹300 crore, as claimed in a few media reports. He said that the property was bought by his son Salil Deshmukh back in 2006.“ED has temporarily seized my property worth over ₹4 crore. Among the properties, the Central agency has attached a property worth ₹2.66 crore bought by my son Salil Deshmukh back in 2006. But a few media reports are circulating misinformation by claiming that the property bought by Salil Deshmukh’s firm is worth ₹300 crore,” Anil Deshmukh said in a video released on Monday afternoon.“As far as I am concerned I have filed a petition in the Supreme Court after I received summons from ED. Following the apex court decision, I will appear before ED to record my statement,” Anil Deshmukh said.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh’s ancestral houses in Nagpur raided in ₹100 cr extortion caseOn July 16, ED had provisionally attached properties worth ₹4.20 crore of the former home minister. The attached assets are in the form of one residential flat valued at ₹1.54 crore located in Worli and 25 land parcels valued at ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village in Uran, Raigad. The properties, according to ED officers, are held in the name of Anil Deshmukh’s wife Aarti Deshmukh and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd.ED initiated a money laundering investigation against Anil Deshmukh and his family members on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for allegedly “attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of his public duty for collection of funds to achieve the target of ₹100 crore per month from various bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai.”The charges were levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He brought up the charges through a letter three days after being transferred from his post to Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra, on March 17.Anil Deshmukh recently filed a petition before the apex court seeking protection from coercive action against him by the Central agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-denies-reports-of-ed-attaching-his-property-worth-rs-300-crore-101626693807296.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tackling tweens: A mom’s secret to a peaceful day||The morning starts with the buzz of the alarm clock. “Five more minutes, please,” whimpers my 10-year-old son. “It just takes 30 seconds to get ready for the online class, mom,” he says. I holler back, “Yes dear, you’re right. You hit the snooze button, and I’ll cut down 30 minutes of your PS (PlayStation) time in exchange.” Suddenly, I hear a thud and a jump. The not-so-little monster is up from his bed and on his way to the shower. Over the years, I’ve mastered the art of negotiation and can definitely qualify as a door-to-door salesperson (the extinction of the job is one of the primary reasons I did not apply). All thanks to my son. Instead of pleading and begging, I’ve switched to bargaining, which has not only got results but also given me time to focus on myself. Today, I’ve decided to share my secret will all moms out there to help them endure children 24x7 in these challenging Covid times. First, identify your child’s weaknesses, the more the merrier. Second, use it as a bargaining chip for activities such as bathing, eating green veggies, reading/studying, and going to bed on time. Third, in Sadhguru’s words: “Parents should start treating their children as equals.” Enough of bowing down to them, it’s time to rise to their level. This wisdom on how to get my kid to cooperate did not come overnight. Five years ago, at our routine dinner time at home, my son would throw a tantrum by throwing his vegetables as they were not made according to his taste buds. The not-so-calm me would huff and puff, giving him a piece of my mind. We wouldn’t realise that we would end up creating a scene in front of our extended family, who were not happy spectators. The grandparents were in tears for their innocent grandson and I turned out to be the evil mother. That night, I came up with a plan: Mission Impossible, methods to communicate with my son. The dossier included a list of my son’s favourite things to do during the day, some of which were watching TV, eating an ice-cream and being rewarded a star on his chart. On the other side, I made a list of things I wanted from him. Since that day, I’ve never looked back, exchanging treats for household chores, homework or interaction with adults, you name it and he does it. His behaviour improved remarkably and his outbursts went down to nil. The grandparents were pleased as they didn’t have to witness our fights anymore and I was accorded the Mother of the Year Award. Over the years, his interests have changed and so have my demands. As long as I keep updating my list, I am in a good place. I wish this knowledge helps all mothers who work hard all day to keep their kids happy and the house running. Wishing all moms, a relaxing spa day. ashmeg20@gmail.com The writer is a Ludhiana-based homemaker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tackling-tweens-a-mom-s-secret-to-a-peaceful-day-101626693627555.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Are power purchase agreements useful?||Widespread, unannounced power cuts in the urban and suburban areas, industry closure for days on end and large-scale use of diesel gensets to rear the paddy crop reminded Punjabis of the era of power shortage in the state. For decades, power cuts in summer left domestic consumers, farmers, industrialists and shopkeepers fuming. Something had to be done. New generation capacity had to be added, quickly. For a financially challenged state like Punjab, rustling up ₹20,000 crore was out of the question. Even financial institutions would demand substantial equity contribution from the promoter/state. Large private investors had to be roped in. They had one query: Will the state give a commitment to purchase all the power produced? If the state shied away from the sovereign guarantee, the project was dead, ab initio. No bank would lend money to a power generator who did not have a 100% tie-up. Meeting export commitments at a cost The maximum demand in the summer months – April to September – was over 13,000 MW. The demand dipped to 3,700 MW from October onwards, when the air-conditioning loads of offices, homes and shops besides the agricultural demand fell. Was there a hope that industrial demand would pick up? If we examine the immediate flight of industrialists to meet the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, it would stand to reason that Punjab industry is in an expansion mode. If assured power could be supplied at reasonable rates, exporters and other manufacturers would expand capacities and new units would come up, too. To meet export commitments, press reports indicate that factories generated power with diesel gensets at ₹57 a unit when their cost of supply from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was around ₹6 a unit! Of course, the PSPCL tried to help by procuring power from the electric exchange even at 12.40p per unit. In peak season, prices will be sky high and they will get jacked up further when a large demand of Punjab gets known. On top of that, there was a constraint of transmitting power on the northern grid. Keeping all such scenarios in mind, the government of the day tendered for new power generating plants on the standard format approved by the central government. Even though I joined the power sector only after retirement in 2016, a check of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) records showed that the competitive guidelines issued by the Union power ministry were followed by two of the three power plants put up in Punjab. All states and the Centre followed the bidding procedure of this template. Only the plant at Goindwal Sahib was MoU-based, according to the earlier practice in the power sector and its power purchase agreement (PPA) is on a cost plus agreement. Why it’s the right strategy Was this the right strategy? Yes, if we look at the generation capacity of thermal stations in Punjab, it becomes evident that PSPCL can produce 3,000MW a day. These plants can produce 3,500 MW a day. From April to June, Nabha Power generated 1,204MW a day at ₹2.91 a unit. The Talwandi Sabo plant produced 746MW at ₹3.61 a unit. GVK produced 161MW at 4.04 per unit. The PSPCL plants at Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat produced 196 units at ₹4.14 per unit. The state load despatch centre (at Patiala) schedules power based on a (price) merit order and it procured 90% of the power generated in the state from these IPPs at 25% cheaper prices. The benefit of cheaper purchase is naturally passed on to the domestic consumers, industries and farmers (for whom payment is made by the state subsidy). Can the state buy all its power from the exchange? The maximum import (available transmission capability) from outside Punjab is 6,400 MW; a large component of this is committed to drawing power from National Thermal Power Corporation Limited and other central government projects. Contracts can be made for sourcing power from the exchange and short-term purchases can be made. By carefully juggling the state generation and import of power, exorbitant purchase at over ₹10 a unit can be avoided. Capacity charges are inescapable A lot of discussion centres on the capacity charges. It’s not well known that this is the norm in the power sector. Capacity charges are paid for plants set up by the central and state governments. The PSERC tariff order points out that the capacity charges for the Ropar plant are normatively set up at less than 90p and for the Lehra plant at less than 80p, but since they may not be scheduled (being high cost producers), the state would end up paying around ₹2.90 and over ₹2.50 as capacity charges to these plants. Complaints are often aired that the PPAs are faulty because payment is made for 100% capacity and generation demanded is 80% or 85% only. All machines need overhauling and routine repair and maintenance. Let’s remember that even aircraft and railway engines don’t run 24x7x365 days. It can be safely concluded that capacity charges are inescapable if farmers, industrialists and domestic consumers want assured power at reasonable rates. State can’t renege on its commitments Can changes be made now? Yes, they can, with mutual consent. Can the state renege on its commitments and tear up a settled document because of perceived commercial interest? I don’t think it can happen; because any investor would knock the doors of the court. The judiciary may well refuse to go beyond written contracts; if a sovereign were to walk away from a solemn and signed contract, which investor will come to this state for any investment; ever? Some suggestions have been made that the PPAs can be amended by a “change in law”. If we examine the PPA, we will note that “change in law” refers to an event, which is seven days before the bid deadline. That is evidently over. The agreement provides for termination on the default of the seller if the plant is not commissioned in time; or abandoned by the seller; if the seller assigns the assets; or becomes bankrupt (Article 14.1). Since none of these conditions exist, the state will be well advised to use the assets created so painstakingly and in a fair and transparent manner, in the interest of power consumers of Punjab. The closest parallel to accepting capacity charges as a way of life is to imagine that you bought 3 ACs for your house with a bank loan and now you will have to pay the instalments of the AC every month, even though your family uses the ACs only in summer. dhanbirbains@gmail.com The writer is a retired IAS officer and former chairman of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/are-power-purchase-agreements-useful-101626692487362.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Less than 50% beneficiaries in Pune district have got first Covid shot||As of July 16, less than 50 per cent of the district’s eligible population has got the first Covid-19 dose and close to 13 per cent of the population has got the second dose.The district has an estimated over 9.67 million beneficiaries aged above 18 years eligible for the vaccine out of which only 4.15 million or 43 per cent have got the first jab while 1.27 million or 13 per cent have got the second jab, according to the district information office.The district overall is yet to see half of its eligible population to get the first shot, however, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has seen over 55 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries get the first dose of the vaccine which is 1,875,192 beneficiaries out of the 3,438,351 beneficiaries. Out of the total beneficiaries, 16 per cent have been fully vaccinated with both doses.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has the least number of beneficiaries covered as only 74,1561 beneficiaries out of the 2,275,679 have got the first shot which makes up only 33 per cent of the eligible population and out of the total, only 10 per cent are fully vaccinated.Out of the 3,963,765, Pune rural has vaccinated 1,533,880 people which makes up 39 per cent of the beneficiaries and out of this 13 per cent are fully vaccinated.The city was the first to start the vaccination process in the state on January 16. The month of June saw a boost in the numbers of vaccination as compared to May, however, July is yet to see a boost in the numbers and many citizens aged above 45 who are now eligible to get the second shot and have been allowed to get the dose through walk-in are not getting the vaccine and had to return due to shortage of doses.J Ponraj, a senior citizen residing in Hadapsar, said, “For the past five days we have been getting reminder messages through the Co-WIN app to get the second shot of the vaccine. We have visited our nearby centre daily for the five days for walk-in as we are unable to book a slot, but we have to return empty-handed as they do not have vaccines for walk-in beneficiaries.”Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, earlier had said, “We have prepared our vaccination centres with infrastructure and staff to vaccinate over 1.5 lakh, people, daily if we get enough vaccines. We will also expand it to cover vaccination drives in housing societies and other such special initiatives only if we have enough vaccine doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/less-than-50-beneficiaries-in-pune-district-have-got-first-covid-shot-101626692368197.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Simple Vs dolled up: Settling the cake debate||Cakes are an integral part of the special moments and stories that people celebrate. As foodies began experimenting with baking amid the pandemic, the beauty and flavours of cakes have gone a notch higher. Anything and everything one sees around can now be designed into a cake in varied flavours. Some cakes look like a piece of art, making it difficult to imagine them as edible items. While many people find them appetising, others feel it’s too much for a cake. “We tend to ruin cakes in a bid to make them beautiful. When one takes the first bite they are supposed to relish the slice of cake and not the garnish. The lesser the garnish, the more one can enjoy the original flavour of the cake,” says Santosh Rawat, executive pastry chef, JW Marriott Mumbai Sahar. How a cake looks is important but how it is made is a game-changer, believes Jitender Kumar, chef at Pink Box. He says, “Baking a cake is an art in itself. The cake, from the sponge to the flavour, has to be blended in a manner that no ingredient overpowers the other and at the same time the flavour retains its authenticity.” For baker Bhumika Malhotra from bakewhiplove, using limited ingredients is the key. “I believe in minimalism. The subtle the cake, the better! I don’t like the idea of going overboard with decoration or overloading the cakes.” The basic ingredients of a cake includes flour (all purpose, gluten free), fat(oil, butters), leavening agents (baking powder, baking soda, eggs), and flavoring agents (fruits, vanilla, coffee, chocolate). Other than the ingredients, it is equally important to understand the oven beforehand. Malhotra says, “Before baking a cake one must know their oven, all its functions. Preheating your even on the same temperature which will be used while baking is essential. Do not peak the cake by opening the oven door over and over again, then will result in sinking of the cake base. Bake it well so the skewer comes out clean with no batter on it.” To not go overboard with the look, remember that less is more, says Juhi Pahwa, baker at The Better Binge, who is known for her refined sugar and gluten-free food items. “Use a mix of macarons, flowers, chocolate garnishes, fresh berries. I don’t like to do shapes and fondant work. I prefer to stick to what I know the best, healthy and delicious-looking cakes. I usually do ganache or yoghurt frosting. The one thing you must take care of is the colour of your frostings. It shouldn’t leave colour on your tongue after you’ve eaten the cake. Ganache must be firm enough to hold the cake yet soft enough to melt in your mouth,” says Pahwa. However, chef Abinas Nayak, winner of a cooking reality show, thinks differently. He loves to customise his cakes with flavours that are made naturally from fruits and compotes, and present them with edible flowers, crystals and decorations. “Sometimes, overdoing it creates the charm and beauty of the cake. So, the key is letting the flavour come out. Edible objects’ cakes are super fun and a piece of art in every slice, technical, as well as colourful,” says Nayak.Fondant cakes are indeed on the sweeter and costlier side. “If you’re not a fan of having a lot of fondant on your cake, you can always ask your baker to not cover the cake with it. The elements on the cake can be made of fondant while the base can be covered with buttercream or icing. Making of a fondant cake requires hours of hard work, precision and creativity, which goes into making the detailed characters and elements of the cake,” says Kumar. Sugar sheet cutouts are also a great alternative for fondant cakes.Recipe Chocolate CakeFor the cake 1 1/2 cup all purpose flour 3/4 cup cocoa powder1/2 tsp baking powder1/2 tsp baking soda 3/4 cup melted butter 1 cup caster sugar1 tsp vanilla extract½ cup milk + 1tsp vinegar1 cup curdInstructions Pre-heat the oven to 180*CLine a baking pan with parchment paper. In a bowl add cocoa powder, flour, salt, baking soda and baking powder, mix well as set aside. In a bowl mix milk and vinegar and set aside Add melted butter and castor sugar in a bowl and beat together to incorporate air and add curd to the mixture later. Add dry ingredients in the butter-sugar and curd mixture, add milk-vinegar mixture in parts. Mix it all well till well combined without flour pockets. Add vanilla essence to the mixture and give it a final mix. Pour the batter into the pan and bake at 180*C for 25-30 minutesFor frosting 1 cup melted chocolate 1/2 cup fresh cream Instructions -Add hot fresh cream on melted chocolate and mix well. -Allow it to rest for 2 hours at room temperature.-Once the cake cools down. Cut it into desired layers and add chocolate frosting between the layers. - Finally, cover the cake with the frosting! For decorationAfter allowing the ganache/ frosting to set at room temperature for 2 hours, fill it in a piping bag with a start nozzle. Apply equal and constant pressure to the piping bag while making the start design. Repeat till you cover the top of the cake.By Bhumika Malhotra, baker Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/simple-vs-dolled-up-settling-the-cake-debate-101626691889019.html
19-07-2021||Pune||In my opinion: Why schools must not reopen without safety norms in place||A lot of people around the world have lost a lot to the coronavirus pandemic since its beginning. Many individuals lost their loved ones, relatives, friends, parents, and offspring. Millions have lost their jobs, their businesses and countless others have taken to the streets. But, the children suffered a big shock during this period; they lost their sweet childhood.The schools in Maharashtra closed on March 10, 2020. National lockdowns began on March 25. Accordingly, examinations up to Class 9 were cancelled and examinations for the Class 10 and 12 were postponed indefinitely again and again. For all the children there was no school, no going out because of the lockdown, no play, no fresh air, no visits to friend’s place, no birthday celebrations, and no enjoyment during last 14 months.Some of the schools in small and big cities started online; however, many students of the lower-middle-class parents, children from rural areas, villages and remote places could not relish the virtual classes for the want of internet and mobiles or laptops. In many parts of our state, the Internet and power needed for work is not available, so getting these facilities for modern means of education was out of the question.Many parents want the schools to reopen right away. The Department of Education is not sure what to do. The government should consider the following important points with respect to the reopening of schools.1. Corona is a medical disease and to control it, the crowded places are asked to be shut down in the very beginning. It is a medical option to limit the spread of the disease and has been followed all over the world in this outbreak. For this reason, schools were closed in March 2020. Thus, when schools are re-opened, the decision should only be made after taking into account the related medical facts.2. Currently the second wave of corona is receding, but not completely. Its downward chart has flattened out. 3. A third wave of corona is on the horizon, as the government frequently reports. It is also claimed that children will be most affected in wave three. Considering these three things, re-opening schools in the current situation will be like sacrificing the younger generation to the devil. In some European countries, schools were opened but had to be closed again because of the large number of children affected. Given all these facts, we would have to wait at least another six months to re-open the schools. It would be preferable for school activities to begin in the middle of January 2022. A large number of parents believe that a loss of a year and a half of their children’s education will have an impact on their future. These parents should realize that a six-month period is a small sacrifice compared to the risk of Corona and the serious consequences thereafter.Corona is a world-wide catastrophe, like a world war. Would you send your children to school if the bombing continues in your hometown? The only difference between the current corona situation and the World War is that there are no bombs on the side of the road in the pandemic. However, the corona infection that occurs is more severe and dangerous to children’s lives. Planning should encompass the following:VaccinationVaccination is the only way to keep children safe from coronavirus infection. No vaccine currently exists for children under the age of 18. Covaxin and Zycov (Zydus Cadila) vaccines are being tested for children between the ages of 12 to 18 years. Novovax is one more company that is prepared to introduce vaccines for the 2-12 and 12-18 age group. Vaccines will likely be available for children beginning in September or October, after completion of related trials over the next two to three months.According to 2021 statistics in Maharashtra, there are approximately 2.6 crore children under 18-years old. We may need 5.2 crore doses by December-January. If the campaign is planned properly to avoid mismanagement and political interference, we would be in a position to complete the vaccination before January 15. With students, teachers and school staff need to be vaccinated during this period.Prior to vaccination, there should be a meeting with parents explaining the importance of vaccination to their pupils. Vaccination must be carried out with parental consent on a national ‘consent form’. The Ministry of Education should make it clear that parents whose children are not vaccinated will not be allowed into school.All children should be immunised free of charge and under medical supervision. If a student suffers from post-vaccination problems, there should be a predetermined arrangement of physicians, hospitals, and ambulances for treatment.School should begin 15 days after the second dose of vaccine for all the students.Sanitation of schoolsEverything in the school must be sterilised before the school begins. The local government body should provide personnel and tools, chemicals, and medications required for disinfection. Everything in the school must be sterilized before school begins. The disinfection process needs to be repeated every few days; schools must pay attention to this.Daily checkup Every student should be checked for fever every day, before entering the premises. Sick children with fever, cold, and cough should be sent home. In pre-Corona schools, even sick children were forced to attend school. But from now on, the sick leave has to be permitted to the students. Attendance If the rules of social distancing are to be followed, the number of students in every classroom has to be reduced. If the class was of 50 students till last year, it should be now with only 25. This can be done with two or three shifts of the school. Disinfection It will be necessary to disinfect schools textbooks with UV rays.Corona is still not under control completely. The waves will keep on appearing. The answer is every student must be vaccinated and the school environment should be made 100 percent safe. After that only, the doors should be reopened. The writer is IMM past president, IMA, Maharashtra and a family physician||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-why-schools-must-not-reopen-without-safety-norms-in-place-101626691766904.html
19-07-2021||Jaipur||Black fungus cases rising among children in Rajasthan||In the last two months, five children affected with black fungus have been reported from Rajasthan, of whom, one died within two days of hospitalization, doctors said, expressing concern over increasing cases of mucormycosis or black fungus among the children in the state.In the last four months, Rajasthan reported over 3,000 cases of black fungus and 167 deaths. Recently, a 7-year-old child from Bharatpur suffering from black fungus was admitted to JK Lon Hospital, Jaipur. Senior doctor Kailash Meena said the child has been suffering from aplastic anaemia since birth, a condition that occurs when the body stops producing enough new blood cells. He was undergoing treatment and now swelling was observed on his face. The child’s RTPCR test was found negative but he had Covid-19 antibodies. He had been affected with Covid-19 and was asymptomatic. The child had a fever, followed by swelling on the face. In the MRI, evidence of black fungus was found. He will undergo surgery by ENT specialists in a day or two. Meena said initially the parents weren’t agreeing as the child’s jaw would be removed, they were counselled and have now agreed. “Further delay in surgery would affect the brain with the fungus. The fungus affects those with compromised immunity,” he said.Earlier, four cases of black fungus in children were reported in Bikaner Medical College. One of the children died. “In the last two months, four children suffering from black fungus have been reported. In all the cases, the patients’ immunity was compromised and Covid antibodies were present,” said Dr Gaurav Gupta, professor ENT department, government medical college, Bikaner. He said the first case was of a 1.5-year boy whose upper lips and nose had gone black because of the fungus. The child was suffering from blood cancer and undergoing chemotherapy. There was no Covid-19 history but antibodies were present. The second child was 3-years-old and was about to lose an eye due to the fungus but was saved through endoscopic orbital decompression. He also had antibodies. Third, a 3-year-old girl was brought late and directly admitted to the ICU. Her face and skin had turned black and she had breathing issues. She was brought in serious condition and passed away after two days. A 12-year-old boy had met with an accident and suffered from a secondary infection. He was cured with medicine, said Gupta. Last year, from August to December, around 24 cases were reported of black fungus. Before Covid-19, one or two cases were reported in a year. But this time, during the second wave of Corona, the cases are exploding, said a senior doctor of SMS hospital. The state government has notified Mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic and announced free treatment of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/black-fungus-cases-rising-among-children-in-rajasthan-101626691468480.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||Parts of Uttar Pradesh receive light to moderate rains||Light to moderate monsoon rains occurred at many places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and over most parts of the western region of the state Monday, the meteorological department said.Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning occurred at isolated places over the state, it said.Officials said rainfall was recorded in Lakhimpur Kheri, Bijnor, Etawah, Kanpur Dehat, Shahjahanpur, Rampur, Moradabad, Balrampur, Banda, Pilibhit, Sitapur, Bahraich, Deoria, Mirzapur, Bareilly, Shravasti, Sambhal, Hamirpur, Gorakhpur, Kannauj, Auraiya, Mathura, Baghpat, Basti, Agra and Budaun.Lakhimpur Kheri and Agra were the hottest places in the state with mercury touching 35.6 degrees Celsius.Heavy rain is very likely at isolated places over the state on July 20, they said.Rain or thundershowers are also very likely at most places over eastern UP and at many places over western UP on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/parts-of-uttar-pradesh-receive-light-to-moderate-rains-101626688773395.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: Local train services briefly disrupted between Thane and Diva||Local train services in Mumbai, which became operational on Monday, a day after the city received heavy rains, were suspended on a section due to water logging on the tracks and were restored later.Also Read | Mumbai local trains resume; extremely heavy rains predicted in 48 hrs"Slow local train services suspended between Kalva and Mumbra railway stations due to water logging near Kalva. Fast local train services on Central Railway, Harbour railway, Trans-Harbour and Western Railway operational," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Central Railway, said.Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 15.00 hrs on 19.7.2021 pic.twitter.com/RgRLxz8wM3"Slow train services resume between Thane and Diva. Fast local train services on Central Railway, harbour railway, trans- harbour and Western Railway train services operational," Sutar later said in an update.Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 15.30 hrs on 19.7.2021 pic.twitter.com/v2F0wrxTnBAdditionally, according to updates on Central Railway's Twitter account, no long distance-train had been rescheduled till 3:30pm on Monday.Also Read | Heavy rain since Sunday night caused water logging across MumbaiServices of the Mumbai Local, considered as the lifeline of the metropolis, were severely disrupted on Sunday as the city was brought to a grinding halt by heavy rainfall, which began late night on Saturday. The rains, described by meteorologists as "monstrous" also triggered landslides, house collapses and electrocution, which resulted in the deaths of 31 people, while several others were injured.Also Read | Over 30 dead as heavy rain batters MumbaiAccording to officials of the weather department, Mumbai on Sunday received 235mm of rain in fours hours, between 12am and 4am. On Friday, Maharashtra's capital city recorded 253mm rainfall, its highest this monsoon season.As the city received showers for a second straight day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange category storm warning for the next four days. Also, heavy rains are expected to continue over the next three hours, mainly in Mumbai, as well as in coastal areas of its suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-local-train-services-briefly-disrupted-between-thane-and-diva-101626687873131.html
19-07-2021||Kolkata||13 years after Singur movement pushed Tatas away, Bengal minister says 'they are welcome'||West Bengal's Industry and IT minister Partha Chatterjee said on Monday that the Tata Group is always welcome to invest in the state, as the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) never had any issues with the business house."The problem was with the Left Front government and its forcible land acquisition policy. Tata group is always most welcome to come and invest in Bengal,” Chatterjee was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Chatterjee further elaborated that the TMC did not fight against the Tatas nor can they be blamed for what happened in Singur 13 years earlier. "We never had any enmity with the Tatas, nor did we fight against them. They are one of the most respected and biggest business houses of this country and also abroad. You can't blame the Tatas (for the Singur fiasco),” the minister said, according to PTI.Chatterjee’s comments assume significance because TMC came to power after dislodging the Left government in 2011 on the back of the anti-land acquisition movement in Singur. The movement forced Tatas to shift their Nano car manufacturing facility to Gujarat. The Left government’s Singur land acquisition in 2006 sparked protests by farmers, who alleged they were not paid adequately by the government.Also Read: SC scraps Singur land deal for Nano plant, asks Bengal govt to take possessionThe TMC leader claimed that Tatas have shown interest in setting up another centre, and that he is in touch with some officials from the group. "We already have the presence of Tata Metaliks, one Tata Centre besides the TCS here. But if they are willing to come up with big-ticket investments in manufacturing or other sectors, there is no problem. Our IT secretary recently told me they had shown interest in setting up a Tata Centre here," he said.The 1,000 acres of land acquired by the then Buddhadeb Bhattacharya government on behalf of the Tatas was handed back to the West Bengal government in 2019 after the Supreme Court ordered the Tatas to do so. A bench of Justice V Gopal Gowda and Justice Arun Kumar Misra declared the entire land acquisition process illegal, void and a fraud. “This action of the state government is grossly perverse and illegal and void ab initio in law and such an exercise of power by the state government for acquisition of lands cannot be allowed under any circumstance,” the court order read.Chatterjee told PTI that industrialisation and job creation is his party’s objective and was mentioned in the party manifesto and to that end the government is willing to extend help to any business house who can aid in job creation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/13-years-after-singur-movement-pushed-tatas-away-bengal-minister-says-they-are-welcome-101626688626467.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||4-year-old boy drowns due to flooding from heavy rainfall in Thane||A four-old boy drowned after he was swept away into a rain-triggered swollen drain in Maharashtra’s Thane on Sunday, an official at the police control said, news agency PTI reported.Following the accident in Thane’s Ulhasnagar township, the boy’s body was fished out and sent to a government hospital for a postmortem report, the official added. The PTI report also said that a case of accidental death was lodged in the matter.Heavy rains lashed Thane and Palghar districts on Sunday night and Monday morning, leading to flooding in several places in the regions. Between 9.30pm on Sunday and 7.30am on Monday, Thane received 151.33mm rain, PTI reported citing an official from the local civic control room. Palghar, on the other hand, received 108.67mn showers during the same time period.At least four separate incidents of wall collapse were also reported in Thane city after the heavy rainfall. According to PTI, the compound wall of a housing society and another residential building wall in Kalwa collapsed on Sunday. Besides, an at least 15 feet wall of a compound collapsed in Wagle Estate area, crushing four auto-rickshaws in the process. A watchman was injured after a tree fell on him at a residential complex in Thane’s Ghodbunder Road.As many as 18 areas in Thane and neighbouring Kalyan, Bhiwandi, and Mumbra townships reported waterlogging incidents in the low-lying areas.Meanwhile, there has been a drop in the intensity of rainfall in the state capital of Mumbai on Monday, a day after a second thunderstorm led to the downpour of 235mm rain in just only a few hours in the city. At least 31 people died due to rain-triggered landslides, house collapses and electrocutions in the city on Sunday.Also Read | Rainfall continues in Mumbai, intensity reducesBesides, local train services that were affected on Sunday owing to the heavy rainfall, have resumed. However, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for the city till July 23. IMD has predicted moderate to heavy rain or thundershowers with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over Mumbai and its suburbs for the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4yearold-boy-drowns-due-to-flooding-from-heavy-rainfall-in-thane-101626687646182.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Vaccine poster row: Supreme Court refuses to direct Delhi Police to not register FIRs||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to issue blanket orders to the Delhi Police to not register FIRs in connection with posters which surfaced in Delhi, criticising prime minister Narendra Modi for "sending Covid-19 vaccines to foreign countries." The court instead asked the petitioner to first bring to its notice the cases registered and number of people arrested for allegedly putting up the posters.Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi's posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtThe two-judge bench, comprising of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah, gave the petitioner, Delhi-based lawyer Pradeep Kumar Yadav, one week to bring to its notice individual cases registered against people.“We also read newspapers. The Lakshadweep controversy was something different. The woman in question was granted anticipatory bail from the Kerala high court. Don’t bring that controversy in the matter. You tell us about cases registered in Delhi in this matter,” the bench told Yadav after he said cases were lodged in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Lakshadweep. Also Read | AAP leader behind 'PM Modi why did you send vaccines of our children' posters: Delhi PoliceThe apex court further directed the petitioner to “do your homework” instead of just relying on newspaper reports, adding that it was not issuing any direction to the police. It then posted the matter for further hearing next week.In May, Yadav had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court, terming the arrests “illegal” and urged the court to quash the FIRs filed by the Delhi Police. In his plea, he also sought directions to the Delhi Police commissioner not to register any further cases or FIRs with regards to posters/advertisements/brochures etc. which surfaced, criticising PM Modi over the national Covid-19 vaccination drive. The posters, which displayed the message “Modi ji, hamare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya” (Modi ji, why did you send vaccines meant for our children abroad), surfaced at a time when the national capital, along with the rest of the country, was in the middle of a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.25 FIRs have been registered thus far and as many people arrested for allegedly putting up the posters, according to police record.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-poster-row-supreme-court-refuses-to-issue-blanket-orders-to-delhi-police-to-not-register-firs-101626686408473.html
19-07-2021||Jaipur||Increase in mucormycosis cases among Rajasthan children concerning: Doctors||Increasing cases of mucormycosis or black fungus among children in Rajasthan has become a serious concern, according to doctors. In the last two months, five children were affected with mucormycosis, and one of them died within two days of hospitalisation. Rajasthan, in the last four months, has reported over 3,000 cases of mucormycosis and 167 deaths. Also Read | Delhi had more active cases of black fungus than those of Covid-19: Govt data“In the last two months, five cases of mucormycosis in children were reported. In all cases, the children’s immunity was compromised and there were no Covid-19 antibodies,” said Dr Gaurav Gupta, professor, ENT department, Government Medical College, Bikaner. Last year, around 24 cases of mucormycosis were reported from August to December. Before the pandemic began in 2020, one or two cases were reported a year. But this time, during the second wave, the number of cases is shooting up, said a senior doctor of SMS Hospital, requesting anonymity. The state government has notified mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic, and announced free treatment of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/increase-in-mucormycosis-cases-among-rajasthan-children-concerning-doctors-101626686426399.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain since Sunday night caused water logging across Mumbai||Heavy rainfall on Sunday night and Monday morning led to water logging in many parts of Mumbai and suburbs, including Vikhroli, Bhandup, Chembur, Andheri, and parts of south Mumbai such as Colaba and Cuffe Parade. Gandhi Market, Hindmata in Dadar, and Dadar Tram Terminus, which are chronic water logging spots, were also flooded Monday early morning. However, traffic was quickly regularised on Babasaheb Ambedkar (BA) road this morning. Within the 24 hour period ending 8am on Monday, 13 incidents of house or wall collapse, including one in Mumbai city and six each in the eastern and the western suburbs, were reported, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.In the same period, 15 incidents of short circuit were reported across Mumbai, including nine in the island city, and six each in the eastern and western suburbs. Similarly, there were at least 21 complaints of tree collapse. As of Monday morning, water level in the seven lakes that provide drinking water to the city is at 28.68%, compared to 27.03% registered the same day last year, and 51% two years ago. The total available drinking water in the lakes is at 415,175 million litres (ML), against the full capacity of 1,447,363 ML. While Tulsi lake overflowed on Friday morning, Vihar lake overflowed on Sunday morning.The drinking water supply to the city-- disrupted on Sunday after rain water entered Bhandup Drinking water treatment complex-- was regularised on Monday morning after BMC cleaned and repaired the water filtration system by Sunday evening. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-since-sunday-night-caused-water-logging-across-mumbai-101626686066489.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Sena, NCP in verbal clash: Shiv Sena will continue to decide Maha CM for 25 yrs||Shiv Sena leader and former MP from Shirur, Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil, hit back at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for saying that Uddhav Thackeray became the chief minister of Maharashtra with the blessings of Sharad Pawar.A day after local MP and NCP leader Amol Kolhe spoke about Thackeray’s elevation to the post of chief minister, Patil said on Sunday that the party decided who should be the state chief minister and will continue to do so for the next 25 years.Also Read | Traffic on highway, railway line disrupted after 2 landslides in Maharashtra’s KasaraKolhe clarified that while he respected the CM, all he meant was that Pawar was instrumental in stitching together the alliance among NCP, Sena and Congress. The three parties share power in state under Maha Vikas Aghadi banner.In 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Patil was defeated by Kolhe in a fiercely fought battle. Since then the leaders from Sena and NCP at Shirur have often engaged in a war of words.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sena-will-continue-to-decide-maharashtra-cm-for-another-25-yrs-party-leader-101626685166173.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Traffic on highway, railway line disrupted after 2 landslides in Maharashtra’s Kasara||In two different incidents, the movement of vehicles at Nashik-Mumbai highway near Kasara Ghat and railway traffic on the Kasara railway line were affected due to landslide. On Sunday around 11pm, the Kasara police received information about a landslide in Kasara Ghat on the Mumbai-Nashik National Highway. The police, despite a lack of enough personnel at night, tried to manage the situation. “A team of officials managed traffic with the help of torches and shifted it to a single lane. Later the National Highways Authority sent a team to clear the road with the help of JCBs, which was completed at 5am,”said Kasara highway police officers. Later, around 6am, a landslide took place near one of the lines at the Kasara railway track.Also Read | Lightning strike kills 5, including 3 kids, in Bihar’s RohtasA railway officer, requesting anonymity, said, “ We have shifted traffic from down line to middle line and the up line is already running properly. Other lines are intact and railway service is running efficiently.”A team of railway officials and villagers is trying to clear the area. In another incident, two houses in Kasara Shivaji Nagar collapsed on Monday morning; however, no injuries were reported and the families were given shelter at the zilla parishad school nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-on-highway-railway-line-disrupted-after-2-landslides-in-maharashtra-s-kasara-101626684146296.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Heavy rainfall causes traffic disruption in Gurugram, other NCR cities||Heavy rainfall in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) on Monday morning led to traffic snarls at many places in the national capital and adnoining areas, like Gurugram, due to waterlogging. There are reports of several low-lying areas being inundated due to the downpour.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its latest update, said that the rainfall would continue in Delhi and NCR. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi, NCR,” the IMD said in its forecast, listing the areas where the showers are expected.Also read | Delhi-NCR wake up to rains, thunderstorms; more showers expectedThe Gurugram police tweeted “Water logging has been reported in front of suncity township sec-54. Our traffic officials are on the spot to facilitate the traffic flow. Commuters are requested to plan their travel accordingly.” The authorities also issued similar warnings for several other areas like Iffco chowk, Naharpur FOB, Hero Honda chowk, Medanta underpass, Signature tower, Iffco metro underpass, Galleria market, Kanhai chowk, Wazirabad chowk, Huda city centre, Himgiri chowk, Basai road and a few other places. People were asked to leave their house only if necessary and avoid unnecessary movement.In Delhi, the police were seen responding to many travellers on Twitter regarding traffic jams due to the waterlogging. Heavy traffic jam was reported from Tikri road, Lampur underpass, Ramdev chowk, Kapashera underpass and Kanjhawala chowk.“There is a DTC bus breakdown at Kanjhawala Chowk and PWD work is going on on Kanjhawala Road, the road is broken at various places. Water has filled these roads and the traffic is heavy. Avoid using this route,” the police said in a tweet.Meanwhile, the Noida traffic police too noted that waterlogging has caused traffic disruption near Labour chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rainfall-causes-traffic-disruption-in-gurugram-other-ncr-cities-101626682916154.html
19-07-2021||Other||Heavy rains leave 3 dead, many houses damaged in Uttarakhand districts||At least three people, including a three-year-old girl, were killed as heavy rains lashed Uttarkashi and Tehri Garhwal districts of Uttarakhand in the early hours of Monday. Several houses were also damaged by heavy muck brought in by the rainwater in villages of Uttarkashi and Tehri Garhwal, prompting teams of state disaster response force (SDRF) to initiate search and rescue work. According to SDRF, in Uttarkashi, three people including a mother-daughter duo died after they got trapped under heavy muck in Mandav village in the early hours. Inspector Lalita Negi, media in-charge of SDRF, said, “The village was witnessing very heavy rains since Sunday night due to which a rivulet near it was overflowing.” Also Read | After HC rap, Uttarakhand govt increases stipend of medical interns from ₹7k to ₹17k“On Monday at around 4am, the SDRF camp located about 3kms away from the village received information that several people are stranded in their homes which are filled with rainwater from the rivulet. An SDRF team rushed to the village and started search and rescue operation in which bodies of three people --a woman, and a mother-daughter duo -- were recovered under the muck in their house,” said Negi. The deceased were identified as Mathura Devi, 36, Ritu Devi, 32 and her three-year-old daughter. The officer said search operation was still on. In Tehri Garhwal district, several houses were damaged in Med village but no casualties were reported. According to SDRF, the residents evacuated their homes early morning after hearing thunder and rains which prevented any loss of life. Local administration officials are present in the village to assess property damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rains-leave-3-dead-many-houses-damaged-in-uttarakhand-districts-101626682646337.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Showers hit Delhi traffic; waterlogging, road cave-in reported from many places||After a hot and humid week, showers early Monday morning brought the city to a standstill, with traffic moving at a snail’s pace in several arterial roads during the rush hours. Delhi Traffic Police said that in many areas, the early morning showers led to roads being inundated, which caused vehicle breakdowns and long traffic snarls. While traffic had to be diverted at several places, some areas had to be barricaded because of a portion of road caving in.Data shared by the Delhi Traffic Police till 11am showed that 39 key stretches, including underpasses and major crossings, saw waterlogging and pumps had to be installed to flush out excess water. “Traffic had to be diverted at several stretches because of heavy waterlogging in the morning while some areas had to be barricaded in order to avoid any accidents because of road cave-ins,” said a senior police official.Also Read | Cop waylaid, robbed of motorcycle in west DelhiThe stretches include Vasant Kunj underpass, Zakhira underpass, Mehruali Badarpur Road, Pul Prehladpur, Dwarka Link Road, Okhla Mandi, Lajpat Nagar metro station, Adhchini, Spinal Injury Hospital, IP Estate, Mehram Nagar underpass, NHS underpass, Lampur underpass, Murga Mandi, Seempauri, Najafgarh-Bijwasan (under flyover), Press Enclave and DLF Marg-SSN Marg.“Pul Prehladpur underpass has been closed by the police due to waterlogging, traffic going towards Mehrauli-Badarpur road has been diverted due to it. Besides, road cave-ins have been reported from Press Enclave (Saket) road in south Delhi and Madhu Vihar (Dwarka) to Sagarpur Road, where agencies concerned have been informed and restoration work is being taken up,” the official said.The Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the city, received 69.6 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours. The Palam weather station has so far received the highest 24-hour rainfall of the season at 99.3 mm. Lodhi Road weather station recorded 62 mm while Ridge and Aya Nagar stations got 58 mm and 51.6 mm rainfall, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/showers-hit-delhi-traffic-waterlogging-road-cave-in-reported-from-many-places-101626680605862.html
19-07-2021||Dehradun||3 of family killed in cloudburst in Uttarkashi district in Uttarakhand||Three members of a family, including a mother-daughter duo, were killed while one person was reportedly missing after a cloudburst hit two adjacent villages in Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi district, officials said on Monday.Those killed in the incident that took place on Sunday night in Mandav village were identified as Madhuri Devi (36), Ritu Devi (32) and her three-year-old daughter Trishvi, Uttarakashi's Disaster Management Officer Devendra Patwal said, adding that all the bodies have been recovered.One person is reported to be missing after the cloudburst in the neighbouring Kankrari village. A search operation is underway to find him, he said.Police and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) personnel launched rescue operations in the affected areas immediately after being informed and succeeded in rescuing most of the people trapped in slush.Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident and asked the Uttarkashi District Magistrate to carry out relief and rescue operations in the affected areas on priority. Meanwhile, two labourers who got stranded in a tunnel of the Chibro hydel project in Vikasnagar area of Dehradun district on Sunday evening are still trapped there. Efforts are underway to rescue them, Kalsi police station incharge Rituraj Singh said.  They had fainted inside the tunnel due to lack of oxygen, he said.Most of the rivers in Uttarakhand, including Ganga, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Alaknanda, Mandakini, Pindar, Nandakini, Tons, Saryu, Gori, Kali and Ramganga, are in spate following intermittent rains over the last three days, the State Emergency Operation Centre here informed.A constant vigil on them is being maintained, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/3-of-family-killed-in-cloudburst-in-uttarkashi-district-in-uttarakhand-101626678250323.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Lightning strike kills 5, including 3 kids, in Bihar’s Rohtas||Five persons, including three children, were killed when lightning struck in different villages of Shivsagar block in Rohtas district of Bihar in the last 24 hours. Seven others were injured, five of them critically. Suresh Singh, 55, of Singhampura village was killed outside his house. A 14-year-old boy was killed while grazing his cattle at Alampur village.An 18-year-old woman was killed, and three women were critically injured when they were transplanting paddy in fields at Sikandarpur village. The injured women, identified as Lalpari Devi, Pinki Kumari and Naglata Devi, were admitted to district hospital at Sasaram.Lighting strike left two minor siblings dead and two girls injured in Maldaha village. The children were playing near the fields where their mothers were transplanting paddy. District magistrate Dharmendra Kumar said the administration was providing compensation to the deceased and medical help to the injured. The administration was also creating awareness among the people about safety measures during a lightning strike on a regular basis, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lightning-strike-kills-5-including-3-kids-in-bihar-s-rohtas-101626679466051.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Bihar gets 800,000 additional doses of Covid vaccines this fortnight||Centre has sent additional 800,000 doses of Covishield to Bihar over and above the promised 3.216 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin for the fortnight ending August 4 as the state aims to vaccinate 454,000 residents daily to meet its target of inoculating the adult population of 72.2 million by December 31.Bihar was given 3.428 million doses of the vaccine for the first fortnight of July.“We received 800,000 additional vaccine doses last Friday apart from the scheduled supply of 3.216 million doses between July 16 and August 4. Our target is to vaccinate maximum people in as less time as possible so that the Centre replenishes our stock of vaccines,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar.Bihar plans to first vaccinate the urban population, which is more willing to take the jab, before moving to the rural areas, where vaccine hesitancy is stronger. The state has so far administered 20.9 million vaccine doses against its target population of 72.2 million. Of this, 17.7 million have received the first dose, and 3.153 million have got the second dose.“The government’s focus is to first target the low-hanging fruits before moving up. We will shift our focus to the rural population, who are fast shedding their reluctance towards vaccination, once the willing urban population has been administered the first dose,” said a health official.Patna, for instance, hopes to administer the first vaccine dose to all urban adults by July 25.“We have achieved over 70% first-dose vaccination in urban Patna and hope to complete inoculating the remaining population by July 25, subject to [the] availability of vaccines. The thrust will then shift to rural areas,” said Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh.“In addition to the static session sites, we are deploying one vaccination van in each of the 75 municipal wards of Patna to complete the first-dose vaccination... by July 25,” added Singh.24% of rural Patna has received the first-dose of the vaccines, compared to over 70% in urban areas. Rural Patna has a target population of 2.912 million against 1.436 million in urban Patna.Patna, with a target population of 43.48 lakh (approx.), has consumed 11% of the total doses administered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-gets-800-000-additional-doses-of-covid-vaccines-this-fortnight-101626678143407.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||3 killed, 1 injured in Gurugram building collapse, rescue ops over||Three persons were killed and one severely injured after a three-storey building collapsed in Khawaspur village in Farrukhnagar near Gurugram on Sunday evening. The police said on Monday that operation was over after 19 hours and debris were removed from the site. The reason behind the collapse was not yet clear, officials engaged in rescue work said.On Sunday, two people were pulled out from under the debris — Robin and Pradeep Choudhary. While Robin died, Choudhary suffered injuries and is undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital. On Monday, Pradeep Sharma and Tiny Bhardwaj’s bodies were retrieved who died due to severe injuries, said police.Meanwhile, police registered a case against the company owner and manager under sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 34 (common intention) and 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) that carries a maximum punishment of 10 years was registered at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday. Also Read | Unabated rains in coastal Karnataka claim 1 life; ‘red alert’ for 2 daysTeams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), state disaster response force (SDRF), police and fire brigade, which are carrying out the rescue operation, said that incessant rain early in the morning caused delay. Officials said they found out around 9pm on Sunday that four people were in the building, which housed the employees of a warehouse, when it came down. Eyewitnesses and other employees of the warehouse said the victims were sleeping when the incident took place. Vijay Kumar (35), a resident of Bhiwani who is working in the company for the last one year, and the complainant in the case, said that the building was not in a good condition and they had already informed the manager and owner. “Around 7 pm, my colleague and I were sleeping when we heard the sound of cracks in the building. We rushed out without giving a second thought and as soon as we stepped out, the building collapsed in front of our eyes,” Kumar said. Assistant commissioner of police Hitesh Yadav said they were investigating and no arrests had been made yet. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement wing, said the reason for the collapse was yet unknown. “Our focus is to rescue people who have been trapped and as the building was old there could be multiple reasons. We will investigate once the rescue operation is over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-killed-1-injured-in-gurugram-building-collapse-rescure-ops-continue-101626677602999.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees continuous rainfall; IMD issues orange category storm warning||Mumbai woke up to continuous rainfall on Monday, a day after a second thunderstorm deposited nearly 235mm of rain over the city in just a few hours. Rainfall intensity has markedly reduced, however, with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz recording 70.4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Monday. Some passing thunderstorms, expected to be the last such event of this month, are likely to occur with less intensity than Sunday.Also Read | Unabated rains in coastal Karnataka claim 1 life; ‘red alert’ for 2 daysThe IMD has issued an orange category storm warning for Mumbai for the next four days, indicating “Moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in city and suburbs with possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places.” The latest Doppler radar observation from Mumbai this from around 9.15am [on Monday] indicates formation of a dense cloud cover over parts of Thane, Raigad, Mumbai suburbs and the adjoining Arabian Sea. The IMD has already issued Nowcast for possibilities of intense spells.An off shore monsoon trough near the Maharashtra coast is likely to remain vigorous for the next few days, and Mumbai will continue to see an active monsoon spell till at least July 23, according to officials and independent forecasters. The next week will also have another two to three active spells of rain under the influence of more typical synoptic features, namely a low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal between July 20-21.With seasonal rainfall of the city now standing at 1,881mm, the city has recorded rainfall at about 85%of the seasonal long period average (up to September end). In the past two days alone, the city has recorded 305mm of rainfall. Temperature wise, the daily maximum is expected to remain at 29 degrees Celsius over the next two days while the minimum temperature is expected to be around 24 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rainfall-continues-in-mumbai-intensity-reduces-101626676823110.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Cop waylaid, robbed of motorcycle in west Delhi||A Delhi Police constable was robbed of his motorcycle by three motorcycle-borne men on the Peeragarhi-Janakpuri elevated road in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri late Saturday night, police said on Monday. The constable was returning home from the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border, where he was deployed, when the robbery took place. A case of robbery was registered at the Vikaspuri police station, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that on the intervening night of July 17 and 18, constable Monraj, a resident of Raj Nagar part 2 in southwest Delhi’s Palam, was riding his motorcycle back home. Also Read | 6 injured as truck overturns, falls on van in Delhi’s Wazirabad“When he reached the elevated road of Peeragarhi to Janakpuri, three men on a motorcycle waylaid him. They threatened to stab him. The constable left his motorcycle and walked away. They took his motorcycle and left. The constable the called the police control room,” said DCP Goel. Police said that teams were formed to investigate the robbery, identify the suspects and arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cop-waylaid-robbed-of-motorcycle-in-west-delhi-101626676283364.html
19-07-2021||Patna||7 gram panchayat heads among 19 arrested over a liquor party in Bihar||Eighteen persons including seven-gram Panchayat heads were arrested on Sunday night in Bihar’s Rohtas district while they were consuming liquor, defying the prohibition law in the state. Police arrested another person for hosting the liquor party thrown by a candidate eyeing a legislative council seat.Four mukhyas, husbands of two women mukhiyas and a primary agricultural credit society chairman were among the 18 persons present in the liquor party, held at a house adjacent to the Panchayat Sarkar Bhawan, a local government office at Darigaon village in Rohtas. The nineteenth person to be arrested was the house owner, who allowed such a gathering which broke multiple rules including the prohibition on sale, purchase and consumption of liquor.Based on a tip off received by superintendent of police Ashish Bharti, a police team under sub divisional police officer Arvind Pratap Singh and Darigaon station house officer (SHO) Dharmendra Kumar raided the house in the night and arrested the accused red handed while recovering 125 litres of liquor, two licensed pistols and ammunition from their possession.The arrested persons were identified as Darigaon mukhya Raju Paswan, Alampur mukhya Vijay Paswan, Nauhatta mukhiya Munna Singh, Ugahani mukhya Rajbansh Paswan, Rampur mukhiyapati (mukhiya’s husband) Dharmendra Singh, Hata mukhiyapati Paras Paswan and Sadokhar PACS chairman Krishna Singh apart from 12 persons involved in panchayat level politics. House owner Ravindra Singh was also arrested, SP Ashish Bharti said.All arrested persons excluding the house owner were found positive for alcohol consumption, following which, a case under Excise Act was registered and a deeper investigation into the party began.“The liquor party was thrown possibly by a candidate who is eyeing to contest legislative council election from local bodies quota,” a police officer, preferring not to be named, said. All the arrested persons will be produced before the court and sent to jail on Monday, police said.Panchayat representatives, especially its head mukhiya, are considered key to enforcing prohibition in Bihar. However, they have often been found involved in violation of the rule, putting question marks on the enforcement mechanism, an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/7-gram-panchayat-heads-among-19-arrested-over-a-liquor-party-in-bihar-101626676163119.html
19-07-2021||Bangalore||Unabated rains in coastal Karnataka claim 1 life; 'red alert' for 2 days||One person died and hundreds of houses were submerged in the Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts of coastal Karnataka following heavy rains prompting authorities to issue a "red alert" for the next two days starting Monday, Udayavani newspaper reported.The person who died has been identified as Vasanth Naika of Vital.The incessant and heavy rains in the Dakshina Kannada district have left a trail of destruction. Many low lying areas in Mangaluru city have been inundated making driving difficult. In many places traffic has been diverted. A part of the National Highways 75 and 66 have also been inundated.In the industrial area of Baikampady near Mangaluru, due to overnight landslides on Sunday, vehicles of a cement ready mix company have been buried under tons of mud and an interlock producing unit has also sustained damage due to the landslide.In Bantwal taluk, two different areas have experienced heavy landslides that have destroyed hundreds of areca nut and coconut trees. Three houses have been damaged due to flooding in the low lying areas.Rivers in the district – the Netravati, Kumaradhara, Nandini and their tributaries – are in spate. As a result, the catchment areas of these rivers have been flooded damaging nine houses in Mangaluru, Bantwal, Vital, Kanyana, Puttur, Madanthyar, Uppinangadi, Dharmasthala, Subramanya, Sullia, Panja and Ullal.In the Udupi district, eight houses have been affected and seven of them have been completely destroyed. In all, 15 people living in them have been shifted to safer places.The bathing ghats of the Subramanya and Dharmasthala temples have also been flooded. Devotees going to these temples have been barred from getting into the bathing ghats. The scenic Kamalashile Brahmi Durgaparmeshwari temple in Siddapur in the Udupi district has been submerged up to the sanctum sanctorum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/unabated-rains-in-coastal-karnataka-claim-1-life-red-alert-for-2-days-101626672820567.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||2 dead, one injured in Gurugram in building collapse, rescue ops underway||The death toll in Gurugram building collapse reached 2 after one more body was recovered from under the debris on Monday morning, news agency ANI reported, quoting the civil defence team. The mishap occurred on Sunday evening after a building next to a warehouse collapsed around 7pm in Khawaspur village, situated nearly 20 kilometres from Gurugram's Farrukhnagar block, officials said."One more body was recovered from under the debris after a three-storey building collapsed in Gurugram's Khawaspur area yesterday. A total of two bodies recovered till now while one injured is undergoing treatment. Rescue operation underway," the civil defence team said, reported ANI.Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg on Sunday confirmed the death of one person in the collapse. While one person was rescued and sent to a nearby hospital for treatment of their injuries, two other workers were trapped in the rubble, of which one died on Monday morning."One dead after a three-story building collapsed in Gurugram's Khawaspur area. A person has been rescued and sent to the hospital for treatment. Two persons are feared trapped underneath the debris. Rescue operation is underway," said Garg while speaking to reporters.Earlier, DCP Rajiv Deswal had informed about the building collapse and had said that the fire brigade and police department were carrying out the rescue operation."We received a call regarding a building collapsed. Fire brigade and police department present at the spot and are undertaking the rescue operation," DCP Deswal had said.According to the local residents, the brick and concrete building was around 15 years old and that the warehouse workers lived there.The building is adjacent to a food grain warehouse and labourers were inside it when it suddenly collapsed. Officials said earlier that most of the people were out for dinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-dead-one-injured-in-gurugram-in-building-collapse-rescue-ops-underway-101626668002638.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Rainwater enters Gurugram homes, three underpasses closed||Heavy rain on Monday morning left most areas of Gurugram heavily waterlogged. At least three underpasses — at Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, and Iffco Chowk — were closed due to rainwater accumulation and the city’s main stormwater drain at Badshahpur is running at full capacity. At both the Iffco Chowk and Medanta underpass, near Rajiv Chowk, traffic police barricaded entry points, while at Hero Honda Chowk underpass, they stacked sandbags to prevent commuters from entering the road.The Signature Tower underpass is also waterlogged, and traffic police said that they are monitoring the situation closely and may close the road if it does not stop raining by noon.Rainwater also entered low-lying houses in DLF phases 1 and 3, and Suncity Township in the morning.Also Read | Mumbai local trains resume; extremely heavy rains predicted in 48 hrsMorning traffic was also hit by waterlogging, with Sohna Road, Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Jharsa Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk the worst-affected. Traffic on the main carriageways of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, however, largely remained unaffected, barring the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, opposite Badshahpur drain, which is heavily inundated with rainwater.At each of these stretches, commuters said they took 15-30 minutes to cross the affected areas.Gurugram traffic police issued regular updates over social media regarding areas that are severely waterlogged, including Suncity Township, Iffco Chowk, Naharpur, Hero Honda Chowk, Medanta underpass, Signature Towers, Iffco Chowk underpass, Galleria Market Road, Kanhai Chowk, Wazirabad Chowk, HUDA City Centre, Sector 4/7/9 Chowk, Himgiri Chowk, the area around Mini Secretariat, Basai Road and cautioned commuters to avoid these stretches and plan their travel accordingly.According to an Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) update from its Chandigarh office, “Moderate to intense rain likely over parts of Panipat, Sonipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Gurgaon, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala districts & Light to Moderate rain likely over parts of Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Jind, Mewat, Palwal, Faridabad, Mahendragarh, Rewari districts and adjoining areas during next 2-3 hours.”. The update was issued for Monday morning (8.30am till 11.30am).District administration officials also issued alerts over various Whatsapp groups around 7am, alerting residents that the Badshashpur drain is running at full capacity.“Badshahpur drain (running) at full capacity. Till its level comes down there will be waterlogging as it is the (main) source for drainage of water. Let’s hope rain intensity weakens or stops,” the alert shared by deputy commissioner Yash Garg read.Badshahpur drain carries nearly 70% of Gurugram’s rainwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rainwater-enters-gurugram-homes-three-underpasses-closed-101626672023149.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||6 injured as truck overturns, falls on van in Delhi’s Wazirabad||At least six people were injured, two of the seriously, after a container truck overturned and fell on an Eeco van in north Delhi’s Wazirabad on Monday morning. All the six were rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital, where they are undergoing treatment, police said.Also Read | Delhi University to hold entrance test for 13 courses, check detailsA senior police officer said that the accident took place around 6am. A container truck overturned and fell on a van carrying six passengers. Four of them were rescued immediately by passersby and locals while two remained trapped inside the van. “A crane was used to pull up the overturned container truck. The rescue team cut the van’s roof using a gas cutter and rescued the two men. They were seriously injured. All six were admitted to a hospital. They are undergoing treatment,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6-injured-as-truck-overturns-falls-on-van-in-delhi-s-wazirabad-101626671603103.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||116 revellers rescued from Kharghar hills in Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai||Police and fire brigade personnel have rescued 116 people -- including 78 women and five children -- marooned on Kharghar hills in Navi Mumbai since Sunday evening.Heavy rains in that area led to the stream swelling, leaving the revellers on the hills. The police and the fire brigade officials rescued them using an iron ladder and a plastic rope. The rescue operation started a little after 5pm and it continued for two hours, the police said. Entry to the Kharghar hills and Pandavkada waterfall, another popular tourist spot in the town, was banned in June in view of the numerous accidents that took place there in the recent past. Shatrughna Mali, senior inspector of Kharghar police station, said, “These revellers were from different places of Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. They went to the hills by crossing the stream earlier in the day. However, due to heavy rainfall the stream got swollen, making it impossible for them to return. We managed to rescue all of them with the help of fire brigade personnel. No one suffered injuries in the rescue operation.” “We have deployed officials so that no one can enter the area. However, the hills cover a huge area at Kharghar, and our six to seven officials are not enough to watch over the entire region. We have not taken action against rescued revellers for illegally entering the hills, as they were anyway scared. But we will not spare anyone from now on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/116-revellers-rescued-from-kharghar-hills-in-maharashtra-s-navi-mumbai-101626671182886.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sure new Punjab Cong chief Sidhu will break ice with Capt Amarinder: Khaira||A day after he supported chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision not to meet Navjot Singh Sidhu until he publicly apologises for his derogatory tweets against him, Bholath MLA and former leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Monday expressed the confidence that the state party leadership would iron out its differences and work towards forming the government again. “I welcome the appointment of @sherryontopp as the PPCC chief. I’m sure he will break the ice with @capt_amarinder in an honourable manner and work towards forming a Congress government once again to resolve burning issues like sacrilege and Behbal (Kalan police firing) besides ameliorating the lot of the poor,” tweeted Khaira, an Aam Aadmi Party rebel, who returned to the Congress on June 3. Also read: Navjot Sidhu to steer Punjab Cong with 4 working presidentsKhaira along with Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Bhadaur MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula had returned to the Congress fold just before Capt Amarinder Singh was headed to Delhi to meet the Congress committee looking to resolve infighting in the Punjab unit. A former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee member, Khaira had quit the AAP and founded the Punjab Ekta Party, while Kamalu and Dhaula are first-time legislators. Hours before the Congress high command named Sidhu as the new president of the Punjab Congress on Sunday night along with four working presidents, Khaira and the two other new entrants had urged the party leadership not to let Capt Amarinder down as “because of his unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab”. “Sidhu was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party, but condemning and critcising his own party and government in public has only created a rift in the cadres and weakened it.” Raja Warring, Zira call on Sidhu Gidderbaha legislator and former Punjab Youth Congress president Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Zira MLA Kulbir Singh Zira called on Sidhu at his Patiala residence early on Monday to congratulate him on his appointment as the state unit chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sure-new-punjab-cong-chief-sidhu-will-break-ice-with-capt-amarinder-khaira-101626669924434.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains resume; extremely heavy rains predicted in 48 hrs||Local train services were operational in Mumbai on Monday a day after heavy rains in the city caused severe waterlogging and disruptions in road and rail traffic. Trains on Central Main Line, Harbour Line and Trans Harbour Line are now running in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted moderate to heavy rain or thundershowers with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over Mumbai and its suburbs for the next 48 hours. The maximum and minimum temperatures of the city will be 29 and 24 degrees Celsius on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, according to IMD’s forecast.Also read | Mumbai monsoon mayhem: Freak bursts of rain sign of climate crisisAt least 31 people were killed several were injured in rain-related incidents, officials said. Termed by meteorologists as “monstrous”, the torrential rain from a thunderstorm also led to flooding in low-lying regions of Maharashtra’s capital and even triggered house collapses, electrocutions, and landslides.Officials said 19 people were killed in Mumbai’s Chembur and 10 died in the suburb of Vikhroli. In both cases, people were crushed to death while sleeping inside their houses. Besides, one man was electrocuted to death in Andheri West, officials added.Weather officials said that the city received 235mm of rain in four hours between 12am and 4am on Sunday, only hours after Mumbai gauged the season’s highest daily rainfall (253mn) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-back-on-track-extremely-heavy-rains-predicted-in-48-hrs-101626667379629.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||UP makes negative RT-PCR mandatory for those visiting from these states||Uttar Pradesh has said visitors from states like Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and those with a positivity rate of more than 3 per cent will have to show a negative RT-PCR report no older than four days, according to HT's sister publication Live Hindustan on Monday. Apart from this, only those who have received two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine will be allowed to enter UP, the report added.Live Hindustan said chief minister Yogi Adityanath took the decision during the meeting of Team-9 officials on Sunday. Adityanath said that Covid-19 cases are surging in different states of the country. A negative RT-PCR report should be made mandatory for people coming to Uttar Pradesh from those states where the rate of corona positive is more than three per cent, which is not more than four days old from the start of the journey.Also read | Covid 3rd wave: Has it arrived? What government, latest projection reports sayThese rules should also be implemented for people coming by private vehicles apart from road, air and rail routes, Adityanath said. Intensive contact tracing and testing of people coming to Uttar Pradesh from these states should also be done. Their antigen test and thermal scanning must be done on arrival in the state. Guidelines should be issued in this regard.On Sunday, 56 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh and seven more people succumbed, taking the infection tally to 17,07,847 and the death toll to 22,721.Also read | Covid-19 virus piggybacks only black carbon emission, says studyOf the 56 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, six each were reported from Varanasi and Gautam Buddh Nagar, five from Prayagraj and four from Lucknow, the statement issued by the UP government said on Sunday. Two of the new deaths were recorded in Kanpur, one each in Bulandshahr, Amethi, Ambedkar Nagar, Mirzapur and Auraiyya, it added. Active Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 1260, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-makes-negative-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-those-visiting-from-these-states-101626665873024.html
19-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Participants in Independence Day parade, officials to get vaccinated||The official Independence Day celebrations at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in Bihar this year will not see any cultural events besides display of seven to eight tableaux and special guests from other states will also remain absent as part of Covid-19 containment measures. Not just that, all participating contingents and officials will be vaccinated before the Independence Day parade rehearsals begin on August 1.“Parade participants will undergo Covid-19 test before beginning of rehearsal. They will wear mask and follow Covid-19 protocols during rehearsal period”, said Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.It has also been suggested that the dignitaries should be invited through e-cards this time.Altogether 10 teams, including from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Bihar Military Police (BMP), Home guard and Fire Brigade will participate in the parade.“Adequate number of police magistrates and force will be deployed for peaceful celebration. Instructions have been given for barricading and sanitisation of Gandhi Maidan. Proper arrangement of drinking water facility, power supply, lights, seating plan will be made”, Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-participants-in-independence-day-parade-officials-to-get-vaccinated-101626664702712.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Moderate showers in Delhi today; mercury to drop further||Parts of Delhi witnessed rain on Monday morning with moderate showers likely to take place in several areas throughout the day, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 32°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 28°C – one notch above the normal and the maximum temperature was 36.4°C – one degree above the normal.The IMD, which got a series of predictions wrong over the arrival of the monsoon in the last month, had forecast heavy rainfall over the weekend and issued an “orange” alert.Also Read | Abducted Delhi man’s body found beheaded in BaghpatHowever, parts of the city witnessed heavy rainfall only on Sunday night with most areas witnessing little to no rainfall over the weekend.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 82. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 94, which is also in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Due to the rain, air quality in the national Capital is also expected to stay in the satisfactory category this week. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category as forecasted. The southwest monsoon has covered the entire country. Increased rainfall activity is likely to influence AQI positively. Widespread rainfall is forecasted for next three days. Satisfactory to good AQI is forecasted for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moderate-showers-in-delhi-today-mercury-to-drop-further-101626663504265.html
19-07-2021||Patna||First of Bihar’s 123 oxygen plants installed in Patna hospital||The first of the 123 oxygen generation plants in the state was installed at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous medical institution of the government of Bihar, in Patna on Sunday. Each of the 36 district hospitals in the state will have at least one such oxygen generation plant, said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey. The remaining 122 oxygen plants will be put in place by August 30, he added. The oxygen generation plant at IGIMS marked the beginning of the state’s preparedness for oxygen in anticipation of the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), added Pandey. The pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plant will generate 233 litres per minute oxygen, said Ravi Shankar Prasad, Patna’s MP and a former Union minister, who was present at the inaugural ceremony, along with Pandey. Also Read | Covid 3rd wave: Has it arrived? What government, latest projection reports sayThe plant will cater to refilling around 50 D-type oxygen cylinders, each containing around 47 litres of oxygen, in a day, added Prasad. In addition, two cryogenic liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks, each of 20 kilo litres, will also be set up at the institute. One such tank, which will cater to 50% oxygen requirement at the ICU, will be installed by the end of this month, said health minister Pandey. The minister said the foundation stone laying ceremony for the 1,200-bedded hospital at the IGIMS will be done soon, depending on the availability of chief minister Nitish Kumar. IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas said the institute will strive to make itself self-reliant in terms of availability of medical oxygen before the onset of the third wave of the pandemic. IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said both Covid-19 and non-Covid patients, requiring oxygen support, will benefit once oxygen is available through internal resources at the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/first-of-bihar-s-123-oxygen-plants-installed-in-patna-hospital-101626663502845.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,000 new Covid-19 cases, 5,756 recoveries||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 9,000 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,149,264. The tally of active cases increased to 103,486. The state reported 5,756 recoveries in the past 24 hours and saw 180 casualties, taking the toll to 127,031. Satara reported the highest fatalities with 32 deaths, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad with 20 deaths.Daily Covid-19 cases have not gone down in the past month, which has become a cause of concern for state authorities. Experts have stated the local administration will have to work on mission mode to ensure decline in cases.Also Read | Covid 3rd wave: Has it arrived? What government, latest projection reports saySince June 14, the state has been reporting 8,000 to 10,000 cases each day with a few exceptions when less than 8,000 cases were reported. Despite lockdown restrictions in place, the situation is not improving. In the past 18 days, the average daily cases stood at 8,489, as compared to 8,843 cases recorded in the first nine days of this month. Last month, it stood at 10,542.On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 455 cases, taking the case tally to 731,158. It also recorded 12 fatalities, pushing toll to 15,702.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 220,784 samples and had a positivity rate of 4.07%. However, the overall positivity rate stood at 13.66%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Sunday.A total of 124,907 doses of vaccine were administered on Sunday, according to the data available on CoWIN portal. Till date, 39,511,619 doses have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-000-new-covid-19-cases-5-756-recoveries-101626662723571.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR wake up to rains, thunderstorms; intense showers expected for 2 hours||Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Monday woke up to a pleasant morning as rain and thunderstorm hit the area, bringing the temperature down by several notches. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Delhi and NCR will witness moderate to heavy intensity rains for the next two hours."Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi and NCR (Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida)," IMD said in a tweet.Visuals from across Delhi showed people driving their vehicles as rains lashed Dhaula Kuan, Janpath, Pragati Maidan and Ferozshah road. As all parts of Delhi continued to witness widespread showers, the maximum and minimum temperatures settled at 32 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively in the Capital.19/07/2021: 06:50 IST; Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi and NCR ( Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida)The other areas to receive the heavy rainfall include Kurukshetra, Assandh, Safidon, Panipat, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Rewari, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Palwal (Haryana) Deoband, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baraut, Bagpat, Bijnaur, Chandpur, Hastinapur, Khatauli, Daurala, Meerut, Modinagar, Rampur, Moradabad, Billari, Sambhal, Amroha, Garhmukteshwar, Siyana, Hapur, Pilakhua, Chandausi, Bahajoi, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Bulandshahar, Kasganj, Sikandra Rao, Iglas, Aligarh, Gabhana, Jattari, Khurja, Mathura, Barsana, Nandgaon (UP) Viratnagar, Kotputli, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Mahandipur Balaji, Mahawa, Rajgarh, Laxmangarh, Nadbai, Nagar, Alwar, Tizara, Bayana, Bharatpur, Deeg (Rajasthan).Delhi saw rains for two days after the monsoon arrived last Tuesday but did not rain much since Thursday and light to moderate rains lashed several parts of the national capital on Sunday. Monsoon in Delhi has been delayed by over two weeks.The IMD has said the usual monsoon onset date in Delhi and NCR regions is on June 27 and the maximum rainfall is seen from July 10 till the end of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-wake-up-to-rains-thunderstorms-intense-showers-expected-for-2-hours-101626658723022.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The world is what it is||To be emotionally resilient to misfortune. To accept the moment as it presents itself.If you can be this, then you’re a stoic person.You may dig deeper by reading the complete Wikipedia entry on stoicism. Or you may come to Anand Vihar, at the Delhi-UP border, and gaze upon this face that looks the very essence of stoicism.The sculpture is installed in a small park. The eyes are half-open, the lips may be smiling a little, as if hinting at the person’s bemusement at the ways of the world—probably implying that the only way to get through is to stay detached from passing joys and griefs.This evening the world around the park—it is tucked in the middle of the Ghaziabad-bound highway—is milling with traffic and pedestrians. The bus terminus across the road is continually flushing out roadways buses headed to UP towns like Bareilly and Etawah. But the park is empty, except for a man asleep at the foot of the sculpture. Far behind, the sun is setting and the sky is bleached in various shades of red, pink and orange. The elevated metro track forms the sculpture’s imposing backdrop. Soon enough, two trains appear from opposite sides and pass each other noiselessly. The scene seems to symbolise the face’s two clashing emotions—pleasure and pain. They cancel each other, leaving the figure indifferent to both.A plaque underneath reveals the moortikar, the sculptor, to be Dr Lal Ratnakar, from Jaunpur/Ghaziabad. The artwork—titled Niharika—was unveiled in 2014 on the occasion of an art festival in Ghaziabad.To be sure, Delhi region is full of statutes and sculptures. Most statues lie in neglect, even though some are more interesting (like the Tolstoy’s statue, with his flowing beard in Janpath). Many sculptures in the city’s public spaces are so abstract that they are difficult to understand (like the one at Mandi House). But this face is easy to read. As the daylight fades, the face looks more like its own shadow, losing the solidity of its stoniness.Meanwhile, the sleeping man is still asleep, the traffic is becoming more chaotic, and the metro trains are appearing in swift intervals. The stoic face is accepting the world as what it is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-world-is-what-it-is-101626655012546.html
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad resumes demolitions in Khori village after a day’s halt||Faridabad authorities resumed the ongoing demolition drive in Khori village, which was suspended on Saturday, a day after Indian authorities replied to the United Nations Human Rights Council over a statement released by its six special rapporteurs that called for the drive to be halted.Last month, the Supreme Court directed the Haryana government and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad to remove “all encroachments”, consisting of around 10,000 residential units, in the Aravalli forest area, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge in the rule of law” and talk of “fairness”.On Friday, experts from the United Nations Human Rights Council called on India to halt the eviction of around 100,000 people, including 20,000 children, from Khori village in Faridabad, which began last Wednesday, and said “it is particularly important residents be kept safe during the pandemic”.In response, the Permanent Mission of India to the Office of the United Nations issued a statement on Saturday, saying, “It is unfortunate that the special rapporteurs have chosen to issue a press release just two days after sending a joint communication to this Mission and not waiting for a response.”The police said that the demolition process remained peaceful. Around 2,000 police personnel were deployed in Khori village on Sunday.Garima Mittal, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, said the demolition drive was recorded through drone cameras.The deputy commissioner of Faridabad, Yashpal Yadav, said, “We have started full-scale demolition and we are implementing the Supreme Court orders in letter and spirit. All structures will be demolished as per the orders and not just those that have been vacated. The drive is being conducted peacefully and we have not faced any challenge so far, except people not cooperating.”Meanwhile, social activists and residents alleged that situation has worsened in Khori village and that there has been no let-up in the demolitions even after the United Nations’ experts urged an immediate halt.“On Sunday, demolitions started from the Durga temple side, and the number of police deployed there is much higher than what we had seen until now. They have encircled Khori Gaon from all sides and are restricting movement in and out. Volunteers and residents from Khori who have been distributing food are now stuck in this police blockade. They are not being allowed to leave,” said Neelesh Kumar, a social activist with Basti Suraksha Manch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-resumes-demolitions-in-khori-village-after-a-day-s-halt-101626654654972.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Abducted Delhi man’s body found beheaded in Baghpat||A 52-year-old man was allegedly abducted from Delhi and killed in an agricultural field in Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, where his headless and decomposed body was recovered by the local police on July 16, four days after the crime, police said on Sunday.The accused, Riyasat, allegedly killed Shahzad with the help of his nephew and a friend, after the victim failed to repay a loan of ₹25,000. Riyasat and his associate, Javed, have been arrested; his nephew, Nadeem, is still absconding, the police said.Riyasat told the police that he loaned ₹25,000 to Shahzad on three to four occasions on interest, and that the victim was required to return a certain amount per day over a fixed period, to repay the loan with interest. Shahzad last borrowed ₹4,500, and was to return ₹100 daily for two months as part of the loan deal, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.“Shahzad stopped paying the daily amount after 12 days. When Riyasat demanded his money back, Shahzad picked up a fight with him. To avenge his insult, Riyasat abducted Shahzad with the help of Nadeem and Javed,” the DCP said.Police said on July 13, Shahzad’s family members registered a report at the Seemapuri police station. They said Shahzad left home on July 12, but did not return and his mobile phone was also not reachable. He worked as a house painter.When the police and Shahzad’s family members were looking for him, a headless and decomposed body was found in a field in Baghpat on July 16.The Seemapuri police learnt about it and took Shahzad’s family members to Baghpat, where they identified the body by its clothes and the identification marks. The head was missing, the DCP said.“We registered a case of kidnapping, murder and destruction of evidence under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 365, 302 and 201 at the Seemapuri police station and investigation was taken up,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.During initial probe, the police suspected the role of Shahzad’s daughter-in-law and her family members, after learning that she filed a rape case against him and his brother last year. However, no evidence was found against them.Then, the police came to know that Shahzad used to borrow money from Riyasat, who lived in the same neighbourhood. It was also established that Shahzad was last seen with Riyasat. When Riyasat was questioned, he confessed to the murder and revealed the role of Nadeem and Javed.“We arrested Riyasat and Javed on Saturday night. Riyasat said that he lured Shahzad to Baghpat on pretext of providing him a contract to paint a house. Javed and Nadeem joined them on the way. They offered liquor to Shahzad, and when he was drunk, Riyasat and Nadeem took him to the field and killed him with a meat cleaver. They then severed Shahzad’s head and threw it in a canal near Muradnagar,” DCP Sathiyasundaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/abducted-delhi-man-s-body-found-beheaded-in-baghpat-101626653467178.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||BSES discoms to stop buying power from 6 thermal plants||After exiting the power purchase agreement (PPA) with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for the Dadri-1 plant, the two BSES discoms in Delhi are now looking at giving up the electricity purchased from at least six more plants located outside the Capital,the Reliance Infrastructure-led BSES said on Sunday.“Apart from Dadri-I, BSES discoms in Delhi have initiated the process with the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission for exiting the PPAs with the remaining power plants in this category. The PPA with five of these plants -- Unchahar-1, Farakka, Dadri 1, Auriya gas, and Anta -- has already crossed its shelf life of 25 years,” said a discom official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bses-discoms-to-stop-buying-power-from-6-thermal-plants-101626652621109.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Disaster body cancels kanwar yatra in Delhi||Delhi on Sunday cancelled the kanwar yatra, days after Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh called off the religious pilgrimage due to Covid-19 concerns.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in an order prohibited any gatherings, processions or celebrations related to the pilgrimage.“In spite of being banned /suspended by Uttarakhand government, there is an apprehension of gatherings/ congregations/processions during Kanwar Yatra 2021. Therefore, in view of persisting Covid-19 situation, it is decided that Kanwar Yatra 2021 should not be permitted in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi..,” said the DDMA order, which HT has seen.The order also cited an existing DDMA direction which bans all religious, cultural, sports, political, academic and other similar gatherings in the national capital.This is the second year the yatra has been cancelled due to the pandemic. Last year too, the kanwar sanghs publicly announced they will not arrange camps.Months after the Mahakumbh drew 9.1 million devotees and seeded clusters of infections, concerns have grown over the kanwar yatra.The DDMA order came a day after the Uttar Pradesh government, citing a decision by groups representing pilgrims, said that the kanwar yatra will not take place this year. On Friday, when the UP government told the Supreme Court that it is looking forward to allow a symbolic yatra this year with restricted number of tourists, the top court shot down the suggestion.Last week, the Uttarakhand government called off kanwar yatra citing risks of potential spread of Covid-19.The annual yatra attracts around 30 million pilgrims who travel on foot from many northern and northwestern states to Haridwar to collect water from the Ganga and carry it back to their home towns. Uttarakhand, which too will vote in the assembly elections next year, has already cancelled the yatra and said it will not allow devotees to arrive in the state.Delhi too witnesses crowds every year joining the pilgrimage either from the Capital or people from neighbouring states to reach either Uttarakhand or Uttar Pradesh. “In usual years, the revenue department of the government is entrusted with arrangements for the pilgrims. They set up temporary tents and camps for them to take rest, toilets and facilities providing drinking water,” said a senior DDMA official||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/disaster-body-cancels-kanwar-yatra-in-delhi-101626652363875.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Prices of vegetables in city go up on back of rain, fuel rates||With monsoon setting in across the country last week, and fuel prices on the up, the prices of meat, fruits and vegetables in Delhi have increased over the past few days.The retail price of onions touched ₹50-60 per kg on Sunday, against an average of ₹40 a week ago, the price of potatoes went up from ₹25-30 per kg to ₹40 per kg, and price of raw chicken touched ₹240 a kilo in some parts of the city, against last week’s ₹200-220.Prices of fruits and vegetables usually increase as monsoon covers the country, because of transportation and storage hurdles. This year, however, the record prices of automotive fuels, led to a hike in the price of vegetables even before large parts of northern India started witnessing monsoon rains, said traders across agricultural product markets in Delhi.“Soon the price rise will start reflecting in food grains. Edible oil costs more than usual in any case. Any further increase will make things very difficult,” said Ankita Aggarwal, a resident of Delhi’s Indra Vihar.“The prices have increased in the wholesale markets such as Azadpur, Okhla and Ghazipur. So, as a result, retail prices have increased as well. Prices usually go up in the monsoons, but this year prices have witnessed significant increase very soon,” said Sandeep Gupta, a retail vendor of fruits and vegetables in south Delhi’s Mehrauli market.Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agricultural produce market, said: “There has been at least a 20% increase in transportation costs over the past week.”Iqbal Qureshi, a poultry trader and vice-chairperson of the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur, said, “We are paying higher transport costs for live chicken because of the increase in prices of petrol and diesel.”On Sunday, the cost of petrol in Delhi touched ₹101.84 a litre, and diesel was sold for ₹89.87.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/prices-of-vegetables-in-city-go-up-on-back-of-rain-fuel-rates-101626648696393.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Simi Singh scores record-breaking ton for Ireland||Simi Singh aka Simranjit Singh from Mohali might have quit playing cricket 16 years ago when in India. But he is shining bright for Ireland.On July 15, he became the first-ever cricketer to score an ODI century batting at the eighth position or lower. Singh scored a feisty 100 (not out) against a quality South African bowling attack in the third ODI at Malahide Cricket Club in Dublin. However, Simi’s efforts weren’t enough as South Africa overpowered Ireland by 70 runs to end the series at 1-1.Singh has played 30 ODIs and 24 T20Is for Ireland since making his international debut in 2017 against New Zealand. The 34-year-old cricketer surpassed England’s Sam Curran, who scored a valiant 95 against India in Pune earlier this year. Singh had quit cricket in India when he was not considered for the U-19 Punjab state team despite doing consistently well in the U-14, U-16 and U-17 levels. He had then moved to Ireland in 2005 to pursue a hotel management course along with cricket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-simi-singh-scores-record-breaking-ton-for-ireland-101626641181857.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Attack on BJP leaders in Chandigarh: Party demands action against police negligence||The Punjab governor and UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore, will hold a high-level meeting on Monday to examine the attack on city mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “All aspects of the incident, including any negligence on the part of the police, will be examined in the meeting called by the administrator on Monday.”Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Arun Sood said, “We have requested the administration to take necessary steps so that Chandigarh is not turned into another Singhu border. If the administration fails to take remedial steps, the BJP will plan its strategy on the issue accordingly.”Earlier in the day, members of BJP took out a protest rally, planned from the party office in Sector 33 to Governor House, which was stopped by the authorities at Labour Chowk. The party leaders submitted a memorandum to the administrator through the sub-divisional magistrate.Sood said, “We have submitted three demands in the memorandum. First, the negligence of the police must be looked into. We had informed them well in advance about the video. The mayor before leaving the venue had again checked with the police and he was again assured it was in control. Second, due action must be taken against the perpetrators of violence. Third, don’t let the city’s law and order fall victim to these agitations.”The police on Sunday arrested three more protesters for attacking the vehicles of BJP leaders. Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) were added to the FIR.The three accused include Rajinder Singh, Harpreet Singh and Malwinder Singh. They were presented in a court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody. The police, however, didn’t share their exact role.On July 17, 22 people were arrested during the protest, but were later bailed out. Officials said that the police were going over videos of the incident to identify violent protesters and those who attacked the vehicles of Tandon and Sharma.The members of Kisan Ekta Chandigarh Union on Sunday have decided to meet the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Chandigarh on Monday to demand immediate release of the three protesters.The decision was taken in a meeting held in front of Bestech Mall, Sector 66. Satnam Singh, one of the leaders, said, “In case our demands are not met, the farmers will block the UT barriers at Mullanpur and Zirakpur.”He added, “The UT police have falsely implicated us in cases. We were protesting there peacefully. The planted BJP goons were behind the attack.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attack-on-bjp-leaders-in-chandigarh-party-demands-action-against-police-negligence-101626641122069.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||10-year-old girl found murdered in Panchkula, father prime suspect||Police are hunting for a 35-year-old man after his 10-year-old daughter was found murdered in the forest near Bander Ghati on Sunday.The victim, Agrima, a student of Class 4, was found dead by a passer-by who sounded the police.According to police, the child was last seen leaving with her father, Bhupender, in their car around 3pm on Saturday. Bhupender, who takes coaching classes, has been missing since, making him the prime suspect.Sources said the suspect and his wife, who hailed from Dehradun in Uttarakhand, had marital discord.Deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa said efforts were underway to trace the father. Police have ruled out sexual assault, and registered a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. An autopsy will be conducted at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 on Monday to establish the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10yearold-girl-found-murdered-in-panchkula-father-prime-suspect-101626639321566.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area completes one week with zero Covid deaths||Witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 cases for nearly two months now, the tricity did not register any virus-related death in the past one week, a first since the devastating second wave started in March.The daily deaths had peaked to 38 on May 5, while the cases had climbed to a record high of 2,612 on May 10. As lockdown restrictions came in place across the tricity in the first week of May, the figures started showing a downturn, allowing public movement and businesses to resume in June.From 1,079 Covid cases and 58 deaths between June 7 and 13, six weeks later, the figures have come down to 78 and zero, respectively, in the past seven days, bringing much-needed respite to the health infrastructure.Panchkula even saw the daily cases dropping to zero on July 17, while Chandigarh’s cases came down to one after nearly 15 months on July 16 and Mohali’s to two after an equal period on July 15.Tricity, too, logged cases in single digits twice on July 13 and July 17 when nine and six people were found infected, respectively.While no deaths were recorded in the past one week, nine people have succumbed to the virus since the advent of July, including seven in Mohali and one each in Chandigarh and Panchkula.The recovery rate continues to remain over 98% across the three jurisdictions, while the daily positivity rate has slipped to below 1%.10 test positiveOn Sunday, in a slight rise in cases, 10 people tested positive against six on Saturday, which was a fresh low in nearly 15 months.Chandigarh’s cases rose from three to six in the past 24 hours, while Mohali had three cases for the second consecutive day. After reporting zero cases on Saturday, Panchkula logged one new case.The active cases continued to recede, settling at 120 from Saturday’s 131. Currently, 50 patients each are infected in Chandigarh and Mohali, and 20 in Panchkula.Since the pandemic broke out, their caseloads have reached, 61,030, 68,402 and 30,630, respectively.At 1,056, Mohali’s Covid toll is the highest in the tricity, followed by Chandigarh’s 809 and Panchkula’s 375.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-completes-one-week-with-zero-covid-deaths-101626639142539.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, get jabbed at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh||UT adviser Dharam Pal inaugurated the vaccination sewa centre at Sukhna Lake on Sunday, which has been set-up by the health department in collaboration with Karan Gilhotra Foundation and supported by United Sikhs and ASR Foundation .The foundation has provided waterproof shelter canopies with seating arrangement for those who visit the centre to take the vaccine.The health department, in collaboration with Rotary Club Association, also undertook a two-day door-to-door Covid vaccination drive at Kishangarh which concluded on Sunday. A team of health workers including Anganwadi workers and Rotary volunteers assisted in the campaign.Mobile vaccination teams were deployed inside two CTU buses and approximately 3,500 houses of Kishangarh were covered along with jhuggis at settled slums by 15 teams.Approximately 714 eligible beneficiaries were vaccinated during the two-day drive. A lucky draw was also organised in which two beneficiaries were felicitated with prizes.A two-day door-to-door campaign will be undertaken in Dhanas from Monday using CTU vaccination buses, ambulances and volunteers of ASR and Karan Gilhotra foundation.Special vaccination camps were also organised at Gwala and Kachi Colony in Maloya where 179 and 130 people were vaccinated, respectively||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-get-jabbed-at-sukhna-lake-in-chandigarh-101626638661506.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Requests for elective surgeries increase at private hospitals in Chandigarh tricity area||With the daily Covid-19 cases dipping after the second wave of the pandemic abates, the private hospitals in the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali are witnessing a huge rush of patients for elective surgeries.Elective surgery is a procedure scheduled in advance because it does not involve a medical emergency.Even though international travel for medical tourism has resumed in India, not many foreign patients are approaching the tricity’s private hospitals for availing non-Covid medical facilities. However, the hospitals are trying to make up for the losses faced during the pandemic as the footfall of patients from other states has increased for non-Covid elective surgeries.Representatives of private hospitals believe that with the second wave flattening, this is the right time to provide treatment to patients with pending surgeries as further delay may deteriorate their health conditions and elective surgeries could turn into emergencies.A spokesperson of Max Super Specialty Hospital, Mohali, informed that the elective surgeries had dipped to around 70% during the Covid situation, but now when the surge had abated, the hospital was providing treatment to 20% more than the normal number of patients. The demand for elective surgeries had suddenly increased, however the footfall of international patients had not picked up pace yet.Elective surgeries resumed after govt guidelinesA spokesperson of Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said, “During the first wave, all elective surgeries and procedures were put on hold. While the emergency surgeries remained inevitable even during the peak of the pandemic, Fortis soon resumed elective surgeries after government guidelines. Our experts have performed over 10,000 emergency and elective surgeries for cardiac, neuro, cancer, orthopaedic and other specialties during the pandemic.”The hospital authorities added that during the pandemic, the hospital occupancy had dropped and elective procedures had come to a standstill. In addition, the Covid treatment was fixed at the rates defined by the government, which were either zero or at negative margins. “Fortis hospital had dedicated 150 beds for Covid-19 patients. But now when the cases are dipping, many patients are approaching the hospital to get their non-Covid elective surgeries done,” they said.Dr PS Maan, medical superintendent of the Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula, said, “During the Covid situation, the hospital was doing less than 50% of its routine work and elective surgeries had dipped drastically. However, we are getting a huge response from patients now and we are back on our normal track.”Meanwhile, Dr RS Bedi, who runs the Bedi Hospital in Chandigarh and is the former national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, said that not only big corporate hospitals, but private clinics were also witnessing a huge demand of patients.“Since Covid cases have dropped in the tricity, this is the only time to provide medical facilities to non-Covid patients as they are more prone to getting infected with the virus in the possible third wave. The demand for elective surgeries has gone up since June this year, after the peak of the second wave started to flatten. Also, people have now resumed attending out-patient departments of private hospitals and clinics, which is a positive sign for the private sector,” Dr Bedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/requests-for-elective-surgeries-increase-at-private-hospitals-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101626638601402.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Over 30 dead as heavy rain batters Mumbai||Torrential rain from a thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as “monstrous”, hammered Mumbai in the early hours on Sunday, flooding low-lying areas, triggering landslides, house collapses and electrocutions that resulted in the deaths of at least 31 people, officials said.The island city received 235mm of rain in four hours (between 12am and 4am) on Sunday, according to weather officials, hours after a similar extreme weather event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall (253mm) on Friday.The suddenness and intensity of Sunday morning’s downpour made it one of the most intense rain spells since the 2005 cloudburst, when a record 944mm downpour was recorded in the country’s financial capital in a single day.The heavy rain, which environment minister Aaditya Thackeray labelled as a “mini cloudburst”, triggered two landslides — the first in east Mumbai’s Chembur where 19 people were killed, and the second in the suburb of Vikhroli, where at least 10 people lost their lives.In both instances, landslides crushed the houses with peoplesleeping inside. Rescuers were seen trying to dig through the debris using their hands in an attempt to find survivors, and officials said they feared more people may still be trapped. A 16-year-old boy was killed in a house collapse in the city’s Bhandup suburb, while one man was electrocuted to death in Andheri West, officials said.The first landslide was reported around 1am in the New Bharat Nagar area of Chembur, where a wall collapsed on several shanties. Around five houses, where people were sleeping, were the ones worst effected and a total of 19 people were killed, including four minors. Five people were reported wounded in the incident.Around 3am, another landslide was reported in the Surya Nagar area of Vikhroli, where seven-to-eight houses were crushed, resulting in the death of at least 10 people, officials said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) termed both the landslides as “natural calamities”, and said that the houses were “illegally built” on government land and that it had already appealed to citizens to vacate.Officials from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), municipal workers, fire brigade and police personnel were engaged in rescue operations at the collapse sites.At around 5am, a house collapse in Bhandup resulted in the death of a 16-year-old, officials said.Also at Bhandup, rainwater inundated a water purification complex, disrupting supply “in most of the parts of Mumbai”, civic authorities said. “Efforts are being taken to restore Mumbai’s water supply by restarting the water purification system in the complex... After supply is restored, the administration appeals Mumbaikars to boil water before drinking,” BMC said in a statement on Sunday afternoon.Later on Sunday morning, 26-year-old man was reportedly electrocuted to his death in a sweet shop at Andheri West.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences and announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh to the families of those who died. State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for those who lost their family members on Sunday.The BJP on the other hand said blamed the alleged “mismanagement and corruption” in the BMC. Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator and party leader in the BMC said, “The BMC should stop playing with lives of citizens and every year we have this situation where people die during monsoon. The BMC should ensure that there are no such incidents during heavy rainfall.”State environment minister Aadtiya Thackeray labelled the event as a “mini cloudburst,” though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) did not term it as one. Experts said it was a thunderstorm event, but one whose impact is comparable to a cloudburst – which is described by IMD as an event where 100mm rain falls in a span of an hour over a 20-30sqkm region.“We have been talking about climate change and it is happening because since a few years we have been witnessing that in a few hours, excess rainfall is reported, which makes it even more for the administration to handle,” he said.Meteorologists said in Sunday’s thunderstorm, the cloud cover seems to have started forming late Saturday over Raigad district, where the hilly topography would have driven the formation of thunder clouds. The cloud cover – which touched a height of 18km (twice the size of Mt Everest) – then moved from the southeast to the northwest of Mumbai.“The cloud-top height is a good indicator of how intense a storm will be. Furthermore, the vertical wind shear is significant, which is prolonging the lifespan of thunderstorms,” Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, England. “Such thunderstorms are definitely uncommon for Mumbai or the west coast during an active phase of the monsoon, and in a month like July. The cloud top height of this monster thunderstorm is definitely comparable to the one that produced rains on 26 July 2005.”Despite the scale of the downpour, civic authorities said they received no warning of extreme weather from the IMD. “Our models did not see such an intense event, but an impact based forecast was put out at 1am warning people,” said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of the IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-30-dead-as-heavy-rain-batters-mumbai-101626635616727.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police unearth gambling, betting ring; nine held||Police have busted a gambling and betting racket being run from a house in Phase 3A and arrested nine men.Five of the accused hail from Haryana, including Gambhir Kumar of Modem Colony, Yamunanagar; Sunil Kumar of Keshna Colony, Yamunanagar; Sanjeev Kumar of Model Town, Karnal; Ishan Goyal of Sharfa Bazaar, Karnal; and Shankar Rajiv, who is also a native of Karnal but lives in Sector 19, Panchkula.The other accused are Surjit Singh of Phase 3A, Mohali; Avinash Chander, who hails from Abohar and lives in Sector 34, Chandigarh; Pitambar Bhatt of Saini Vihar, Phase 3, Baltana; and Amar Singh of Kajheri, Chandigarh.  ₹6.5 lakh in cash, 20 mobile phones, an equal number of SIM cards and a laptop were recovered from them. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gursher Singh said a special drive was recently launched against gambling activities and Mataur police received information regarding a racket operating from a house in Phase 3A. “A team, constituted under the leadership of inspector Manphul Singh, raided the house and discovered a gambling and betting ring. All accused were caught red-handed,” he added.Superintending of police (City) Harvinder Singh Virk said several dice, which were used to decide the numbers for gambling, were also found. “The entire racket was being operated online and through phones. Evidence of betting has also been obtained. More information is expected during the police remand of the accused,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-unearth-gambling-betting-ring-nine-held-101626638481448.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Messy garbage bills by MC leave Chandigarh residents riled||Over six months after it started door-to-door garbage collection, the municipal corporation has not only failed to streamline the process but its garbage billing is also riddled with issues.Residents complain the corporation is overcharging them through arrears and also not providing clarity on how the charges are being calculated. While earlier MC was collecting these charges through POS machines, now it has started adding the amount to the water bills.In the latest cycle, Sector 22 residents have received combined bills, which they say are anything but transparent.Confusion is rife as along with overcharging, MC has failed to specify how arrears have been levied and in some cases, charges have been imposed even when residents have paid them already.Residents who used to pay ₹400 to ₹600 for four to six months, are now getting bills upward of ₹1,400.“How have the rates suddenly shot up from ₹100 per month? Arrears of six months should be ₹600, but MC has imposed a charge of ₹1,500. Charges are being levied arbitrarily,” said a Sector 22 resident, who didn’t want to be named.“MC is legally bound to mention on the bill how the rates have been charged. But there is no clarity. Worse, the garbage collection system is also replete with issues. MC vehicles just blow the horn and leave if they get no response,” said Rakesh Mittal, a retired chief engineer from the Punjab government, who also lives in the sector.Residents, who have already paid charges through POS collectors, have also received bills with arrears.“Since MC started collecting garbage, we have cleared all the bills. I have the receipts too. But now we have got a bill of ₹1,550. I will have to waste a whole day to get this rectified at the MC office,” said Anmol Mahna, a resident of Sector 22.Another resident of the sector, requesting anonymity, said MC learnt no lesson from similar goof-ups in other sectors, causing harassment to more people.The redress system, recently constituted by the MC commissioner, is also tardy, say residents. “The medical officer of health should organise door-to-door visits or localised weekend meetings through sanitary inspectors to settle such issues. A process is also needed for how to get the charges suspended if the house is unoccupied or garbage is not collected for a certain period. The current system is far from effective,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations. On MC’s part, medical officer of health Dr Amrit Warring said, “We are attending to each and every complaint promptly. We have received 250 complaints regarding garbage collection charges. Of these around 35 are for overcharging, while others relate to incorrect calculation of kitchens in a dwelling unit, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/messy-garbage-bills-by-mc-leave-chandigarh-residents-riled-101626638427053.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Delimitation Commission preparing draft report after J&K visit||Nearly a fortnight after its visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission has started working on a draft report on the proposed new shape of assembly constituencies that will be shared with its associate members before being put in the public domain, officials here said on Sunday.The commission headed by retired Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai had visited the Union territory from July 6 to 9. The commission also comprises chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra as an ex-officio member and the Jammu and Kashmir electoral officer.The officials said the commission will compile the data received from deputy commissioners and nearly 290 delegations comprising 800 representatives of political parties and people from other walks of life whom its members met during their visit.A draft report will be prepared using these inputs and it will be shared with the associate members, which include three Lok Sabha members from the National Conference —Farooq Abdullah, Hasnain Masoodi and Akbar Lone — and the BJP’s Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore Sharma. The National Conference had boycotted the first meeting of the commission.The officials said that after sharing the draft report, the Delimitation Commission will hold a meeting with the associate members to obtain their views before putting out the final draft for seeking public comments and challenges on redrawing of the boundaries.They said the commission is also looking at some districts where the jurisdictional boundaries can be realigned as the electoral constituency comprises segments from two districts.The delimitation exercise has attained an urgency amid indications that the Centre is keen to hold early assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that the polls could be held in the next six to nine months.The commission has time till March 6 next year to redraw the boundaries and create new constituencies.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month held a meeting with leaders of mainstream political parties from Jammu and Kashmir where he stressed that the delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held in the UT.Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90.Twenty-four seats of the assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).Panun Kashmir objects to delimitation exercise based on 2011 Census
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu to steer Punjab Cong with 4 working presidents||Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu, 57, as the new president of the Punjab Congress, along with four working presidents, after weeks of speculations and wrangling in the state unit. Sidhu has been elevated to the top party position in the state with immediate effect despite strong opposition from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The four working presidents who have been appointed to assist Sidhu in the run-up to next year’s state assembly elections are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra. The five appointments will pave the way for the revamp of the organizational set-up that was disbanded by the Congress president in January 2020. “Before the formal announcement was made, the Amritsar East MLA had already started reaching out to cabinet ministers, legislators and other senior party leaders and is expected to hit the ground running. However, there is a feeling in the party that the announcement may worsen the rift as Capt Amarinder continues to be upset with Sidhu. Though he told AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, who was in Chandigarh to inform him about the changes, that any decision of the Congress president would be acceptable to him, Capt refused to meet Sidhu till he tenders a public apology for making derogatory remaks against him. A former cricketer-turned-politician, Sidhu, a four-time MP, joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the 2017 state assembly polls. Though he was inducted into the state cabinet as the local government minister, tourism and cultural affairs minister, his relations with Amarinder were uneasy from the start. Sidhu quit the cabinet after his portfolio was changed by Amarinder in 2019 and went into a sulk before turning into a trenchant critic of the chief minister. However, he continued to have access to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra which, according to political observers, has worked for him. Capt opposed his elevation, citing his lack of seniority in the Congress and community equations as both are Jat Sikhs and belong to Patiala. He was advocating a Hindu face for the post. The Congress has tried to ensure caste and religious balance by appointing four working presidents. The appointments also bear Rahul’s stamp as both Nagra and Danny were part of his team of young leaders in the state.Gilzian, a three-time MLA from Urmar, belongs to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) and remained sore over the neglect of legislators from the community. Danny, a first-time MLA from Jandiala, is a young Dalit leader with an MBA from London. His father Sardul Singh was a minister in Amarinder’s first tenure. Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Nagra is a Jat Sikh. He has been relieved from his present responsibility as AICC in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura. The fourth working president, Pawan Goel, is from the Hindu community. A lowkey leader, Goel, who hails from Jaitu, come from the family of traditional Congressmen. He is presently chairman of the Faridkot District Planning Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-to-steer-punjab-cong-with-4-working-presidents-101626637641491.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||3-day heavy rain prediction in J&K||The meteorological department on Sunday predicted heavy rainfall in Jammu and Kashmir between July 19 and 21. The showers may affect Eid-ul-Azha preparations and disturb tourist itineraries. Eid-ul-Azha will be celebrated in J&K on Wednesday with thousands of people buying sacrificial animals ahead of the festival. The weather office on Sunday advised people living on higher reaches to remain cautious while tourists and trekkers have been advised to avoid camping on mountain or riversides owing to chances of flash floods.“From Sunday night, we will see heavy rainfall in Jammu and moderate to heavy showers in Kashmir,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.Locals, who have been facing economic distress owing to lockdowns over the last two years are hoping that this year’s festivities go on without a hitch. “We are praying that this Eid brings emotional and economic respite. I was hoping to sell many sacrificial animals this year. I hope it does not rain,” said Mohammad Amin, who was selling sacrificial animals on the roadside in Old City.Weekend Covid curfew remains in force in four districts of the UT, while night curfew restrictions are in place in all 20 districts. “Sales are already down as few people will sacrifice animals this Eid due to the Covid,” said another meat dealer, Firdous Ahmad. The system is most likely to cause lightning and thunder along with widespread rainfall, primarily in the Pirpanjal Range and the Valley. “We may be celebrating Eid amid rainfall, though the mercury, which has been hovering around 34°C in Srinagar and 35°C in Jammu, may drop by around five to six notches,” he said. The weather office said that there may be temporary disruption of traffic mainly on the Jammu- Srinagar highway, Srinagar-Leh higwhay, Doda- Kishtawar road and Mughal Road. “There are chances of landslides and shooting stones at vulnerable places and waterlogging and minor floods over low-lying areas. Suspension of agricultural and horticultural operations during above period is advised,” Mir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3day-heavy-rain-prediction-in-jk-101626637401397.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Eid, Covid containment curbs to continue in J&K||In the countdown to Eid ul-Azha, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday said it will continue with existing Covid containment measures for a week, with the exception that shops will be allowed to open an hour early two days before the festival. Eid-ul-Azha will be celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir on July 21. Last week, the administration had lifted the weekend curfew in 16 of 20 districts of the UT. The order had permitted shops to open on all days from 7am to 7pm with a daily night curfew from 8pm in these 16 districts. “It has also been seen that the daily cases in the past few days have shown an uneven trend. As such, there is a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in these districts,” said State Executive Committee chairperson and chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta’s order.“Deputy commissioners may allow shops to open at 6 am instead of 7am to avoid rush on July 19 and 20 as per their assessment,” the order said.Phased opening of educational institutions after July 31The government has also decided to allow phased opening of higher educational institutions after July 31 subject to vaccination of students and staff. The administration permitted public and private educational institutions to seek personal attendance of limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.“Higher educational institutes and skill development centres may be considered for phased reopening for on-site learning after July 31 subject to the vaccination status of the students and staff,” it said.In a review meeting on Friday, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had directed officials be prepared to deal with a possible third wave of the coronavirus or any future health emergencies.Atal Dulloo, additional chief secretary, health and medical education department had said J&K’s positivity rate had reduced to 0.3%.“ Eighteen districts are in the green xone as per a new set indicators, with 99% of the population in the 45 and above age group now vaccinated with the first dose,” he said. J&K’s active cases drop below 2K after almost 4 months Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid recovery rate crossed 98% after 243 patients recovered on Sunday, which brought the active cases below 2,000 for the first time since March 28. The UT reported one Covid-related death and 146 fresh infections. The Valley reported 88 cases and a fatality, while Jammu division saw 58 infections. The overall number of people who had recovered reached 3,13,618, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98%. On Saturday, the recovery rate had reached 98%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,19,901 and the death-toll to 4,364.Officials said 59,844 tests were carried out in the past 24 hours in the UT. Officials said with 27 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 16 in Jammu, 15 in Pulwama and 14 each in Doda and Ganderbal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-eid-covid-containment-curbs-to-continue-in-jk-101626637041467.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 54 fresh Covid infections, 2 more deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 54 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,04,391, while the death toll mounted to 3,491 after two more patients died of the contagion.Of the new cases, 27 were reported in Chamba, eight each in Kangra and Shimla, seven in Mandi, two in Solan and one each in Kullu and Sirmaur, while no new cases were reported in five districts. The recoveries reached 1,99,873 after 146 people recuperated. Active cases have come down to 1,007. Kangra is the worst-hit district with46,167 cases, followed by Mandi (27,565), Shimla (25,495), Solan (22,366), Sirmaur (15,355), Hamirpur (14,483), Una (13,387), Bilaspur (12,821), Chamba (11,713), Kullu (9,017), Kinnaur (3,283) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,739).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-54-fresh-covid-infections-2-more-deaths-101626636921302.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt owes an apology, not Sidhu: Bir Devinder||Former Punjab Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Sunday termed seeking of public apology by Capt Amarinder Singh from Navjot Singh Sidhu as “absurd development” that, he said, undermined the constitutional ethos of free expression. “It is the internal matter of the Congress party but since it has appeared in the public domain, we as a democratic party has a right to express our opinion on this,” said Bir Devinder, who is a senior vice-president of the breakaway Akali faction SAD (Sanyukt). “As a matter of fact, it’s Capt Amarinder who owes an apology from the people of Punjab for the failure of his government on every front,” he added. He further said Amarinder should seek apology from the Sikh Community for committing sacrilege of Gutka Sahib and playing hide and seek on the issue of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as part of a “secret understanding with the Badal family”. He also owes an apology to the people of Punjab for letting loose ‘mafia raj’. “I would advise Navjot Singh Sidhu not to surrender as it’s the time to uphold the dignity of democratic values and the majesty of constitutional democracy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-owes-an-apology-not-sidhu-bir-devinder-101626636801554.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting employees, pensioners clash with cops in Hoshiarpur||Employees and pensioners protesting against the Punjab government on Sunday had a scuffle with police when they tried to march towards the residence of Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora.The protesters under the banner of Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front alleged that they were lathicharged by the police. The officials, however, refuted the charges of cane-charge and said the protesters were only stopped from moving towards the minister’s residence. The union members marched towards Arora’s residence on Jodhamal Road after holding a rally but the police put up barricades a few hundred metres away to stop them. The protesters held a dharna on the road and insisted that either they be allowed to go to Arora’s house or the minister himself reach out to them to accept their memorandum. When they tried to break the barricades, they were confronted by the police. Turbans of a number of union leaders were tossed off during the scuffle.“The demonstrators tried to push through the barricades even though they were asked to send a small delegation to meet the minister. The cops simply prevented them from mobbing the minister’s residence. No one was lathicharged,” said senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal.Later, the union leaders issued a statement, warning a state-level agitation against the minister and the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-employees-pensioners-clash-with-cops-in-hoshiarpur-101626636743034.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-BJYM Punjab chief defends remark against state leadership over farm protests||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM)’s former Punjab president Mohit Gupta on Sunday defended his recent statements against the BJP’s state leadership over the ongoing farm protests while replying to a show-cause notice issued to him. Gupta, a state executive member of the BJP who belongs to Bathinda, said he never indulged in any “anti-party” activity, but always spoke about the party’s interests.“Is it indiscipline to talk about ‘arhtiyas’, industrialists, small traders and labourers? I neither spoke against the Centre’s farm laws nor against central leaders,” wrote Gupta in his reply, adding that he is a “committed party worker.”The notice was issued on Friday by Vinod Kumar Binta, BJP’s Bathinda district president, on the directions of state president Ashwani Sharma. Gupta was given two days to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for his “anti-party” activities.When asked about his future plan, Gupta, who is also associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the saffron party, said he would continue to work for the party at the grassroots level.However, he made scathing attack at state president Ashwani Sharma for his inability to apprise the central leadership about the ground situation being faced by the party cadre on the political front. “Initially, farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws in Punjab had a few demands that could have been handled had the party unit made some efforts. The incompetent party leadership failed and when committed party workers express concern, the same leadership has started issuing notices. Just seven months are left for the assembly polls and it has become difficult for party workers even to come out of their homes due to the lingering agitation,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exbjym-punjab-chief-defends-remark-against-state-leadership-over-farm-protests-101626636741859.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Last body recovered in Boh valley, search operation ends||Six days after a massive rain-triggered landslide hit Boh valley in Kangra district, the body of another person was found on Sunday, taking the death toll to 10.With the recovery of the final body, emergency workers suspended the search and rescue operation in Rulehar village of Shahpur sub-division.The victim was identified as 18-year-old Neeraj Kumar, said Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan. Kumar’s mother, father, sister and brother were also killed in the natural disaster, which hit the hill state on July 12 after very heavy rains lashed the region causing flash floods. Five people were rescued by the villagers on the day landslide hit the valley, while 10 people were reported missing.The Centre had rushed a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel to help with the search and rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/last-body-recovered-in-boh-valley-search-operation-ends-101626636740733.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Flurry of activities end with elevation of Sidhu||The Congress high command named former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new president of Punjab Congress along with four working presidents on a day full of hectic political activity and uncertainty as the wait for the formal announcement was getting longer. Both warring factions in the state Congress held meetings of their supporters to fortify their positions on the revamp of the organisational set-up even as the present incumbent Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of party legislators and district unit chiefs on Monday for passing a resolution and facilitate a solution. The meeting has been called off following the announcement. The day began with Sidhu, who was tipped to take over as the Punjab Congress chief and met nearly 30 party leaders, including Jakhar, ministers and MLAs on Saturday, going from district to district and reaching out to MLAs in Patiala, Khanna and Jalandhar to demonstrate the support he is getting. The formal announcement of the former minister’s appointment was considered a formality but was stuck owing to strong opposition from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. In Delhi, nine of the 11 Congress MPs from Punjab held a meeting and decided to throw their weight behind Amarinder. They also sought time from Congress president Sonia Gandhi for a meeting to push their case, said people aware of developments. The Congress MPs’ meeting, seen as a show of strength, was held at the residence of Partap Singh Bajwa who has buried his differences with the chief minister and had a dinner meeting with him at his farmhouse in Mohali on Saturday. Barring Ambika Soni and Amar Singh, all other party MPs, from the state, including Capt’s MP wife Preneet Kaur, were present. “Discussion with @INCIndia Rajya Sabha & Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to devise a strategy on farmers’ issues in upcoming monsoon sesson of the Parliament,” Bajwa tweeted with photos. Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who attended the meeting, said there are a lot of things going on in the state. “We have informed the Congress president and sought time from her for a discussion on Punjab Congress affairs and other burning issues. I spoke to her and have sent a letter to her today, saying that if the party wants to retain power, a Dalit should head the state unit,” he said. Besides the party MPs, 10 MLAs, including three AAP legislators who recently joined the party, also issued a joint statement in CM’s support, urging the Congress leadership not to let him down as “because of his unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab”. “Sidhu was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party, but condemning and critcising his own party and government in public has only created a rift in the cadres and weakened it,” they said in a statement released by Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is among the three new entrants. Harminder Singh Gill, Kuldeep Vaid, Fatehjang Bajwa, Gurpreet Singh GP, Balwinder Laddi, Santokh Bhalaipur, Joginder Pal, Jagdev Kamalu and Pirmal Singh are among the MLAs who issued the statement. They also supported Singh’s decision not to meet Sidhu unitl he publicly tenders an apology for his “derogatory” tweets against him. Amarinder and Sidhu have been at loggerheads and the latter repeatedly targeted the CM through his tweets and a spree of interviews. While Sidhu is still to respond to Capt’s apology demand, dissenting cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa spoke out in his favour, stating that if Amarinder can forget (Partap Singh) Bajwa’s letters against him, then he should also forget Sidhu’s tweets in the interest of the party. “What MPs are saying does not matter as the state will go to polls next year to elect MLAs,” he told reporters. Jakhar’s bid to break the impasse As Sunday’s developments signalled the hardening of positions by both sides, Jakhar called all 80 party MLAs and district presidents for the meeting in Chandigarh to pass a resolution that whatever decision is taken by the Congress high command would be acceptable to all. Later, former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said the decision of the Congress high command to appoint Sidhu as the new party chief in Punjab should now be gracefully accepted by all in the interest of party. “This is a time to be united. There are no victors or losers. Reconciliation is the way forward,” he said, adding that magnanimity is expected on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flurry-of-activities-end-with-elevation-of-sidhu-101626636683692.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress doing drama to replace failed CM in Punjab: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the Congress was trying to create drama to replace a failed chief minister in Punjab with party MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu who is known more for theatrics rather than administration. “Everyone knows Navjot Sidhu’s record as local bodies minister as he did nothing for the betterment of any city or town. CM Amarinder Singh was oblivious to the sufferings of the people and did nothing to help them when they needed electricity to sow paddy or run their factories and shops,” the SAD president said addressing party’s Hindu leaders in Chandigarh after he announced to appoint a community member as deputy CM in case the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power in 2022.Their government would revive trade and industry in the state by making investment-friendly policies besides reducing power tariffs for the sector, he said. Sukhbir said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal had tried to close down the thermal plants in Punjab by filing a petition in the Supreme Court after the power situation worsened. “Recently, he promised 300 units free and added that anyone with a bill of one more unit will have to pay the entire amount. Instead of befooling Punjabis, he should implement this in Delhi,” the SAD chief said. Those present included NK Sharma, Parkash Chand Garg, Sarup Chand Singla, Harish Rai Dhanda, Vishnu Sharma, Prem Valecha, Ashok Aneja, Harpal Juneja, Rajinder Deepa, Kabir Dass, Ashok Sharma, Ashok Manan and Keemti Bhagat and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-doing-drama-to-replace-failed-cm-in-punjab-sukhbir-101626636682360.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mishandling of rape case: 15 staffers from Naraingarh Mahila police station shunted||Fifteen officials at a police station here were transferred following complaints of irregularities in the handling of a rape case, officials said on Sunday.Superintendent of police (SP) Hamid Akhtar ordered the transfer of 15 officials at the Naraingarh Mahila police station on Saturday while its SHO and a sub-inspector were placed under suspension last week for allegedly changing the statement of a rape victim in an FIR.The rape victim’s family had sent a complaint to Haryana home minister Anil Vij and state director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava in this regard, demanding action against the officers for allegedly giving benefit to the accused in the case.An initial inquiry of the case was conducted by Barara DSP Rajnish Kumar, after which inspector general of police (IGP), Ambala Range, Bharti Arora had transferred the investigation to Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg, the SP had said. Also, the head constable of the police station was suspended for allegedly demanding bribe from an elderly woman to not harass her in a complaint filed against her by her daughter-in-law.Meanwhile, IGP Arora has ordered to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to look into the irregularities, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mishandling-of-rape-case-15-staffers-from-naraingarh-mahila-police-station-shunted-101626636626180.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Restaurants, bars in Haryana can remain open till 11pm||The Haryana government on Sunday further eased restrictions and extended the Covid-induced lockdown till July 26 morning. While the night curfew will remain in force from 11pm to 5am on all days of the week across the state, the operational hours of the restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, have been extended till 11pm, stated an order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan. The government has also permitted the food delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast-food joints up to 11pm. Club houses, restaurants, and bars of the golf courses can also open with 50% seating capacity from 10am to 11pm, while gyms can open from 6am to 9pm with 50% capacity. The chief secretary said that the relaxations permitted earlier will continue. The vice-chancellor (V-C) of National Law University, Delhi, has been allowed to hold Common Law Admission Test-2021 on July 23. The gatherings in weddings, funerals/cremations will continue to have the limit of maximum 100 people, while in open spaces, gathering of up to 200 persons has been allowed. Spas can remain open from 6am to 8pm with 50% capacity and all shops have been allowed to open from 9am to 8pm. People can visit malls from 10am to 8pm. Not more than 50 people can assemble in a religious place at one time, the order added. The lockdown order makes it compulsory for all stakeholders to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour in letter and spirit. Last week, the government had given its nod to open cinema halls whether in the malls or standalone with maximum 50% seating capacity and subject to compliance with requisite social distancing norms.Haryana logs 35 Covid cases, six fatalitiesSix people succumbed to Covid, which also infected 35 persons in Haryana, health bulletin said on Sunday. Thirty-five patients also recovered in the state, with which the overall recoveries reached 7,59,123. One fatality each was reported in Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Panipat, Hisar and Gurugram districts. While no new case was reported in 11 districts, 10 cases each were detected in Gurugram and Rewari, while Palwal recorded four cases, Jhajjar three, Fatehabad two and one case each was detected in Sonepat, Panchkula, Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kaithal. Of the total 817 active cases in the state till Sunday, Hisar has the highest 129 active cases, Panipat 101, Sirsa 76, Gurugram 74, Rohtak 67, Bhiwani 62 and Karnal 54. In past 24 hours, 25,550 samples were tested and 69,763 people were vaccinated on Sunday. The recovery rate of the state is 98.65% and fatality rate is 1.25%. The death toll due to the Covid has risen to 9,599.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restaurants-bars-in-haryana-can-remain-open-till-11pm-101626636625202.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Will send legal notice to Charuni: BJP leader Grover||BJP leader and former minister Manish Grover on Sunday uploaded a video message wherein he said that he will send a legal notice to BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni for allegedly tarnishing his image in connection with a Hisar incident. It has been alleged that obscene gestures were made from the former minister’s car after a party meeting outside Guru Jambheshwar university in Hisar on July 10. “Charuni had been trying to tarnish my image and I have decided to send a defamation notice to him. He has political ambitions and wants to become state chief minister like Arvind Kejriwal, while using protesters in farm agitation to gain political mileage. He will never be successful in this task,” Grover added. Meanwhile, nearly a week-long dharna outside Grover’s house in Rohtak over the Hisar incident ended on Sunday after he held a meeting with farmers, including women, on Saturday night. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Inderjeet Singh said the former minister had held a meeting with them and discussed the Hisar incident.“He regretted the incident and after that, we decided to lift the indefinite stir outside his house. Our protest across toll plazas will continue and only the dharna outside his house was lifted as Grover has apologised,” he added.The women mahapanchayat called in Rohtak against Grover has also been cancelled after both parties arrived on a consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-send-legal-notice-to-charuni-bjp-leader-grover-101626636621380.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Airmen recruitment exam racket busted in Panipat, four arrested||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly running a racket to help candidates aspiring to clear the recruitment exam of the Central Airmen Selection Board with the help of electronic gadgets, Panipat police said on Sunday. The police said that the accused had set up a lab in a private school in Panipat and were allegedly in touch with some of the candidates taking the exam held between July 12 and 18 at different examination centres across the country. The police have also recovered 14 earpieces, 11 Bluetooth devices and six mobile phones from their possession.Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused were working as agents for some people involved in the racket. “More details would be revealed only after further investigation,” he added. The accused have been identified as Dharmbir of Asan village in Rohtak, Jitendra Singh alias Jeetu of Gamra village in Hisar, Ricky of Baroda village in Sonepat and Amit Kumar of Harodi village in Charkhi Dadri. The crime investigation agency (CIA) of the Panipat police had got a tip-off about the accused. The police said that they have also collected roll numbers of some aspirants from their possession. They had links with some agents at the private computer labs where the examination centres were set up, the police added. Officials claimed that the accused have admitted that they had helped around 40 candidates in their placements in the past couple of years. Anil Chillar, in-charge, CIA III, said, “In the preliminary investigation, it was found that the accused were in contact with some people who were running this racket and they were told to arrange the candidates for ₹3 lakh to ₹6 lakh per candidate and provide them Bluetooth devices so that answers could be sent to them with their links at the examination centres set up in the private labs.”He said they were produced in a court, which sent them to six days’ police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/airmen-recruitment-exam-racket-busted-in-panipat-four-arrested-101626636564382.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP legislator Anil Sharma seen cosying up to Congress leaders in Himachal||Disgruntled Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from Mandi Anil Sharma accompanied Congress leaders who immersed former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s ashes in Beas River on Sunday. He was seen in the company of Congress leaders for the second consecutive day leading to speculations that he was cosying up to the Congress. Anil had been a minister in Virbhadra Singh’s Cabinet but had switched to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections. However, the saffron party had forced him to step down from CM Jai Ram Thakur’s Cabinet after the Congress nominated his son Ashray Sharma for the Lok Sabha polls. Ashray had lost to BJP’s Ramswaroop Sharma who was found dead at his official residence in Mandi necessitating a bypoll. Anil was also sidelined during the municipal corporation polls when the party did not seek his help in canvassing and chose to rely on the political acumen of minister Mahender Singh Thakur instead. Ashray has shown interest in contesting the Lok Sabha polls again, while the Congress is also persuading former health Minister Kaul Singh Thakur to contest from Mandi. Congress state general secretary and Kullu’s legislator Sunder Thakur’s name has also cropped up for candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjplegislator-anil-sharma-seen-cosying-up-to-congress-leaders-in-himachal-101626636562368.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal to spend ₹846 crore on developing tribal areas this fiscal||The Himachal Pradesh government has earmarked around 9% of the total state plan for the tribal area development programme this financial year as the tribal community comprises around 5.71% of the state’s population. The size of the tribal area development programme was increased to ₹567 crore in 2018-19, ₹639 crores in 2019-20 and ₹711 crore in 2020-21. This year, the allotment was increased to ₹846 crore.Under the border area development scheme, the Centre will provide ₹25 crore and the state ₹2.78 crore.Under the programme, the state will spend ₹244 crore on transport, roads and bridges and construction of buildings, ₹84 lakh on telemedicine facility in the tribal areas of Pangi and Bharmour. As per the 20 Point Programme, 8,669 targets were achieved against the 7,095 targets set in 2018-19, while 7,509 targets were achieved against the 6,829 targets set for 2020-21.So far, the state has received ₹32 crore for building three new Eklavya Model Residential Schools at Bharmour, Pangi and Lahaul At present, 554 students belonging to the scheduled tribe category are studying at four Eklavya Adarsh Residential Schools.A state-level monitoring committee has been constituted under the chairpersonship of the chief secretary for speedy implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 in tribal areas and non-tribal areas. After the panchayat elections in the state, the process of formation of district and sub-division level committees is in progress. So far, five district-level, 35 sub-divisional level committees have been constituted and 17,503 forest rights committees have been constituted at village level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-to-spend-846-crore-on-developing-tribal-areas-this-fiscal-101626636201627.html
19-07-2021||Other||Mayor admitted to hosp after complaining of chest pain||Mayor Kishori Pednekar was hospitalised to Global Hospital, Parel, on Sunday after she developed chest pain since Saturday night.Deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar said the chest pain is probably related to Covid-19 recovery. Pednekar had tested positive for Covid-19 last year and was admitted to SevenHills Hospital in Andheri.Global Hospital in a statement said, “Mrs Kishori Pednekar presented to the accident and emergency of Global Hospital, Parel, today [Sunday], at around noon with complaints of chest pain and pain in epigastric area. She was immediately assessed and has been admitted for observation and further workup (sic).”Dr Jigna Shrotriya, medical superintendent at Global Hospital, Mumbai, said, “The mayor’s condition is presently stable and she is under the care of senior cardiologist Dr Praveen Kulkarni.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayor-admitted-to-hosp-after-complaining-of-chest-pain-101626635600689.html
19-07-2021||Other||6th pay commission: Teachers gherao Ashu’s residence in Ludhiana, clash with cops||Over 600 teachers, under the banner of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, protested outside cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s residence on Sunday and demanded changes in the recommendations issued in the 6th pay commission by the state government. The protesters gathered at the DC office and marched towards minister Ashu’s house at noon. The police put up barricades outside the cabinet minister’s house but, some teachers tried to jump over the same, and when police personnel tried to stop them, they entered into a scuffle with the cops. The teachers requested the cops to allow them to reach the minister’s house, but the cops refused to let them. Amid a heated argument between the teachers and the cops, Surinder Singh of the Government School Teacher Union got injured.The teachers raised slogans against the state government and continued to protest till 2 pm. The teachers stated that their salaries would get reduced with the implementation of the commission.The staff is demanding a 3.8-time raise in their salaries and pensions, but the pay panel has recommended a hike of 2.25 times on the grade pay of ₹4,200, which they said was unacceptable. The teachers further rued that their house allowance was also being reduced from 20% to 16%.They also demanded that the government release the pending dearness allowance of 32%, which they had not paid to the employees since 2016.Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, the convener of the union, said, “The government must immediately cover the employees recruited after 2004 under the pension scheme, release the dearness allowance instalment that has been pending for the past many months, fill all vacant posts in government departments to ease the burden of work on the existing employees, and regularise jobs of all employees working on contractual basis.”A teacher of Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, requesting anonymity, said, “I have been teaching students of Classes 11 and 12 for the past six years. Many of our students have secured top positions in Class 12 board exams. Despite that and our students cracking the Joint Entrance Examination, the government has not made any efforts to regularize our services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6th-pay-commission-teachers-gherao-ashu-s-residence-in-ludhiana-clash-with-cops-101626635423847.html
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||Politicking picks up in Arki after Virbhadra Singh’s death||Days after veteran Congress leader and former six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passed away, politicking has picked up in the Arki assembly segment that fell vacant after his death.Two-time BJP legislator Govind Ram Sharma, who had been denied a ticket during the last election has staked claim to the BJP ticket; while Virbhadra Singh’s loyalists hoping to contest polls from Arki have approached his wife, former Lok Sabha member Pratibha Singh. Around a dozen leaders met up at Darlaghat under the ambit of Arki Kalyan (Welfare) Society that is known for it biggest cement plant in north India on Sunday and projected Sharma as the BJP candidate for the bypoll. Leaders who pledged their support to Sharma included Zila Parishad members who had rebelled against the saffron party.Still a loyal soldier: BJP’s Govind Ram Sharma“I am still a loyal soldier of the party though I was denied a ticket. I have selflessly worked day and night for the BJP,” said Sharma, who called the meeting “non-political”.The meeting had been convened by Surinder Thakur, a non-gazetted officers’ association leader. “ We had invited people from all walks of life to put forth their views regarding the future political scenario in Arki. Most people supported Sharma,” said Thakur, adding that representatives from 70 panchayats and 350 people participated in the discussion. Also in attendence were Amar Singh Thakur, a Zila Parishad member and son of former minister Hari Dass, and Asha Parishar, the daughter of former BJP minister Nagin Chandra Pal. Many BJP workers skipped the meeting. In 2003, Sharma had lost to Congress’s Dharampal Thakur with a narrow margin of 522. Sharma was elected to the assembly in 2007 and then in 2012 but later the BJP denied him a ticket and fielded Ram Rattan Pal Singh against former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Sharma was neither made chairperson of any board or corporation nor given in a position in the party. The constituency had attained a high-profile status after being represented by Virbhadra Singh, who had contested elections from Arki rather than Shimla (rural) to make place for his son Vikramaditya Singh, a first-time legislator.Cong wants to pitch Virbhadra Singh’s wife or son Supporters of Virbhadra Singh had recently met both Vikramaditya Singh and his mother Pratibha Singh at Padam Palace, Rampur. The delegation had invited Pratibha Singh to contest the Vidhan Sabha elections. The family was busy performing Virbhadra Singh’s last rites and said they had not decided on a future course of action. A section of Congress leaders want Vikramaditya to contest the Lok Sabha polls. With bypolls to the Mandi Lok Sabha and three assembly segments of Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur due in some time, both parties are weighing their options. The former CM had won the seat by 6,051 votes in the 2017 polls, which was much less than his margin of 19,033 votes from Shimla (rural) in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politicking-picks-up-in-arki-after-virbhadra-singh-s-death-101626635422306.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 31 killed, 6 injured as rain lashes city over weekend||As heavy rain lashed the city since Saturday night, at least 31 people were killed and six injured in landslides and house collapses in Chembur, Vikhroli and Bhandup and a short-circuit at Andheri. The downpour also brought back Mumbai’s most infamous monsoon scenes – suspended railway services, diverted buses and citizens forced to wade through the flooded roads. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), several areas in the city reported more than 200mm of rain between 11pm on Saturday and 4am on Sunday, with Dahisar and Chembur receiving the highest amount of rainfall. The BMC termed both the landslides a natural calamity, as the Chembur and Vikhroli shanties were located on hillslopes. In both cases, the structures were built illegally on collector’s land and the BMC maintained it had already appealed to citizens to vacate their houses.Around 1 am, a landslide was reported in New Bharat Nagar area of Mahul in Chembur. Due to the landslide, part of a retaining wall collapsed on five houses. Nineteen people lost their lives, of which four were minors. Five, including a 15-year-old teenager, were injured. All victims were rushed to nearby civic-run Rajawadi Hospital.Officials said they had already asked the residents of the slums to vacate the houses. According to BMC, the land on which structures were built belonged to a suburban collector and all houses were illegal. Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We had issued an advisory to the citizens residing in landslide-prone zones to vacate their houses and shift to safe locations. We had pasted notices in the area and also given advertisements in the newspapers appealing citizens to vacate their houses before the monsoon.”Marathe added, “The land is owned by the suburban collector, and they should shift the structures. However, on the directions of the municipal commissioner, we have decided to shift a few citizens temporarily in houses meant for project-affected persons. These will have to be vacated in the coming days. The mud and rocks, along with rainwater, came with force, which mainly resulted in the deaths.” Sandeep Saroj, who lives near the site, said, “My options are limited. I do not earn enough to rent another house. I will go back to my native place and stay with my parents until the monsoon ends. I will have to quit my job now.” Around 3am, a similar landslide was reported in Surya Nagar in Vikhroli, where boulders came crashing. At least eight houses collapsed, killing 10 and injuring one. Seven deaths were from three families in three houses. In this incident too, the land on which around 35,000 citizens resided belongs to a suburban collector. Vibhas Achrekar, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “We had done a survey and advised citizens residing on top to vacate their houses. We had displayed notices in the area and alerted the citizens thrice, but they did not pay any heed. The land is owned by a suburban collector but for now we are shifting around 40 citizens from the area to a civic-run school on a temporary basis. Of these 40 people, thirty are from the Vikhroli landslide zone and the remaining 10 people from Bhandup.” Dipu Tewari, who lived in Vikhroli with a family of eight, said, “We had two houses of which my one house collapsed. I had gone to work for my night shift and suddenly I got a call that there is a landslide. I have lost two of my relatives. All my family members were awake and ready to rush out. But everything happened suddenly.” At both the Chembur and Vikhroli spots, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) had to take assistance from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which carried out search and rescue operations for over a 12-hour period on Sunday.A house collapse at Bhandup killed a 16-year-old teenager around 5am. A 26-year-old man was killed in a short-circuit in a sweet shop at Andheri West.Between 11pm on Saturday and 4am on Sunday, the island city reported 167mm of rain, western suburbs reported 178mm of rain and eastern suburbs reported 177mm of rainfall. The highest rain was reported in Dahisar (226mm), followed by Chembur (206mm) and Borivli (226mm). The remaining areas of the city reported 140mm-199mm rain.Overall, in the city, waterlogging was reported at 31 locations, of which nine were in the island city, including Hindmata, Sion Road no 24, Gandhi Market, Wadala Church, Nair Hospital, Sangam Nagar in Wadala etc. Further, in the western suburbs, waterlogging was reported at 10 locations, including Link Road Bandra, Sainath Subway Borivali, Milan subway, Andheri subway, Andheri market, Dahisar subway, Bandra talkies, Veera Desai Road, Andheri, Vakola Bridge, Best Nagar, Andheri. Lastly, in the eastern suburbs, nine locations, including Kurla, RCF Colony, Shell Colony, Anushakti Nagar, Sher-e-Punjab Colony, Mankhurd railway station etc, were flooded.The BMC said a total of 4423.50 million litres of rain water has been pumped by six pumping stations in a span of 10 hours from 11pm on Saturday to 9am on Sunday.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh to the families of those who died, and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced ₹5 lakh compensation for those who lost their family members. Environment Minister Aadtiya Thackeray on Sunday visited the spots of landslides at Mahul and Vikhroli. Thackeray said, “Since the past few years, we have been witnessing excess rain in a few hours, which makes it even more tough for the administration to handle.”The Bharatiya Janata Party blamed the BMC’s mismanagement. Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator and BJP’s party leader in the BMC, said, “The BMC should stop playing with lives of citizens and every year we have this situation where people die during the monsoon. The BMC should ensure that there are no such incidents during heavy rainfall. It should compensate ₹10 lakh to family members of those who lost their own, and also compensate those whose house went under water due to water logging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-31-killed-6-injured-as-rain-lashes-city-over-weekend-101626635360797.html
19-07-2021||Other||Congress to move adjournment motion in both Houses on farm issues: Tewari||New Delhi Congress MPs will also move an adjournment motion in both Houses of the Parliament on farmers’ issue, said party leader Manish Tewari on Sunday. Speaking to mediapersons, Tewari added, “We had detailed discussions on ongoing farmers’ protest and the allocation of vaccines in Punjab. We will be presenting ‘Kaam Roko Prastav’ in the House. We have also discussed the strategy for the upcoming Parliament session keeping Punjab issues in mind.”Amid the ongoing tussle in Punjab Congress, all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs of Congress from the state met at the party MP Pratap Singh Bajwa’s residence in Delhi on Sunday to discuss issues related to the state unit.Congress MPs Manish Tewari, Jasbir Gill, Shamsher Singh Dullo, Mohd Siddiqui, Praneet Kaur, Santokh Chaudhary, Ravneet Singh Bittu and others attended the meeting at Bajwa’s residence. However, Congress MPs categorically denied discussing the Captain-Sidhu rift, saying they formulated strategies to corner the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-to-move-adjournment-motion-in-both-houses-on-farm-issues-tewari-101626635301922.html
19-07-2021||Other||Respond to issue of illegal structures on govt land: Bombay HC to state, KDMC||The Bombay high court (HC), in its attempts to highlight the loss of government land to unauthorised constructions, directed the state and the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to respond to a petitioner’s allegations that there had been an instance of land grabbing in the twin cities, but nothing was done to safeguard it. The court also pointed out that the illegal structures later get regularised, resulting in the state government having to give up the ownership of the property.In an earlier hearing in another related issue, HC had noted that such government land was being considered as the state’s “paternal property” and the practice of unauthorised constructions should be stopped. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Harishchandra Mhatre – right to information (RTI) activist and employee of Ambernath Municipal Corporation – was informed by advocate Shriram Kulkarni that a large number of middle class families in Dombivli were getting fleeced by developers who were constructing buildings illegally on state and KDMC-owned land. The petitions stated that while Mhatre had been trying to highlight the issue by writing to various authorities since 2018, he had not received any responses and hence, he filed RTI queries pertaining to a few structures that had been constructed recently in Dombivli. Mhatre stated that the replies to the RTI query were given to him only after he filed appeals. The responses showed that the corporation had issued notices to some of the developers and project owners, but beyond that nothing had been done to safeguard the interests of the middle class families who had purchased flats in the these residential buildings. In light of these submissions, the petition sought directions to the corporation to conduct a survey of the alleged illegal/unauthorised structures and stay the constructions wherever they were on. The PIL also sought action against the officials concerned. After hearing the submissions, the state – represented by government pleader PP Kakade and advocate Nisha Mehra – informed the bench that they had written to the civic authorities in January, seeking information pertaining to the allegations made in the PIL, but so far they had not received any instructions. The court was then informed that the corporation was not represented, though it was served a copy of the PIL. “We note that the allegations as made in the petition, which are in regard to the unauthorised constructions on government and municipal corporation lands, as also some unauthorised construction on private lands, are quite serious,” said the bench and directed the respondents to file their replies and posted hearing of the PIL on July 29. In an earlier hearing of a suo motu PIL initiated by HC in light of the building collapse in Bhiwandi, which resulted in the loss of nearly 40 lives last year, the bench had taken up the issue of the recent building collapse in Malwani, which saw 11 deaths. The court had appointed an inquiry commissioner, and after perusing its report, which stated that most of the structures were illegal and were on government owned land, had observed, “It seems that the state-owned land is considered as paternal property by the executive.” The court took strict cognisance of the fact that as these unauthorised and illegal structures were provided protection under one or the other scheme, the land had to be written off, thus causing a loss to the state. The court had held that this needed to stop and had asked the state to consider setting up a separate body to oversee illegal constructions, especially those coming up on state or corporation-owned land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/respond-to-issue-of-illegal-structures-on-govt-land-bombay-hc-to-state-kdmc-101626635300713.html
19-07-2021||Other||Sena slams BJP on population control bill||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha Member Of Parliament (MP) and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut in his weekly column RokhThok in party mouthpiece Saamana has slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over introducing the proposed population control bill in Uttar Pradesh (UP) ahead of the state Assembly elections next year. Raut said that as votes cannot be sought in the upcoming state Assembly elections on the Ram Mandir issue, as it has been resolved, the proposed law is being seen as an experiment to divide Hindu and Muslim communities. He, however, also opined that such a law is an attempt to control the population of the country and should not be seen against any particular religion.“The Yogi Adityanath] government of UP is bringing a law to control the population of the state, which has created a political turmoil. As the Ram Mandir issue has been resolved, and it is difficult to seek votes in its name, this law is said to be an experiment to divide the Hindu and Muslim communities in the state,” Raut wrote in his column.On World Population Day (July 11), UP chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath launched a population policy which aims to incentivise couples who do not have more than two babies. The UP law commission that has formulated a population control bill said the policy would be voluntary and nobody would be forced to follow any rule. However, if any person decides on his or her own to not have more than two babies, they will be eligible for government schemes, while those who do not follow the policy, will face restrictions in government jobs, availing ration and other benefits.Raut also supported the law and said that it is in the interest of the country to control the population and any such move needs to be appreciated. He then cautioned people against looking at the bill through the prism of religion. “A law (The Muslim Women Protection of Rights on Marriage Act) was passed against Triple Talaq, which was much appreciated by Muslim women in the country as it has freed them from the shackles of slavery. Ending the tradition of Triple Talaq wasn’t against any religion, and any attempt to control the population should also not be seen against any religion,” the Shiv Sena MP, who has been critical of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after both the saffron parties snapped their ties in 2019.Earlier, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had slammed the UP CM for his “much hyped” two-child policy. The state’s ruling party said that the UP CM is making a lot of noise over the policy, which is not new for Maharashtra as it has been in place in the state for the past 21 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sena-slams-bjp-on-population-control-bill-101626635063276.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||ED raids Deshmukh’s 2 houses in Nagpur in ₹100-crore extortion case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday raided former state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s ancestral house in Wadvihira and Katol in Nagpur district in connection with the alleged ₹100-crore extortion case. The central investigative agency had on Friday provisionally attached the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s assets worth ₹4.20 crore in a money laundering case. A team of six to eight ED officers, accompanied by a team of armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, reached the two houses around 7am on Sunday and started a search operation, which continued till 2pm. Both the houses were cordoned off by CRPF jawans. ED, which joined the investigation, last month arrested Deshmukh’s aides Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande, and summoned Deshmukh and his family members. Deshmukh or his close relatives were not present in the houses at Katol and Wadvihira at the time of the raid, following which ED officers reportedly interrogated one Pankaj Deshmukh, diwan of Deshmukh family, and seized several documents. ED had also raided Deshmukh’s Civil Lines residence here last month and interrogated his wife Aarti and son Rishi. ED officers refused to divulge details of the investigation. Two days ago on Friday, one residential flat owned by Deshmukh in Mumbai’s Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore, and 25 land parcels in Dhutum village in Raigad district of Maharashtra with a book value of ₹2.67 crore were attached by the ED. The agency then also issued summons to his wife Aarti Deshmukh for questioning. Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that as a minister in the Maharashtra government, Deshmukh had asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and few others to extort ₹100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Following the allegations, the Bombay high court (HC) ordered a preliminary enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The agency later registered a first information report (FIR) against Deshmukh in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-raids-deshmukh-s-2-houses-in-nagpur-in-100-crore-extortion-case-101626634880723.html
19-07-2021||Other||Senior citizen falls on railway tracks, saved by loco pilots||A senior citizen who was trespassing at Kalyan railway station was saved in the nick of time by alert loco pilot SK Pradhan and assistant loco pilot Ravi Shankar of Mumbai-Varanasi special train on Sunday. Hari Shankar Prasad, 65, fell on the track and was stuck below the cattle guard of the engine. Pradhan and Shankar applied emergency brakes and saved his life. The incident took place at 12.53pm, when the train was heading towards Varanasi from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). As per Central Railway (CR), the on-duty chief permanent way inspector (CPWI) alerted the loco pilot. “While on duty, I was looking after the preparation for rail replacement work at the platform no 5 on the Karjat-end of Kalyan railway station. The train was on platform no 4 and the senior citizen was at platform no 3 and trespassing. As soon as I realised, I shouted and alerted the loco pilot. The emergency brake was applied, however, the trespasser fell and was stuck below the cattle guard,” said Santosh Kumar, CPWI. He added, “When I reached near the cattle guard initially, I thought he won’t survive. However, he was alive. We were a team of seven people who managed to pull him out. He suffered minor injuries.” Chief public relations officer, CR, Shivaji Sutar said, “Following the incident, general manager of CR, Alok Kansal, has announced an award of ₹2,000 each to the loco pilot and assistant loco pilot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-citizen-falls-on-railway-tracks-saved-by-loco-pilots-101626634820711.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway trackman nabs mobile thieves||A railway trackman chased and caught a thief after he noticed him and his two associates robbing the mobile phones of the passengers and escaping.According to the Mumbai Central government railway police (GRP), the complainant, Umeshkumar Bhagwanisingh Meena, 26, was returning to his house in Karjat by Jaipur Express on Friday, when the incident occurred.M Inamdar, senior inspector, GRP, said that Meena noticed three boys in their twenties, suspiciously roaming around the compartment. As most of the commuters were asleep, Meena decided to keep an eye on them. “Within seconds, Meena noticed the three accused picking up a mobile phone belonging to a commuter and jump out of the running train,” said Inamdar.Meena then jumped of the train and chased the three, zigzagging through the railway tracks. “Since Meena is a railway trackman, he ran behind the thief and managed to catch one of them as he was preparing to skip the tracks,” added Inamdar.Meena grabbed the collar of the accused, identified as Anup Hariahkumar Mishra, 19. He then called up the GRP officers and got Mishra arrested while the two of his accomplice fled away.Inamdar said that based on Mishra’s direction, they reached Vapi in Gujarat and arrested Rahul Singh, 21 and Manoj Gupta, 22. “The three robbers have been arrested and we are now in the process to find out whether they are involved in other thefts also in the express trains,” added Inamdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-railway-trackman-nabs-mobile-thieves-101626634760685.html
19-07-2021||Other||Heavy rain forecast: Be extremely cautious, Maharashtra CM directs authorities||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to be extremely cautious over “expected and unexpected incidents” related to rain for the next five days in the backdrop of heavy rainfall forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Mumbai. All senior BMC officials need to be on high alert, identify sites with immediate possibility of landslides and shift residents at such areas to safe places. They have also been asked to start construction of retaining walls near landslide-prone sites and forcibly evacuate and rehabilitate people residing in extremely dangerous buildings. All senior officials will have to ensure that the operation of dewatering through pumps continues even at night, as on most occasions, rain intensifies at night. They have to identify the immediate possibility of landslide-prone sites and make announcements to shift residents to safer places during heavy rain to avoid accidents, CM said. “Forcibly evict the tenants from the C-1 (extremely dangerous) category dilapidated buildings,” he said.After landslides and waterlogging lead to 31 deaths following heavy rain, CM held a virtual meeting with senior officials from BMC, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). Expressing grief over the deaths, CM announced financial aid of ₹5 lakh to the victims’ kin.“Provide funds to Mhada to take up construction work of retaining walls at all landslide-prone identified sites already surveyed and communicated by BMC and Mhada,” Thackeray told the collectors.He directed Tata Power Limited to verify if the foundation of the transmission line towers at Vashi Naka, Banjar Pada and New Bharat Nagar landslide sites are sound on an urgent basis and ensure their safety. Meanwhile, Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray directed BMC to start fever clinics. “Intensify the reach of the fever clinics and start them even at vaccination centres. Increase communication and intensify action against the spread of dengue, malaria and leptospirosis post rain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-forecast-be-extremely-cautious-maharashtra-cm-directs-authorities-101626634761240.html
19-07-2021||Other||SAD wants LS to suspend all biz, repeal 3 farm laws||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday sought an adjournment to the listed business of Lok Sabha and discuss the situation issue arising over the enactment of the three farm laws by the House, last year. The monsoon session of Parliament starts tomorrow. Seeking the adjournment through a motion, to the Lok Sabha speaker, SAD MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that these three bills had been “pushed through the House in disregard of the opposition by the stakeholders – farmers, farm labourers and traders”. She also demanded that the House to include the names of the “martyrs of the farmers movement” and pay them tributes, when the obituaries are read out. “They have laid down their lives in a peaceful, democratic movement fighting for the just cause of the farmers and the farm labourers. The House must express solidarity with the farmers as well as regret the hardships faced and sacrifices made by them. This House must acknowledge their martyrdom,” she added. “The three farm laws are in brazen violation of the spirit of federalism as envisaged by the founding fathers of the Constitution of the country, as agriculture is a state subject,” she added. In her letter, Harsimrat pointed to the national outrage against these bills which have since been signed into laws despite opposition by millions of farmers of the country battling severe weather and adverse market conditions just to survive at the subsistence level. “Several hundred farmers and mazdoors have lost their lives in this struggle against the Central laws. The Central government has refused to show the sensitivity expected of a responsible and democratically elected government. Never in the history of free India has the country witnessed such outrage against a legislation passed by this House,” the letter adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-wants-ls-to-suspend-all-biz-repeal-3-farm-laws-101626634702767.html
19-07-2021||Other||Rains wreak havoc in Mumbai: Survivors, families narrate ordeal||‘Monsoon she was eagerly waiting for, made her an orphan’“They are fine, don’t worry...” Vinod Gawde lied to his wife on the mobile phone while silently weeping on the stairs of Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. Till Sunday evening, he hadn’t broken the news to his wife that she had lost her parents and two sisters to the wall collapse in Chembur, on Saturday midnight.Gawde’s in-laws—Pandit Godse, 50 and Chaya, 47 along with his two sister-in-laws—-Prachi Pandit Godse, 15, and Pallavi Dupargude, 32 were declared dead on arrival at the hospital. The body of his third sister-in-law Pratiksha Pandit, 18, was still missing till Sunday evening.“I can’t tell her that the monsoon she was eagerly waiting for has made her an orphan,” said Gawde.Gawde lives just 200 meters away from his in-laws in Chembur’s Bharat Nagar. On Saturday midnight, when the walls collapsed on their shanties, Gawde rushed to the spot within minutes but couldn’t find them due to the speed of the water flow.“My wife also rushed to rescue them but we couldn’t find them. We couldn’t find anyone since it was also pitch dark. After hours of search, when we couldn’t find them, she started having anxiety attacks and fainted. So, I lied to her that her family members are fine and undergoing treatment at the hospital,” said Gawde.Dupargude is survived by her husband and two children aged 10 and 12 years. Gawde is thankful to God that his nieces didn’t fall victim to the tragedy. “On Saturday, the children went to their tuition classes. While returning, they visited us when it started pouring outside. So, I informed Pallavi that the children will stay with us for the night. This helped to save the lives of the children,” he said.When asked if they know that they have lost their mother, Gawde said, “No, I have lied to them also. They don’t know anything, and hoping to meet their mother soon.”‘Don’t know who will take care of the child now’The landslide turned the 13-year-old Diksha Gautam Pardhe, into an orphan overnight. Her parents — Gautam and Sheela along with her siblings—Shubham, 7, and elder sister Shruthi, 18 were declared dead on arrival at Rajawadi Hospital. After post-mortem, their bodies were handed over to the family on Sunday evening for last rites.Pardhe was playing with Shubham in their room when a wall suddenly collapsed on their shanty. Before she could even realise anything, she was flowing away from her family by the gushing waters. While she was drowning, she was rescued by a local. In an unconscious state, she was rushed to Shiv Hospital, Chembur (East). When she opened her eyes, unaware of the fact that she has lost her whole family in the accident, her first question was, ‘Where is my brother?’.“Within a day, she has become an orphan. We haven’t told her anything. She is too young to even understand what has happened. We don’t know who will take care of the child now,” said Adhikari Ahera, her aunty while sobbing at Rajawadi Hospital.Her uncle Sunil Pardhe, who stayed just 300 meters away from Diksha’s chawl, has been taking care of the girl in the hospital. “She can sense something wrong has happened to her family. She keeps asking me about her parents and siblings. She is already in a shock, we don’t want to put more pressure on her by telling her the truth at present,” he said.Ahera said the state government should at least sponsor her studies until she turns 21.‘He will have to start his life from the scratch’Akshay Suryakant Zimor, 26, was lying silently on his bed at Rajawadi Hospital with injuries in his back, while tears welled out his eyes. On Sunday night, he pulled out the bodies of his parents and younger sister from the debris at the Chembur wall collapse. He is an orphan now. “I don’t know why I should live anymore. I have lost my whole family including my younger sister. Being a brother, it was my responsibility to save her but I was too late. It was too dark to see anything in the downpour,” lamented Zimor. His friends who stayed nearby, rushed to help him when they heard about the wall collapse. But it was too late. Amidst the chaos, Zimor successfully rescued two people including the 13-year-old girl, Diksha Gautam Pardhe who also became an orphan after losing her family to the accident. “By the time he could figure out his parents, it was too late. Then, he identified them and pulled them out of the mud and debris, including his only sister,” said Ganesh Mote, his friend. Akshay has sustained injuries in his back and shoulder but is stable now. “He is not talking to any of us as he is still in shock. He has not only lost his family but also his house and documents. He will have to start his life from the scratches,” said Mote who also complained that due to the short circuit from the electric boards in the rain, the water caught the electrical current which obstructed the rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rains-wreak-havoc-in-mumbai-survivors-families-narrate-ordeal-101626634700721.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,000 cases: No improvement in Covid situation even after a month||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 9,000 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,149,264. The tally of active cases increased to 103,486. The state reported 5,756 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The state saw 180 casualties, taking the toll to 127,031. Satara reported the highest fatalities with 32 deaths, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad with 20 deaths.Daily Covid-19 cases have not gone down in the past month which has become a cause of concern for state authorities. Experts have stated the local administration will have to work on mission mode to ensure decline in cases.Since June 14, the state has been reporting 8,000 to 10,000 cases each day with a few exceptions when less than 8,000 cases were reported. Despite lockdown restriction in place, the situation is not improving. In the past 18 days, the average daily cases stood at 8,489, as compared to 8,843 cases recorded in the first nine days of this month. Last month, the number stood at 10,542.“Plateauing of daily cases means our efforts need to improve at the local level. If local administration wants the figures to slide down, they will have to strictly follow all standard measures. We need to focus on urban and congested areas,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on Covid-19 and former director general of health services.He said the state is in a condition where the situation may reverse if not taken seriously. “For the state administration, there is no alternative but to again go back to the mission mode to contain the spread. If the vulnerable population is increased then cases will again explode and the situation may reverse,” he said.According to health officials, western Maharashtra region is currently the most-affected with the highest cases. Kolhapur, which reported 2,267 cases on Sunday of which 215 were from Kolhapur city, is the worst-hit district. Sangli and Satara reported 996 cases and 783 cases, respectively.After cases of Delta-plus variants were found, the state government has imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels with maximum relaxations were removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on June 25.As per the current restrictions, malls and theatres have been completely shut and not more than five people can gather at a public place. Shops selling essentials can stay open till 4pm on a daily basis and those related to non-essential services are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Gyms, saloons are operational till 4pm, with appointments and without air-conditioners. Restaurants can operate till 4pm only on weekdays, after which only takeaways are allowed.On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 455 cases, taking the case tally to 731,158. It also recorded 12 fatalities, pushing toll to 15,702.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 220,784 samples and had a positivity rate of 4.07%. However, the overall positivity rate stood at 13.66%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Sunday.A total of 124,907 doses of vaccine were administered on Sunday, according to the data available on CoWIN portal. Till date, 39,511,619 doses have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-000-cases-no-improvement-in-covid-situation-even-after-a-month-101626634641916.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||4-year-old goes missing, feared to have fallen in manhole in Nallasopara||A four-year-old boy allegedly fell in an open manhole near his residence in Bilalpada, Tulinj, Nallasopara (East) on Sunday morning. Civic authorities had opened the lid of the manhole to let out rain water accumulated due to the heavy rain fall.The boy, Anmol Singh, was missing till the time of going to press.Singh allegedly left his home on Sunday morning while his mother was cooking lunch and his father Rameshwar Singh was inside his room. When the boy did not return home, his parents searched for him and found the open manhole, following which they informed Tulinj police. Vasai civic fire brigade started a search operation to search for him and two teams have been formed, said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble of Tulinj police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4yearold-goes-missing-feared-to-have-fallen-in-manhole-in-nallasopara-101626634641223.html
19-07-2021||Other||Learn while you play: Ludhiana’s govt schools to get educational parks||To help students develop mathematical reasoning and a scientific outlook, the state government has asked all government schools in the district to set up educational parks where concepts will be illustrated with two and three-dimensional models. The government primary and middle schools have received a grant of ₹10,000 for the purpose while high and senior secondary schools have got ₹15,000. In all, the district has received a grant of ₹1.12 crore from the Centre under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan for the purpose. The funds have been transferred to the accounts of the schools concerned.As per instructions, school authorities can design these parks in accordance with the space available on their campus. They can take the help of the arts and crafts teachers for this. If there is shortage of space for a park, authorities can set up the models in any of the rooms in the school. Information regarding all the two and three-dimensional models will be displayed in English and Punjabi.The school authorities can also get students to share their ideas to develop these parks. “Educational parks have a great academic significance and can inspire students, particularly in subjects such as Science, Maths and Social Studies. Hundreds of educational parks have already come up in Ludhiana government schools. The heads and teachers worked tirelessly to set up these parks which not just beautify the campus but also provide smart learning aids,” said Lakhvir Singh, district education officer, secondary, Ludhiana. GSSS Shahpur principal Davinder Singh Chhina said, “Educational parks have added new dimensions to the education system. Our school has a science and maths park which has models of pulleys, universe, sound, solar cooker, atomic models etc. Students find such things interesting and get eager to learn more. Even visitors are awestruck by these parks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/learn-while-you-play-ludhiana-s-govt-schools-to-get-educational-parks-101626634581290.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||Open to alliance, have worked to strengthen party organisation: Priyanka||To go or not to go for an alliance is the question that appears on the top of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s mind as she gears up her party organisation for 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.This became evident at various informal interactions that Priyanka had with party workers and others before winding up her three-day tour here on Sunday.Those aware of the developments said Priyanka, at one such informal interaction with media persons here on Sunday, said, “I am open to an alliance.”“I have worked to strengthen party organisation to ensure it remains in place, if I move on,” said Priyanka informally. Her observations led to speculation that she, being national general secretary may be elevated and assigned a bigger role or charge of some other state. A Congress functionary, however, said there was no such move.She also indicated how the “ekla chalo re” (going it alone) route may help the Congress in strengthening the party in the long run, saying the party would not take any steps that may weaken, or harm it and her party’s main objective was to defeat the BJP in the 2022 polls.“Priyanka is well aware of the fact that it is too early to say anything on the issue. The alliances have not helped the Congress in the past, be it the party’s alliance with the BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) in 1996 or with the SP (Samajwadi Party) in 2017. So, it’s going to be tough call for the leadership,” said a party leader.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has often indicated that his party has had bitter experiences of allying with bigger parties (with Congress in 2017 assembly elections and with the BSP in 2019 Lok Sabha polls) and his party would, therefore, go for tie-ups with smaller parties. “The Congress cannot survive without any alliance in the 2022 assembly elections under the prevailing political situation in the state. Any alliance with smaller parties will not work. So, the Congress should negotiate either with the Samajwadi Party or the BSP for an alliance. An alliance with the SP will be in the interest of the Congress though the former will have its own terms,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.Priyanka also hinted that she would devote more time to the state to gear up the party organisation for the polls. She laid emphasis on making the old guard and youngsters in her party work together. Another party leader said Priyanka wanted the party to reach out to the veterans and senior leaders have been asked to treat them with respect. The Congress general secretary countered the BJP’s accusations that she was a political tourist and said she has been regularly visiting the state. She also said the accusation was part of BJP’s propaganda to project her and her brother Rahul Gandhi as non-serious leaders and she would not be cowed down by such accusations.She said the party workers had been asked to work harder to strengthen the organisation at the booth level now. “For the past one and a half years, our effort has been to take the Congress organisation (to the grassroots). We want to strengthen it further at the grassroots level now,” she said, addressing party workers on Saturday.She praised the party workers for extending help to people in fight against Covid-19 and said the Congress workers were the first ones to reach wherever there was any problem. She asked the partymen to work round the clock for the next seven months for the 2022 assembly elections.WITH AGENCY INPUTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/open-to-alliance-have-worked-to-strengthen-party-priyanka-101626634522058.html
19-07-2021||Other||Few women on top: Time to STEM the gender gap||Few women make it to senior positions at the major science institutes in the country and fewer still hold chair professorships — the highest academic honour granted to faculty by an institute — data accessed from various institutes has revealed. At most science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) institutes, women faculty members constitute less than 20% of all professor positions. For instance, at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras, only 31 (10.2%) out of 304 professors are women. At IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), 25 out of 143 professors (17.5%) are women. None of the IITs have had a woman director. Neither have the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, or Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. Last month, IIT-B became the first institute in the country to set up a chair professorship for women. However, only four of its existing chairs are held by women. At IIT-Madras, three out of 53 chairs are held by women. Only one of the nine chairs at IISc is held by a woman scientist. Chair is a term for endowed professorships as recognition of a faculty member’s contribution to the university in terms of research and academics. Experts said that the number of women in senior positions is skewed because the women opting for careers in STEM are low. This problem is aggravated by the unconscious bias and lack of proactive measures by institutes to improve the number of women in the workforce, they said. “I believe that in the academic sector, differential treatment happens mainly through unconscious bias. I feel it is because our thinking and policies are not inclusive. There is a difference in policies being discriminatory — which is quite often conscious — and policies not being inclusive, as the latter is quite often unconscious,” Rohini Godbole, centre for high energy physics, IISc said. Last year, Godbole was recognised by France for her work towards improving the visibility of women in STEM and awarded the Ordre National du Merite, the highest distinction granted by the country. Entry point Godbole said, “I think the major reason [for less number of women in senior positions] is just that their numbers are small at the starting level itself. The cause is of course not helped by the fact that the institutions and administrations are not proactive about getting gender balance in persons in position of authority. This lack of awareness and a kind of ‘invisible’ bias is the second major reason for under-representation of women in leadership positions at academic institutions.” Various institutes are now taking affirmative measures to improve the number of women students. For instance, IITs have introduced the supernumerary seats to increase the number of women to 20%. While these steps have improved the number of women studying science, data shows that not many are retained in the field thereafter. According to a 2020 report by the United Nations, 43% of all graduates in STEM fields in India are women—the highest in the world. However, the report also found that only 14% of 280,000 scientists, engineers and technologists employed in research institutions in the country are women. Barriers in the way Science writer Nandita Jayaraj, who co-created ‘The Life of Science’ that journals biographies of women scientists, said, “Almost all challenges are due to systemic bias. Our website is full of evidence of this.” “Systemic discrimination is a very strong part of the problem. For example, the fraction of women hired by a faculty hiring process should match the fraction of women among those with the requisite qualifications. But this is mostly not the case,” said Prajval Shastri, a retired astrophysicist from the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, who advocates intersectional feminism in academic spaces. In 2017, the Niti Aayog surveyed over 900 women and 500 women students in science. In its report, the Niti Aayog made recommendations for best practices for promoting entry and retention of women in science. It recommends flexibility in service continuity norms. “Career breaks need to be accommodated, as women scientists have dual commitments. Seniority based on total number of years of work experience or service rather than continuous service may help to retain talent and experience by allowing for re-entry of women scientists, which would otherwise be lost permanently,” read the report. Leaky pipeline The natural career progression for faculty members is to go from assistant professor to associate professor and then full professor. Numbers suggest that women faculty members fall out of this career path as they climb up the ladder. For instance, at IIT-Delhi, 23.1% of all associate professors are women, but only 14.3% of all professors are women. Only nine out of all 80 chairs are held by women faculty. Shastri said that there are several forms of inherent and systemic bias that can prevent the hiring of women or promotions to elevated positions. “Women are often assumed to be the primary caregivers of the family and are therefore liable to compromise on their professional commitments. There are hidden norms followed while hiring women or handing them senior positions. One such norm is that women spouses of already hired faculty, however meritorious, will not be hired,” she said. Way ahead Last year, the department of science and technology (DST) announced Gender Advancement Through Transforming Institutions (GATI), which is a pilot project aimed at improving diversity in higher education institutes. The institutes that sign the charter of GATI will conduct self-assessment and accreditation for adopting the principles of GATI within their policies, practices, action plans and institutional culture. However, even well-intentioned interventions are often steeped in patriarchy, said Shastri. “Interventions such as the mobility scheme offered by DST should not only be open to scientists of all genders and in a broader set of long-term relationships, their framing also needs to eschew patriarchy,” she said. Jayaraj said institutions have consistently failed to enact recommendations made by academies and social scientists. “While many solutions exist by policy, the implementation is abysmal. If you study closely, even recent schemes like GATI and Science, Technology and innovation Policy 2020 don’t convincingly promise any actual change,” she said. In 2019, the Gender in Physics Working Group of the Indian Physics Association formulated a charter for gender equity in physics that makes recommendations for institutes and departments to address the gender disparity. “The Hyderabad Charter for Gender Equity in Physics, which has the endorsement of over 325 physicists from India, is one possible first step. All institutional leaders and decision makers regardless of gender need to make equity and justice their cause, and build their awareness of discriminatory social processes within higher education. They need to undergo bias training, monitor and survey their own microcosms to learn about what might be going wrong, and involve external diversity experts as observers of their institutional processes,” said Shastri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/few-women-on-top-time-to-stem-the-gender-gap-101626634461832.html
19-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Buyani murder case cracked with arrest of three||The Doraha police have cracked the murder case of a 70-year-old man of Buyani village with the arrest of three persons. According to the police, the accused had executed the crime with an intention of robbing the victim, Harjinder Singh. The trio was identified as Gurvinder Singh alias Rimpi of Buyani village, the main conspirator, Jatinder Singh of Lehal village and Arshdeep Singh alias Aasu of Koohli Khurd village. Police have recovered some money, a gold ring, a licensed .32 bore revolver, six bullets and a dummy weapon from Khatra Canal Bridge, where the accused had buried it.Deputy commissioner of police (DSP) Hardeep Singh said the trio knew that Harjinder, who lived in another village, used to come to Buyani frequently to inspect his ancestral house. As he was from a well-to-do family, the accused assumed the victim may have kept a huge amount of money in the house. Hoping to locate where he had stored the money, the accused slipped into his house on July 3 as soon as he arrived in the village.“Jatinder and Arshdeep waited inside the house while Gurvinder gave them minute-to-minute updates about Harjinder’s movement. As soon as Harjinder entered the house, the accused pounced on him and bludgeoned him to death with a brick. They dragged the body to the kitchen and fled after covering it with sacks,” the DSP revealed.Police had come to know about the murder on July 6 after the neighours grew suspicious of the foul smell emanating from the house. The body was found in a highly decomposed state.The DSP revealed that the three accused are already facing trial in different criminal cases, including drug peddling and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Police produced them in the court on Sunday from where they were sent to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-buyani-murder-case-cracked-with-arrest-of-three-101626634461274.html
19-07-2021||Other||Public transport thrown out of gear in Mumbai after heavy rainfall||The public transport system was thrown out of gear due to heavy rainfall on Sunday. Local train services were disrupted on Central and Western Railway (WR) lines, and the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) had to divert its buses due to waterlogging in arterial roads, officials said.Local train services on Central Railway (CR) were disrupted on the mainline corridor between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan, while on the Harbour railway, services between CSMT and Mankhurd were disrupted, as railway tracks were submerged due to flooding at Kurla, Sion and Chunabhatti.“On Sunday morning, due to heavy rains and water on railway tracks at Kurla, Sion, Vidyavihar, Chunabhatti and Chembur, local trains were running cautiously, resulting in bunching on the mainline and Harbour line,” said a CR official.On WR, train services were disrupted on fast line due to waterlogging in railway sections between Prabhadevi and Dadar, Virar and Nallasopara. Slow services were operational between Churchgate and Borivli stations.Flooding on railway tracks has resulted in termination of 21 outstation trains on WR and 15 trains CR. Six outstation trains operating from the city were also cancelled. “Due to heavy rainfall last night and subsequent waterlogging at various locations between Prabhadevi-Dadar and Virar-Nallasopara, the services on WR were affected,” a WR statement read. Meanwhile, BEST diverted its buses on more than 37 routes including Milan Subway, Sheetal Cinema, SV Road (Bandra), Mankhurd station, Hindmata Cinema, Andheri Market, RCF Colony, Vakola Bridge and LBS Road (Kurla).According to the BEST officials, around 24 buses were stuck in waters and 10 had to be repaired following breakdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/public-transport-thrown-out-of-gear-in-mumbai-after-heavy-rainfall-101626634340688.html
19-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s slaughterhouse facility remains a non-starter||Even as six months have passed since the much-touted modern slaughterhouse on Hambran Road in Ludhiana was thrown open for meat shop owners, there are hardly any takers for the facility. The high cost of slaughtering, issues regarding transportation, and the failure to establish separate facilities for ‘Jhatka’ and ‘Halal’ meat, have kept the meat shop owners away.Though civic body authorities have been holding meetings with meat shop owners time and again to encourage them to use the facility, the response has been largely lukewarm.While in the initial few months, there were a few takers for the facility, footfall dried up completely in the months of May and June when the lockdown was in place. Though in July, the footfall improved, there is still a long way to go.Cashier of non-veg shopkeepers’ association, Rajesh, said, “The cost of slaughtering is very high. If a shopkeeper gets 2,000 birds slaughtered at the facility, he will have to pay ₹20,000 to the contractor. The same work can be done at a cost of ₹3,500-4,000 by hiring labour at the shop. Further, roadside vendors and small shopkeepers don’t have storage facilities to keep the slaughtered meat so they don’t prefer getting it done in advance.”Amandeep Singh, the owner of Friends Chicken in Dugri, said, “Though we have proper arrangements to dispose of the waste at our own outlet, we have started using this facility. It will take some time to streamline things. Roadside vendors and small shopkeepers are, however, reluctant to avail the facility.” An official, requesting anonymity, said the main reason why the facility has remained a non-starter is that the municipal corporation (MC) has been unable to check illegal slaughtering. “The city has around 1,000 meat retailers and 30 to 35 wholesale poultry sellers. At least 50,000 chickens are slaughtered in the city on a daily basis, but only around 400 are slaughtered at the MC facility. In March and April, shopkeepers cited the curfew and lockdown restrictions for not using the facility but even now, only a few shopkeepers are turning up, and that too, after the MC had initiated action against illegal slaughtering,” said the official, adding, “Apart from providing unhygienic meat to residents, the meat shop owners also dump the waste in MC sewer lines, which is harmful for the environment.” MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said, “We conducted meetings with meat shops owners and are working to find a solution for their problems, including the issue of transportation of meat. There has been a marginal increase in the number of shopkeepers showing up at the slaughterhouse and we expect the numbers will go up. Through this project, the MC wants to ensure that hygienic meat is provided to the residents.”Hanging fire for over a decade, the slaughterhouse project, worth ₹19.5 crore, was completed in January 2020 and operationalised in February this year. The facility can slaughter 2,000 poultry birds an hour, in two shifts of eight hours each, and 1,000 goats, sheep and pigs. The MC general house has fixed the rate of slaughtering a goat/sheep at ₹150, a poultry bird at ₹10 and a pig at ₹100. Officials said the facility also has an effluent treatment plant, a preservation and chilling facility, and a blood processing unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-slaughterhouse-facility-remains-a-nonstarter-101626634281923.html
19-07-2021||Other||Section 144 imposed ahead of festive season in Varanasi||: District administration on Saturday imposed Section 144 in Varanasi district for maintaining peace and security in view of upcoming festive season, month of Sravan and various competitive examinations during the next one month. The Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of five or more persons at a place, holding of public meetings and carrying of firearms, will remain effective till September 7.District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma in a statement issued on Saturday said that restrictions under the Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, had been imposed from July 17, in view of the festivals, including Sravan Mela, Eid-ul-Juha (Bakrid), Independence Day and Rakshabandhan which would be celebrated in this period. Besides, various competitive examinations scheduled in the same period.The statement said that no person would carry any type of firearm, spear, sword, sticks and knife, or any such weapon which mightbe used for attack at any public place. “Public display of weapons is also prohibited. However, this restriction will not apply to people belonging to Sikh and Gorkha communities who are entitled to have only ‘khukri’ as weapon according to their custom,” the DM stated. “Officers/employees posted on government duty are allowed to keep arms on duty, but this will be permissible only for the period of official duty/duty,” the DM said. He said that no person would issue any statement that generated communal hatred. No dharna or procession would be allowed to organise without permission. “Before organising the procession/dharna, it will be necessary to obtain permission from the undersigned or the magistrate concerned as per the norms. Any person/group of persons will not consume narcotics in public,” he said. The statement further added that no person/organisation would indulge in any anti-social act or activity in any manner, nor would he/it give shelter to any person involved in anti-social activity at his/its home. The Section 144 restriction would not be applicable in religious events, marriage processions, temple, mosque, gurudwara and church. Also, it would not be effective on the funeral procession, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/section-144-imposed-ahead-of-festive-season-in-varanasi-101626634280718.html
19-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: One dead, nine found infected with Covid in 24 hours||A 54-year-old man from Jamalpur died while nine patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that till date, 87,230 patients have tested positive out of which 85,007 have recovered and 2,093 succumbed.The district currently has 130 active cases. Presently, no patient from the district is on ventilator-support. The fresh cases include four patients from outpatient departments. No mucormycosis (black fungus) case was reported on Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-one-dead-nine-found-infected-with-covid-in-24-hours-101626634104047.html
19-07-2021||Other||Major blow to Maoists as senior leader leaves party, 3 others surrender||A senior Maoist leader has left the insurgent ranks allegedly due to differences with the non-tribal leaders in the outfit who were ordering the killing of innocent tribal villagers after falsely declaring them to be police informers, said police officials. In another related incident, three other Maoists from Odisha, who were involved in several encounters with the police, surrendered, dealing a double blow to the rebels.Senior police officials in Odisha said Sudheer alias Chikudu Chinna Rao, who was a divisional committee member and commander of Pedabayalu and Korukonda area committee of Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of Maoists, walked out due to sharp differences with non-tribals such as Gajarla Ravi, secretary of the above-mentioned committee, Aruna, Mahendra and Suresh. Sudheer himself is a tribal leader and a native of Pedabayalu Mandal in Andhra Pradesh, the officials said.The officials said that Sudheer has been questioning the non-tribal leaders over the killing of innocent tribals after branding them as police informers and accusing them of taking undue advantage of tribals’ simplicity.However, Aruna, secretary of Visakhapatnam East Division, claimed in a press release that Sudheer had been expelled from the party as he eloped with a girl named Mahita, deserting his wife and children.In other development, Talse Huika alias Talso, area committee member of Boipariguda area committee under Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee; Rame Podiami alias Sabita, commander of Maoists’ Palachalam local operational squad of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC), and Raidhar Dhurua alias Raidhar, party member of the ultras’ Mahupadar local operational squad under DKSZC surrendered before Odisha police chief Abhay at Malkangiri on Sunday morning.Huika who hails from Narayanpatna block of Koraput district, joined the CPI (Maoist) organisation at the age of 13 in 2012 when she was inducted into the Jana Natya Mandali, the cultural troupe of Maoists in gross of child rights and depriving her of receiving formal education.Huika worked as a party member in 3rd CRC and protection team of central committee member Ramakrishna. She was promoted to area committee member in 2015 and worked in Pedabailu Area Committee till May 2021. Later, she was transferred to Boipariguda Area Committee and continued there till her surrender. She was involved in several cases of violence involving Maoists. Podiami had a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head and she had participated in many attacks on security forces in Sukma district.Similarly, Raidhar Dhurua alias Raidhar was given formal training of arms and IEDs by the Maoists and she conducted meetings to motivate villagers to join their frontal organisations and the militias.DGP Abhay said that in the last two years more than 20 active Maoist cadres and hundreds of active militias/Maoist sympathizers have surrendered in Malkangiri district. He said Maoist cadres willing to join the mainstream could take advantage of Odisha’s surrender and rehabilitation policy for the rebels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/major-blow-to-maoists-as-senior-leader-leaves-party-3-others-surrender-101626634102974.html
19-07-2021||Other||Excavation around Golden Temple: Underground building a gift from Maharja Ranjit to our ancestor, claims Amritsar family||Amritsar Four days after tunnel-like structures made of small bricks, reportedly used centuries ago, were found during excavation work to construct a “Jora Ghar” on the Akal Takht secretariat side of the Golden Temple complex, descendants of a legendary Sikh figure have said that the structures were a gift from Maharaja Ranjit Singh to their ancestor. Yadwinder Singh, 80, who represents the 6th generation of Giani Sant Singh, a former head granthi at the Golden Temple, told HT on Sunday, “This is a tribute to Giani Sant Singh and was gifted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh, who was happy at his supervision of the gold-plating of the Golden Temple. It was called ‘Sarad Khana’; these were underground rooms in the basement of a three-storey building. We were one of the four families, all of descendants, who lived there till 1988.” He added that this ‘Sarad Khana’ was attached with Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga in the shrine complex. “My forefathers used an underground path to perform their duties as granthis and give their discourse inside the Sri Darbar Sahib,” Yadwinder, who resides with family in Basant Avenue, added. “We got emotional to see the remains of the house where we spent years. My husband and daughter still find themself in the Haweli in their dreams,” said Yadwinder’s wife, Ranjit Kaur Giani.Yadwinder’s father Giani Harinder Singh Roop was an eminent Punjabi writer. “The building had a unique architecture spread over 1,200 square yard housing 50 rooms and a well. Even as the rooms were underground, light entered there. The government acquired it in 1988 to construct a Galliara (open walled space) around the Golden Temple for more control over it after Operation Bluestar.”  He added that the government did not touch the structure for a year, before destroying it and burying the underground rooms. “Three of our forefathers, including Giani Sant Singh, also headed Damdami Taksal, the Sikh seminary. Giani Sant Singh was a Sanskrit scholar and translated Ramayana into Gurmukhi. Sikh organisations have not given importance to our pedigree, which starts from Bhai Ram Singh who took ‘Amrit’ from Guru Gobind Singh at Sri Anandpur Sahib. The 10th Guru gave him title of ‘Giani’ and stated that his family would be known for this title. Giani Sant Singh was his grandson,” he added. “Despite accounts mentioned in history books about Giani Sant Singh, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is seeking proof. Does it not follow history? Has it not seen relics and mention of Giani Sant Singh in Sri Darbar Sahib that it manages? If the SGPC follows Sikh history, it should preserve these rooms as rare relics of Giani Sant Singh,” Yadwindra claimed. The SGPC, on its part, has invited archaeological experts, historians and heritage experts to study the structures and give their opinion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excavation-around-golden-temple-underground-building-a-gift-from-maharja-ranjit-to-our-ancestor-claims-amritsar-family-101626633983516.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Thunderstorm dumps 235mm of rain as Mumbai sees back-to-back extreme weather events||A thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as massive and monstrous, deposited a whopping 235mm of rain in the city between 12am and 4am on Sunday, triggering two landslides, leaving several dead, and throwing civic infrastructure out of gear.This happened less than 48 hours after a similar high-impact weather event event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall (253mm) early Friday. But Sunday’s downpour proved to be more widespread, with 19 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) monitoring locations (across 14 wards) recording extremely heavy rain — over 204.5mm — within just a few hours. While Colaba recorded only 13mm of rain on July 16, both Santacruz and Colaba monitoring stations saw rains over 195mm on Sunday. Most of the rainfall was received between 12am and 2am, ward-level data shows. Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray even labelled the event as a ‘mini cloudburst,’ though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) did not term it as one.Experts on the other hand said it was a thunderstorm event, but one whose impact is comparable to a cloudburst — which is described by the IMD as “any event where 100 millimetres of rainfall have fallen in an hour over a region that is 20-30 square kilometres in area.”Meteorologists were once again stumped by the scale of the downpour, which is distinct from typical monsoon showers. Like Friday’s event, the one that took place in the wee hours of Sunday was not triggered by large-scale weather systems typically associated with monsoon rains, such as a deep layer of winds from the west over Mumbai, a monsoon low-pressure system over east or central India, or a vigorous offshore trough.“Such rainfall, known as stratiform precipitation, is relatively steady and continuous on a day,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University Of Reading, England.Rather, the events observed in Mumbai were due to “convective precipitation”, triggered by a rapid “in situ” convergence of moisture-laden clouds that were formed as easterly winds in the mid-atmospheric levels transported dry air over warm and moist air in the lower levels, brought by westerly winds. “This is ideal for convective instability, particularly given the daytime heat,” said Deoras.This analysis was seconded by Dr JR Kulkarni, a retired meteorologist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IIMT), who said, “There is a wind trough persisting from the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal passing through Mumbai in which easterly and westerly winds are flowing, causing favourable condition for continuous convection at the low level over Mumbai and even parts in the southern Konkan belt. Because there is no low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, and because the monsoon trough is also not in its normal position, such events are difficult to predict.”In the case of Sunday’s thunderstorm, the cloud cover seems to have started forming late Saturday over Raigad district, where the hilly topography would have driven the formation of thunder clouds, meteorologists said. The cloud cover — which amassed in size to touch a cloud-top height of 18kms (twice the size of Mt. Everest, and about 25,000 feet higher than the cruising altitude of commercial airlines) — then moved from the southeast to the northwest of Mumbai, causing much wider rainfall than the downpour on early Friday.“The cloud-top height is a good indicator of the intensity of a storm. Furthermore, the vertical wind shear is significant, which is prolonging the lifespan of thunderstorms,” Deoras said, adding, “Such thunderstorms are uncommon for Mumbai or the west coast during an active phase of the monsoon, and in a month like July. The cloud top height of this monster thunderstorm is comparable to the one that produced rains on 26 July 2005.”Despite the scale of the downpour, civic authorities said they received no warning of extreme weather from the IMD. “Our models did not see such an intense event, but an impact based forecast was put out at 1am warning people,” said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of the IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai. Experts, however, once again criticised the IMD for the poor functioning of its doppler radar in Colaba, which could have been used to provide actionable information to civic authorities. However, the radar is currently producing images at intervals of between one to two hours (as against the optimum 15 minutes), which is too late for real-time disaster management.At 10:30pm on Saturday, for example, the IMD put out a thunderstorm warning with chances of “moderate to intense spells of rain” for the Konkan coast. However, the Nowcast was based on a doppler image produced at 9:30pm. “It does not help stakeholders since they can’t figure out anything from such radars, except for looking into the past,” said Deoras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thunderstorm-dumps-235mm-of-rain-as-mumbai-sees-back-to-back-extreme-weather-events-101626633920759.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai meets 30% of monsoon rainfall target in three days||After receiving the second-highest daily rainfall of the ongoing monsoon season on Sunday, the city has recorded a total of 1,811mm of rain since June 1. This accounts for just over 85% of the seasonal normal up to end September, which stands at 2,205mm, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, up to July 15, the city had received only 58.7% of this amount. Thus, in the last three days alone Mumbai has received a total of 661.5mm of rain, thus meeting the 30% monsoon rainfall target.IMD data shows an increasing frequency of high-intensity rainfall events in Mumbai in the past 10 years. Of seven such incidents, three have occurred since 2019, and two of these in the past three days alone. Though experts said that further investigation is required before conclusively linking such incidents to climate change, they agreed that anthropogenic warming in the environment may very likely have a role to play.“Enough studies have shown that a warming atmosphere means more availability of moisture. A warming ocean and earth’s surface essentially provides convective weather systems with more energy to intensify rapidly. Moreover, peninsular India is expected to get more rainfall as a result of climate change-related processes, and this can also be seen clearly in the current monsoon. From Gujarat to West MP, East MP, Haryana and Punjab, they show significant deficient rainfall so far. But that’s not the case with southern Indian meteorological subdivisions,” said Dr JR Kulkarni, retired meteorologist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, which is under the Ministry of Earth Sciences.The intense spell of rain early Sunday also helped Mumbai surpass the seasonal normal for the month of July alone, which stands at 827mm. As of 5.30pm on Sunday, the city has received 849.6mm of rain (in July).However, despite receiving 235mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Sunday, the city received only a meagre 2.8mm in the subsequent eight hours, contrary to IMD’s announcement of a red alert for the city. Mumbai is currently placed under an orange category storm alert up to July 22.Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, said that there will be widespread distribution of rainfall across the Konkan coast, with a very likely chance of “extremely heavy rain at isolated places,” over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-meets-30-of-monsoon-rainfall-target-in-three-days-101626633860641.html
19-07-2021||Other||Ensure repairing and cleaning of roads: Divisional commissioner to VNN||Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agrawal instructed Varanasi Nagar Nigam officials to begin repairing city roads and cleaning the lanes leading to Kashi Vishwanath Temple before the Shravan season begins, during a meeting held here on late Saturday evening. He instructed the officials while holding the meeting regarding arrangements for the month of Shravan.“A large number of devotees visit Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Shravan. Before the holy month begins, all the streets should be repaired so that there is no inconvenience to the devotees,” he said.He instructed Sunil Kumar Verma, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Shri Kashi Vishwanath special area development board to make separate arrangements for the entry and exit of devotees in the temple premises. A proper arrangement should also be made for drinking water, he added.Additionally, he also instructed to repair the streets around the temple and ensure adequate lighting is provided.Sunil Kumar Verma said, “ The devotees will enter the temple from gate number 4, the Chhatta Dwar via Dhundhhiraj Lane, Saraswati Gate and will offer Ganga Jal to Baba Kashi Vishwanath from outside the sanctum sanctorum of the temple.”“We are fully prepared to welcome the devotees,” he added.Additionally, he said that VVIPs and devotees for Sugam darshan will have access to the temple through Gate C and will be able to offer prayers, Ganga Jal and perform ‘darshan’ of Baba Kashi Vishwanath from the northern gate of the sanctum sanctorum. Verma said, “Like last year, this time also there will be an arrangement of ‘Jhanki Darshan’ of Baba Kashi Vishwanath on all Mondays of the holy month, during which darshan of Baba Kashi Vishwanath will be allowed only from outside the sanctum santorum.Several officials were present during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-repairing-and-cleaning-of-roads-divisional-commissioner-to-vnn-101626633801729.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||‘Uttar Pradesh performing well in population control’||Uttar Pradesh has done remarkably well in improving demographic parameters and population control over the past few decades said DK Ojha, deputy director-general (Stats.) of the ministry of health and family welfare, the government of India said during a one-day national webinar on “Population Scenario of Uttar Pradesh” held in Lucknow on Sunday.The webinar was organised by the population research centre (PRC), the economics department, University of Lucknow.“As per the fourth round of national family and health survey (NFHS-4) which was carried out in 2015-16, the girl child education and nutritional level in children has improved in Uttar Pradesh. Also, the total fertility rate (TFR) in Uttar Pradesh has dropped down by two percentage points as compared to 0.6 per cent at the national level,” he said.“Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state in India with a population of 23 crores which is 16 per cent of India’s total population,” he said.Prof Suresh Sharma, head and director of PRC at Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi, spoke about teenage pregnancy and adolescent health issues in Uttar Pradesh. He said that the overall demographic parameters have been improving in Uttar Pradesh faster than in the other states in India.Prof MK Agarwal, head and director of the population research centre (PRC), department of economics at the University of Lucknow, said that demography is a variable that is affected by development and development is affected by demography. He said that the rate of infrastructure development in Uttar Pradesh is faster which accommodate the development of rural infrastructure so that the rural population is provided with all facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-performing-well-in-population-control-101626633800695.html
19-07-2021||Pune||High private school fees push students to seek admission in Pune ZP schools||The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the financial planning of individual families, due to which parents from Pune district are now admitting their children to Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) schools, as they cannot afford to pay the fees of private schools. According to data shared by the Pune ZP’s school education department, there has been an increase of 10,000 admissions this year, as compared to last year. As of July 16, the total number of admissions in ZP schools stands at 235,000. This is expected to further increase by 25,000, as the admission process is open till July 31. Sagar Abnawe’s daughter was studying in a private school in senior KG. He has is now taken admission for her in a Pune ZP school in Ambegaon Budruk. “Last year, due to lockdown our business was closed. We had to struggle to pay school fees. This year we decided to change the school of our daughter and have now taken admission for Class 1 in a Pune ZP school. Atleast there is no worry to pay thousands of rupees in fees, and also we get books, study material and other many things free of cost in this school,” said Abnawe. There have been many protests and demands to reduce the fees in private schools, with some cases before the High Court. Private school fees range between ₹50,000 and ₹5 lakh per annum, depending of the standard and facilities provided by the school. “We have seen a major rise in the admission of students to our Pune ZP schools for Classes 1 to 8 this academic year. This is mainly because of the Covid effect and parents are unable to pay private school fees. In the last couple of years we have focused mainly on quality education, improvement in the teaching techniques, children-friendly ways to engage students and also provide better facilities at the school,” said Ranjit Shivtare, Pune Zilla Parishad vice-president and chairman of ZP’s education and finance committee. “As admissions are going on till July 31, we are expecting that around 25,000 more admissions will happen this year. This would be the highest ever increase in the number of admissions in the state. There are several ZP schools where admissions are full and it is difficult to get a seat,” added Shivtare. Admissions in ZP schools 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 233,977 226,982 235,000 (Till July 16)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/high-pvt-school-fees-push-students-to-seek-admission-in-zp-schools-101626633743658.html
19-07-2021||Pune||Eight buses for four palkhis from Pune to Pandharpur||For a second year, the traditional palkhis of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar, along with eight other palkhis will leave for Pandharpur on Monday, by buses provided by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). All preparations are completed and a day prior to Ashadhi Ekadashi, on Monday, the palkhis will reach the destination. The palkhis will leave from the Swargate and Shivajinagar depots this year, two Shivshahi buses for each palkhi. Eight such buses have been provided by the MSRTC Pune division.“We have given eight Shivshahi buses for four different palkhis going from the Pune district towards Pandharpur on Monday. These buses are decorated. Each palkhi will have two buses each, carrying the main palkhi and warkaris. All these buses will leave from the Swargate and Shivajinagar depots,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.Along with the decorations of the buses, backup plans for breakdowns or repairs are also in place. Spare buses are ready at Indapur and Neera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8-buses-for-4-palkhis-will-leave-from-swargate-shivajinagar-for-pandharpur-on-monday-101626633743076.html
19-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain inundates purification complex, water supply in Mumbai disrupted||Water supply in most parts of Mumbai was disrupted on Sunday morning, as heavy rains inundated the Bhandup water purification complex, forcing Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to shut down the water filtration plants at the complex’s purification centre. After draining out the logged water, cleaning the system and repairing technical faults throughout Sunday, BMC restarted the water supply to the city for the evening cycle on the same day. Mumbaiites will receive a municipal drinking water supply as usual on Monday morning. However, BMC has urged citizens to boil drinking water before use.Following heavy rainfall on Saturday night, rainwater entered the Bhandup complex, forcing BMC to shut down the water purification system and electric supply, as a precautionary measure.Excess stormwater (rainwater) from the Bhandup complex drains into Vihar lake. Since the lake also overflowed on Sunday morning, it did not accept stormwater accumulated inside the complex. This logged water accumulated and inundated the complex building.Ajay Rathore, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulics department said, “Rainwater entered the purification system at the drinking water complex. We immediately shut down the system and switched off the power supply as a precaution. We then began draining the water, and cleaning the system.”Following this, the Island city and the western suburbs did not receive the regular municipal drinking water supply on Sunday morning. Water supply to parts of the eastern suburbs was also affected.In a statement on Sunday night, BMC said, “The rainwater that entered the Bhandup water complex was pumped out on a war footing and the filtration and pumping system was cleaned. Necessary repairs were made after inspecting the plant, and the pumps were started in phases. Soon after, the water level in Bhandup Main Reservoir started rising. Since then, water supply has been restored in many parts of the city, including the western suburbs and island city, since [Sunday] evening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-inundates-purification-complex-water-supply-in-mumbai-disrupted-101626633742391.html
19-07-2021||Other||Prayagraj: This female DSP is training women recruits on crimes against women||A young woman police officer is motivating and teaching young woman police recruits ways to investigate crimes against women and elderly people properly and on priority, during a training session being held at police lines in the district. Astha Jaiswal, PPS officer (DSP) and circle officer (Baihrana) said that motivation at this stage will help them excel in their jobs and will instil a sense of responsibility towards common people and society. It is worth mentioning that at present at least 200 new women constable recruits are undergoing their training session at Prayagraj police lines under different officials.CO Astha Jaiswal said women cops are now playing a much bigger role in controlling crimes, giving security, maintenance of law and order in contrast to earlier times when there were a few women cops in the police force. Jaiswal who takes regular sessions with new women recruits said that motivation given to women cops at the stage of training is a major factor in moulding them into a good cops.Besides training the women cops for discipline and imparting them skills necessary for cops, regular sessions are being held to make them mentally and psychologically strong which will make them fit for the tough job ahead, she said. “Special focus is being laid to train them for taking seriously the crimes against women, children and elderly people and take action into them on priority. Their approach towards the society should be humanistic and based on people’s policing which will help in bridging the gap between cops and citizens,” Astha Jaiswal said.It is worth mentioning that the women cops are now playing a bigger role in maintaining law and order, controlling crimes especially those against women and children along with doing other duties similar to their male counterparts. The women police are now also being deployed in VIP and sentry duties at different spots where they have proved themselves as alert and tough women police officers. In contrast to earlier situations, women cops now also remain on duty at police stations during the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-this-female-dsp-is-training-women-recruits-on-crimes-against-women-101626633741835.html
19-07-2021||Other||Site of airport project at Purandar not yet finalised: Ajit Pawar||PUNE After deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s recent remarks, doubts are being raised about the proposed location of the International Airport project at Purandar. Speaking in Pune on Friday, Ajit Pawar said that the site for the airport has not yet been confirmed. This comes as a contradiction to earlier statements made in February, that the newly proposed site for the airport close to the original site under Purandar tehsil. “When the site of the International Airport is finalised, you (media) will be informed through a press conference,” said Ajit Pawar, at the media interaction in Pune on Friday. In February 2021, Pawar had said that a report has been submitted to the Central government regarding the new site for the International Airport to be constructed in Purandar. The originally proposed site for the international airport was changed because of the opposition from the villagers in Purandar. Then a revised proposal, with a change in the location, was submitted to the centre for approval.Stiff opposition has emerged from locals to the new site as well. Farmers from affected villages in the newly proposed site have started a campaign against the proposed airport in their villages. Earlier this week, villagers, after their meeting with Sharad Pawar, claimed that the NCP had made it clear the site had not been finalised yet. “Our villages are not drought prone anymore. We have invested a lot in our farms to make the land fertile and to ensure a good crop. If this land, which is our only source of income is taken away from us, then how will we survive? This is an agricultural area,” said Ganesh Mulik, president of the anti-airport protest committee in Purandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/site-of-airport-project-at-purandar-not-yet-finalised-ajit-pawar-101626633740659.html
19-07-2021||Other||PMC on a tight budget for devp of merged villages||PUNE Due to the Covid-19 situation, the Pune Municipal Corporaiton (PMC) will only have ₹70 crore to spend on the 23 newly merged villages. Resident demands are increasing for basic facilities in the villages. However, the PMC is facing a problem of funds as well as manpower to provide facilities.The property tax department has calculated ₹130 crore as property tax from these areas. Kunal khemnar, additional municipal commissioner of PMC said, “In the budget for 2021-22, PMC has allocated ₹100 crore for 23 merged villages. However, due to Covid-19 situation and 30 per cent cut in development funds, we will have to use only ₹70 crore this financial year.’He further said, “We are not getting revenue in terms of property tax immediately. We will have to wait for one year. After one year, we will get property tax. However, it is not enough to develop infrastructure in these inclusive villages area.”“At present, we are trying to develop basic facilities to villages such drinking water, street light, road and other facilities. We are providing water through tankers where there is no water network, he added.Narendra Hagwane, resident of Kirkitwadi said, “ PMC will have to provide basic facilities such as water, drainage road and garbage collection. After that, we will pay property tax. We are hoping that PMC is aware of that from the past merged villages. We want plan development from PMC and not random one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-on-a-tight-budget-for-devp-of-merged-villages-101626633682411.html
19-07-2021||Other||Heavy rainfall in ghat areas, city sees showers as well||PUNE Shivajinagar, on Sunday, reported 10.4 millimetres (mm) of rainfall, and Lohegaon reported 1.6 mm, suggesting that the monsoon revival over the city is ongoing. Pashan reported rainfall of 7 mm.The ghat areas around Pune also reported heavy rainfall over the last few days, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Pune is expected to get light to moderate rainfall in the next few days. Between June 1 and July 18, Pune city reported a rainfall deficiency of 64.5mm. So far, Pune reported 178.7mm of rainfall as against the normal rainfall of 243.2mm rainfall.The rainfall deficiency has seen a rise not just in Pune district, but also in other parts of the state. IMD has forecast that the monsoon is likely to revive this week.Anupam Kashyapi, head of wweather forecasting with IMD Pune, said, “Shivajinagar area received less than normal rainfall, whereas Lohegaon has reported normal rainfall. There is an upper air circulation present over north Madhya Maharashtra. An offshore trough from north Maharashtra to Kerala coast is active. The westerly wind is also strong. Shear zone over the state has shifted. Around July 21, a low-pressure area is likely to form near the northwest Bay of Bengal which may bring more rainfall. These weather systems will help bring good rainfall over Pune city and other parts of the state,” said Kashyapi.In Madhya Maharashtra, Kashyapi added that extreme heavy rainfall is likely in ghat areas in the next few days.“All four divisions of Maharashtra may receive heavy rainfall till July 22. Also, Pune city may receive light to moderate rainfall till July 24. However, ghat areas may receive isolated heavy rainfall till July 24,” said IMD Officials.Parts of Konkan and Goa, Vidarbha and Madhya Maharashtra reported rainfall on Sunday.113mm rainfall was reported in Panjim on Sunday. Mahabaleshwar on Sunday reported 26mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rainfall-in-ghat-areas-city-sees-showers-as-well-101626633681807.html
19-07-2021||Other||178 weekend revellers fined for violating Sec 144 at picnic sites||PUNE Despite the imposition of section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) at tourist destinations across the seven talukas in Pune district to prevent the spread of Covid-19, people thronged the sightseeing spots on the weekend, keeping the police on their toes.In Lonavala, 98 people were penalised and fines of ₹32,200 were collected over two days, while at Khadakwasla dam and Sinhgad fort 80 people were fined and ₹40,000 were collected.Section 144 is imposed in the Maval, Mulshi, Haveli, Ambegaon, Junnar, Bhor and Velhe.“Even after the order from district administration, people tend to take things lightly. We have put flex banners on both the sides of Mumbai-Pune expressway mentioning the closure of sight-seeing spots. Still people from Mumbai and Pune visited Lonavala in large numbers over the weekend,” said Dilip Pawar, senior police inspector, Lonavala city. As per section 144 of IPC, four or more persons are not allowed to assemble in one area. Vehicle entries have also been banned at waterfalls.Sadashiv Shelar, senior inspector, Haveli police station said, “We have increased check posts on roads leading to Khadakwasla dam and Sinhagad fort. Not only youngsters, but people are coming out with families to enjoy the weekend. People should follow orders seriously.”The district administrator has ordered a strict watch on the movement near natural small waterfalls which occur during the monsoon season. Administration has also ordered action against people taking selfies and shooting videos at dangerous spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/178-weekend-revellers-fined-for-violating-sec-144-at-picnic-sites-101626633680617.html
19-07-2021||Other||PMC to generate revenue of ₹130 crore in property tax from newly merged villages||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) tax department has claimed that 0.2 million properties in the 23 newly merged villages will generate a tax revenue of ₹130 crore for 2021-2022. Vilas Kanade, head of the PMC property tax department, expects revenue to go up to ₹500 crore in next five years based on a forecast of the number of properties increasing to 1.305 million. The administration maintained that the additional revenue will be utilised for creation of infrastructure including roads and drainage lines in the new areas.Kanade said, “The newly merged areas will increase the funds in our coffers and the figure will go up significantly in the next few years.” Villagers will have to pay property tax as per gram panchayat norms for 2020-21, but will have to pay as per PMC norms from April 22, 2021, the beginning of the new financial year for the civic body. The highest number of tax payees from the newly merged villages are from Wagholi, followed by Narhe and Manjri Budruk.With the state government issuing a notification merging 23 villages, PMC is now the largest civic body in Maharashtra. The total area under PMC is currently pegged at 518 sqkm, overtaking Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s 440 sqkm. Unlike the village mergers in the recent past, all 23 fringe villages, including Wagholi, Khadakwasla and Pisoli, have been fully added to the limits of the civic body, as pet the state urban development department.Wagholi resident Sandip Patil said, “The property taxes in our area including all the villages will naturally go up in the next few years. PMC officials must be careful and concerned while discharging their duties for citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-generate-revenue-of-rs-130-crore-in-property-tax-from-newly-merged-villages-101626633681250.html
19-07-2021||Other||Narayangoan-Khed ghat bypass now open for traffic||PUNE The journey between Pune and Nashik will now encompass a bypass road between Narayangoan and Khed ghat, after it was opened to the public on July 17.The bypass road, which was sanctioned in 2016, has been completed after land acquisition issues.The road widening on a stretch between Alephata and Khed was stuck for 18 months, and resumed in October 2020.Of the 9.3km bypass road, 4.4 km has been constructed on Khed ghat, while 4.9 km is in Narayangaon.Commuters had demanded a bypass to reduce traffic snarls.Shirur MP Amol Kolhe, was supposed to inaugurate the bypass road on July 17, however on July 16, former MP Shivajirao Adhalarao Patil inaugurated the road.“I am glad the road is finally open to traffic. We are satisfied with the success of the collective efforts of all the people’s representatives. These bypass roads will enable safe transportation for all, including locals,” said Amol Kolhe, MP from Shirur.Sharing photos of the bypass roads a few days ago, Union Roads and Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted, “The Narayangaon, Pune bypass will ease travel between Pune and Nashik. Agricultural products would reach Mumbai-Pune market easily”.Nashik resident Arpita Zende said, “The project was pending for many days and frequent travellers between Pune and Nashik will benefit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narayangoankhed-ghat-bypass-now-open-for-traffic-101626633623486.html
19-07-2021||Other||12 in police custody for organising bullock cart race in Katraj||PUNE A local court has remanded 12 people to one day’s custody of the Pune city police on Sunday, for organising and participating in a bullock cart race in Gujarwadi, Katraj, on Saturday. The area, which has a gram panchayat, was recently merged with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The bullock cart race took place between 9:30am and 10:30am on Saturday, near the foot of a hill in Gujarwadi area of Babar Mala in Katraj.The arrested men have been identified as Santosh Ashok Nanvare (44), a resident of Gokulnagar in Kondhwa, Pune; Yogesh Balasahe Renuse (29), a reisdent of Neravane in Velha, Pune; Mayur Dilip Shevale (26) a resident of Devachi Uruli in Pune; Pandharinath Jagan Fadke (55), Hrushikesh Bhaga Fadke (52), Vaman Vinayak Fadke (65), Padmakae Ramdas Fadke (38), all residents of Vihigir in Panvel, Raigad; Hrushikesh Survyakant Kanchan (23), a resident of Uruli Kanchan, Pune; Sanket Shashikant Chorge (21), Yash Raju Bhingare (19), SAntosh Shivaram Kudale (41) all residents of Bhelkewadi in Bhor; and Rahul Prakash Chaudhury (34) a resident of Warje, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by havildar Ravindra Chippa of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.Rahul Chaudhary and Santosh Nanavare, who are locals in the area, were found to be the conveners of the gathering for the bullock cart race.A team of policemen learned about the race and went to the clearing where the race was being held.“We got to know about a race of six-seven pairs of bulls being organised. So, a team led by inspector (crime) Prakash Pasalkar, two sub-inspectors, and six staff members went to the spot. We were in uniform so the moment we were spotted, they scattered, and chaos ensued. We captured three bulls and these people. They pushed the police team in order to free the bulls and managed to get one out of our grip,” said sub-inspector Nitin Shinde of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who is investigating the case.The Fadke family had come from Raigad to visit which has led the police to believe that it was a well-planned event, even though the Bombay High Court order and subsequent Maharashtra state order has deemed bullock cart races as illegal. The bulls were beaten, and their tails twisted in order to make them run faster, according to the police.A case under Sections 353, 269, 270, 188, 143, 147, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11(a) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-in-police-custody-for-organising-bullock-cart-race-in-katraj-101626633624081.html
19-07-2021||Other||Tenders’ deadline for Jica’s Mula-Mutha project extended for 4th time||PUNE The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)-funded Mula-Mutha river project has been extended for the fourth time in the last seven months, as the Central government has not given its approval for the project tenders.PMC has estimated the project cost at ₹1,511 crore due to the delays. The actual project cost was ₹990.26 crore. The corporation drainage department floated a first tender in February 2021. However, the second wave of Covid-19 situation and the restriction imposed thereof, did to see any response from companies. Therefore, it was extended twice. After that, companies posted queries in pre-tender documents. So, PMC extended the deadline to clarify queries. Jagdish Khanore, Jica project head said, “It is global tender and big companies like L&T, Tata and Toshiba are interested. Some of the companies raised queries in pre-tender documents which we cleared and sent to the central government’s National River Cleaning Directorate for approval. They also raised some queries which have been cleared and it was then sent to the Central government for final approval. It has been sent three days ago. Therefore, we extended the tender deadline for the fourth time by one month.”The project was sanctioned by the Central government under the the National River Conservation plan (NRCP) in 2015. Under the JICA project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396 million litres per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD laying of 113.6 km of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tenders-deadline-for-jica-s-mula-mutha-project-extended-for-4th-time-101626633622884.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||Feelings of kanwar sanghs should be respected, says Yogi||A day after the state government announced that the kanwar sanghs (associations of pilgrims) have cancelled this year’s kanwar yatra, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said, “The feelings of kanwar sanghs should be respected.”“It’s appropriate that in the matters of faith, the society should itself take decisions,” he said.The yatra was not taken out last year as well due to Covid-19.This year, the yatra was scheduled to start on July 25. The state government has to reply on Monday to the Supreme Court on its decision on the yatra in Uttar Pradesh.Since Friday, soon after the Supreme Court nudged the UP government to reconsider the state’s decision to hold the yatra despite Covid-19 concerns, the Uttar Pradesh government engaged kanwar sanghs in the state in talks and made an appeal to them to cancel the yatra the way they did last year, said a senior state government officer.The top court had asked the state government to inform it by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a “symbolic” kanwar yatra.“The state government respects the faith of all the people. The kanwar sanghs, after talking to the state government officers, decided to cancel the holy kanwar yatra of Shravan month. It is appropriate that in the matters of faith, the society should itself take decisions. The feelings of kanwar sanghs should be respected,” Yogi said at the Covid review meeting on Sunday.The kanwar yatra is an annual pilgrimage held in the Hindu holy month of Shravan. It involves devotees of Lord Shiva generally walking barefoot with pitchers of holy water from the Ganga or other rivers hung on kanwars (bamboo or wooden slings) and then offering the water to the deity at Shiva temples.On Tuesday, the Uttarakhand government cancelled this year’s yatra, but the UP government had said the annual pilgrimage was allowed in Uttar Pradesh with Covid safety protocols. Following this, the Supreme Court took cognizance of the issue and, on Friday, asked the UP government to reconsider its decision to allow the kanwar yatra in the state with a limited number of pilgrims. The apex court asked the government to consider a complete ban on the physical movement of kanwariyas in the state. Haridwar in Uttarakhand is the main centre for the kanwariyas to collect Ganga water for “jalabhishek” of Lord Shiva. Traditionally in UP, many devotees, instead of going to Haridwar, collect Ganga water from various places in the state itself, such as Unnao, Bijnor or fetch the Saryu water from Ayodhya. Earlier on Saturday, many kanwar sanghs (organisations) in Saharanpur district of western Uttar Pradesh expressed their helplessness in ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour during the yatra and decided not to organise camps for the pilgrims this year.They took this stance while the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, urged devotees not to take out the yatra this year too due to Covid-19.ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said that human life was as important as religious practices and thus the best option was that the kanwar yatra was called off this year as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/feelings-of-kanwar-sanghs-should-be-respected-says-yogi-101626633622435.html
19-07-2021||Other||3 booked for hacking into bank account of senior, transferring ₹38 lakh||PUNE Three men were booked for hacking into a bank account of a senior citizen and transferring ₹38 lakh from it, without the man’s knowledge.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Subodh Chandrakant Korde (61), a resident of Duplex 59 Woods in Kalewadi Phata, Wakad. He owns a business in Pune, according to the police.The three men were identified as Subhomoy Vishwas, Sameer Tamang and Alok Pal, according to the complainant.The transfer happened at 5:55pm on July 15 when the man was in his house, according to his complaint. A total of ₹38,04,000 was transferred over two days, according to the police.“This is a case of SIM swap, cloning, and hacking. He had submitted his old SIM card at a BSNL office and in two days, he had received a new SIM. The hackers must have already known his information by some leaked data and transferred the money over two days,” said senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station.A case under Section 420 (Cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(C) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-booked-for-hacking-into-bank-account-of-senior-transferring-rs-38-lakh-101626633621284.html
19-07-2021||Other||IG bans direct registration of plots less than 2 gunthas in size||PUNE The Inspector general (IG) of registration and stamps has banned the direct registration of plots of land up to two gunthas in size. Unless the land layout is ratified by the district collector, registrations will not be done, the order, issued on Sunday stated.The GR states that it had been observed that many buyers were directly registering a minimum of one or two gunthas, as part of a larger parcel of land, in violation of the law. “Only smaller pieces of land which have a proper legal layout as envisaged by the government and approved by the district collector and competent authority can be can be registered,” the GR stated.However, developers have opposed the GR. A member of a developers’ association in Pune, on condition of anonymity, claimed that if one or two gunthas of land cannot be directly registered, it would affect a large number of middle-class citizens, who cannot afford to buy flats measured by square feet. “Citizens who are poor and small landholders can construct their own houses on one or two gunthas of land at affordable costs,” the developer said.The state government in March passed the “gunthewari scheme” bill to regularise unauthorised small plots by December 31, 2020, which will legalise constructions 20-years old under the scheme, a move that will largely benefit the recently merged villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. The state government had first introduced the “gunthewari” scheme on January 1, 2001, under the Maharashtra Gunthewari Developments (Regulation, Upgradation and Control) Act.The government then took a decision at a state cabinet meeting to revive the scheme in a new format and regularise gunthewari construction up to December 31, 2020.Gunthewari is known as a method invoked to measure land as per the Gunthewari act. The practice of creating small plots of agricultural land in multiple gunthas (1,089 sqft) was illegal and hence, carrying out constructions on “gunthewari” land was also illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ig-bans-direct-registration-of-plots-less-than-2-gunthas-in-size-101626633620613.html
19-07-2021||Pune||SPPU catches 350 students for malpractices during online exams||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has found that 350 students were involved in malpractices during the online examination conducted in April-May, via the proctored method.Of the 350 students, 80 per cent belonged to engineering or technology-related streams.In April and May, exams were conducted in 284 courses for which 0.579 million students appeared for the exam.“Students should avoid doing such malpractices during exams. We have a complete record of how the exam is conducted so we can take action on students. Since exams are going on currently, I will not reveal much detail on how we caught the students. Action will be taken against them,” said Manohar Chaskar, dean, faculty of Science and Technology.In the ongoing second-semester exams, which started from July 12, SPPU is making sure students will have to keep cameras and voice active, will be recorded during the exams.University has warned against opening of a second window, disconnecting the internet or suspicious movements. Actions are being taken against students who have repeatedly violated the rules as their examination automatically stops.It was also found by the university that some students have created groups on various social media in the name of the university itself to stream answers.Students take a screenshot of the question paper and upload it to the respective group. The members of the group then answer it. However, while doing this, student movements, changes on mobile or laptop are captured and students are being caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-catches-350-students-for-malpractices-during-online-exams-101626633561764.html
19-07-2021||Other||Key accused held in attack on cricketer Raina’s relatives||Pathankot Punjab Police have arrested the key accused in the murderous attack on cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives in Pathankot in August last year, from Bareily in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. Raina’s uncle, Ashok Kumar, 60, and cousin, Kaushal Kumar, were killed the attack, which had dacoity as the motive. This is the fourth arrest in the case, as three of the accused have already been arrested. Police refused to share details, but sources said the latest arrested accused had done a recce of the house before the offence and will be produced before court on Monday. The cricketer had described the attack as ‘beyond horrible’ and had urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to look into the case in a twitter post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-accused-held-in-attack-on-cricketer-raina-s-relatives-101626633561256.html
19-07-2021||Other||3 die after falling in Chitrakoot waterfall, UP CM expresses grief||LUCKNOW Three youths, including two cousin brothers of Banda, died during their weekend outing after falling into Sabri waterfall in Chitrakoot’s Manikpur tehsil area on Sunday afternoon, said police officials. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident and directed the local authorities to immediately rush to the spot and to provide all possible help to them. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) PK Srivastava said that four youths --Akash Sahu, 23, Lala Sahu, 22, and two cousin brothers Mohit Sahu, 18, Sahil Sahu, 17, fell into the waterfall while clicking photographs. He said they all were swept away in heavy water current. He said three of them were brought out by the local divers and rushed to a local hospital where Mohit and Sahil succumbed during the treatment while Akash survived. The body of the fourth youth Lala was later fished out. Srivastava said the administration has put up the warning board for the tourists after one youth had died falling into the waterfall. Now more measures are being taken to avert such incidents in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-die-after-falling-in-chitrakoot-waterfall-up-cm-expresses-grief-101626633200616.html
19-07-2021||Noida||Noida gets relief even as rain keeps away||Noida: Sunday turned out to be a little soothing for residents in Noida and its adjoining areas as the drop in the maximum temperature and easterly winds provided some respite from the hot and humid conditions the city has been experiencing over the last few days, although it did not get enough rain. Despite the weather department’s prediction of heavy to moderate rainfall in the city on Sunday, it was the fourth day that the city did not receive adequate showers, barring a few places, though the sky was overcast by the evening with cold easterly winds bringing some relief to the residents. An official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, “There are chances of moderate rainfall from Monday to July 22. The temperature is likely to dip further and hover around 32°C.” According to weather analysts, though there is “no clear explanation” behind the current rainfall pattern, as even moisture laden clouds failed to bring any showers to the city, some influences like vegetation and winds have some role to play. “Chances of rainfall were high in Noida and Delhi and there is still a possibility of showers over the next three days. The monsoon trough passed over the area, but instead of Noida or Delhi, where some areas received traces of rain till Sunday evening, it rained in southwest areas of the National Capital Region (NCR). The trough has been oscillating in south and west of Delhi, but there are chances that it may shift northward on Monday, leading to rainfall in the region... There are some hypotheses about vegetation, winds and moisture in the area that might be influencing the rainfall pattern over certain patches,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.The last time Noida received showers was on July 13, the day the IMD announced the onset of monsoon, which arrived after running behind schedule for 16 days. On Sunday, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Noida were 36°C and 28°C respectively, against 39.5°C and 28.8°C recorded the previous day. The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered to be representative of the National Capital Region, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.4°C and a minimum of 28°C, both one degree lower than the season’s average. The humidity levels hovered between 61% to 81% on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gets-relief-even-as-rain-keeps-away-101626633141384.html
19-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Residents rescue cat stuck in DG set for 2 hours||Residents of Ganga Yamuna Hindon Apartments at Siddharth Vihar on Sunday morning rescued a cat, whose head got stuck in the cable chamber of a diesel generator (DG) set, within two hours. A guard spotted the cat stuck in the DG-set and informed the members of the resident welfare association. Hundreds of residents gathered at the spot but could not find ways to rescue the cat. “We called up several departments for help but none of the officials responded. Finally, we called up the police and they sent a PCR-van. However, they too could not do much as they did not have any devices to cut the thick metal sheet to rescue the cat,” said Yatendra Nagar, president of the RWA. Mahavir Singh, SHO of Vijay Nagar police station, said the police got a call from the residents about the cat. “Our PCR van went to the spot, and they were there till it was rescued,” he added.“We have four DG-sets. Due to frequent thefts, the door of one of the sets was kept open and the cat inside it. When it tried to exit through the cable opening, its head got stuck,” said Nagar. Residents said due to lockdown, the shops and markets were closed and no vendors could be contacted who could come and rescue the cat. “Finally, we called a local mechanic who repairs LPG stoves. He arrived with a gas cutter and cut open the two holes of the cable chamber. The cat pulled its head out and ran away,” said Abhishek Singh, a resident of the high-rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-residents-rescue-cat-stuck-in-dg-set-for-2-hours-101626633140691.html
19-07-2021||Noida||JJB writes to GB Nagar top cop over police misconduct in court||Noida The juvenile justice board (JJB) of Gautam Budh Nagar has sent a letter to district police commissioner Alok Singh on Sunday to look into a matter where police officers allegedly handcuffed and misrepresented a teenager in a court on Friday (July 16).The Sector 24 police had produced a 17-year-old boy from Delhi — who was detained under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) — before a juvenile magistrate on Friday for his remand court hearing.“Two sub-inspectors in uniform had produced the teenager before us in handcuffs, both of which are against the regulations. On questioning, the investigating officer took two hours to explain that it was an unintentional mistake and won’t be repeated in the future... The officer also took 30 minutes to locate keys and remove the boy’s handcuffs,” said Aneet Bhagel, member of Gautam Budh Nagar JJB.The teenager has been sent to judicial custody till July 26 for allegedly snatching away a cellphone from a person, along with two other men, in Sector 12 on Saturday (July 15).“According to Supreme Court guidelines and JJ Act Section 8, no suspect — whether minor or adult — should be handcuffed when being produced in court, and police officers should not be in their uniform. However, the rules are often violated. It is a clear violation of basic human rights. Special juvenile police units (SJPUs) must ensure that these rules are not being violated. We have written a letter to the Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner, urging him to investigate the matter and ensure that such incidents don’t happen in the future,” according to Bhagel.Senior police officers have taken a note of the matter.“We are probing the incident. Action will be taken against the officers concerned for violating the rules,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, (zone 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jjb-writes-to-gb-nagar-top-cop-over-police-misconduct-in-court-101626633081312.html
19-07-2021||Noida||15-year-old missing boy found dead in Aligarh canal||Greater Noida: The body of a 15-year-old boy, who went missing two days ago, was found in a canal in Aligarh on Saturday. The victim, a student of class 10, was a resident of Akalpur village in Greater Noida’s Rabupura, the police said. According to the victim’s family, Mudit left home on a motorcycle on Friday afternoon. “We launched a search when he did not return home in the evening. Later, a missing complaint was filed at Rabupura police station,” said Rohtan Singh Bhati, the boy’s uncle.Bhati said that on Saturday a person spotted a body floating in a canal in Aligarh. “That person shot a photo of the body and shared it with his friend, who is our relative in Aligarh. He (the relative) then informed us. We immediately rushed to the spot,” he said. Bhati said that the boy had no cloth on his body and his motorcycle was also missing from the spot. “Later, Mudit’s two friends said that he had offered them lift on his motorcycle to the tube well in the farm. We want the police to interrogate the two youths to get some clues in this case,” Bhati said. Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said that the police registered a missing complaint and then upgraded it to FIR under Section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC. “The post-mortem report revealed that he died of drowning. It is not clear if he drowned while bathing or someone killed him,” he said. “We are investigating the case from all angles. We have also launched a search to trace his motorcycle,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/15yearold-missing-boy-found-dead-in-aligarh-canal-101626633080637.html
19-07-2021||Lucknow||CISH developing ‘healthier’ mango varieties||: Experts at Central Institute of Subtropical horticulture (CISH) are developing mango varieties which not just look and taste good but also have bio-active compounds which provide an array of health benefits for humans.According to experts, while the king of fruits is known for its luscious taste and rich texture, it is not the first choice health wise.“The traditional mango varieties have very less concentration of bio active compounds which are known for their health effects. The institute has taken up this challenge of making native mango varieties healthier,” said Shailendra Rajan, director of Lucknow-based CISH.“On conducting studies and medical researchers on mango, we came to the conclusion that besides being a good source of Vitamin A, the fruit contains bio actives mangiferin and lupeol, two important components which have anti-cancer and healthy-heart properties. But these compounds are found in traces in different combinations in different varieties. We are trying to increase the presence of these compounds and make their presence uniform in known mango varieties,” explained the director.The experts at CISH have examined the composition of over 100 mango varieties found across the country to gauge the amount of bio actives. After identification of bio active compounds, the experts are in the process of developing hybrid mango variety with optimal amount of bio actives.“CISH has one of the world’s most diverse collection of mango varieties. We are in the process of developing hybrid varieties fortified with bio active compounds. It is a gradual process which takes time, but we are dedicated to develop a mango variety which is healthier than existing ones,” said Rajan.The institute is also working towards extracting bio active compounds from mango peels and to make products that can be consumed by people.Experts at CISH were earlier tasked with developing red-colored varieties in order to tap into the export market, which was dominated by red coloured mangoes from Brazil and other Latin American countries at the time. Almost a decade ago, only red-colored mangoes were known to the consumers in the United States and Europe.“The red colour of the fruit was the target trait for breeding, but as people became more aware of the medicinal properties due to presence of bioactive compounds, a new focus on developing bioactive compounds rich varieties has emerged. Our efforts are to keep the country among the front runners for having healthier variety of mangoes,” said Rajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cish-developing-healthier-mango-varieties-101626633021242.html
19-07-2021||Noida||Survey suggests underpass at Kisan Chowk in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: A preliminary survey conducted by the Greater Noida authority has suggested an underpass at Kisan Chowk to make the busy intersection in Greater Noida West free of traffic congestion, officials said on Sunday.In November 2019, the authority had roped in RITES, an engineering consultancy company of the central government, to prepare a comprehensive mobility plan for better traffic management in the city. Now, RITES has completed its preliminary survey of five major traffic junctions in the city -- Kisan Chowk, Tilapata Chowk, Surajpur entry point, Pari Chowk and Honda Chowk. “RITES has suggested an underpass at Kisan Chowk. But for now, we will get rid of congestion at the five traffic junctions by improving the management with strict enforcement until the final report comes in,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.According to the officials, RITES will conduct a detailed survey, prepare a DPR and chalk out a strategy to take effective steps to decongest all the five busy traffic junctions. The mobility plan will be prepared keeping in mind the rise in population of the city in the next 10 years, they said. The city’s population, one million at present, is expected to rise to 2.5 million in the next 10 years, according to an estimate by the authority.The authority has hired the consultant for 20 years as the industrial city needs to be developed as ‘smart city’, said the officials. The authority officials said major traffic issues in Greater Noida include lack of pedestrian infrastructure, jams at major intersections and no designated space for hawkers, among others. Residents said that the authority should plan traffic infrastructure well in advance. “With only 25-30% flat occupancy in the Greater Noida West area, we witness perennial traffic congestion on roads with no dedicated lanes for cyclists or pedestrians,” said Vivek Raman, a city resident who is also the president of Greater Noida West entrepreneur association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/survey-suggests-underpass-at-kisan-chowk-in-greater-noida-101626633020640.html
19-07-2021||Kolkata||From cooperative banks to death of ex-bodyguard, Adhikari target of many probes||West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has mounted pressure on Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the assembly, by initiating probes on several fronts.While the state government is probing the operations of several cooperative banks in which Adhikari is a member of the managing boards, the state criminal investigation department (CID) has started an investigation into the death of one of his bodyguards.Adhikari, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December last year and defeated Mamata Banerjee at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram assembly seat, got some relief on Friday when the Calcutta high court ordered that there is no need for a special audit of the accounts of the district’s Contai Co-operative Bank Ltd of which Adhikari is the chairman since 2009.The special audit was recently ordered by the state government. The bank moved court, challenging it.Soon after Adhikari joined the BJP, ruling party leaders demanded an audit of the bank’s accounts and alleged that he was involved in corruption. On Friday, Justice Sampa Sarkar observed that there is no need for a special audit right now since the bank has sent audit reports to the government.A senior state government official, who did not want to be named, said that in June the administration started the process of removing Adhikari from the boards of several cooperative banks located in East Midnapore.Fisheries minister and senior TMC leader in East Midnapore, Akhil Giri said, “If the leader of the opposition wants to criticize the state government, he should do it after relinquishing the posts he holds in these banks.”TMC has alleged that Adhikari violated the law by getting elected as chairman of the board of the Contai Co-operative Bank four times in a row. He is also chairman of the Vidyasagar Central Co-operative Bank.Meanwhile, the CID has started a probe into the death of Adhikari’s bodyguard Shubhabrata Chakraborty who died from a gunshot injury in 2018. His family has now alleged foul play. The complaint has been filed by Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty, the wife of the deceased.A CID team visited Adhikari’s residence on Friday and Saturday. They talked to the members of the family, including Dibyendu Adhikari, the BJP leader’s bother who is also the TMC Lok Sabha member from the district’s Tamluk Lok Sabha seat. Their father, Sisir Adhikari, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Contai.The TMC had moved Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking Sisir Adhikari’s disqualification under anti-defection law as he shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the recent election campaign. The speaker served a notice on Adhikari earlier this week.Suvendu Adhikari could not be contacted.Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP, said, “When you are in the TMC you are god but if you are in another party you become a demon. The ruling party has turned itself into a laughing stock. This is vindictive politics.”These are not the only probes initiated by the state.In June, the Kolkata Police arrested an old associate of Suvendu Adhikari in a job scam case. Also, he and his youngest brother Soumendu Adhikari were booked in a case involving theft of relief materials in East Midnapore, the home turf of the Adhikari family.This is the first time since the BJP emerged as a formidable force in Bengal and took the TMC head on in the 2019 Lok Sabha and the recent assembly polls that a prominent saffron camp leader has been booked in a criminal case.In both polls – the BJP wrested 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats but bagged only 77 of 294 assembly seats in May– it was BJP that highlighted the alleged involvement of TMC leaders in chit fund scams and the Narada sting operation case during the campaign.The BJP became a target of the TMC on May 17 when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested three TMC legislators, including two cabinet ministers, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and the former mayor of Kolkata Sovan Chatterjee, who left the TMC last year, in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. TMC leaders accused the BJP of using the CBI to avenge its electoral defeat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/from-cooperative-banks-to-death-of-ex-bodyguard-suvendu-adihkari-target-of-multiple-probes-101626632484160.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Little rain as forecast falls short once again||On a day when Delhi was supposed to have received “heavy rain and thunderstorm”, a forecast that prompted the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to issue an orange alert, the city on Sunday had to make do with cloudy skies and humid weather, as just a few parts received light rain.Met officials said only areas around central, south and southwest Delhi received light rains in the evening.“The trough formed around Haryana and in parts around southwest Delhi, but only some parts of central, south and southwest Delhi received rainfall. Rainfall activity is expected to intensify and cover more areas by Sunday night and Monday,” said a senior IMD official.Met recordings show that on Sunday the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, saw 7.2mm rainfall, while the Palam observatory received 3.3mm.The maximum temperature at Safdarjung was 36.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, and the minimum temperature was 28°C.IMD on Friday declared an ‘orange alert’ for July 18 and a ‘yellow alert’ for July 19 to July 21 in Delhi, forecasting heavy rain and thunderstorms during the weekend. Met officials also said that with the four days of rain, the rainfall deficit in the city would likely be covered.As of Saturday, Delhi recorded a rainfall deficit of nearly 51%.Sunday marked yet another occasion when the IMD got its forecast wrong this season. The string of inaccurate monsoon forecasts began with the initial prediction that monsoon would arrive on June 15, which would have been the earliest ever onset in the Capital. The department then shifted the forecast to June 29. Then, from July 9 onwards, the Met forecast the arrival of monsoon “in the next 24 hours”, till it arrived on July 13.According to IMD, an orange alert is issued when there is a forecast of heavy rainfall that could disrupt the movement of people and traffic in a city. During a yellow alert, there are chances of light to moderate rains and government agencies are advised to “be on alert”.Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet weather, a private forecaster said, “There is a possibility of rains intensifying from Sunday night. Moderate rainfall is likely to continue through Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/little-rain-for-delhi-on-sunday-as-forecast-falls-short-once-again-101626632240688.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Two arrested for transperson’s murder in north-east Delhi||Police on Sunday said they have arrested two men, including a contract killer, for allegedly killing a 60-year-old transperson, Shafiq, for which the prime suspect, who is still absconding, promised to pay the killers ₹2 lakh. Another killer is also absconding, police said.The murder took place over a financial dispute at the transperson’s home in New Seemapuri in north-east Delhi, the police said.The prime suspect, identified by his single name Farid, took ₹10 lakh from Shafiq, and was not returning the money despite multiple reminders. As Shafiq was mounting pressure for returning the money, Farid planned to kill him. “For this, he roped in his brother, Rashid, who arranged two contract killers — Naushad and Yogender from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh. The killers were promised ₹2 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The murder was reported to police on July 15. During investigation the police found that two unidentified men entered Shafiq’s house at 11.42pm on July 14, and left the place in an auto rickshaw at 2.25am on July 15.c The DCP said Yogender and Naushad smothered Shafiq with a pillow, injected a poisonous substance in his neck and strangled him with a towel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-transperson-s-murder-in-north-east-delhi-101626632181793.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Police ask farmers to reconsider Parliament protest||A Delhi Police delegation on Sunday met farmer leaders at Singhu border and asked them to reconsider their proposed July 22 march to Parliament, as all public gatherings are banned in Delhi under the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) Covid-19 guidelines, senior police officers privy to the development said.The police have also asked the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to close Janpath, Lok Kalyan Marg, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Mandi House and Udyog Bhawan from Monday (July 19) onwards, if needed, till the Parliament’s monsoon session is over, to prevent protesters from reaching Parliament. The Metro has also been told to maintain extra vigil at all stations falling in New Delhi district in view of the protest call given by the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of more than 40 farmer groups – which is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.“We requested the farm leaders to reconsider their proposed protest at Parliament. They told us that theirs will be a peaceful protest and not more than 200 agitators will reach their proposed venue. We told them that following the DDMA’s Covid-19 orders, the Delhi Police will not give permission for the protest. Hopefully, they will review their decision and let us know in the next meeting we will have, maybe tomorrow (Monday),” said a senior police officer, who was present in the meeting, and asked not to be named.Emphasising that they don’t plan to gherao or forcibly enter the Parliament, farmer leaders described it as a “constructive meeting”.The police delegation led by joint commissioner of police (New Delhi range) Jaspal Singh met the nine-member coordination committee of SKM at a pre-decided place near the Singhu border protest site to discuss the proposed July 22 march to Parliament.They said the police apprised the committee about the current Covid-19 situation and the DDMA guidelines against holding all political rallies and cultural events in the Capital. They were also informed about the cancellation of kanwar yatra in many states.“When the committee members told us that 200 farmers will have a symbolic protest outside the Parliament, we only told them why 200, why not five. We did not offer any number or a protest venue in the city,” the officer who attended the meeting said.Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said the meeting was “constructive” and the police officers heard them “carefully”.“We told them that SKM will issue ID cards to 200 protesters who will be reaching the permissible limit from the Parliament to carry out a protest. The details of the ID cards and the protesters will be shared every day with the police. The protesters will return to their respective venues (Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur) after the session is over. A fresh batch of 200 protesters will be sent every day till the monsoon session continues. We assured the officers that our objective is not to disrupt the Parliament session. They told us they will update us on their decision,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-allow-protest-near-parliament-reconsider-decision-police-tell-farmers-101626632180630.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Water production at ‘all-time high’: DJB||After nearly a week of severe shortages, Delhi’s water production reached an “all-time high” on Sunday, said Raghav Chadha, vice-chairperson of the city’s water utility.As against the usual 910MGD (million gallons per day), Delhi’s water production on Sunday hit 955MGD, said Chadha, who is also the Aam Aadmi Party’s legislator from Rajendra Nagar.“Due to sufficient availability of raw water in river Yamuna as well as engineering solutions, we have managed to push our optimum levels,” Chadha tweeted.The boost in Delhi’s water production comes at the end of a week where several parts of the Capital fell short of supply, after water levels in the Yamuna fell to a “55-year-low”, according to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), which said that neighbouring Haryana withheld Delhi’s legitimate share of river water supply.Last Sunday, the DJB also filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking directions for the Haryana government to release Delhi’s share of water.Among the areas worst affected by the shortage were Rajendra Nagar, Old Rajendra Nagar, Greater Kailash, Prem Nagar, Punjabi Bagh, Tughlakabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar, Okhla, Raja Garden, Tagore Garden, Tilak Nagar and Subhash Nagar.The water utility said the level of the Yamuna River at the Wazirabad barrage in Delhi dropped from 674.5 feet to 667 feet.The situation got worse on Monday, when the level of water in Yamuna fell to its lowest since 1965, said DJB. The water utility said this drop was because Haryana withheld Delhi’s daily 120MGD share of water.Through the week, however, as monsoon hit Delhi and its neighbouring states on July 13, Haryana released 16,000 cusecs of water on Tuesday.“Water takes a few days to reach our water treatment plants. Till Friday, we were monitoring the status of our WTPs very closely and were ensuring that free tankers were doing the rounds at the affected areas,” said a senior DJB officialChief minister Arvind Kejriwal also hailed DJB’s efforts.“Govt is doing its best to provide water to all. Our engineers are working 24x7 against all odds,” tweeted Kejriwal on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-production-in-delhi-at-all-time-high-says-city-water-utility-101626632063551.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP wants 10-day state assembly session||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has urged the speaker of the Delhi assembly to hold at least a 10-day session, arguing that the two-day session, due to start from July 29, is inadequate to discuss issues concerning the national capital.The speaker of the house, Ram Niwas Goel, said two days is “sufficient”, but did not rule out extending the session if required.Leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the BJP MLA from Badarpur, said, “Ever since the constitution of the seventh Delhi Assembly, Question Hour has not been held even once. And now in the two-day session, a curtailed Question Hour is being held….In a two-day session, the members will hardly get any time to ask questions or raise important issues. We have requested the speaker to extend the duration of the session.”BJP MLA from Rohini Vijender Gupta, who is the former chief of the party’s Delhi unit, said, “ This two-day session is just a formality. The [10-day] session can be held by adhering to the Covid-19 protocols.”Goel said, “Two days is enough to discuss all matters if the session is conducted peacefully, without any protest from the opposition party. They can raise their questions in the assembly. If need be, then the session can be extended. It has happened in the past.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-wants-10-day-state-assembly-session-101626632060611.html
19-07-2021||Delhi||Spate of burglaries the latest bane for Delhi||“You are a father of two. You have no criminal record. Why did you decide to rob and murder her?” a Delhi Police officer posted at the Vasant Vihar police station on Monday asked Suraj Budhe, 36, arrested for the July 6 murder of Kitty Kumaramangalam, 70.Budhe told the police that he joined his two friends in the robbery and murder -- laundryman Raju Kanojia, and another friend Rakesh Raj -- to cover losses that he suffered in his used car business due to the lockdown.The three men entered her house in Vasant Vihar’s A Block, smothered her to death with a pillow, and fled with cash and jewellery. Kumarmangalam, 70, was the wife of former Union minister PR Kumaramangalam.Less than 24 hours later, about 17km away, in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, five men entered the house of a businessman and held the family hostage. CCTV footage of the Uttam Nagar robbery, showed the five armed men inside the flat, holding guns, pointing them at family members, tying the hands of a man, and ransacking the house while a four-year-old child played on a sofa.In Tilak Marg, the police this week arrested a man involved in at least six burglaries in the New Delhi area over the past few months. Sonu Kumar, 28, told police that he quit crime and started working as contractual labour in Uttarakhand, but returned to committing burglaries after failing to find work due to the lockdown.The spate of burglaries has struck fear in the Capital’s residents, especially because many of the crimes are being committed by people who lost jobs during the pandemic, or suffered losses in the lockdown. As a result, they are not in police records and difficult to track.Though police do not maintain specific data, several senior police officers said the suspects caught for many of the recent burglaries took to crime after losing their livelihood in recent, pandemic-hit months.Fear in coloniesIn the first six months of 2021, 1,173 burglaries were reported, 40% more than the corresponding period in 2020. In all, 2,199 cases were reported last year, 3,026 in 2019 and 4,117 in 2018.The burglaries have left Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) worried, especially because many criminals break into houses during the afternoon hours, and don’t hesitate even if the home is occupied.“During the afternoon, often women, children and even senior citizens stay alone at home, and we fear for their safety. We have requested local police stations to conduct some safety workshops for residents to tell them ways about what to do when a stranger knocks on the door and insists on coming inside, even if it is a trusted service provider or a known person,” said Ramesh Kukreti, general secretary of the north Delhi wing of RWA Unity, a group of resident welfare bodies.At Shalimar Bagh -- where five men broke into a businessman;s house, held his 24-year-old daughter hostage and robbed cash and jewellery worth over ₹20 lakh on Tuesday -- residents installed barbed wires on the boundary wall and hired more security guards.BS Vohra, president of the Joint Forum East Delhi RWAs, said despite the lockdown in April, his team installed barbed wires on the gates and boundary walls to stop outsiders from entering the colony.“After Covid, many people from economically weaker sections do not have money and are willing to go to any extent. Residents are living in fear because these men are now not afraid to attack and kill you,” said Vohra.Experts say rising burglaries by younger people who have lost jobs or suffered crippling losses in business mirrors a global trend caused by economic devastation due to the pandemic. “Many youngsters who were on the edge financially, probably doing odd jobs that earned them some livelihood, are now unemployed with the burden of supporting large families. The government should expand social welfare net for financially weak families; work on employment generation, and skill development programmes,” said Murugan Palanichami, a sociologist from the University of North Carolina.Former Delhi Police commissioner Ajai Raj Sharma, who headed the force between 1999 and 2002, said economic factors are always an important reason for crimes such as break-ins and burglaries.“We keep reading reports of jobless youngsters turning to crime. Not all out of job people resort to crime but even if a few of them have then, police have a tough job at hand. These people do not have crime records. It will be like finding a needle in a haystack,” he said.HT spoke to several Delhi Police officers who agreed with Sharma’s assessment.“It is easy to arrest a hardened criminal or bust an organised gang, but it is difficult to trace a person who has committed only one or two crimes. It is likely that a burglar steals a big amount in one heist and then goes underground. Maybe he/she decides to stop,” said an officer from crime branch who asked not to be named.Police agree that apart from crime fighting, social measures are needed to arrest the fresh rash of burglaries.“We are an enforcement agency but we run the YUVA programme to stop vulnerable youngsters from taking to crime. We run training programmes by tying up with different institutes to skill train such youngsters. Police has trained over 10,000 unemployed youth,” said deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal.He said the police had increased road patrols, random checks, pickets, mobile teams and emergency response vehicles. “Beat constables across the city coordinate with security guards under the Prahari scheme to make the colonies safer at night. Separately, our teams also monitor the activities of some suspected habitual burglars. There is a collection of criminal intelligence and surveillance on the activities of criminals has been stepped up. Delhi police has launched a crackdown on burglars, which is why the cases have consistently dropped over the years,” he said.Gangs of the pastThe phenomenon of unorganised burglaries by first-time criminals is fairly recent in Delhi, which was terrorised by gangs synonymous with violent crime till a decade ago.Notorious among them were the kachha baniyan gangs from Madhya Pradesh. Dressed in boxers and vests, the gang members would break into homes, steal, eat food from the refrigerator; and sometimes brutally beat their victims to death.“There were multiple murders across the city. It was done by gangs from Madhya Pradesh. TV shows were made …Delhi residents were terrified. These gangs would beat residents to death if anyone saw them in the act. They wore only vests and underwear, and oiled their bodies so that they could not be caught,” said retired assistant commissioner of police Narendra Chawla.“The fear among residents in south Delhi was such that people started hiring security guards, but even the guards were also afraid to do their jobs,” he said.In the space of two days in December 1998, the gang murdered two elderly couples in south Delhi’s Saket and Malviya Nagar, prompting then Union home minister LK Advani to take up the case.The last recorded crime by the kachha baniyan gang in Delhi was in July 2014, when five men murdered a woman in Narela, grievously injured her mother, and stole their belongings.Also infamous were the Pardhi gangs, who only targeted a specific house on a particular date. “Burglars today do not have a modus operandi. Anyone in need to money could do it when they feel like it,” said an officer. Chawla said in the 90s, more than 200 gang members were arrested.In recent years, police have faced criticism for stigmatising and targeting the Pardhi tribes, who hail from Madhya Pradesh and were classified as criminal tribes under antiquated colonial law. They are classified as denotified tribes and fight economic and social marginalisation.In the early 2000s, a new crop of gangs emerged. Notorious among them was Sanju’s burn-and-burgle gang that hit at least 100 government flats in south Delhi and set them on fire between 2007 and 2011. “Sanju mostly targeted locked government flats and set the house on fire after the burglary. It was his signature,” said a Delhi Police inspector who asked not to be named. Sanju was arrested in 2018.Social relations upendedThe recent spike in burglaries underlines a pervasive loss of trust that has upended social relations and left even traditionally safe parts of the city vulnerable. No case highlights this phenomenon more than Kumaramangalam’s grisly murder.Last year, Delhi Police conducted a survey and divided the city into red, blue, green and white zones in decreasing order of their vulnerability to burglaries. In the red zone were places such as Nangloi and Samaipur Badli, which recorded over 40 cases each in the first eight months of the year.In the white zone, and marked as the safest parts of the city was Vasant Vihar, where Kumaramangalam was murdered.One of her alleged killers, laundryman Kanojia, was a regular at her house. He suffered losses during the lockdown, needed to make a quick buck, and found two others who were ready to help him.“If a trusted service provider, who was working in the locality for over five years can turn rogue, then who can the residents trust. No matter how many gates or security cameras we install, how do we ensure that we are not going to be targeted?” asked Kumaramangalam’s neighbour, Suresh Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/spate-of-burglaries-the-latest-bane-for-capital-101626390493795.html
