20-07-2021||Other||Sakhi: one-stop centre for all assistance to women||In another step towards stopping harassment of women and providing better disposal of their complaints, the Prayagraj police has come up with ‘Sakhi—one stop centre for all assistance to women’. A large number of couples separate each year while many women end their lives due to harassment or are killed for dowry etc. To bring down such incidents, the police will now not only counsel but also provide free legal advice to women, besides giving them information about their rights.Personnel posted at the Women’s Help Desk will be called to the one-stop centre for training. The women personnel will observe the way in which women in distress are helped and will follow the same process at help desks at police stations. After primary assistance to women in distress by the help desk, disputes will be referred to the Sakhi centre where they will be disposed of by trained women cops.IG Range KP Singh said for a solution to their problems, women often have to run to both the counselling centre and one-stop centre. Now, women will be given all solutions and help in one place. At the Sakhi centre, women will be counselled, given medical attention, if needed, and information about government schemes like widow pension, etc. Women complainants will also be given information about their rights. Police will distribute handbills regarding the new initiative, a decision taken recently by senior police officials along with district probationary officer Pankaj Mishra and one-stop centre authorities.This year, 37 cases of murder of women, 83 cases of rape, 296 cases of molestation, 610 cases of women harassment and 69 cases of dowry deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sakhi-one-stop-centre-for-all-assistance-to-women-101626805776387.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||CET syllabus biased, parents, ICSE schools tell Maharashtra school edu minister||A day after the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) released a circular announcing the date and curriculum for the upcoming common entrance test (CET) for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) courses, students from other school education boards are a worried lot. Parents, as well as ICSE school groups, have approached the state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad calling the CET exam unfair to those students from boards other than the Maharashtra state board.“We are aware that the CET exam will be conducted based on the state board Class 10 curriculum and equal weightage will be given to subjects of English, maths, science and social sciences. However, in ICSE board students have the option of dropping maths and science in Class 9 and 10, so how do our students prepare for this exam?” stated a letter addressed to minister Varsha Gaikwad by the association of ICSE schools in Maharashtra. Gaikwad, however, was unavailable for comments.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards were scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. While the other boards are yet to announce results, MSBSHSE released SSC results on Friday, July 16. According to the circular released by the state board on Monday, an optional CET exam based solely on the SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted. This two-hour paper will be conducted in physical mode on August 21 from 11am to 1pm and registrations for this exam has started from today.Last month, a Class 10 ICSE student also approached the Bombay high court seeking help in this matter. The student’s petition points out the ‘bias’ against students of other boards and the added stress for students. This matter is up for its second hearing on July 22 and parents as well as ICSE schools are hoping for relief.Similarly, Members of International Schools Association (MISA) has also approached Gaikwad seeking clarity on whether Class 10 exam scores of students from the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) board can be considered, instead of CET scores at the time of FYJC admission. “Unlike other Class 10 students, our children appeared for their exams in physical mode despite rising fear of Covid. Therefore, these students should be allowed to seek admissions based on their exam score,” said MISA in a letter addressed to Gaikwad. They’ve also sought clarity on whether IGCSE students who do appear for the CET will have the choice to choose between their board score and CET score, whichever is higher, at the time of admission. “It’ll be unfair to not give students a level playing field. We have requested that the education minister hold a meeting with all stakeholders to understand the issue better,” said Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parent Association (IWPA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cet-syllabus-biased-parents-icse-schools-tell-maharashtra-school-edu-minister-101626805055555.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Rain continues for second day in Delhi, triggers waterlogging, snarls||The monsoon rain continued for the second consecutive day on Tuesday in the national capital, triggering water-logging, and a repeat of the snarls and chaos on Monday. Light rain is likely to continue on Wednesday as well, the weather forecasters said, with patchy rain expected thereafter in some parts. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Safdarjung observatory, which is taken as representative of the city weather, between 8.30am and 5.30pm recorded 6.3mm (to be updated by 9pm) rain. On Monday, after a week of hot and humid conditions, Delhi received its first heavy spell of rainfall this monsoon, which reached the city on July 13 after a delay of 16 days. Meanwhile, the Palam weather station recorded 29.3mm rain while Lodhi Road got 6.7mm, Aya Nagar received 13.4mm and Ridge got 4.2mm rain during the day. These stations also received overnight and early morning showers. The 24-hour rainfall count for Palam was 67.6mm. while Ridge, Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar stations received 47mm, 34.1mm and 39.8mm 24-hour rainfall, respectively.IMD officials said the continuous showers kept the day temperature below normal. The maximum temperature was 31.9 degrees Celsius (°C), three notches below normal for this time of the year. The minimum settled at 24°C, three degrees below the season’s normal. “Light rain is likely to continue in Delhi and the surrounding region on Wednesday as well. Thereafter, patchy rain will continue in some parts of the city. The rainfall activity is likely to pick up again on July 23 and July 26 when moderate showers are expected,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre.He said though July is likely to see more rain, the capital city gets most of its yearly rainfall in August . “This is because the monsoon trough and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, the two primary conditions for rainfall, are more favourable during that time for Delhi,” said Srivastava.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), of private weather forecasting company Skymet, said Delhi is likely to receive patchy and light rain on Wednesday as well. He said on Tuesday, Delhi had covered its rainfall deficit, which stood at 3% on Monday evening.“The high moisture content in the air will result in continued rain on Wednesday but the forecast says the intensity of showers will increase now by July 23,” Palawat said.The moderate to heavy rainfall resulted in traffic jams on Wednesday, with motorists having to navigate through waterlogged roads. Delhi traffic police said traffic moved slow along Sri Aurobindo Marg, Ring Road (near Moti Bagh, AIIMS and Defence Colony), Dwarka Road, Dhaula Kuan, Rao Tula Ram Marg, Rajouri Garden, Janakpuri (near metro station and near block- C2B) Dabri Mor, Azadpur Chowk, Pul Prahladpur, Lajpat Nagar (towards Ashram Chowk), MB Road and Anand Parbat traffic signal. Besides key stretches, many residential colonies also saw waterlogging including Greater Kailash, Dwarka, Malviya Nagar, Dakshinpuri, Chhatarpur Enclave,Mahavir Nagar, Basant Lok market (near Vasant Vihar), Okhla, Zakhira and VikasMarg, among others. According to officials in the three municipal corporations of south, north and east, at least 23 trees across the city were uprooted in the downpour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-continues-for-second-day-in-delhi-triggers-waterlogging-snarls-101626804937858.html
20-07-2021||Other||Red Fort to remain closed till August 15||New Delhi: The Red Fort will remain closed from Wednesday morning till the culmination of Independence Day celebrations on August 15, the Archaeological Survey of India said on Tuesday. The directive was issued by the ASI to ensure security measures in the Red Fort premises ahead of Independence Day celebrations on August 15. The Prime Minister unfurls the national flag at the Red Fort every year on Independence Day.Though usually, the Red Fort is closed just a week ahead of Independence Day, the ASI said that this time, due to apprehensions regarding security, it’s being closed nearly a month in advance, ASI said. Earlier this year on Republic Day, farmers protesting against the three farm laws reached Red Fort during a tractor rally, which led to clashes with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/red-fort-to-remain-closed-till-august-15-101626804937206.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Is Congress a factory of churning out courageous workers: Sena||Days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the party doesn’t need people who are afraid but wanted fearless people within its fold, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana yet again targeted its alliance partner asking if the party is a factory of churning out courageous workers if the ones who are afraid keep quitting the grand old party. It criticised Congress saying that it is a “confused” party on what it wants to do and about its direction.Gandhi’s remarks were targeted at former Congress leaders Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada, who were known to be close to Gandhi but quit the party to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gandhi, while addressing social media workers last Friday, hit out at Congress deserters. He said those in the party, who are scared of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), should leave the party and “enjoy” their company, while the party should induct people who have the courage to fight the RSS.“Whether one is in power or not, people who dedicate themselves fully, keep the party and organisation alive. Congress does not have such people in several states. Priyanka Gandhi will defeat [the ruling party], but workers need to be energised. What Rahul Gandhi said that there is no place for cowards in Congress, is true. But if these cowards keep quitting the Congress, then is Congress a factory to churn out courageous workers, that needs to be seen,” the editorial remarked. The mouthpiece also compared the BJP-RSS cadre with the Congress’, saying that RSS did not have cadre during the freedom struggle, but Congress had several leaders. Now, Congress does not have such people in several states, the editorial added. It further said that Congress’ contribution to the freedom movement is huge, and it had many leaders who took part in the struggle without any fear. “Such courage was not shown by the Sangh or others during the freedom movement. But such leaders are not there in Congress today. The scenario has changed, and the Congress is struggling for its existence,” it added. In an apparent suggestion to the Congress leadership, the editorial said that though Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi can mobilise the crowd, this effort should constant. “Priyanka Gandhi got a good response in Uttar Pradesh a few days ago. When Rahul Gandhi takes to the streets, there is a crowd around him. But there must be continuity in this struggle. If the momentum stops, then there is a chance for stagnation. How will the Congress or secular parties get strengthened by attacking the Sangh Parivar?” asked the editorial. It further stated that BJP is nothing without RSS. “There could be a difference of opinion about Sangh’s ideology but the work they are doing in some of the sectors cannot be ignored. The work of pracharaks and swayamsevaks with dedication cannot be ignored. Congress had such workers earlier. Today, Shiv Sena has such workers. A party or organisation sustains due to the devoted workers despite not being in power,” it added.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, meanwhile, declined to comment on the editorial. He said, “We do not read Saamana. Sanjay Raut has made it a habit to criticise Congress, but we will discuss this once [within the party] and then respond.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-congress-a-factory-of-churning-out-courageous-workers-sena-101626804935490.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||BSES discoms to procure 510 MW green energy to power Delhi||Reliance Infrastructure-led BSES Delhi discoms have signed contracts with Solar Energy Corp of India (SECI) to procure 510MW of solar and hybrid power (a mix of solar and wind power) at ₹2.44 per unit and ₹2.48 per unit, respectively, the company said on Tuesday.The cost of power in these contracts is much lower than that of power procured from major thermal or gas-based power plants around Delhi. “This is not only one of the lowest tariffs for renewable energy, but is also priced substantially lower than the average cost of power purchase agreements in general, which are around ₹5.5 per unit. Another major benefit is that a prudent mix of wind and solar power in BSES’s power portfolio will be helpful in effectively meeting Delhi’s power demand,” a BSES spokesperson said. Hybrid power is a bundled mix of solar and wind power, wherein one component is at least 33% of the contracted capacity. In hybrid power, both sources of power are co-located and the pooled power is put into the system at the same point. One of the biggest advantages of hybrid power is the optimum cost utilisation of the power evacuation network and loading of transmission lines as solar power is primarily a day phenomenon and wind, round-the-clock.While solar power will help the discom meet the day’s peak demand, the wind power, sourced from coastal areas, will cater to the night-time peak demand. The contracts have been inked for a period of 25 years. The solar and hybrid power is expected to be available to Reliance Infrastructure led BSES discoms 18 months after the signing of the agreement at a very competitive tariff of ₹2.44 per unit for solar and ₹2.48 per unit for hybrid (including SECI’s trading margin), determined through an e-auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bses-discoms-to-procure-510-mw-green-energy-to-power-delhi-101626804876094.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||LG to decide on reopening of spas, Delhi govt tells high court||The Delhi government on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that it has forwarded the file for the reopening spas in the national capital to lieutenant-governor (LG) Anil baijal, who will take a final decision in the matter.Justice Rekha Palli said irrespective of when the city government plans to resume spa services, it should consider imposing conditions such as mandatory vaccination of both staff and client, as well as capping the visitor numbers to spas. It granted time to the Delhi government till July 27 to decide on the resumption of services.The court was hearing a plea by spa owners, who contended that they were aggrieved by the “inordinate delay” in allowing spa centres to reopen. The plea sought directions to the authorities to decide the matter of reopening spas in Delhi within a week. A lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 15, to control the second and most deadly wave of Covid-19 that raged on till Mid-May. All spas along with malls, bars, gyms, restaurants and shops were closed; but except for spas, all other facilities were allowed to reopen in a staggered manner in June.On Tuesday, Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan informed the court that the file has been sent to the LG for his final decision and sought time from the court.Advocate Manik Dogra, appearing for spa owners, said thousands of employees have been affected by the indefinite closure. He said as a precautionary measure, they were ready to get the staff vaccinated before reopening.The court noted the submissions and posted the matter for further hearing to July 27.The petitioners have also challenged the guidelines issued by the government on June 26, 2021, through Delhi Disaster Management Authority, by virtue of which salons, gymnasiums and yoga institutions have been allowed.referring to an order of the high court, passed on January 14, directing reopening of spas that were closed during the first wave of the pandemic, the petitioners said the slightly higher percentage of risk due to the proximity of the client and the service provider can be obviated by prescribing stricter measures and safeguards rather than continuing to keep such establishments closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-to-decide-on-reopening-of-spas-delhi-govt-tells-high-court-101626804816120.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Navneet Kalra moves HC challenging suspension of registration of Khan Chacha, Town Hall||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the city police to take instructions on businessman Navneet Kalra’s plea challenging the suspension of registration of his restaurants ‘Khan Chacha’ and ‘Town Hall’ in connection with the alleged black-marketing of oxygen concentrators during the second wave of Covid-19.In a search during the second wave of the pandemic in April-May, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants in Delhi, which are owned by Kalra. Kalra, subsequently, was arrested on May 16 and granted bail on May 29.Justice Rekha Palli questioned the authorities for not having passed a final order yet in pursuance to the show cause notices issued with regard to the two restaurants.“You compel people to come here. You should have passed an order by now. Ultimately, he wants to run them. If he is not entitled in law, please pass an order. What is this – you are involved in an FIR – and that is the end of it?” the judge said.The court granted time to the police to clarify their stand and posted the matter for further hearing to July 30.Kalra, through his counsel, challenged the May 11 show cause notice issued by the joint commissioner of police (licensing) suspending the registration of the two eateries in Khan Market. He was granted an opportunity to submit his reply within 15 days.Appearing for Kalra, senior advocate Maninder Singh argued that he submitted the response on June 9; however, since he did not hear back from the authorities, he again wrote to them on June 17. Till date, officials concerned have neither withdrawn the suspension order nor decided on the show cause notice.Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Tripathi sought time to take instructions in the case.In his petition, Kalra also said the order of suspension was issued without first affording an opportunity to show cause and it is, therefore, punitive and illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navneet-kalra-moves-hc-challenging-suspension-of-registration-of-khan-chacha-town-hall-101626804757463.html
20-07-2021||Other||43-year-old booked for friend’s murder||Rabale police on Monday booked a 43-year-old man for allegedly killing his friend. The accused is absconding.According to police, the victim – Nagendra Balkrishna Pandey, 37 – was a resident of Balaramwadi Mhatre Aali of Ghansoli village and worked as an office boy with a telecom company. Pandey had gone to visit his friend Arjun Chaudhary, 43, a resident of Kaul Aali in Ghansoli on Sunday evening. Later his phone was not reachable, hence his wife went to Chaudhary’s house and found the door locked. However, she found her husband’s slippers and umbrella outside the house. The next day, she informed her brother-in-law about the same, after which, he visited Chaudhary’s house in the afternoon and pushed open the window of the hall. He noticed bloodstains on the floor and rushed to the police station to file a missing person’s complaint. The police found Pandey’s body inside the bathroom. Inspector Shirish Pawar said, “An iron rod and a knife were found near the body and the accused was missing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/43yearold-booked-for-friend-s-murder-101626804635509.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra goes past 40mn doses, sees 6,910 cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 6,910 Covid-19 cases and 147 deaths even as it crossed the 40 million mark for vaccine doses. The state administered 186,732 doses on Tuesday, bringing the total to 40,104,788, of which 30,749,812 received one shot and 9,354,976 got both jabs.“Maharashtra has been able to achieve a major feat as it crossed 4 crore (40 million) doses on Tuesday afternoon,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health department.The Maharashtra legislature had recently passed a resolution, demanding 30 million doses every month, saying that it has the infrastructure to administer a million jabs a day. The state said the Centre is not supplying sufficient vaccine doses. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said that vaccination dirve should be sped up further. “The only solution available to us is vaccination and we should ideally be vaccinating our entire population by this year-end. We need to explore various means to secure the vaccines and speed up the process,” said Dr Mandot. “Vaccination will blunt the effect of the virus and we will see fewer cases as well as deaths. This will play a major role in reviving our economy,” he added.There were 197,267 Covid-19 tests done across the state on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,510. Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 348 new cases and 10 deaths.The number of active patients in Maharashtra stands at 94,593, with Pune topping with 15,042 patients, followed by Thane at 12,549. The state’s death toll has now reached 130,753, with Pune leading with 18,289 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,787.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-goes-past-40mn-doses-sees-6-910-cases-101626804575497.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress leadership rap for Patole||Upset over Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole’s style of working and remarks, party leader Rahul Gandhi summoned him to Delhi on Tuesday. The reprimand came after Patole’s recent remarks related to leaders from the other two ruling parties led to strong reactions from Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Patole met Gandhi, along with HK Patil, state in-charge of party and KC Venugopal, organisational general secretary. The leadership has reportedly told Patole to refrain from any controversial remarks that would affect the interest of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) of Sena, NCP and Congress. The state unit chief has also been told to refrain from commenting on the alliance between the ruling parties for the forthcoming polls. “Pawar and Thackeray took Patole’s remarks against them very seriously. Pawar conveyed the dismay to the Congress leadership, while Thackeray spoke to Congress president Sonia Gandhi over the entire episode. HK Patil and four other in-charge secretaries submitted their reports to party high command over Patole’s style of working,” said a senior party leader. The leader also said that the central leadership of the party was so upset with Patole that his presidency as state unit chief had come under trouble. Patole has been in the news since he took over as the state unit chief of the party in February with his ‘unguarded’ statements. His announcement of going solo in the local body and Assembly elections made immediately after taking over did not go well with the Sena and NCP. More recently, he stirred a controversy after he said that the chief minister, deputy chief minister and home minister keep a close watch on him as “the two ruling parties cannot swallow the resurrection of the Congress”. In a meeting with party’s local leaders in Lonavala on Saturday, Patole also said that the Sena and NCP backstab Congress when it comes to releasing funds for the local bodies under them. Pawar ridiculed Patole, saying the latter was “a small leader whose comments do not warrant a response”. Thackeray publicly snubbed Patole last month for talking about going solo in the forthcoming elections. Senior Congress leaders too were upset over the remarks by Patole as they were leading to disturbance between the leading parties. They had reportedly complained to HK Patil and senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge during their Mumbai visit last week. After meeting Gandhi, Patole said, “We discussed organisational issues in the wake of the political developments in the state. There is no problem with the MVA combine and the state in Maharashtra will complete its term.” In a U-turn over his stand, Patole said the decision on the alliance between the three parties for the forthcoming local body elections will be taken by the party’s central leadership. Patole also said the MVA government may hold a special session of the state legislature to pass farm laws and hold speaker’s election. “The suggestions on the farm bills tabled in state legislature are expected to be submitted by stakeholders in two months, after which there could be a special session to pass the bills. The same session could see election to the post of Assembly speaker. There is no need to wait for the election till the winter session.” Meanwhile, the Congress is reportedly considering reshuffle of their ministers in the state cabinet. The reshuffle may take place ahead of the winter session, by appointing one of the ministers as the Assembly speaker. Though Patole is vying for a ministerial berth, party high command is said to be against any such move. The reshuffle may happen in the near future as the NCP and Sena too want to fill their vacant berths after the resignation of Anil Deshmukh and Sanjay Rathod as home and forest ministers, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-leadership-rap-for-patole-101626804515558.html
20-07-2021||Other||Theatre doyen Urmil Kumar Thapliyal no more||Lucknow Playwright, author, poet, performer, satirist, theatre personality and a lot more, Urmil Kumar Thapliyal (78) passed away in Lucknow on Tuesday evening. Thapliyal gave everything he had to revive Nautanki in stage plays, said Anil Rastogi, a senior theatre artist and television actor. His death was a huge loss to the theatre world and a big blow to ‘Darpan’ theatre group as he was one of the founding members, Rastogi said. In his last interview to this newspaper in 2019, Thapliyal had said, “Nautanki is one of the treasures of our culture. I have given all and will continue to give my all to save this art form. If only a few artists from this generation stand up for this art form, a lot more can be done to save Nautanki.” Rastogi said, “My regret is that Urmil, who was a part of our upcoming Marathi play Katha, will never be able to perform now.” Born in 1943 in Dhaudhan Mason village in the Garhwal hills of the present-day Uttarakhand, Urmil Kumar Thapliyal began dabbling in theatre at an early age, as an actor in Ramlilas staged in Dehradun and adjoining areas. He learnt Garhwali and Kumaoni folk music during his formative years as an actor-director. He was the founder-director of ‘Darpan’, a theatre group of Lucknow. He relocated to Lucknow in 1965 when he got a job in All India Radio as a newsreader. He completed Ph D in dialectical theatre from Lucknow University which brought him closer to the city as well as to theatre. Thapliyal directed around 140 plays for Darpan and other groups, moulding traditional theatre forms in his productions. Among notable plays written and directed by him are ‘Harishchanner ki Ladai,’ ‘Nagri Nautanki,’ ‘Choon-choon ka Murabba,’ ‘Barkha Bahar,’ ‘Mahasati’, ‘Ladkiyan’, ‘Ek Chawanni Chandi ki’, ‘Shaheedon ne Lau Lagai Jo’, ‘Pyare Harichand ki Kahani Rah Jayegi’ and ‘Bhaunri Katha’ — all produced in the manner of Nautanki. His significant contribution lies, however, in giving a new lease of life to traditional theatre forms such as Nautanki, Swang and Bhagat. Thapliyal was also a prolific writer. Besides drama, he wrote stories, plays and satire published in Hans, Saptahik Hindustan, Dharmayug, and other Hindi periodicals. He also wrote columns in newspapers including Hindustan, as well as a number of radio and television scripts. He worked as chief news reader at the Lucknow station of All India Radio. For his varied work in the field of theatre, Thapliyal was honoured with an award and also a fellowship by the Uttar Pradesh Sangeet Natak Academy. He was given the coveted Yash Bharti award for his immense contributions in the field of theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/theatre-doyen-urmil-kumar-thapliyal-no-more-101626804455533.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||HC asks Thane, Bhiwandi civic chiefs to curb illegal slaughtering on Eid||The Bombay high court (HC) in two different petitions on Tuesday directed the commissioners of Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to ensure that slaughtering of animals does not take place on Bakri Eid in temporary slaughterhouses and sacrifices be done in licensed slaughterhouses only. The orders were passed after the petitioners expressed apprehension that due to the illegal sale of livestock namely water buffaloes for the sacrificial ritual of the Muslims from July 21-23 in the jurisdiction of the two corporations, there was an imminent possibility of the animals being slaughtered without conforming to the rules and regulations thus putting the lives of the common man at risk. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Jiv Maitri Trust was informed by advocates Raju Gupta, Hare Krishna Mishra and Mukesh Gupta that through a July 15 order the commissioner of BNMC had permitted the setting up of 38 temporary slaughterhouses. The advocates submitted that the slaughterhouses were sans licenses and hence the order was not in conformity with the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Slaughterhouse) Rules. However, advocate NR Bubna representing the civic authority tried to assure the court that the commissioner was aware of the rules and the temporary slaughterhouses would be operational under the supervision of the permanent and licensed slaughterhouses. Bubna added that the order was passed to ensure that sacrifices in public places were avoided and disposal of the waste would be done as per the rules. The court then observed that a deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department had opposed the move of the commissioner and had refused to approve to start a temporary slaughterhouse without obtaining proper permission. “We have no other option to stay the operation of the impugned order and no effect should be given to it without permission of the court. We make it abundantly clear that no slaughters shall be allowed except in those licensed and sanctioned slaughterhouses and in case of violation of relevant laws, strict action is taken by the police,” noted the bench in its order. Meanwhile, the division bench of justice S S Shinde and justice N J Jamadar while hearing a petition filed by NGO Gau Gyan Foundation was informed that a livestock market had been set up in Kausa, Mumbra in the jurisdiction of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The petitioners contended that they had an apprehension that illegal slaughter of animals would take place in those markets on the day of Eid as neither the municipal authorities nor the police had taken cognizance of the complaints lodged by the NGO. Advocate JS Kini for the petitioner submitted that as the authorities had failed to take cognizance of his clients’ complaints the HC should issue directions to them to ensure that the illegal slaughtering did not take place. After hearing submissions, the bench posted the further hearing to August 6 and noted in the order, “We are of the view that the slaughtering of animals ought to conform with the licenses issued by the competent authorities and specified at designated places and specified hours. Given this, we direct respondent Commissioner of police, Thane to check/ensure no illegal slaughter of animals takes place within the jurisdiction of Mumbra Police station Thane.”Meanwhile, with popular markets in Mumbai closed on the backdrop of Bakri Eid, a huge crowd was witnessed at a section of the APMC market in Kalyan for the purchase of goats a day before Bakri Eid. Around 17,000 goats were stocked at the market for sale ahead of the festival. “We decided to start with online trading of goats as the market in Mumbai were shut, however, the response was poor. People usually chose to come to the market and purchase. At the same time we are ensuring all the lockdown norms are followed,” said Sanjay Ukirde, administrator, Bakri mandai, APMC, Kalyan. (With inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-thane-bhiwandi-civic-chiefs-to-curb-illegal-slaughtering-on-eid-101626804395585.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Shifting of Mumbai airport HQs unfair, says Sena, Cong; Adani denies, calls it rumour||Maharashtra’s ruling parties Shiv Sena and Congress on Tuesday criticised Adani Group’s rumoured decision to move Mumbai Airport’s headquarters from the city to Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies have called the alleged move an attempt to reduce the importance of Mumbai. Adani Group, however, has denied shifting the headquarters and called it a “rumour”.Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Vinayak Raut said that the party will not tolerate the attempt to reduce the importance of Mumbai and added that the city airport’s headquarters must remain in the financial capital. Congress alleged that the shifting of the Adani office to Gujarat is indicative of the Modi government, which has shifted many prime projects from Mumbai. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that dandiya played as part of the flash mob at the Mumbai airport recently and the shifting of the office of Adani is a clear message to the people in Maharashtra. “The Modi government has shifted many key projects including International Financial Services Centre, coastal police institute, offices of RBI and Air India, to Gujarat from Maharashtra. The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) has also planned to set up an alternative film city in Uttar Pradesh. This is a systematic attempt of reducing the importance of Mumbai and Maharashtra,” he said.Sawant said that this has never been the culture of Congress as it never had extended the discriminating treatment to any of the states. “We have headquarters of many companies here in Maharashtra. Industrialists have been living in the state for years and they have become part and parcel of the state culture. This type of bias was never witnessed in the state,” he said. Sena’s Lok Sabha MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Vinayak Raut said, “The moving of the headquarters is an extremely condemnable matter. This is yet another attempt to reduce Mumbai’s importance and give Ahmedabad more prominence. Instead, they must give Ahmedabad its own identity and not steal from here. This is happening through the Centre, but Shiv Sena will not tolerate this. The party will remain aggressive to keep Mumbai airports’ head office in the city itself.”Adani Airport Holdings Ltd took charge of the Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) a few days back from GVK Group. The company in a tweet through its official handle stated, “In light of rumours that the Mumbai Airport HQ will be moving to Ahmedabad, we unambiguously state that both MIAL and NMIAL Airports will remain headquartered in Mumbai. We reiterate our commitment to make Mumbai proud and create thousands of jobs through our airport ecosystem (sic)”.Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said it is up to the company to decide where they want to set up its headquarters. Mumbai airport and its office are not moving anywhere. “Neither Mumbai airport can be shifted, nor its office. The headquarters of a company can be set up anywhere in the country. Even the headquarters of GVK was not in Mumbai. It is the prerogative of the company to decide,” said Nawab Malik, national spokesperson and minority affairs minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shifting-of-mumbai-airport-hqs-unfair-says-sena-cong-adani-denies-calls-it-rumour-101626804396284.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||CR to reconstruct 13 foot overbridges on the Mumbai suburban railway network||Acting on the recommendations of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), the Central Railway (CR) will be reconstructing 13 foot overbridges (FOB) on the Mumbai suburban railway network. The construction is expected to be completed by year-end.The construction across the mainline, harbour and trans-harbour railway network will be done in phases and on a priority basis.Dharavi FOB between Matunga and Sion railway station, public FOB between Kanjurmarg and Bhandup railway station, and Matunga level crossing foot overbridge will be constructed initially between Matunga and Sion railway stations.The zonal railway has invited tenders for the construction of the three bridges.“The bridges will be constructed in a phased manner. Demolishing of the existing bridges will be done first,” said a senior Central Railway official.Experts from IIT-B, Central, Western Railway and officials from civic bodies had undertaken an audit of 445 bridge structures across the suburban railway tracks after the collapse of the Gokhale bridge at Andheri railway station in July 2018.The CR recently also invited a tender for the construction of a road overbridge (ROB) near the Byculla railway station.The bridge was flagged as unsafe by a team of experts from IIT-B. They had restricted heavy vehicles of more than 16 tonnes at Byculla, Ghatkopar, and Arthur Road ROB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-reconstruct-13-foot-overbridges-on-the-mumbai-suburban-railway-network-101626804335492.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Commercial taxes dept detects evasion worth ₹48.45 crore in Bihar||The commercial taxes department on Tuesday raided 35 commercial firms dealing with areca nut, iron and steel, edible oil and coal across Bihar and detected tax evasion worth ₹48.45 crore by way of claiming input tax credit (ITC) through fake invoices, people aware of the development said.They said the raids revealed that out of 35 firms, 25 were bogus and working only on paper with the sole aim of claiming ITC through fake invoices and e-way bills. All the firms including those dealing with areca nut (supari) have done business transactions worth ₹574 crore in the last few years, officials said.“The biggest revelation has been the detection of three bogus firms engaged in the trade of areca nut. Prima facie, it appears that these firms have been dealing with the illegal consignment of areca nut from northeastern states via West Bengal and sending it to various states across the country including Gujarat, UP and Maharashtra. These non-existent firms have been engaged in generating e-way bills and illegal bill trading,” said a senior tax officer, engaged in the raids. He said these firms seemed to be part of a syndicate of illegal bill trading.“We have alerted customs about these firms and getting inputs from other agencies about the trade of areca nut from other states,” the official added. Following the implementation of goods and services tax ( GST), the commercial tax department has detected the trend of tax evasion by non-existent business firms which apparently act as fronts for clandestine ferrying of goods and claiming ITC (the tax credit availed by the firms after receiving of goods and other conditions for furthering his business).The department officials said these bogus firms come to light only when there is tracking through human intelligence and data analysis by the intelligence wing of the department. “In recent weeks, we have unearthed a large number of fake firms and tracking their actual owner through mobile calls and tax receipts. All the operators of the fake firms would be facing heavy penalty and punitive action,” said another officer.Commissioner cum secretary, commercial taxes department, Dr Pratima said eight firms were detected in today’s raids which failed to show proper book of records and engaged in wrongly claiming ITC. “We are working on revenue leakage and all those involved in clandestine trade would be facing action,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/commercial-taxes-dept-detects-evasion-worth-rs-48-45-crore-in-bihar-101626804277849.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor Savita Malpekar’s gold chain snatched||An unknown accused snatched the gold chain of actor Savita Malpekar when she had stepped out for a walk at Shivaji Park on Monday evening. Malpekar is mainly seen in supporting roles and has worked in Marathi films like Mulshi Pattern, Me Shivaji Park, Natsamrat, Kunku Lavage Maherche, Swami Public Pvt Ltd and Kaksparsh.Malpekar, 63, a resident of Mogal Lane in Mahim (West) had come for a walk on Monday to Shivaji Park. “While the actress completed her walk and was talking rest on one of the lower boundary walls, at around 9.15pm an unknown person approached her on the pretext of asking the time,” said a police officer from the Shivaji Park police station.The unknown person after asking time left. However, he suddenly turned back and pulled the gold chain off the actress, while the actress was talking on the phone.When the actress asked for help, the accused fled on a parked bike towards Mahim.The actress later registered a case with the Shivaji Park police station for robbery.The man had come all alone the actress lost her 30 grams gold chain that had a pendant valued at ₹1.5 lakhs said a police officer.“We have got the CCTV footage of the area and we will nab the accused soon,” said a police official.“I told him that I don’t have a watch to tell him time. He asked me to check the time on the phone. However, as I was talking on the phone, he left. However, he came back after 10 minutes and pulled my chain,” said the actress, who had earlier lost her chain in Bandra too.“I never got back my stolen chain in Bandra, however, this time I am hopeful. Shivaji Park needs more CCTV cameras,” said Malpekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-actor-savita-malpekar-s-gold-chain-snatched-101626804275453.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra controlled operations of porn racket, says Mumbai Police||A metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday remanded actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Ripu Sudan aka Raj Kundra and his aide Ryan Thorpe to police custody till July 23 in connection with a pornographic film racket.In its application seeking Kundra’s remand, the Mumbai Police crime branch claimed that the 45-year-old had got a mobile application developed for running a pornographic film racket and used to control its entire operation himself through WhatsApp groups.Kundra, along with one Sourabh Kushwah, according to the remand application, had in February 2019 started a company namely, Arms Prime Media Pvt Ltd. Around six months later, the company developed a mobile phone application, Hotshot, and then sold it to Kenrin Ltd., a London-based entity owned by Kundra’s relative Pardeep Bakshi for $25,000.In December 2019, Kundra resigned from Arms Prime Media, after which, one Sanjay Tripathi, a witness in the case, took it over.The mobile phone application, available only to paid subscribers, was used to upload pornographic content, shot in Mumbai and surrounding areas, police claimed. The remand application added that other accused and witnesses in the case have revealed that the pornographic films shot in Mumbai were transferred to Kenrin, London, from where the obscene content was uploaded on the Hotshot app. Kundra controlled the entire operation of the app through three WhatsApp groups that he had created in the name of “HS,” and that Kundra was the administrator of these WhatsApp groups.The crime branch raided in Kundra’s office in Andheri (West) and have seized incriminating evidence like subscription hits, WhatsApp chats, pornographic clips, agreement papers, emails and account details, said joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe of the crime branch.Thorpe worked in Kundra’s company as IT head. Kamat had allegedly sent the porn videos to the UK where it was uploaded on Hotshot app. After noticing its contents the Hotshots app was taken down by Apple App Store in June 2020 and was also removed from the Google Play Store in November 2020. We have freezed a total of ₹7.5 crore from the bank accounts of several apps in the case, said Bharambe.Police further claimed that it was through these groups — HS Accounts, HS Take Down and HS Operations — Kundra monitored the content, payments to artists and the revenue generated through the app. Bakshi made the payments based on Kundra’s instructions, the remand application added.Property cell of the Mumbai crime branch has registered a case in connection with the pornographic racket on February 4, 2021, when it raided a bungalow in the Madh area and arrested five persons, including two women engaged in shooting a pornographic film. Police also claimed to have rescued a young woman, who was allegedly lured into acting in a short film and forced to perform sex on camera.Subsequently, two more offences have been registered at Malwani police station based on complaints lodged by two women who claimed that they too were exploited by the gang.Police later arrested four more persons, including Kundra’s former employee Umesh Kamat, who allegedly operated from one of the office premises belonging to Kundra and coordinated with Kernin Ltd.Police on Monday night placed Kundra under arrest after interrogating him for hours. The property cell on Tuesday also arrested one Ryan Thorpe, a Nerul resident and an expert in information technology, who allegedly helped maintain the mobile phone application through two of his associates.Both, Kundra and Thorpe, were produced before a metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday and remanded to police custody till July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-controlled-operations-of-porn-racket-says-mumbai-police-101626804216762.html
20-07-2021||Other||Cong withdraws expulsion of three veterans||Lucknow: The Congress appears to have extended an olive branch to the party’s expelled old guards, withdrawing expulsion of three veterans who, along with seven others, were expelled from the party for indulging in anti-party activities in 2019. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party leaders welcomed the three veterans at UPCC headquarters here on Tuesday. The UPCC had expelled 10 senior leaders, including former ministers, for indulging in anti-party activities when they gathered at the residence of their colleagues to celebrate birth anniversary of India’s first prime minister late Jawahar Lal Nehru and former prime minister late Indira Gandhi here on November 14, 2019 and November 19, 2019 respectively. Action to expel them was taken on November 24. This was considered as one of the reasons for an apparent divide between the party’s old guards and Lallu’s team. “Following approval of All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu, the disciplinary committee of Uttar Pradesh Congress has with immediate effect withdrawn expulsion of former legislators Nek Chand Pandey, Bhudhar Narain Mishra and Gajendra Singh Solanki. AICC secretaries Dhiraj Gurjar and Rohit Chaudhary expect from these legislators that they will play an important role in strengthening the Congress in future,” said UPCC spokesman Ashok Singh in a press statement. Priyanka, during her three-day tour to the state capital last week, had given a call to the party’s old guards and the youngsters to join hands to strengthen the party. She had also asked party’s state leaders to withdraw expulsion of old guards. An expelled leader, however, said withdrawal of expulsion of only three veterans in an expelled group of 10 raised a question mark on the entire exercise of taking all sections of the party together. “We all (10 leaders) had gathered to celebrate the birth anniversary of former prime ministers and did not indulge in any party activity. Those expelled included former minister Ram Krishna Dwivedi and he later died following illness. Action against six leaders is yet to be withdrawn. We were asked to tender an apology. Why should we tender any apology when we did not indulge in any indiscipline,” said an expelled leader. When contacted, Lallu said the Congress was reaching out to all the veterans and all those committed to the party would be welcomed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-withdraws-expulsion-of-three-veterans-101626804216107.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses to interfere with Mumbai civic body’s circular for Bakri Eid sacrifices at Deonar||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to interfere with the decision of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to allow the sacrifice of only 300 big animals — water buffaloes per day at Deonar abattoir for the Bakri Eid festival starting from Wednesday (July 21).Two separate petitions had sought directions to permit the sacrifice of privately-owned animals at the abattoir. They had challenged the BMC circular of July 19, stating that 300 big animals (water buffaloes) would be permitted to be sacrificed at the abattoir per day from July 21-23.However, after the petitioners requested that the number be increased to 700, the court said that in light of public health and pandemic, it was not inclined to interfere in the decision of the BMC. The court held that as the circular had resolved the issues raised in the petition, it could not grant further relief. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing public interest litigations (PILs) filed by Al- Quraish Human Welfare Association and All India Jamiatul Qureish seeking directions to the BMC to increase the number of animals allowed to be sacrificed at Deonar abattoir to deter private individuals from carrying out the sacrifices unauthorisedly.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare appearing for the BMC informed the bench that the civic authority had issued a circular on July 19 with regards to the activities and programmes and festivities connected with Bakri eid and the use of the Deonar abattoir between July 22 and 23. “Last year, the number of large animals that were allowed to be slaughtered at the abattoir last year was 150 animals per day which have been increased to 300 this year. This has been done to avoid overcrowding. Devotees reaching the abattoir will have to follow protocols while sacrificing animals. There are already 900 and more animals at Deonar permitting more animals will result in overcrowding and hence the requests of the petitioners should not be allowed,” said Sakhare. Sakhare further added that as there was a threat of the third wave, the civic authority was taking these precautionary measures and hence the relaxation sought for in the petition should not be allowed. “Now other festivals are starting, for Hindus, Muslims and others. Nearly 13-14 lakh people walk in pilgrimage (Vaari) to Pandharpur, but it is not permitted this year except for a few persons going by bus. Now Ganesh Utsav and Navratri will also come,” said Sakhkare. After the BMC’s submissions, advocates AA Siddique and Tanveer Nizam for the petitioners submitted that the slaughter of 300 animals per day was insufficient as many people had made online purchases of the sacrificial animals before the BMC issued the circular, hence permission should be given to slaughtering of 700 animals per day during a three-day period. However, the bench observed, “It appears from such a circular that the slaughterhouse will be open at an aforesaid rate between 6am and 6pm and maximum buffaloes permitted to be slaughtered is 300 per day. The circular provides for other measures to be adopted for the Covid protocol at the slaughterhouse. With the issuance of the circular dated July 19, 2021, the primary grievance with which the writ jurisdiction was invoked stands redressed.” When advocate Nizam insisted on relaxations at the Deonar abattoir to accommodate the animals purchased the bench said, “Isn’t public health above religion? This is done keeping in mind prevailing circumstances. Possibly next time. Otherwise, the administration will not be able to function or manage.” The bench then disposed of the petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-mumbai-civic-body-s-circular-for-bakri-eid-sacrifices-at-deonar-101626804155425.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to allow disability certification at sub-divisional hospital level: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the state government has decided to allow disability certification at the level of sub-divisional hospitals, in addition to civil hospitals.Vij said this move will benefit people with disabilities as they can get themselves assessed and certified by the medical board under the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 at government health institutions close to their homes.HIGH MAST LIGHTS IN AMBALAVij, who is also the urban local bodies minister, said ₹18 crore will be spent to install high mast lights along with LED lights in Ambala Cantonment (Sadar) area.He said all old sodium, tubelights and CFL lights installed in Ambala Sadar area will be replaced with LED lights.He said under the AMRUT scheme, work is being done to install about 11,592 LED lights at the cost of ₹18 crore.SAINIK SADANSHaryana minister of state for ‘Sainik’, ‘Ardh Sainik’ welfare and social justice and empowerment, OP Yadav, said ‘Ekikrit Sainik Sadans’ will be set up in eight districts of Haryana for the welfare of soldiers. He said about ₹100 crore will be spent on construction of these ‘Sainik Sadans’.Presiding over the review meeting, Yadav said ‘Sainik Sadans’ will be constructed in a phased manner in Narnaul, Palwal, Panipat, Jhajjar, Jind, Nuh, Fatehabad and Rewari districts.The work of construction of houses in some of these districts will be started soon. He said about 80% construction work of Kosli and Dadri ‘Sainik’ rest house has been done.He said about ₹12 crore will be spent on the construction of each ‘Sainik Sadan’ where facilities including ‘Sainik’ rest house, district ‘Sainik’ and ‘Ardh Sainik’ welfare office, community hall, polyclinics, CSD canteen, parking facility will be available, besides lift and ramp.FREE BUS TRAVELThe Haryana government has also decided to provide free bus travel facility in Haryana Roadways to award winning scholars of Sanskrit language.An official spokesperson said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given approval to this scheme. Haryana Sanskrit Academy director Dr Dinesh Shastri said the state government is making consistent efforts to promote Sanskrit language in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-allow-disability-certification-at-sub-divisional-hospital-level-vij-101626803736105.html
20-07-2021||Noida||2 men break into mobile showroom, steal goods worth ₹12L||Greater Noida Two unidentified men allegedly broke into a mobile phone showroom in Greater Noida’s Kasna late Saturday night and decamped with items worth over ₹12 lakh. The incident was reported on Monday morning when the shop opened after the two-day weekend curfew.The owner, Kamal Bhati, who is a native of Maicha village under the Dadri police jurisdiction filed a complaint. CCTV footage showed two masked men entering the shop late Saturday night and decamping with 84 cellphones, said the police.Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 457 (trespassing) and 380 (theft) at the Kasna police station on Monday. “For the time being, the owner does not suspect anyone,” said Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kasna police station.On May 13, 2021, another mobile shop owned by Bhati in the same area was robbed and merchandise worth ₹8 lakh was stolen from there, police said. Police said they suspect that someone was targeting Bhati. An investigation traced some of the stolen cellphones to Bihar, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-men-break-into-mobile-showroom-steal-goods-worth-12l-101626803675513.html
20-07-2021||Noida||G Noida authority issues notice to 3,373 buyers for not registering properties||Greater Noida The Greater Noida authority officials on Tuesday gave 15 days to 3,373 flat or plot buyers to register their properties, failing which they will lose the allotment.Officials said that these property buyers, who had been allotted the properties at various points in the past 10 years, did not register them to evade stamp duty, fixed registry charges and other registration expenses. The flats and plots are located in Greater Noida sectors 2, 3, Eta 1, Gamma 1 and 2, Alpha 1 and 2, Beta 1 and 2, Delta 1 and 2, Omicron 3, Chi 3 and 4, among others. Most of these properties are occupied, according to the officials. “We have issued notices to these property buyers for delaying the registration process. If we cancel land allotment, they will lose the property,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Buyers can, however, recover the property ownership by paying a fine to the authority. When allotment of a property is cancelled, the authority charges 5% of the total cost of the property as restoration charge. After paying this amount, the buyer has to pay the registration fee for taking over ownership of the property from the owner. “If a person fails to pay the fine, the property allotment remains cancelled, and the flat/plot is allotted to someone else. So, we have asked these property owners to get to register their properties immediately,” said another Greater Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.Another official, requesting anonymity, said, “Most of the buyers wait for a profitable offer to sell the property, so they keep delaying the registration process. We won’t allow this anymore and will take action against the violators.”Richa Sharma, a buyer who is yet to register her property, said, “The authority should not be too harsh during this tough situation amidst Covid-19 crisis. Many people are suffering from financial crises. They should be allowed more time for the registry process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-authority-issues-notice-to-3-373-buyers-for-not-registering-properties-101626803615480.html
20-07-2021||Other||Charuni digs in his heels on Mission Punjab||A day before his weeklong suspension from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) ends, Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said his suspension did not cause any harm to him but even the members of the Morcha faced criticism from people for the decision.He said his suspension will not change his stand that the SKM leaders should plan ‘Mission Punjab’ and actively participate in the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab.Charuni, who led a convoy of thousands of farmers from Yamunanagar to Singhu border, was given a rousing welcome by farmers at Karnal and Panipat.“During this period of suspension, I continue working to strengthen the ongoing agitation. Today I’m leading a convoy of farmers to Delhi border as my support to the agitation will continue,” he added.“Joining politics is not my ultimate target. I want to continue my fight for farmers so that they can live a respectful life,” he added.“I have already requested the SKM to consider extending my suspension as I will not take back my suggestion. It’s been six months and no one is listening to us,” he said.The leader added that he aspires to change the “bad politics of working for the corporate, and that requires noble citizens to come forward”.Charuni said a convoy of farmers from every district of Haryana and Punjab is reaching the protest sites near Delhi borders every fortnight to show the strength of the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charuni-digs-in-his-heels-on-mission-punjab-101626803556847.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Light rain keeps mercury down in Noida||Light rain continued to keep the mercury in check in Noida on Tuesday and the weather department expects more rain over the next few days.The daytime mercury in the district, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), remained the same as a day earlier at 26.6 degrees Celsius (°C). On Tuesday, Noida received 1mm rain, according to the IMD data released at 5.30pm. At around 6pm, more rain fell on the city but no major incidents of waterlogging was reported. Traffic snarls were reported on the Faridabad - Noida - Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway towards Parthala Chawl in the evening.“The monsoon trough (a region of low pressure that increases possibility of rain) is currently over Delhi-NCR and may move northwards on Wednesday and Thursday. The trough will move back towards Noida region later leading to possibility of high intensity rainfall on Friday and Saturday,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) of Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.Since the arrival of the monsoon was confirmed over Delhi-NCR on July 13, after a delay of 16 days, the city has recorded rainfall only two other days July 19 and 20.Meanwhile, according to the traffic police no major incident of traffic jams were reported.“There were also no major incident of water logging on the city that would obstruct the traffic, although traffic did get slower when the rain got slightly heavy in the evening. I’m monitoring the situation myself,” said Ganesh Saha, Deputy Commisoner of Police, traffic, GB Nagar said.“There was a traffic jam around 6.45 pm at the FNG towards Parthala chawl. Several vehicles were stuck for 15-20 minutes. Later the officials from traffic police took over and resumed the traffic movement,” said Amit Gupta, noida based social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/light-rain-keeps-mercury-down-in-noida-101626803555383.html
20-07-2021||Other||District-level teams to check illegal sewage discharge in Haryana||Faced with a challenge to tap millions of litres daily (MLD) sewage discharge from industrial units, the Haryana government has now decided to form district-level committees to ensure immediate check on illegal discharge.The decision in this regard was taken in a meeting held under the chief secretary and directions have been issued to all deputy commissioners to form joint committees at district level involving officials from the state pollution control board. As per information, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had taken up the issue of illegal discharge in repeated meetings and the urban local bodies department was also alerted in this regard.The monitoring committees will conduct raids and take action against the errant industrial units found releasing untreated effluent illegally.HT has learnt that the HSPCB was also planning to provide incentives to volunteers, who will provide secret information about people involved in releasing illegal discharge.“As per the recommendations, every DC will constitute an inspection team at local level and the teams will help to put a check on the illegal effluents,” said HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan.On cash incentives to informers, he said as of now, the HSPCB has taken up the issue with the Panipat DC as maximum cases of illegal discharge are being reported from there. “I have asked the Panipat DC to involve some volunteers. We will give cash awards for information on illegal discharge and the informers’ identity will be kept a secret,” he added.He said this initiative could also be extended to other districts if the DCs of other districts also work on it.Putting a complete check on industrial and domestic waste discharge into Yamuna and Ghaggar rivers remains a tough task for the authorities in state as the issue was deeply discussed in the meeting of the River Rejuvenation Committee (RRC) held on April 28.As per proceedings of the meeting, it was observed that of 126 locations identified along Yamuna river as sources of pollution, action plan is pending for 34 locations. Also, of 255 locations identified along Ghaggar, action plan is pending for 69 locations.Slow progress of laying of sewerage network in Ambala city-Ambala Sadar, Kaithal, Jakhal Mandi, Hisar, Jagadhari-Yamunanagar, Palwal, Rohtak, Faridabad, Karnal and Bahadurgarh was also noted.Of 100.5 MLD being discharged at 155 locations, only 48.15 MLD from 90 locations has been diverted and the work is yet to be started at 18 locations in the Yamuna catchment area.In the Ghaggar catchment area, of total 42.25 MLD being discharged from 56 locations, only 21.08 MLD from 28 locations has been diverted and the work has not started at 14 locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/districtlevel-teams-to-check-illegal-sewage-discharge-in-haryana-101626803378333.html
20-07-2021||Noida||RRTS project: Laying of tracks for 17km priority section begins in Ghaziabad||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has started laying tracks on the Sahibabad-Duhai stretch -- the 17km priority section -- for the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS), officials said on Tuesday. The officials also said that the production of train coaches for the project has started at a plant in Savli, Gujarat. The RRTS project is an 82km high-speed rail corridor connecting Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut. The ₹30,274 crore project is aimed at reducing the travel time between Delhi and Meerut to 55-60 minutes. The Sahibabad-Duhai stretch has a deadline of March 2023.“We have started laying tracks at the priority section, and a number of parallel activities, including the production of coaches in Gujarat, have also started. All these activities are getting coordinated to meet the deadline of March 2023. About 60% of the civil construction work of the priority section is complete,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of NCRTC. The 82km corridor is scheduled to open for passenger operations in 2025. “For laying of tracks, we have come up with a precast track slab technology which is being used for the first time in India for a speed of 180km per hour. The actual maximum speed of trains will be 160kmph while the average speed will be close to 100kmph. Each precast slab will be numbered and designed as per its location. So, every slab will synchronise with the RRTS alignment,” Vats said. The officials are hopeful that they will be able to make up for the time loss due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the entire viaduct of the 17km priority section will be completed in the next eight months. “To speed up the civil construction and viaduct, we have placed 16 gantries over the entire 82km section and four more will be introduced soon. We have also deployed about 1,100 engineers and 10,000 labourers for the project,” the CPRO said.According to the officials, the delivery of the first set of coaches is likely by June 2022. The NCRTC has proposed 30 trains of six coaches each for the entire project. They have also proposed 10 trains with three coaches each which will serve as a local transit module in Meerut. The NCRTC is also developing a major depot at Duhai in Ghaziabad where maintenance activities for trains will take place. About 70km section of the 82km corridor is elevated while the rest -- from Anand Vihar to Sahibabad -- is underground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rrts-project-laying-of-tracks-for-17km-priority-section-begins-in-ghaziabad-101626803375489.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad likely to get 50 electric buses in three months||A fleet of 50 electric buses may commence operation in the city in the next three months, officials said on Tuesday. They also said that the work for the construction of a maintenance depot for the e-bus project is almost complete. The low-floor air-conditioned e-buses will operate on 10 routes within the municipal limits, the officials said. “We are expecting that 50 buses for Ghaziabad may arrive in the next two-three months. At present, work for tendering of the ticketing system for e-buses is going on. Once it gets complete, we are hopeful that the buses will be delivered. In our division, we have 50 e-buses each for Ghaziabad and Meerut,” said Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner, Meerut. The Ghaziabad city at present has no government-run bus network for intra-city commuting. The officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that the maintenance depot has been developed over an area of about 25,000 square metres at Akbarpur-Behrampur (near Vijay Nagar) adjacent to NH-9. “The construction work (for maintenance depot) is almost finished. The depot will serve as a major point for the maintenance and charging of the e-buses,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. For the operation of e-buses, the corporation officials have chalked out 10 different routes within the municipal limits. The routes include Surya Nagar to Indirapuram and further to Noida City Centre; Govindpuram to UP Gate on NH-9; Shalimar Garden to Ghaziabad railway station; Vijay Nagar to Noida City Centre; Anand Vihar border to Mohan Nagar and further up to ALT Centre, Raj Nagar; Dilshad Garden to Mohan Nagar and further to Old Bus Stand and Govindpuram; and Mohan Nagar to Raj Nagar Extension which will further go to NH-9. In August 2019, the Union ministry of heavy industries had approved the sanction of 5,595 e-buses to 64 cities across the country for intra-city and inter-city operations. Out of 5,595 e-buses, 600 were approved for 11 cities of Uttar Pradesh, including 50 for Ghaziabad city. The approval was made under the phase 2 of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid Electric Vehicles scheme in order to push for clean mobility in public transportation. The 5,595 e-buses are proposed to run about four billion kilometres during their contract period and expected to cumulatively save about 1.2 billion litres of traditional fuel that will help reduce 846 million tonnes of CO2 (carbon dioxide) emission by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-likely-to-get-50-electric-buses-in-three-months-101626803315397.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Covid waste drops by 98% as situation improves||With fewer Covid-19 cases, Gautam Budh Nagar’s biomedical waste related to the infection has also dropped by almost 98% since the second wave in April-May.According to the agency managing the district’s biomedical waste, the current collection is about 1,500-1,600kg per day, of which Covid-19 waste is about 25-30kg. During the second wave, Covid-related biomedical waste was about 1,200-1,600kg per day.The Covid-19 biomedical waste includes masks, personal protection equipment, tubes, swabs and medicines, among others. These are collected from Covid care facilities, including hospitals dedicated to treat the disease.These days, syringes used in the vaccination against Covid-19 form most of the Covid-19 waste, said Sanjay Kaushik, chief executive officer of Synergy, the agency hired to handle biomedical waste in the district as well as 32 others in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Bihar. “The load of Covid-19 waste has decreased drastically since June. Currently, we get waste from only a few hospitals. We collect the waste in yellow bags, and transported it to our incinerator in Meerut,” said Kaushik.Despite the second wave’s intensity, Kaushik said the first wave generate more waste -- almost 2,100-3,000kg in June-July last year.“This was because the UP pollution control board guidelines till July 31, 2020 regarded food waste from a Covid facility as Covid-19 waste. Later, this was revised, and food waste was categorised as general waste that we collect in green bags,” said Kaushik.As on Monday, GB Nagar saw four more Covid-19 infections that took active cases to 39 and net total cases to 62,651 in the district, according to the state health bulletin.The biomedical waste is segregated under four colour categories – yellow (biomedical), red (plastic), white/transparent (metals) and blue (glass). “We ensure that all Covid-19 waste is collected and managed properly. Private agencies hired by us collect the biomedical waste from the Covid-19 hospitals and isolation centres. We collect it from the patients under home quarantine (and give it to the agency). Currently, there are no Covid-19 patients under home quarantine,” said SC Mishra, project engineer (health), Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-covid-waste-drops-by-98-as-situation-improves-101626803135347.html
20-07-2021||Other||‘No immediate resolution of border row with Mizoram’: Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday that the ongoing border row between the state and neighbouring Mizoram is unlikely to get resolved soon.Addressing journalists on the sidelines of the ongoing assembly session, he said that talks will soon be held with his Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya counterparts to address the border disputes with the two states.“The present situation on the Assam-Mizoram border is not very conducive. Eye-ball to eye-ball confrontation is going on at the moment in Hailakandi, Karimganj and Cachar districts of Assam in areas falling along the border with Mizoram,” Sarma said.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km-long boundary. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union territory. It became a state in 1987. There have been minor skirmishes in the past with Mizoram seeking delineation of the border on basis of the East Bengal Frontier Regulation of 1873.Though both Assam and Mizoram governments agreed to maintain the status quo on the dispute several years ago, there have been transgressions and encroachments with each side blaming the other.There is palpable tension along the inter-state border at present with each state blaming the other for encroachment of its territory and attacks on its residents. Both states have ensured a heavy deployment of police personnel along the border.“Union home secretary (Ajay Kumar Bhalla) also recently discussed the issue with chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram to resolve the crisis. But as of now, the situation along the Assam-Mizoram border is still fragile. I don’t expect any immediate result on the Assam-Mizoram border. It will take time,” said Sarma.Besides Mizoram, Assam has long-standing border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Nagaland. The state shares an 804-km long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh, 434-km with Nagaland and 733-km with Meghalaya.“We can expect some headway on Assam-Meghalaya and Assam-Arunachal Pradesh fronts. On July 23, I will meet Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma to resolve the border dispute between our two states amicably. I will also meet Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu to discuss the border situation,” said Sarma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-immediate-resolution-of-assam-mizoram-border-row-assam-cm-101626802957399.html
20-07-2021||Other||OP Chautala visits Ghazipur, Palwal protest site||Former Haryana chief minister and INLD supremo OP Chautala on Tuesday visited Ghazipur and Palwal borders where farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws, to extend his party’s support to the ongoing farm agitation.BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait welcomed Chautala at Ghazipur border.Addressing the protesters, Chautala said his party has been backing the farmers and supporting them since Day 1 of the agitation.“These black laws will be repealed and the party which has brought these laws will also be changed. This agitation is not only of farmers and labourers but of the entire nation. The BJP government has been dividing people on caste and religion lines. People from every section of the society are participating in the farm stir. The BJP is working on the policy of snatching land from farmers and handing it over to industrialists like Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani,” Chautala added.This was Chautala’s first visit to any farm protest site after being released from Tihar jail this month after his sentence was completed in connection with the junior teachers’ recruitment scam.He has donated four air coolers and one water cooler to the protesting farmers. The INLD supremo said his party will provide jobs to educated youths if it is voted to power.“I was jailed for giving jobs to junior teachers. If those teachers were recruited illegally, why are they being promoted?” he added.Chautala will visit Singhu and Tikri borders on Wednesday to extend support to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/op-chautala-visits-ghazipur-palwal-protest-site-101626802775924.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Preacher Rampal has to wait for 3 months to seek suspension of life sentence||Controversial preacher of Satlok Ashram, Rampal, will have to wait for at least three months for consideration of suspension of sentence of life term awarded to him by the trial court.Rampal was convicted in October 2018 and awarded life term after holding him guilty of murder by a Hisar district court. An appeal against the sentence is pending in the high court.Rampal had urged the court seeking suspension of sentence till his appeal is decided.During the hearing, the court, considering Rampal’s custody certificate, held that his custody period is short by three months for being covered by the ratio laid down by this court for suspension of sentence.The case has now been deferred till November 2.In November 2014, bodies of a child and four women were found in the ashram following which a case was registered against Rampal and 27 of his associates for murder and under other Sections of the IPC.Later, another case was registered when a body of another woman was found in ashram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/preacher-rampal-has-to-wait-for-3-months-to-seek-suspension-of-life-sentence-101626802476114.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 6,000 new Covid-19 cases for second straight day, Mumbai logs 348 fresh infections||With 6,017 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, Maharashtra’s total confirmed cases went up to 62,29,596. The daily positivity rate was 3.59 per cent in the state. Another 147 people succumbed to the illness in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 1,30,753, the latest data showed.The capital city of Mumbai reported 348 new infections and 10 more deaths during the same period. So far, the city has reported 7,32,152 cases and 15,787 deaths.Meanwhile, recoveries remained more than fresh cases on Tuesday as 7,510 patients were discharged from hospitals. With this, overall, recoveries reached 60,00,911, the data also showed. As many as 1,97,267 samples were tested for the virus during the day taking the cumulative number of tests to 45,846,165.Also read | After 4 months, Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count below 100,000Active caseload in the state was recorded at 94,593, according to a bulletin from the state health department earlier in the day.According to a medical bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 22,015 samples were tested in Mumbai. So far 78,11,748 samples have been tested in the country’s financial capital. At present, there are seven containment zones within Mumbai, the bulletin also showed.The district of Pune with 15,042 active cases contributed the most to the state’s tally as of date, followed by Thane with 12,549 cases, Sangli with 10,849 cases, Mumbai with 10,638 cases and Kolhapur with 10,100 cases.Pune also remained the worst-affected district in the state having the highest number of total confirmed infections so far with 10,77,540 cases.The case fatality rate in Maharashtra stood at 2.09% and the overall case positivity rate stood at 13.59%.Among the key cities in Maharashtra, 277 people tested positive in Pune while Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Navi Mumbai reported 58 and 59 new cases respectively. Thane logged 48 new infections while Nagpur added seven more cases to its tally on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-6-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-mumbai-logs-348-fresh-infections-101626801955127.html
20-07-2021||Other||Take ₹10 lakh deposit and hear PIL, SC to HC on Arvind Shinde’s PIL||PUNE The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, asked the High Court to hear Congress leader Arvind Shinde’s Public Interest Litigation (PIL), after he deposited ₹10 lakh as a deposit.Shinde had filed a PIL against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) over tenders floated for sewage works allegedly in the interest of a few contractors.Recently, PMC had awarded tenders for sewage work in 11 merged villages, which were objected to by the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). As BJP had a clear majority in the house, it was approved.Shinde challenged it. The Supreme Court asked the petitioner Shinde to deposit ₹10 lakh in two weeks.Shinde said, “I am going to deposit ₹10 lakh with the court as directed by the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-10-lakh-deposit-and-hear-pil-sc-to-hc-on-arvind-shinde-s-pil-101626802055315.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Illegal colonies in Bhondsi demolished by DTCP||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday demolished two illegal colonies in Bhondsi amid stiff resistance by locals at one of the sites. In the first instance — where a colony was being illegally developed right next to a toll plaza being constructed by NHAI on Sohna road — DTCP officials said that despite repeated notices to the landowners, work at the illegal colony was not stopped following which action was taken. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the land was subdivided on an area of six acres, boundary walls, shops and huts for labourers erected. “The enforcement wing had given three notices to the violators in the past month and warned them to stop work but they did not refrain. Even on Tuesday, construction work was going on. The demolition was opposed by a large number of people but the drive was carried out with the help of the police,” he said. DTCP officials said that all boundary walls, shops, and huts were demolished by earthmoving machines deployed for the purpose. “We have also appealed to the people not to buy plots in such colonies as these are completely illegal,” he said.In the second instance, a demolition drive was carried out in Mahenderwara village, wherein the developers had laid a road network and plinths for a house, said officials. “The violators had carved out the colony in an old farmhouse and were advertising aggressively on various social networks. The colony was planned on four acres of agricultural land without any permission,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-colonies-in-bhondsi-demolished-by-dtcp-101626801696559.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Light rainfall leads to spike in temperature||Despite cloudy skies on Tuesday, Gurugram received only light scattered rain during the day that led to a rise in temperature. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram received 3mm of rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Tuesday. The city on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 30.5 degrees Celsius (°C) and a minimum temperature of 23.4°C. Although the temperatures recorded on Tuesday were four and three degrees lower than normal, respectively, the maximum temperature was four degrees higher than Monday. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, Gurugram is likely to witness a generally cloudy sky with the possibility of thunder or lightning from July 21-24. The maximum temperature over the next few days can rise to 33°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 25°C, it stated. “Gurugram is likely to witnesses light rain at isolated places on Wednesday too, but the intensity will reduce gradually. Due to this, the temperature in the region can rise. After this, the region is likely to receive rain around July 25-26,” said an official from IMD Chandigarh. On Monday, Gurugram witnessed heavy showers, recording 185mm of rainfall in 33 hours. With this, the district had received 88mm surplus rainfall. Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram continued to remain in the satisfactory zone for the past two days, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air bulletin. On Tuesday, Gurugram reported an air quality index of 55. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the satisfactory to moderate category over the next five days, according to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi weather bulletin issued on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/light-rainfall-leads-to-spike-in-temperature-101626801642666.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: RT-PCR test to cost ₹299 in Gurugram||The state government slashed the price of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), considered the gold standard test to detect Covid-19, to ₹299 in the state, as per an order issued by the state health department on July 15. The order was released by the district health department on Tuesday.It is for a seventh time that the health department has revised the testing cost, fixing separate rates for samples given directly at the lab and those collected from homes. Testing of samples at private hospitals or accredited diagnostic labs certified for Covid-19 testing will cost ₹299, while for home collection, the price has been capped at ₹499. Until now, one had to pay ₹499 to get tested in a private facility and ₹699 for home collection, as per the rates fixed in the first week of January 18. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram, said, “All private labs have been directed to charge the new testing rates. Action will be taken against if there is any complaint related to overcharging by labs.” The costs of other tests to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body, such as antigen test ( ₹350) antibody test ( ₹250), TrueNat ( ₹1,250) and CBNAAT ( ₹2,400) continue to remain the same. The RT-PCR testing charge was first slashed on June 16, 2020, from ₹4500, which was the upper limit fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research in March 2020, to ₹2,400. In 2020, the test cost was reduced to ₹1,600 on August 29, to ₹1,200 on October 2 and ₹900 on October 29. On Tuesday, as per the district health bulletin, over 2,720 RT-PCR tests and 791 rapid antigen tests were administered. Even as the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, is nearly 0.1%, the health department is conducting around 3,000 tests a day. According to the health bulletin, seven new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday. The active case count stands at 70, while the total tally is 180,810. No Covid-19 death has been reported in the last 11 days, with the toll at 919 in the district. First dose inoculation suspended The health department suspended the administration of first dose vaccines on Wednesday due to a vaccine shortage. Only the second dose will be administered at 42 government vaccination centres. At least 200 doses of Covaxin will be given at four health centres in Tigra, Chauma, Badshahpur and Manesar, and 250 doses at Candour tech space in Sector 48. At least 100 doses of Covishield, each, will be available at the remaining sites. Also, 100 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine will be given at the Sector 31 polyclinic. On Tuesday, about 15,085 vaccine doses were administered, of which 8,523 were at government health centres and 6,562 at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-rt-pcr-test-to-cost-299-in-gurugram-101626801641202.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Patch of Delhi-Gurgaon e-way caves in at border, causes 10-minute snarl||A four-foot patch of the main carriageway of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway caved in on Tuesday morning due to heavy rainwater accumulation inside an under-construction underpass near the Sirhaul toll. The cave-in took place on the carriageway leading to Gurugram, said officials.Most of the cave-in took place on the barricaded lanes of the expressway that are being used for the construction of the Ambience Mall underpass, with only a small patch of the main carriageway affected. However, commuters said that this increased their travel time by 10 minutes.“Due to the Ambience Mall underpass construction, there is anyways a minor snarl at the border crossing, due to the limited road width. The reduced cave-in resulted in an additional 10-minute delay than usual to cross the stretch,” said Manik Singh, a resident of DLF-5.Traffic police officials deployed at the spot said that measures were taken swiftly to ensure no mishap occurs due to the cave-in. “We took stock of the situation as soon as we were informed about the cave-in and managed to cover it before any untoward incident. Officials were stationed at the spot and ensured vehicle movement never came to a standstill and there was just a minor snarl,” said Karan Singh, traffic inspector (highway), Gurugram traffic police.Around 7am, traffic police officials were alerted and they barricaded 20 metres of the affected portion with the help of traffic cones, concrete and plastic jersey barriers. Vehicles were diverted on the three other lanes of the carriageway. The traffic police officials also issued an update on social media around 5pm, informing commuters about the cave-in.The Ambience Mall underpass is expected to open by September, with work on around 15 metres of the 377 metre-long underpass remaining.Kunal Garg, project manager, RK Contractor, the concessionaire of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the Ambience Mall underpass, said that originally, the cave-in was four feet wide, and later, it was excavated with machines so that the upper surface of the remaining portion of the underpass could be boxed with reinforced concrete slabs. As a temporary measure, the su“Due to the pending work on shifting a gas pipeline, work on a 15-metre portion of the underpass is remaining. A high volume of rainwater accumulated inside the underpass and without any concrete slab on top of the remaining 15-metre portion, the water came in contact with the exposed road surface, leading to the cave-in,” said Garg.Garg said that rainwater accumulation inside the underpass has been a common occurrence but this time around, the volume was much higher due to the intensity of the rains on Sunday and Monday, when the city recorded 185mm of cumulative rain, according to the India Meteorological Department.“We would always pump it out with motor pumps soon after (it filled up). Most of the rainwater usually drains out from the underpass’ surface drain itself. However, this time around, the intensity of rain was too much. Provided there is no more rain, we will be able to pump out all the rainwater within 24 hours, with the help of a 15-horsepower motor pump,” said Garg.Garg said that once the rainwater is removed and the skies clear up, casting work will commence. “Once the weather clears up, we will execute casting work on the remaining 15-metre portion, which would take us two days to complete. Post casting, the concrete takes three weeks to reach its optimum strength. Everything combined, the affected portion will open after a period of one month,” said Garg.Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said, “Our main focus currently is to ensure that no vehicles pass over the affected stretch. Most of our resources is allocated towards diverting vehicles through safely. We are ascertaining the cause of the cave-in and will accordingly take action.”It is not the first time rainwater accumulation in an under-construction underpass affected the structural integrity of road infrastructure.In September 2019, rainwater accumulated up to a height of seven feet inside the Iffco Chowk underpass, threatening the foundation of entire the MG Road stretch and a petrol pump located above the underpass. “The cave-in shows that quality of construction is being compromised. There was already an orange alert issued for Monday and Tuesday regarding high rainfall. Officials in charge should have foreseen the issues arising from it and accordingly taken precautionary measures,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert with Nagarro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/patch-of-delhi-gurgaon-e-way-caves-in-at-border-causes-10-minute-snarl-101626801639909.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 treatment: At least 38 complaints of overcharging for treatment filed||The district administration has received at least 38 complaints in the past month and a half regarding overcharging by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. A charted accountant was appointed by the administration to check whether the hospitals complied with the treatment rates set by the Haryana government, officials said on Tuesday.“A majority of the overcharging complaints are against the smaller hospitals. A few of these complaints have been referred to the director, general health services, for clarification regarding the line of treatment and its cost mentioned in the bill, while other complaints are shared with a charted accountant to check the amount charged by the hospital against the Covid-19 treatment cost fixed by the Haryana government,” said Surinder Dahiya, city magistrate.Dahiya is the nodal officer for the committee that was constituted by the district administration on June 2 to address the complaints of exorbitant bills generated by private hospitals for the treatment for Covid-19 patients during the second Covid-19 wave in April and May.On May 29, the Haryana government directed the deputy commissioners across the state to constitute a district-level committee to monitor the complaints. In the district, a three-member committee was constituted on June 2, comprising Dahiya, Dr Anuj Garg of the district health department and Dr MP Jain of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram, said, “All complaints related to inflated bills are directly transferred to the district administration’s committee for investigation.”According to an order issued on June 25, 2020, the state government fixed rates (per day) in hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) at ₹10,000 for an isolation bed, including supportive care and oxygen; ₹15,000 for an intensive care unit (ICU) bed without a ventilator and ₹18,000 for an ICU bed with ventilator support. Likewise, rates in non-NABH accredited hospitals were fixed at ₹8000, ₹13,000 and ₹15,000, respectively, for the same services.Officials, while fixing the rates, had said that the purpose behind the standardisation of rates was to eliminate disparity in charges across private hospitals.During the surge in cases during the second wave, residents alleged that the treatment cost in ICU went above ₹50,000, while over ₹20,000 a day was charged for treatment in the general ward. The state government intervened after people directly reached out to the state administration.“Action will be taken against the hospital concerned based on the final report submitted by the charted accountant,” said Dahiya, refusing to comment on the deadline given to submit the final report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-treatment-at-least-38-complaints-of-overcharging-for-treatment-filed-101626801638525.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Building collapse: Khattar announces ₹2 lakh for kin of deceased, ₹1 lakh for survivor||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh from the CM Relief Fund to the families of three men who died in the Khawaspur building collapse in Farrukhnagar on July 18. The district administration also formed a three-member committee to probe the collapse. The committee, comprising the subdivisional officer of Pataudi, junior engineer of the Public Works Department (B&R) of Farrukhnagar and subdivisional officer of Panchayati Raj, collected samples from the site on Tuesday and sent them for further examination to the PWD lab. The subdivisional magistrate (SMD) of Pataudi, Pradeep Kumar, said that the deputy commissioner directed for a magisterial probe. “The team has started its work and has collected samples from the site,” he said. The three persons who died were identified as Robin (34), Pradeep Sharma (39) and Tiny Bhardwaj (24), while a fourth resident, Pradeep Choudhary (36), was rescued on Sunday evening. According to a statement released by the district spokesperson, ₹2 lakh will be given to the families of the three who died and ₹1 lakh to the survivor, who is presently undergoing treatment at the Sector 10 Civil Hospital. His right leg was fractured when he was trapped in the rubble following the collapse on Sunday. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to the families on Monday and Tuesday. Devinder Sharma, a resident of Bhiwani, a brother of one of the deceased, said, “He was the sole breadwinner of the family and both his children are minors. This compensation can bring temporary relief but they have a long way to go.” Vinod Kumar, a relative of Bhardwaj, said, “We had to borrow money from our relatives to bear the expenses of transporting the body to village. This has come as a huge shock to all of us and we are not able to come to terms with it. He had called in the morning after his shift and was planning to visit home next month.” Meanwhile, the police on Tuesday arrested a manager of the company, after a case was filed against the building owner and manager of the warehouse on Monday under sections of “negligence leading to death”. A worker, in his complaint to the police, alleged that they had complained to the owner multiple times about the poor condition of the building and requested they be shifted to another building. “Police and administration have initiated a probe in the case,” said MLA (Pataudi) Satya Prakash Jarawta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/building-collapse-khattar-announces-2-lakh-for-kin-of-deceased-1-lakh-for-survivor-101626801637273.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Water run-off from Aravallis prevented from reaching Golf Course Road||Despite heavy rain on Monday, there was minimal waterlogging reported from stretches around the Aravallis compared to previous years as rainwater was diverted to the forests through check dams built in the area, said officials. After severe waterlogging on Golf Course Road last year, authorities identified that run-off water from the creeks in the Aravallis was the main cause. Ahead of this monsoon, they built check dams in the Aravallis to ensure that the water was diverted to the forest area, which also serves as a vital catchment area for recharging the groundwater table. Subhash Yadav, the divisional forest officer and head of the urban environment division, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), said that till last year, water from the creeks used to flow into the drain system and added to the load on the Badshahpur drain. “This time, we ensured rainwater from the Aravallis did not run off into drains. Water from three creeks was stored in the forests itself with the help of water bodies and check dams made there. This will help in both groundwater recharge and availability of water for wildlife,” said Yadav. Three check dams were built along the creeks on Golf Course Road, while creeks near the Shiv Nadar School and in Wazirabad were revitalised to arrest rainwater flow.On August 19 and 20 of 2020, the city received over 196mm of rainfall, following which the seven-kilometre Golf Course Road was inundated, with rainwater accumulation as high as 0.5 metres above the surface level at several points. However, this year, despite receiving 185mm of rainfall in two days, waterlogging was not reported from Golf Course Road, Sector 28 and Sector 26 that are located around the Aravallis. Latika Thukral, the co-founder of iamgurgaon, an organisation that helped authorities conduct a hydrogeological study of the area, said, “This time, a decision was taken that no concretised drains will be made near the Aravallis and try to move the water from the roads into the green areas. So, for instance, MG Road and Faridabad Road are 200 metres above the Golf Course Road; so when water comes from there, it gushes down. But with this trial, this year, water flowed into the forests.” She said that cleaning of the Chakkarpur-Wazibarad bundh helped channel water from roads to the drains and that this part of the city did not get flooded. Meanwhile, the effectiveness of the counter waterlogging measures in the Aravallis was also discussed during a high-level meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines on Tuesday. In the meeting, held to review Monday’s waterlogging woes, MCG councillor Kuldeep Yadav expressed appreciation for the arrangement of ponds and natural drains made in the Aravalli region. “Wherever possible, such arrangements should be made in other areas also. Due to heavy rains on Monday, water collected in these ponds and natural drains would gradually recharge the groundwater. Small creeks should be made at other places in the city also. Along with this, the green belt area should be made below the road level, so that rainwater can be collected there,” said Yadav, in an official release issued by the MCG. He also suggested the construction of modular harvesting pits. The MCG commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, directed all joint commissioners to visit spots where waterlogging was reported along with the local ward councillor and engineering wing officials to take remedial measures. Mayor Madhu Azad also said that a proposal would be sent to senior officials, including the Haryana chief minister, seeking action against officers or MCG workers over laxity in work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/water-run-off-from-aravallis-prevented-from-reaching-golf-course-road-101626801636017.html
20-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana man murders wife after spat over her affair||Ludhiana A 40-year-old parking contractor has been arrested for murdering his wife by hanging her from a ceiling fan at their house in Salem Tabri on Tuesday evening. Police claim that the victim, Neeru, 35, was having an affair, even as the couple had been married for 15 years. On Tuesday, she had been brought back to her husband’s house by her parents, after eloping with her lover. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP north) Gurbinder Singh said the incident occurred at about 4.30pm, but the police came to know about it only in late evening, after the accused’s driver spoke about the incident to his friend, who informed the police. The ACP added that this was the second marriage of Neeru, who had a son from her first marriage, while it was the first marriage of the accused, Raja Sekhon. “After Neeru’s parents left, the argument got out of hand and Neeru made a loop of a piece of cloth and tied its one end to a ceiling fan. She wrapped the loop around her neck and threatened to end her life. Raja has confessed that in a fit of rage, he kicked out the stool from under her feet, causing her to hang. This killed her,” the ACP added. A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-murders-wife-after-spat-over-her-affair-101626801275272.html
20-07-2021||Other||One arrested for kidnapping, hitting man with glass bottle||PUNE: One man was remanded to police custody even as the hunt is on for two other accused, including a woman, for kidnapping and assaulting a man known to the woman. According to the complainant, identified as Omkar Singh, 23, a resident of Park Majestic Society, Wadachiwadi Road, Undri, he was headed to the bank and exiting the lift of his building when the three accused allegedly shoved him into a car and ferried him to a place in Vishrantwadi where they attacked him with kicks, blows and a glass bottle. The trio stole his two mobile phones and ₹2,000 in cash. Police sub-inspector Abujar Chaus of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case said, “The accused woman and Singh are known to each other. They had a fight which escalated, and she involved the other two accused who helped her in kidnapping him.” A local court on Tuesday remanded one of the accused, Riyan Khurana, 23, a resident of Poladium Society, Mangaldas Road, to police custody till July 22. A case under sections 365 (kidnapping), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 504, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-arrested-for-kidnapping-hitting-man-with-glass-bottle-101626800075168.html
20-07-2021||Other||Building collapse Kush and Pluto led rescue teams to men trapped under debris||The sharp senses of Kush and Pluto, a German shepherd and Labrador with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF)’s dog squad, helped rescue teams identify the exact spots where three men were trapped under a building collapsed on them in Khawaspur village of Farrukhnagar, said first responders. It took the search and rescue teams nearly 19 hours to recover the bodies from under the rubble, but the initial alert had come from Kush the German shepherd, as early as 1.30am on Monday, followed by alerts from Pluto the Labrador. Both dogs are from the Ghaziabad unit of NDRF, their handlers said. After the dogs led the rescue team to a particular spot of the collapsed deck, drilling was intensified and the concrete slab broken off to reach the man trapped under. Shri Niwas, assistant commandant, NDRF, said both Kush and Pluto are well-trained, and while even machines may sometimes go wrong, the two canines never do. “They have undergone extensive training for six months and have been involved in more than 20 search and rescue operations in Nepal, Uttarakhand, Bhopal, Ghaziabad, Noida and Kanpur,” he said. Niwas said their teams had reached the Khawaspur site around 11.30pm Sunday from Ghaziabad and Kush and Pluto reached around 12.30am along with a unit of 30 personnel. “Both dogs started assisting us within minutes of their arrival. As machines were yet to clear the debris, they made rounds of the site and identified the areas where the three men were trapped,” he said. Amit Tomar, master (dog handler) of Kush, said Kush is trained to detect human scent. “He works off leash and barks once he notices something of interest,” he said. Both of them have been awarded several times for their exemplary work in search and rescue missions, said Tomar. In appreciation of their good work on Monday, they will be given a weekly off on Tuesday and, as a treat, will also get to go the ground and play, said Niwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/building-collapse-kush-and-pluto-led-rescue-teams-to-men-trapped-under-debris-101626799475838.html
20-07-2021||Other||PMC to convert Annasaheb Magar hospital in Hadapsar into dedicated paediatric Covid facility||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun to convert the Annasaheb Magar hospital in Hadapsar into a dedicated paediatric Covid facility.PMC health officials said that the existing medical facilities at the hospital such as OPDs, surgeries, and vaccination centres would be shifted to other locations, not finalised yet. The paediatric Covid facility will have 50 oxygenated beds. It will be the second dedicated paediatric Covid facility prepared by the civic body. Currently, Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerwada is ready with a 200-bed capacity. “We are all hoping that the third Covid wave will not happen, but we have to be prepared just in case the Covid infection spreads amongst the paediatric group. So these arrangements are made. I have just taken the charge and will soon visit both facilities at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital and the Magar hospital. I am told that the work is in progress,” Ravindra Binwade, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said. The Annasaheb Magar facility is a maternity hospital run by PMC. “The preliminary work to convert it into a paediatric Covid facility has started. We will have to shift the general medical facilities offered at the hospital such as OPDs, general OPDs, immunisation centre, somewhere else. We are in the process of this planning,” said Dr Ashish Bharati, chief medical officer, PMC. Dr Bharati also said that the civic body plans to have general Covid hospitals in each zone. “Currently COEP jumbo facility is closed. The number of patients are also few, so there is no inconvenience caused. Our new facility in Baner is also ready. In the second wave, more cases were observed from the Kharadi, Hadapsar area. So we planned that paediatric hospital in this part,” said Dr Bharati. PMC currently has prepared a 200-bed paediatric Covid facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Yerwada. However, no admissions have been recorded in this facility so far. There are 160 oxygenated beds in this facility and 40 are ICU beds. PMC has also closed its Covid care centres. Currently, only one CCC in Yerwada with 18 patients is functional. “If we want we can make these centres operational again. The CCC in Yerwada is functional because it is run in partnership with an NGO. The other 13 have been inoperative for over a month now,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy Commissioner, PMC.Currently, the COEP jumbo facility has been closed and the process of a structural audit of the infrastructure is underway. According to the PMC officials, the audit report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-convert-annasaheb-magar-hospital-in-hadapsar-into-dedicated-paediatric-covid-facility-101626799115135.html
20-07-2021||Other||Heavy rain raises hopes of bumper paddy yield||Chandigarh The heavy spell of rain over the past three days in Punjab has proved a boon for Kharif crops, particularly paddy. According to the state agriculture department, rain at this time save surface and subsoil water and also helps in better growth of paddy, which was sown or transplanted within the past 15 days to a month.Punjab agriculture director SS Sidhu the current spell of rain will lead to a bumper yield, as the crop is already set and the showers will act as a catalyst for growth. Paddy crop in most parts of the state is already 30-40 days old.The south-western corner of the state received low rainfall than the rest of Punjab, but that region does not need irrigation, being a cotton growing area. “On Tuesday, 70-100 mm rainfall was reported in most parts of the state. It is expected to taper down on Wednesday, when the focus would be on the north Punjab districts of Pathankot, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur,” said an official of the meteorological department. “Farmers in north Punjab prefer aromatic basmati over the coarse variety. Basmati grows best under rain, particularly when it is normal and there is no flooding. Wednesday’s rain over basmati crop, which is in the process of being transplanted will give us best results,” said an agriculture department officer. Paddy is being cultivated on over 30 lakh hectare, of which 5 lakh hectare is the aromatic variety. Rain also brings nitrogen for crops and it help in better growth and shoot development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-raises-hopes-of-bumper-paddy-yield-101626798696124.html
20-07-2021||Patna||ATS arrests two from Bihar||Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) Tuesday arrested two persons in an international telephone exchange scam from the Gardanibagh area in Patna. Police sources said that the action was taken based on an IB report, according to which the duo was using fake telephone exchange for anti-national activities, he added. Following a tip-off, the ATS raided the area and arrested two persons identified as Anil Chourisia and Sushil Chourisia. The ATS also recovered electronic devices and other objectionable items from their possession, a source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ats-arrests-two-from-bihar-101626798095139.html
20-07-2021||Other||Three minor boys drown in pond in E Champaran||Three minor boys drowned in a pond at a village under Harshidih police station limits in East Champaran on Tuesday, police said.Officials said the incident took place when one of the three boys fell into a pond while catching fish at Chanahariya village. When the other two rushed to his rescue, they also fell into the pond. A fourth boy accompanying them rushed back and informed the villagers. “But, by time the villagers launched rescue operation, all the three boys had drowned,” said Pramod Paswan, station house officer (SHO) Harshidih police station.The three boys were later rushed to the hospital, where they were declared brought dead. They were cousins, said police. “The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-minor-boys-drown-in-pond-in-e-champaran-101626798035597.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Two loot incidents reported in Patna in last 24 hours||Two loot incidents were reported at two separate places in Patna during last 24 hours till Tuesday evening, police said. However, no arrests have been made in connection with any of those incidents.The first loot incident occurred at a trader’s house in Punjab colony under Gardanibagh police station. Criminals looted ₹1.93 lakh, police said.When contacted for enquiring about the status of the case, Gardanibagh police SHO Arun Kumar did not respond to calls.The other theft occurred on Monday night when four armed criminals looted ₹15 lakh after opening fire at a trader at Mansoorganj mandi under Malsalami police station. The injured trader has been admitted to NMCH for treatment, police said.“As I was ready to go home, four criminals dashed my two-wheeler and looted a bag containing ₹15 lakh. When I resisted, they fired at me and escaped with the cash,” the injured trader said.Raids are on to arrest the criminals, DSP, Patna City, Amit Sharan said . “Police are scanning CCTV footage of the incident,” he said.Earlier, the four criminals looted ₹12 lakh from a courier company at Adhivasi colony under Alamganj police station on July 12. Police are yet to make any breakthrough in this regard so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-loot-incidents-reported-in-patna-in-last-24-hours-101626798035050.html
20-07-2021||Other||West Champaran hooch deaths: Two main accused held||Bettiah police on Tuesday arrested two key accused in West Champaran’s hooch incident, in which 16 people died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor last week, police said. Bettiah superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma said those arrested were the key accused in the case registered with Lauriya police station on July 17. “Raids are on to arrest other accused. We have got some important clues,” said SP Verma. The arrested persons have been identified as Ajay Choudhary, 30, and Amresh Ram, 27, both residents of Deurawa village under Lauriya police station of West Champaran district. At least 16 people died in separate villages at Lauriya and Ramnagar blocks of West Champaran between July 9 and 15 following consumption of spurious liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-champaran-hooch-deaths-two-main-accused-held-101626797975715.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Raids reveal tax evasion worth ₹48.45 crore||The commercial taxes department on Tuesday raided 35 firms dealing in areca nut (betel nut), iron and steel, edible oil and coal across Bihar and detected tax evasion worth ₹48.45 crore by way of claiming input tax credit (ITC) through fake invoices, according to a press release issued by the department. Out of the 35 firms, 25 were bogus entities working only on paper with the sole aim of claiming ITC through fake invoices and e-way bills officials said, adding that these firms together had done business transactions worth ₹574 crore in last few years, officials said.“The biggest revelation has been about three bogus firms engaged in the trade of areca nutbut used for generating e-way bills and illegal bill trading,” said a senior tax officer engaged in the raids. Dr Pratima, commissioner cum secretary, commercial taxes department, said eight firms were detected in today’s raids which failed to show proper book of records and were engaged in wrongly claiming ITC. “We are working on revenue leakage and all those involved in illegal trade would facie action,” she saidAfter the implementation of goods and services tax (GST), the commercial tax department has detected a trend of tax evasion by non-existent business firms which apparently act as fronts for clandestine ferrying of goods and claiming ITC.“In recent weeks, we have unearthed a large number of fake firms and are tracking their actual owners through mobile calls and tax receipts. All the operators of the fake firms would be facing heavy penalty and punitive action,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-raids-reveal-tax-evasion-worth-48-45-crore-101626797975071.html
20-07-2021||Other||Five youths killed in road accident in Kaimur||Five youths were killed when their speeding car dashed against wall of a bridge and fell into a water ditch on National Highway-2 under Durgavati police station of Kaimur district in the wee hours of Tuesday, police said.The deceased, all in the 25-40 age group, were friends belonging to Kaimur district and were returning home after a vacation, police said.On getting information, a police team reached the spot and got the car pulled out of the water ditch. Police broke open the locked car gates and found all the youths to be dead, officials said.Police informed the families of the deceased, and sent the bodies to Bhabua district hospital for postmortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-youths-killed-in-road-accident-in-kaimur-101626797915798.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Buzz of Tejashwi’s elevation, Jagdanand’s exit in RJD shake-up||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son and his heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, 31, is likely to be made the acting national president of the party, according to party leaders familiar with the development.Tejashwi, who is the leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly, is currently in New Delhi, along with RJD’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh to meet the ailing party chief, who has been recuperating at his daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti’s residence ever since he was granted bail in fodder scam cases in April this year and subsequently discharged from AIIMS Delhi, where he was being treated for various ailments. Singh is said to be a trusted aide of Lalu Prasad. On November 22, 2017, a month before RJD chief Lalu Prasad was incarcerated in fodder scam cases, it was Singh who had proposed Tejashwi Yadav’s name as the party’s chief ministerial candidate.For the record, Singh maintained he was in Delhi just to enquire about Lalu Prasad’s health and other party matters. “I do not know from where these reports of Tejashwi becoming acting national president are coming from. But if something happens, you all will all know,” he said on phone on Tuesday.Party’s top leaders said elevating Tejashwi Yadav as acting national president would not be difficult as such powers are vested with the RJD’s national president, as per the party’s constitution. “Though there is no such post as acting national president in the party’s constitution, the RJD national president can do it by exercising his powers. But any such decision would have to be approved by the national executive,” said RJD leader and former MLA Bhola Yadav. He, however, said he did not have any knowledge about any such move. Speculation is also rife that Singh, who has been holding the post since November 2019, is likely to step down as state unit president.Lalu Yadav’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, while speaking on RJD’s 25th foundation day, had taken a swipe at “Jagdanand uncle”, saying he also seemed angry with him. Meanwhile, BJP’s state spokesperson Nikhil Anand on Tuesday said Tejashwi becoming the acting national president of RJD was on predictable lines, given the party believed in “family rule”. “RJD is a party run by a single family. But Tejashwi’s elevation will be injustice to his elder siblings, Misa Bharti and Tej Pratap, who had a rightful claim on the RJD’s chief legacy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/buzz-of-tejashwi-s-elevation-jagdanand-s-exit-in-rjdshakeup-101626797915119.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Bihar bans kanwar yatra, J’khand to seal Deoghar border||Bihar State Religious Trust Board (BSRTB) on Tuesday decided to disallow kanwariyas (Lord Shiva devotees) from offering prayers at Shiva shrines across the state in the months of Shrawan (July and August) due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. BRTB Chairman Akhilesh Kumar Jain said the board has decided not to allow kanwariyas to collect water in groups from rivers and to offer prayers at Shiva temples across the state, which they do on each Monday of the holy month of Shrawan. He said the government took the decision, for the second consecutive year, in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19. The move is aimed to prevent public gatherings at Garib Nath Dham, Hariharnath, Bihteshwar Nath, Baikunth Nath and Kusheshwarsthan. Jain also requested people to refrain from participating in kanwar yatra this year. Though the state government has allowed various activities in a phased manner under the unlock plan, all the religious sites and places of worship, including temples, remain shut in the state and devotees are not allowed to visit till August 6. The month of Shrawan will start from July 25 this year. The Shrawani Mela is organised every year in July and continues for a month. More than one crore pilgrims from across the country, besides neighbouring Nepal, fetch water from Ganga at Sultanganj in Bhagalpur and then walk for over 100 km to Jyotirlinga (a devotional representation of the Hindu god Shiva) at Deoghar in Jharkhand via Banka and Munger districts. They mostly travel on foot in groups. Meanwhile, the Deoghar police officers held a meeting with their counterparts from Jamui and Banka districts of Bihar and decided to seal the borders of Bihar and Jharkhand for devotees. The Jharkhand Police have urged the Bihar Police to stop kanwariyas in their respective jurisdiction from crossing the border. “Dumma, the entrance gate of Jharkhand, will be sealed and police will be deployed to stop kanwariyas coming through Bihar,” said Deoghar deputy superintendent of police Mangal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bans-kanwar-yatra-j-khand-to-seal-deoghar-border-101626797855057.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Bihar may miss 5-cr plantation target||The Covid-19 pandemic and floods are likely to affect Bihar’s afforestation drive with the state having set an ambitious target to plant 5 crore saplings this year. The pre-monsoon plantation mobilisation work has been hit after seven forest officials, including a district forest officer (DFO) and two range officers, died of coronavirus disease, while several other officials were infected by the virus, said Dipak Kumar Singh, Bihar’s principal secretary, department of environment, forest and climate change. Most deaths in the department occurred between April and June, the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in the state. The three months accounted for 7,869 of the total 9,630 Covid-19 deaths in Bihar. There was a single-day increase of 3,971 deaths on June 8 when the state government completed a review of fatalities at private and government hospitals, under home isolation and those succumbing to post-Covid complications. The peak of the second pandemic, leading to lockdown that began in May, forced the department to put on hold several outreach initiatives and IEC (information, education and counselling) activities, including “Kisan chaupal” (farmers’ open-air meeting) to sensitise them about agro-forestry and other plantation programmes. When the Covid-19 situation began to ease this month, the floods in north Bihar did not help the cause of the forest department either. Flooding has affected the state since late June after heavy rainfall in river catchments in neighbouring Nepal. As of July 12, the National Emergency Response Centre reported over 1 million people having been affected by floods in 10 of Bihar’s 38 districts. Rivers, including the Bagmati, Kosi, Gandak and Burhi Gandak, were above the danger mark at 14 locations as of July 14. “In some flood-hit districts of north Bihar, we have to wait for floodwaters to recede before we can begin our plantation,” said Singh. The department still hopes to catch up by intensifying the drive in areas not affected by floods between July and September, considered to be the best season when major plantation work for the year is done, and then tapping the February-March spring season for Poplar plantation in north Bihar. “Despite the setback to the department’s plantation initiative due to Covid-19 and floods, our activities through our stakeholders are underway. We involve Jeevika didis (women self-help group), NGOs, PSUs, central paramilitary force, railways and other government departments in our plantation activities. We are distributing plants and doing plantations through them and hope to catch up on our deficit,” said Singh. “As on this day, we have done 1.53 crore plantations since June 5 and hope to intensify the drive further in the next two months,” he said. Buoyed by the achievement last year, the state has set an ambitious annual target to plant 5 crore saplings till May next year in its endeavour to increase its green cover. Last year, the state achieved 3.97 crore plantations, surpassing its target of 2.51 crore. According to the India State of Forest Report, 2019, Bihar has 7.76% forest cover, which includes land having trees in more than one hectare area with tree canopy density of 10%. It increased by a nominal 0.10% in 2019 as compared to 2017. Bihar, with a geographical area of 94,163 sq km, is estimated to have 2.13% (2,003 sq km) tree cover, which is tree patches of less than 1 hectare occurring outside the forest area, and also includes scattered trees. However, quoting data from the Forest Survey of India, another officer associated with the Hariyali Mission, said: “We have 14.5% green cover (total forest cover and trees outside forest area) as per an assessment of 2019. We hope to increase it to 17% in two years.”Red flags in green wayPandemic and lockdownPre-monsoon plantation work hit after seven forest officials, including a district forest officer and two range officers, died of coronavirus disease. Several other officials were infected by virus. Lockdown also prevented farmers’ meetings to sensitise them about agro-forestry. Flooding in 10 districtsAs of July 12, National Emergency Response Centre reported over 1 million people having been affected by floods in 10 of Bihar’s 38 districts. Rivers, including the Bagmati, Kosi, Gandak and Burhi Gandak, were above the danger mark at 14 locations as of July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-may-miss-5-cr-plantation-target-101626797795177.html
20-07-2021||Other||Woman assaulted for lodging complaint against social boycott||PUNE: Six people were booked by the Pune police on Monday for assaulting a woman after her family lodged a social boycott complaint against one of the assailants. According to the police, the complainant, Rita Vikas Kumbhar, 34, a resident of Dhankawadi, as well as the accused belong to the Kanjarbhat community. Assistant police inspector Tanaji Bhogam of the Sahakar Nagar police station, said, “A few weeks ago, Rita Vikas Kumbhar’s family had registered a complaint and case under the Social Boycott Prevention Act against a ‘jaat panchayat’ at the Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. The case has now been transferred to Saswad. One of the accused was upset about being named.” According to Rita Vikas Kumbhar, the same accused was visiting her mother’s place, also in Dhankawadi, when one of the co-accused approached her and started arguing about naming her in the social boycott case. According to Rita Vikas Kumbhar, the argument turned violent and the accused charged at her, raining kicks and blows on her. Another co-accused tried to hit Kumbhar’s husband with a wooden stick while also threatening her mother and sister. A case under sections for rioting, 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 37(1) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at the Sahakar Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-assaulted-for-lodging-complaint-against-social-boycott-101626797675100.html
20-07-2021||Other||JICA approves terms and conditions of tenders for Mula-Mutha restoration project||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) can finally complete its tendering process for the Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project, as the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), has approved the terms and conditions.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “JICA has accepted all the terms and conditions in the tendering process and even cleared all the hurdles. As JICA sent the approval letter on Tuesday, it will help to start the much-delayed project.”PMC is executing the Rs980 crore river rejuvenation project with the help of JICA. The project aims to improve the state of the Mula-Mutha river.The then environment minister Jairam Ramesh visited Pune city and expressed unhappiness over the status of Mutha river and called it a gutter’. Then he instructed the PMC to submit the proposal and the central government would fund it under the river development project.Later, JICA approved the funds and gave a soft loan to the central government. The process of JICA’s loan was completed when the BJP government came into power in 2012. Then union environment minister Prakash Javadekar signed the agreement with JICA.As the tenders were inflated, the PMC scrapped the tendering process. Union transport Minister Nitin Gadkari held a meeting in Delhi a few months ago. Later BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis also asked PMC office bearers to speed up the tendering process.The mayor said, “As the PMC got the approval from JICA, now we will speed up the process and hope to kick start the work on ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jica-approves-terms-and-conditions-of-tenders-for-mula-mutha-restoration-project-101626797315011.html
20-07-2021||Other||‘Pune Animals’ display a humane touch to keep canines fed in Sahakar nagar||PUNE The pandemic has not only prompted people to come forward and serve food to those unable to make ends’ meet; it has also brought together a bunch of like-minded youngsters to start a kitchen for the street dogs in and around Sahakar nagar.Volunteer Aniket Satav who has been feeding street dogs for the past two years said, “It all began during the second lockdown when my friends joined the initiative and we formed the group ‘Pune Animals’. During the lockdown and even now, the condition of these canines has worsened as there are less people out on the streets and these dogs don’t get food easily.” Volunteers of ‘Pune Animals’ ensure that street dogs in and around Sahakar nagar are fed chicken and rice every night. Not only do the volunteers take care of the animals’ food, they also regularly sterilise and vaccinate them. According to Satav, the group also helps keep the canine population in check. With increasing awareness, many people are coming forward to support the cause, he said. “It is a self-funded group where people donate on their own. Everyone is devoted to the cause and participates happily,” he added. Aishwarya Abhyankar who has been feeding street dogs for the last 20 years said, “The group is doing a really good job. Even during the monsoon, they are visiting different areas and feeding the dogs there. Anyone can join the group and feed street canines. They only need to love animals.”However, new members are hand-held by senior volunteers for a few days before they are able to do the job on their own. The good news is 90% of the people have been supportive of the group and its activities.“Volunteers might face objections in some areas. However, no one can stop volunteers from feeding the dogs. Of course, there are people who hate animals in several housing societies,” said Abhyankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-animals-display-a-humane-touch-to-keep-canines-fed-in-sahakar-nagar-101626795634914.html
20-07-2021||Other||PMC sanctions ₹2crore for murals of Shivaji, Jijabai at Shivneri fort||PUNE After Singhgad and Purandar forts, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now approved ₹2 crore for murals of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Rajmata Jijabai at the Shivneri fort.As these forts are in Pune district, the corporation has taken special permission for the infrastructure development.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “A large number of Pune citizens used to visit the forts in the district and state. As there are not enough facilities, visitors are getting restless. PMC decided to help develop these forts.”In 2017, PMC approved the funds for erecting a memorial to Maratha sardar Tanaji Malsure at Singhgad, which has been completed. Recently PMC approved funds to develop Purandar fort, the birth place of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. On Monday the funds to erecting a memorial to Jijabai and Shivaji at Shivneri were cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-sanctions-2crore-for-murals-of-shivaji-jijabai-at-shivneri-fort-101626794795528.html
20-07-2021||Pune||Fee dues leave SPPU students worried over second semester exam registration||Pune: Even as the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) examination for second semester began from July 12, many students are struggling to get their exam registration process completed for non-payment of college fees. The students have cited financial crisis due to the Covid situation for their inability to pay college fee dues and the latter not forwarding their exam registration forms. “I am in the last year for management course and need to appear for the final second semester examination. As I have not paid full fees, my exam form is not inwarded to the university. The college authorities have told me to clear the fee dues. My entire career is at stake,” said Neeraj Vanshi. A total of around 660,000 students are going to appear for around 4,200 subjects for various courses under SPPU for the second semester examination. The results are been declared within 48 hours after the student has appeared for the exam. Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation, said, “The college authorities have no regard for students’ career. They should give some concession and time period to pay the remaining fees.” “All the students are requested to complete their registration process and pay the necessary exam fees. We aim to declare results from August 15 at least for the final year students on priority,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. SPPU to conduct Phd entrance exam on August 22 Pune: The entrance examination for Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) will be held on August 22. Students can apply on the varsity’s website till July 31. As per the notification issued by SPPU, the exam will be conducted in online proctored mode. The standard passing criteria for the examination is 50 per cent marks for the general category and 45 per cent for the reserved category. The two-hour, 100-mark exam will be conducted in multiple-choice question format with 50 marks for research methodology and remaining for specific subjects. Qualified candidates will later appear for personal interview round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fee-dues-leave-sppu-students-worried-over-second-semester-exam-registration-101626794794854.html
20-07-2021||Other||Climate change impacting jamun varieties in Sahyadris||PUNE A report compiled by Baswant Vithabai Babarao from the Centre for Environment and Education (CEE) brings to the fore the adverse impact of changing rain patterns and destruction of forests on varieties of the fruit Myrtaceae or Java Plum, commonly known as jamun.Around 250 schools in the Sahyadris were surveyed over a period of time as part of the Western Ghats Eco Clubs scheme; supported by the environment department, government of Maharashtra, and implemented by the CEE.“The idea was an educational activity for schools and the community to understand the Western Ghats which are a global hotspot of biodiversity. This is the first time that such a survey was conducted by the CEE and schools to understand the rich biodiversity,” said Mr Babarao, who along with five of his colleagues, visited 50 schools and communities and discovered 21 varieties of jamun in the Sahyadris.The varieties of jamun found by the survey include: Garpi, Mutki, Redy, Khati, Bahadoli, Kuutri, Kirkas, Lendi, khadkii, drakshi, and Kala Jambhul; all of which are sweet and tangy and typically ripen towards the end of the summer season.However, “Climate change in terms of less rainfall poses the risk of losing this kind of biodiversity which may not have been documented but this report should help scientists, the community and the government to conserve this natural resource which is used as natural medicine to control diabetes,” Mr Babarao lamented.The report has been put together ahead of the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26) of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC), scheduled to be held between November 1 and 12, 2021, at Glasgow, UK. The COP 26 is working on forward action for the protection and restoration of forests and critical ecosystems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/climate-change-impacting-jamun-varieties-in-sahyadris-101626793234777.html
20-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,032 fresh Covid positive cases, four deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,032 fresh Covid positive cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. Three deaths were reported from Pune rural and one from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. No death was reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 500,917 Covid cases and 8,832 deaths till Tuesday. PCMC has reported 255,398 cases so far and a total of 3,292 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 321,225 total cases so far and 6,165 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,077,540 Covid cases. Of this, 1,043,944 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 18,554 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 15,042 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 7,510 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,000,911 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.33%. Across Maharashtra, 6,910 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 147 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.09%. The state health department stated that of 45,846,165 laboratory samples, 6,229,596 have been tested positive till Tuesday. That is 13.59% of patients till Tuesday. Currently, 560,354 people are in home quarantine and 3,977 in institutional quarantine. Tracking the virus Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,077,540 Recovered patients: 1.043,944 Deaths: 18,554 Active cases: 15,042 New cases: 1,032 New deaths: 4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-032-fresh-covid-positive-cases-four-deaths-101626792874830.html
20-07-2021||Other||Four steal bank accounts on pretext of paying bills, in custody||PUNE: Four men were arrested for stealing the bank data of a set of customers in order to pay the electricity bills of another set of people from whom they had already collected cash for the purpose. According to the police, the operation left people, whose data was thus compromised, with gaping holes in their bank accounts. Assistant public prosecutor Maithili Kalvit of Shivajinagar court said that the four men have been remanded to police custody till July 26. Meanwhile, the police know of at least four people who collectively lost ₹514,841 to the men suspected to be part of a larger nexus.One such complainant, Jyoti Shinde, 53, who is a resident of the Law college road area, lost ₹514,841 to the accused. Three other people have suffered similar consequences after the accused allegedly made them download mirroring applications which provided remote access to the accused.The police have identified the arrested accused as Virbhadrasingh Dharmendrasingh Jhala, 29, a resident of Bhavnagar in Gujarat; Mehul Zaverbhai Kakdia, 28, a resident of Surat in Gujarat; Yash Bharatbhai Bhuptani, 24, a resident of Amreli in Gujarat; and Jitendra Teklal Mandal, 35, a resident of Giridih in Jharkhand.The modus operandi of the arrested accused was to take cash from one set of people under the pretext of paying their electricity bills while stealing money from the bank accounts of another set of people, according to the police submission in court.Police inspector Kumar Ghadge of the cyber police station who is investigating the case said, “The electricity distributor in Gujarat is a private entity. They paid the electricity bills of local businessmen in advance and showed the receipts to them and took the same amount of cash from them. This way, the businessmen got the benefit of advance payment, the accused got untraceable hard cash, and the people whose bank account details had been compromised, were left in a lurch.”A case under sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, along with sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at the cyber police station. The police is on the lookout for any previous cases registered against the arrested accused and the kingpin of the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-steal-bank-accounts-on-pretext-of-paying-bills-in-custody-101626792814711.html
20-07-2021||Other||24-year-old electrocuted after touching ‘live’ wire at public toilet in Aundh||PUNE A 24-year-old man has been electrocuted after his hand touched a ‘live’ wire at a public toilet at Bremen chowk in Aundh.The deceased has been identified as Fayaz Javed Maniyar (24), a resident of Gokhalenagar.Maniyar had gone to the public toilet at Bremen chowk. However, instead of going inside, Maniyar went behind the structure. His hand allegedly touched a stray ‘live’ wire and he was killed.“He was found dead by passers-by. The incident happened last night (Monday), but the body was found later,” said an official of the Chaturshrungi police station.The incident has been recorded at Chaturshrungi police station as an accidental death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24yearold-electrocuted-after-touching-live-wire-at-public-toilet-in-aundh-101626792694726.html
20-07-2021||Other||No Covishield vaccines available on July 21 due to lack of stock||PUNE No Covishield vaccines will be available on July 21, due to a lack of stock, said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials on Tuesday. This will be the second day of no Covishield vaccination in the city. Vaishali Jadhav, assistant chief of the health department at the PMC said that there will be six vaccination sites active in the city on July 21.“All six sites will be administering Covaxin. At every site 300 beneficiaries will be administered Covaxin. These sites will inoculate 20 per cent beneficiaries who are above the age of 18 years for the first dose. Beneficiaries will have to book a slot online,” said Jadhav.In an official notification, PMC officials said that 20 per cent beneficiaries can do on-spot booking.“Beneficiaries who are above the age of 18 years can book slots for second dose. For on-spot booking preference will be giving to specially abled beneficiaries and pregnant women,” said Jadhav.A total of 1,800 beneficiaries will be inoculated on July 21.On Tuesday, the same six sites were administering Covaxin to beneficiaries.On Monday, Pune district just reported a total of 27,181 inoculations. However, on Sunday, Pune district reported a total of 89,565 beneficiaries received the inoculation.On Monday, 22,919 beneficiaries received Covishield, whereas 3,627 received Covaxin doses. And 635 beneficiaries received Sputnik V on Monday.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said that on July 21, Pune district is likely to receive over 0.1 million doses of Covishield.“The exact amount is not known as of now, but the vaccine will be supplied on July 21. For Covaxin, we have 10,000 doses with us. Along with Covishield, Covaxin will also be supplied, but the number of Covaxin doses will be 15,000,” said Dr Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covishield-vaccines-available-on-july-21-due-to-lack-of-stock-101626792394736.html
20-07-2021||Other||IIT Ropar designs device to enhance life of O2 cylinders||Rupnagar With availability of medical oxygen emerging as a major handicap for the country in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Rupnagar, have developed an Oxygen Rationing Device. Named AMLEX, the device will increase the life of an average cylinder by almost three times. It supplies the required volume of oxygen to the patient during inhalation and trips when the patient exhales CO2, thereby saving on oxygen. “AMLEX is a system developed specifically for oxygen cylinders. It synchronises the flow of Oxygen with inhalation and exhalation, said Ashish Sahani, assistant professor, department of biomedical engineering, IIT Ropar.Director of the institute Rajeev Ahuja, added that the device was easy to use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-ropar-designs-device-to-enhance-life-of-o2-cylinders-101626791794739.html
20-07-2021||Other||Swargate to Katraj underground metro awaiting PMC GB’s nod||PUNE The general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) yet not approved the proposal of the Swargate to Katraj underground metro yet.The standing committee of the PMC approved the proposal, but it is yet to get the nod from the general body. The next general body meeting is due in August.Traffic planner and project in charge Shrinivas Bonala said, “After getting the approval from PMC, it will be submitted to the state government and central government for final approval.”As the central government had refused to take the burden of 20 per cent of the cost, ready to only take 10 per cent of the project cost, it is an added burden on the PMC and state government. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena have raised objections over the central’s contribution.An office-bearer from Maha-Metro said, “It is a pan-India policy that for extended routes central government is bearing 10 per cent of the cost. If the phase two projects went altogether, 20 per cent share is possible, but it is a time-consuming process.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol declined a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/swargate-to-katraj-underground-metro-awaiting-pmc-gb-s-nod-101626791674685.html
20-07-2021||Other||BSP protests opposite state AAP chief’s house over statement on Constitution||Sangrur Hundreds of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) workers protested opposite the residence of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab unit chief, Bhagwant Mann, in Dreamland Colony on Tuesday. They had gathered there to oppose the alleged remark of AAP leader Anmol Gagan Maan on the Indian Constitution. Rain was no deterrent, as protesters also marched on bicycles and motorcycles in the city. Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Balbir Singh Ghunas and former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gobind Singh Longowal also joined the protest, and criticised the AAP leadership. Punjab BSP chief Jasvir Singh Garhi said the singer-turned-politician, AAP leader Anmol Gagan Maan, had given a statement against the Constitution. “AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann has not acted against Gagan Maan for her remark against the Constitution,” Garhi added.He added, “The AAP leader even claimed that the father of the Constitution, BR Ambedkar, was wrong. The BSP will oppose the Congress, AAP and BJP, as all of them are anti-Dalit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-protests-opposite-state-aap-chief-s-house-over-statement-on-constitution-101626791255367.html
20-07-2021||Other||Potholes at Pune railway station major hindrance for passengers||PUNE Massive craters greet railway commuters as they alight from the stairs of platform number 6 at the Pune raily station. These big potholes which are spread over three-fourth he span of the roads and have been neglected for a week with rains beginning in the city.According to commuters, it is difficult to cross the road with the potholes. “While climbing down from the stairs in a hurry from the overbridge, you inadvertently step into the crater and end up with water in your shoes, which is very annoying. The potholes on the DRM side building are bigger and wider. The scene outside the main entrance, from platform number one, is also not very good and one has to watch where to step without getting the feet in the muddy water,” said Pramod Ubale, president, Daund Pune Railway Pravasi group.Kishore Pandit, another commuter, found it difficult to navigate with his suitcases, trying to avoid the dirty water, as he made it to the car park outside platform number six.Manoj Jhawar, PRO, Central Railway, said, “We had an inspection recently of these potholes and they do pose a problem, but we have written to Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC), who are in charge of maintenance and upkeep of the premises around the station and the station itself. It will be done at the earliest.”According to another official who wished to remain anonymous said, “The maintenance work is delayed because of the corona pandemic and it has only been 15 days since the trains have begun their routes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/potholes-at-pune-railway-station-major-hindrance-for-passengers-101626790894691.html
20-07-2021||Other||No BJP representation on PMRDA planing committee irks party leaders||PUNE The Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) has kept the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) away from the planning committee of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). Instead of appointing any elected BJP member, MVA appointed MP Sanjay Raut and former minister Tanaji Sawant, who are not from Pune, to the committee.Pune MP Girish Bapat, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, PCMC Mayor and other BJP MLAs are not on the committee and the BJP alleged the MVA is playing politics.BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is doing party politics. MP Sanjay Raut and Sena leader Tanaji Sawant do not have any relation with Pune. CM appointed them on the PMRDA planning committee.”An official BJP statement said, “BJP is ruling in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporations. Ideally, the mayors or standing committee chairmen should be nominated members. The ruling party avoided MP Girish Bapat and other BJP MLAs on it.”The planning committee consists of 30 members. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not possible to hold elections. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is the PMRDA committee president.The Maharashtra government appointed MP Supriya Sule, MP Sanjay Raut, MP Shrirang Barne, MLA Tanaji Sawant, Sangram Thopate, Sunil Shelke and Sanjay Jagtap. Rest of the committee members all are government officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-bjp-representation-on-pmrda-planing-committee-irks-party-leaders-101626790534643.html
20-07-2021||Other||Maoists kill former member in Bastar’s Bijapur||Maoists have killed a former member with sharp-edged weapons. The deceased, after quitting the outlawed outfit, was living in his village in Bijapur district of Bastar range, police said on Tuesday.According to the police, Raju Venjam (28) was picked up by the Maoists from his field on Monday and was later killed. His body was found on Tuesday at a road near his village.“The deceased had not officially surrendered but after being associated with the banned CPI (Maoist) for a long time as a dalam member, he returned to his village a few years back and started farming. The pamphlet was also recovered from the spot in which the Gangaloor Area Committee of CPI (Maoist) took the responsibility of the killing,” said Kamalochan Kashyap, Superintendent of Police, Bijapur. Maoists have killed three persons so far in separate incidents in Bijapur this month.In October last year, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) claimed responsibility for killing 25 people, including some of its cadres, in separate incidents in the insurgency-hit Bijapur district for allegedly acting as police informers.Maoists, however, did not disclose when those killings took place but according to the police, all those murders occurred during August, September and October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-kill-former-member-in-bastar-s-bijapur-101626789756260.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Burning the midnight oil to scaring daylights out||Some days ago, I received a photograph of our first-year tutorial group in the medical college on the college WhatsApp group. That initiated a series of exchanges of anecdotes of college life. Forty years after passing out, everyone had something to share about our years together and the life after. This made me recall an amusing incident. Medical studies are tough. Joining a medical college after 10+2 is a totally different ball game. Back-to-back lectures, practicals, dissection hall and labs, all make a heady mixture. The course is vast and subjects varied. There are tutorials, group discussions, assignments and weekly and monthly assessments with batch-mates from different parts of the country. Also read: NTA NEET 2021: New exam pattern explainedAnd if you are a hosteller, as most students are, you find it strange how people survive on mess food. As you settle down after the initial excitement of taking the first step towards becoming an exalted doctor, it dawns upon you that life is not easy. But then the newfound freedom overtakes everything else. No restrictions for staying out late or eating junk food or motorbike rides. You are your own boss. You do what you want and for a while you feel you are on top of the world. This goes on for a few months till you look at the exam calendar. I fondly remember my days in the medical college. The first semester exams sent us scurrying to our seniors, asking for tips, notes and tricks to face the viva voce where you can be questioned on anything vaguely connected to your textbooks in one-on-one interactions where you can be ridiculed or made to question your decision to opt for medicine as a career. The seniors scared us with data that so many students were unable to clear exams the previous year, and that could happen repeatedly to some. But then they shared their notes and prepared you for the “encounters”. Over a period of time, you learn the ropes and gather a group of friends with whom you have nocturnal study sessions. There are some who you consider your rivals or competitors. I remember after a few hours of studying, I would go for a stroll in hostel corridors to stretch my legs. I would look at windows of my batch-mates to see whose light was still on, imagining who all were studying. Trying to outdo them, I would keep studying till most of the lights got switched off. In the final year, a studious fellow shifted to our block. His room always had the lights on even after my late-night sorties. That would egg me on further till I would finally call it a day out of exhaustion. This went on till the last exam. Soon, the results were declared and I had beaten that batch-mate by quite a distance. While celebrating our passing out, I picked up courage to ask him what pulled him down despite burning the midnight oil endlessly. He looked surprised and said since joining the medical college he had always slept with the room lights on because he was afraid of the dark! Dr_kochhar@hotmail.com The writer is professor of gastroenterology at PGIMER, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burning-the-midnight-oil-to-scaring-daylights-out-101626786275038.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Home vaccination will start in Mumbai from August 1: State to HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay high court that it will be starting a home vaccination drive against Covid-19 in Mumbai from August 1. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari which sought directions from the Centre, state and BMC to start door-to-door vaccination facility for persons over 75 years of age, those specially-abled and the bed-ridden.Appearing for the state, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and advocate Akshay Shinde submitted that a draft policy for home vaccination of needy persons was ready. Kumbhakoni submitted that as on July 19, the state had identified 17,288 bedridden and immobile persons who requested for jabs at their residence. Also Read | CET syllabus unfair to students not from Maharashtra board, say ICSE schoolsKumbhakoni then submitted that as on July 19, the BMC had identified around 3,505 patients who sought home vaccination so it was decided to start the drive in Mumbai from August 1 rather than in Pune which was proposed by the state earlier. Pune had only 50 people seeking home vaccination till July 19, he said. Kumbhakoni then assured the bench that the draft policy would be finalised without major modifications and a status report of home vaccinated persons would be placed before the court in the next hearing. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC confirmed the willingness of the civic authority to conduct free home vaccination from August 1. Sakhare added that a policy was required for private hospitals so that they can also provide facilities of home vaccination. After hearing submissions, the bench said, “The Centre did not rise to the occasion. However, we record our satisfaction that the state has risen to the occasion and today, we find some light at the end of the tunnel.” The bench then sought a status report from the authorities and posted hearing of the PIL to August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/home-vaccination-will-start-in-mumbai-from-august-1-state-to-hc-101626784114938.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Schools reopen for Class 10-12 students in Punjab on July 26||Schools will reopen for students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 in Punjab from July 26, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said while announcing further Covid relaxations, including the increase in the number of people in indoor gatherings to 150 and outdoor to 300, subject to a limit of 50% of the capacity. Taking note of the decline in Covid positivity to 0.3%, with reproduction number (Rt) at 0.75 for Punjab (lower than the national average), the chief minister said schools will be allowed to open for Classes 10 to 12, but only those teachers and staff shall be allowed to be present who are fully vaccinated. Also read: Sidhu returns to hero’s welcome with road show in Amritsar“Physical presence of the students shall be purely on the consent of the parents and virtual classes shall continue. An undertaking to this effect shall be submitted to the deputy commissioners,” Capt Amarinder Singh said. If the situation remains under control, the remaining classes shall be allowed to open from August 2, the chief minister announced, pointing out that the Cambridge University has predicted that cases shall further decline in the coming weeks. On social gatherings, the CM said artistes and musicians shall be allowed at such functions/celebrations in all areas, with adherence to the Covid protocol. The relaxations came days after the chief minister ordered the opening of bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, coaching centres, sports complexes, gyms, malls, museums and zoos at 50% capacity with vaccine compliance. Colleges, coaching centres and institutions of higher learning were allowed to open with similar compliance earlier. During a virtual review meeting of the Covid situation, Capt Amarinder Singh said that the month-wise whole genome sequencing has shown that more than 90% is a variant of concern i.e. the original virus has been practically replaced by variants, and the Delta variant remained predominant even in June. However, there were no new cases of the Delta Plus variant, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schools-reopen-for-class-10-12-students-in-punjab-on-july-26-101626783934863.html
20-07-2021||Other||Two sentenced to 20-year rigorous imprisonment for raping minor in Odisha||A special court in Odisha’s Nayagarh has sentenced two men to 20-year rigorous imprisonment after convicting them of raping a 14-year-old girl in 2017. The two, who were juveniles at the time of the sexual assault but were tried as adults, will also serve two-year concurrent imprisonment and be liable to ₹2,000 penalties each for filming the assault and circulating its video.Itishree Mohapatra, special judge, Nayagarh’s Children’s Court, also slapped ₹50,000 fine on each of them and the money will be paid to the girl as compensation. If the two fail to pay the penalty, they would have to undergo another two years of imprisonment.Additional public prosecutor Amiya Patnaik said the girl was at a bank in Nayagarh to inquire about monetary assistance under Chief Minister Bicycle Scheme in April 2017 when the convicts persuaded her to go to a nearby temple. “Though the girl was reluctant, she agreed to accompany them,” Patnaik said. Patnaik added the girl was taken to an isolated place on a hill where she was raped.Also Read | Bride, groom flee own wedding as Odisha cops raid venue for Covid rule violationThe accused were charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. In 2018, a third accomplice of the two was sent to a correctional home for three years. The two convicts were tried as adults under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. As per the Act, anyone above 16, who commits any heinous offence with a minimum punishment of seven years, can be tried as an adult.A psychologist also conducted tests on the two accused and found them to be psychologically adults and capable of committing crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-sentenced-to-20-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-in-odisha-101626782854713.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu returns to hero’s welcome with road show in Amritsar||Two days after being appointed the Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu returned to a hero’s welcome with the party rank and file lining up with garlands, banners, flags and bouquets at Golden Gate, the main entrance to Amritsar from National Highway 1, on a rainy Tuesday afternoon. Amritsar has sent Sidhu to Parliament thrice and he is the Amritsar East MLA at present. Also read: Will give back power to people of Punjab: Navjot Singh SidhuSidhu’s supporters were eagerly awaiting his arrival since 1pm despite the rain till he finally reached at 3pm. The crowd surrounded him, raising slogans and performing bhangra to the beat of the dhol to celebrate his appointment. A long traffic jam was seen on the highway as people stopped to catch a glimpse of the leader who acknowledged the blessings and wishes with folded hands. He was honoured with siropas (robes of honour), momentos and garlands en route his residence in Amritsar. Before he reached Amritsar, the former Punjab minister was accorded a warm welcome by Jandiala Guru MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny, who is among the four working presidents of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). He was accompanied by Amritsar South MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria when he left from Patiala, but on reaching the city, no local MLA turned up to welcome him. Sidhu’s convoy resembled a road show as he headed for his residence. Though his main residence is in Amritsar, Sidhu was seen in the city after several months as he shifted based to Patiala, his home town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-returns-to-hero-s-welcome-with-road-show-in-amritsar-101626782435489.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 44 new cases of Covid-19, outnumber recoveries as testing goes up||Delhi reported 44 new cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Tuesday, marking an increase from the lowest single day rise of 36 new cases the national capital had recorded just a day before, according to state government's health bulletin. At 37, the number of recoveries were outnumbered by the daily rise in cases. A total of 1,410,005 people have either recovered, discharged, or migrated out of the city so far.The national capital also recorded five new fatalities, registering a slight increase from the 3 fatalities reported just a day before. The death toll now stands at 25,035.The health bulletin stated that a total of 63,019 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Monday, bringing the positivity rate to 0.07%. The national capital had conducted 59,410 tests on Monday and reported a positivity rate of 0.06%. The number of active cases in Delhi now stands at 569.Also Read: Sarojini Nagar Market in Delhi remains closed to protest SDM orderThe South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has started making preparations for a third wave of coronavirus. "We have completed preparations at the Tilak Nagar super-speciality hospital where we have dedicated a 100-bed ward for Covid patients. Out of this, eight will be ICU beds. We have also completed installation of a 400 litre per minute capacity oxygen plant at the hospital," a senior SDMC official told news agency ANI.The civic body, anticipating a surge in coronavirus cases in children, has decided to ramp up pediatric healthcare infrastructure. "We are planning to create a dedicated child Covid care facility at our Tilak Nagar hospital. It will have oxygen beds and NICU beds dedicated for children. The number of beds to be reserved for child Covid care is yet to be decided," the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-44-new-cases-of-covid-19-outnumber-recoveries-as-testing-goes-up-101626781233948.html
20-07-2021||Kolkata||On TMC’s martyr’s day, BJP to project killing of party workers in Bengal||Even as Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee prepared to observe martyrs’ day, her party’s biggest annual event held in the memory of 13 youth Congress workers killed in police firing in Kolkata on July 21, 1993, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit on Tuesday upped the ante by declaring that it would observe the day to pay homage to its workers killed in political violence. Claiming that 124 BJP workers have been killed since the 2008 panchayat polls, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “We have lost 38 workers since the end of the recent assembly polls. The report on post-poll violence filed at the Calcutta high court by the National Human Rights Commissions shows only the tip of the iceberg. We will hold programmes in Delhi and Bengal tomorrow to tell people that the ruling party has destroyed democracy.”Bhattacharya alleged that Debesh Burman, a BJP worker from Raigunj in South Dinajpur district, was murdered on Monday and the body was hung by the neck from a tree. “But the police said he either died by suicide or was killed in a family dispute. The police are working in liaison with the TMC,” said Bhattacharya. In a tweet, Bengal Congress leader Rohan Mitra claimed that Debesh Burman was a Congress worker. Referring to a tweet by the BJP’s national IT cell head Amit Malviya, Mitra wrote, “I can confirm Debesh Burman was a Congress worker, our @IYCWestBengal district president Tushar Guha is already there, he will be sharing more information shortly. @amitmalviya is a liar.”Also read: Have details of Abhishek Banerjee’s calls made to police - Suvendu amid Pegasus rowMamata Banerjee was a Youth Congress leader in 1993 and led an agitation on July 21 the same year against the then Left Front government. Over the years, the martyr’s day rally has emerged as a symbol of the TMC’s struggle since its birth in 1998 and serves as a platform from where Banerjee sends out messages and declares future plans. Held at Esplanade in the heart of Kolkata, the martyrs’ day rally is known to be a big crowd puller but like last year it will be held virtually because of the pandemic. Banerjee will address people on social media and giant screens will be installed in public places and TMC offices across the state and, for the first time, even in Delhi and some other states. This is being seen as part of the TMC’s efforts to project Banerjee as the face of the opposition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.Bhattacharya alleged that the TMC has been using the July 21 tragedy faced by the Youth Congress for its own agenda. “The TMC has always tried to project itself as an oppressed party but on the ground, it chocked the voice of the opposition. Tomorrow, our state president Dilip Ghosh will hold a programme at Rajghat in New Delhi while our workers will pay homage to their fallen colleagues in all the districts and Kolkata,” he said.TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said the BJP is making a farce.“Can there be a counter martyr’s day? Our martyr’s day is a symbol of the sacrifices made by party workers. The BJP is making a futile attempt to draw public attention,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/on-tmc-s-martyr-s-day-bjp-to-project-killing-of-party-workers-in-bengal-101626780394995.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to introduce QR-code mechanism for liquor supply||The Punjab government will soon come up with a quick response (QR) code-based track and trace mechanism for liquor supply to prevent the smuggling and sale of spurious liquor in the border state. The decision was taken on Tuesday at the executive committee meeting of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB), chaired by chief secretary Vini Mahajan, to review infrastructure projects. Also read: Will give back power to people of Punjab: Navjot Singh SidhuThe chief secretary said the QR code-based mechanism has been designed in public private partnership (PPP) mode, which will help in keeping a check on spurious and illicit liquor by real time data monitoring and verification of production and supply. It was also decided at the meeting to set up a technical support unit (TSU) for faecal sludge and septage management (FSSM) implementation in the rural areas of Punjab. The PIDB committee approved raising a loan of ₹300 crore to accelerate urban development in the state. Mahajan reviewed the progress of work on Sangrur Kothi, Durbar Hall and Gol Kothi in Kapurthala, Ran Baas, and Qila Mubarak in Patiala. She also took up the operation and maintenance of Circuit House in Amritsar on PPP mode. The executive committee approved projects of commercial complex-cum-convention centres in Mohali and Amritsar over an area of 6 acres and 8.26 acres, respectively, with revised parameters to attract investment. The progress of eco-tourism around Ranjit Sagar lake was also reviewed, the bidding for which is under process. It was decided to take up three new projects – the old PWD headquarters building on Mall Road in Patiala as heritage hotel on PPP mode; multi-level car parking and office space in Ludhiana; and multi-level parking with commercial development space in Patiala on PPP mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-introduce-qr-code-mechanism-for-liquor-supply-101626780154576.html
20-07-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Historical core city of Pune needs an election push for devp||PUNE Pune’s core city, like many historical cities built before motorcycles and cars were invented, has many people- and environment-friendly features. The street network with small block sizes makes it easy to walk around.Despite the density, you find sitting platforms, locally known as paars, around peepal and banyan trees that provide quiet spaces to relax. You can enjoy a chai and misal and watch the bustle of commercial activity and modernity amid heritage.The core city also has heritage temples and ghats, traditional occupations of Kumbhars (potters), Tambats (brass and copper workers) at Tambat Ali, bamboo artisans at Burud Ali. Tulshi Baug is still a popular shopping street selling specialised household products. Such precincts have a character that no other place in Pune has.Unfortunately, new developments in the last few decades are erasing the core city’s unique fabric. The hustle-bustle has turned into congestion. People avoid visiting the core city for shopping for traditional items like saris and jewellery.According to Sujit Patwardhan, founder Trustee of Parisar, “There are broadly two visions for the core area’s future. One that sees it as no different from the rest of the city, and the other, that values the historic and cultural qualities that need to be preserved.”There is an even more serious consequence. The Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has recently published its study of air pollutants in Pune. Dr Gufran Beig, Principal Lead Author of the report cautions, “The Emissions Inventory study shows a very high level of emission in Pune’s core city. Pune’s high-altitude location helps in slower conversion of emissions to pollutants as compared to plain areas. However, looking at the high emission level and rate of increase, the time is not far when the advantage of being high altitude would be lost after emissions cross a tipping point and Pune will also witness high air pollution. Transport is the source of over 45% of emissions of most toxic PM2.5. Better to act now to reduce emissions.Tiny pollutant particles enter the lungs, causing respiratory illnesses. Some particles are small enough to pass through the lungs into the bloodstream affecting the brain, heart and kidneys. Children, pregnant women, older people, those with cardiovascular ailments are at greater risk. Air pollution is also known to increase the severity of the Covid-19 disease.Pune Municipal Corporation and Traffic Police must take note of the IITM Emissions Inventory and take urgent steps to reduce air pollution in the core city.Fortunately, the PMC, with great foresight, has already got a few different plans – the Comprehensive Mobility Plan, Bicycle Plan, Parking Policy, Pune Streets Programme, and Urban Street Design Guidelines. Initiatives introducing minibuses and electric vehicles have been in the news recently.Imagine the attractive, calmer, and healthier environment the core city could have with these provisions implemented in true letter and spirit:Attractive street designBeautiful designs for about 25 km of core city streets were prepared under the Pune Streets Programme with footpaths, vending zones, rickshaw stands, and easy bus movement. In addition, a walking plaza, greenery and neatly arranged street vending zones were designed reflecting the unique character of Laxmi Road.Architect Prasanna Desai and PVP College Architecture students had conceptualized an “open-air mall” design for Laxmi Road. If traffic-clogged roads can be freed up, people can enjoy the core city ambience, its cultural activities, restaurants, and of course, shopping!We can learn from similar projects at Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh in Delhi, which are more crowded than Pune’s core city. Amsterdam, London, Paris, Stockholm and many others have decongested inner-city areas to improve liveability and economy.ShuttlesShuttle services with CNG or electric minibuses or share-rickshaws would help cut the noise and air pollution. Shuttles would ease mobility within the core city and connect to the metro, major bus stops, and parking lots.Traffic re-routingThe Comprehensive Mobility Plan recommended an inner ring road of sorts by streamlining traffic movement along JM Road, Shastri Road, Shankar Sheth Road, Nehru Road. As a result, traffic that is not destined for the core city need not enter it but can go around. Traffic re-routing and restricted timings for vehicle movement would be a boon for residents in the Peth areas to reduce vehicular pollution.Parking managementVehicles parked on the road eat up one or two lanes of precious road space, making bus movement, cycling and even walking difficult.Studies show that most of the parked vehicles are of shop employees, leaving very little for customers. Pay-n-park can ensure that long-term parking is shifted to parking lots and on-street parking is utilized efficiently.Paid parking facilities exist in and near the core city. With free parking available on the road, they are not much used. In some parking lots, other businesses have come up! This situation should be corrected as recommended in the CMP.With good bus connectivity, shuttles and cycle-safe roads in place, people coming to the core area every day for work could leave their bike or car behind. It is an adjustment people will have to make not to increase pollution and cause health problems for themselves and others.All we need is for PMC to implement these projects already envisaged in city plans. Public deliberations among residents, businesses, institutions, the wider public and PMC are needed so that proposals are well-understood, tried out and fine-tuned for the public’s needs.Lockdown losses, urgent health concerns, and the longer-term need for heritage-sensitive modernization call for authentic leadership from elected officials and the administration. Such a project to heal, nurture and celebrate Pune’s historical core city must find a place in election manifestos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-historical-core-city-of-pune-needs-an-election-push-for-devp-101626779434859.html
20-07-2021||Kolkata||'Have details of Abhishek Banerjee’s phone calls': Suvendu amid Pegasus row||A video clip in which Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly, can be purportedly heard saying that he has records of all the phone calls made from the office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee has created a stir in Bengal, HT has learnt.The video, in which Adhikari can be seen addressing a public meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), surfaced a day after opposition parties targeted the BJP in Parliament by accusing the Centre of using an Israeli malware called Pegasus to snoop on opposition leaders, journalists and government officials. TMC alleged in Parliament that Abhishek Banerjee is among those whose phone was tapped.In the 35-second video clip, Adhikari can be heard referring to the chief minister as “aunt” and Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC national general secretary and Lok Sabha member, as “nephew.”The video was apparently shot in some district of Bengal recently. Adhikari can be heard saying, “The role of the IO (investigating officer), inspector-in-charge and the superintendent of police will be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Then you will understand that no aunt can save you. Phone calls are made to you from the nephew’s office. I have all the phone numbers and call records. If you have the state government, we have the Central government.”HT could not independently ascertain the authenticity of the video or identify the police officers referred to.A section of the local media in Bengal, however, reported that Adhikari made the statement at a public meeting in East Midnapore district on Monday afternoon and he was referring to local police officers.The East Midnapore police on Tuesday filed three suo motu cases against Adhikari, accusing him of intimidating government officials, insulting them and tapping their phones.Amarnath K, superintendent of police, East Midnapore, said, "The cases have been lodged on the basis of the statement Adhikari made on Monday.""Adhikari said he has phone records of police officers which he should not officially have. Hence a case has been registered under Official Secrecy Act. He made some communal statements for which Section 295 (A) of the Indian Penal Code has been added. A case has also been filed under the Disaster Management Act as more than 50 people had assembled for the meeting violating Covid restrictions." Amarnath K told the media.Not denying the charges, Adhikari, who joined the BJP seven months ago, said, "One should not give importance to this. The TMC and police are synonymous."Reacting to this, Bengal BJP's chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, "Suvendu Adhikari is a seasoned politician. He made the statements at a political rally. If the police can lodge cases against Adhikari why is Mukul Roy being spared? After joining the BJP (in 2017) he told a television channel that his phone was tapped by the TMC government."Roy, who was a national vice-president of the BJP, returned to the TMC on June 11 along with his son.The TMC reacted sharply saying the video confirms the illegal use of Pegasus by the BJP.“Adhikari should be arrested immediately and interrogated in custody. He has proved that Pegasus was used to snoop on many people, including Abhishek Banerjee. This is a heinous crime. The Centre is misusing its powers,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh.Two senior state BJP leaders, who did not want to be identified, said they would not comment on his statements.Adhikari is a legislator from East Midnapore’s Nandigram where he defeated the chief minister in the recent assembly polls by 1,958 votes. His father and one of his brothers are TMC Lok Sabha MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-s-remark-on-abhishek-banerjee-s-phone-records-adds-to-pegasus-row-101626777216395.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Will give back power to people of Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu got a rousing reception from supporters as he visited Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh, en route to Amritsar on Tuesday.Accompanied by one of the four working presidents and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra and Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh Saini, Sidhu paid tributes to the freedom fighter at the museum in his village. He was at Khatkar Kalan for half an hour before heading for his home district of Amritsar.Also read: Top tasks for Sidhu: Building bridges with Capt, putting Cong’s house in orderAddressing the press, he began by paying tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh. “I have come here to seek guidance and awaken the spirit of truth and rights among every Punjabi and Congress worker.”Sidhu said that the Punjab model will make the state prosperous again and put it on the right track. “The 18-point programme released by the Congress high command will pave the way for people to be shareholders of power. Let the power given by the people be returned to them in the form of development,” Sidhu said.Farmers show black flags While Sidhu’s supporters waited near Khatkar Kalan on the Chandigarh-Jalandhar highway to greet his motorcade since morning despite the rain, a group of 20 farmers landed up near the Bhagat Singh museum and tried to show him black flags. They later said they wanted to confront him over the Congress poll promises for farmers. The police kept the protesters at bay till Sidhu left the venue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-give-back-power-to-people-of-punjab-sidhu-101626777095095.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Sarojini Nagar Market in Delhi remains closed to protest SDM order||The traders in Delhi's Sarojini Nagar market kept the shutters of their shops down on Tuesday to protest against a government order that directed closure of the export market. The shops were closed in the main section, Babu market and mini market.The traders said that their protest may continue on Wednesday, and that a meeting will be held on the issue later in the day."We will see till evening if there is any development with respect to opening the export market, else we will continue our protest," Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.About 550 shops in addition to 200 stores of the export market are closed in the Sarojini Nagar market area.The export market was shut on Sunday for "gross" violation of the Covid-19 norms. The order was issued by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ankur Prakash Meshram who conducted a survey of the area on Saturday.In a report prepared after the inspection, which was the basis of the closure order, Meshram said that that the market was "extremely crowded with Covid-19 norms being grossly violated and no social distancing being followed at all".The order further said that market associations were given various directions with regards to overcrowding but these instructions were not followed. It said that though Covid-19 cases have gone down significantly, due caution needs to be maintained.The Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar market, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of Covid-19 norms.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded 44 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The infection claimed five more lives in the last 24 hours, as reported by the state government's health department. The total cases in the national capital have reached 14,35,609.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sarojini-nagar-market-in-delhi-remains-closed-to-protest-sdm-order-101626776753073.html
20-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM writes to Mandaviya over under-hiring of locals at AIIMS Deoghar||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday wrote a letter to the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya over “under-representation” of local people of the state among the staff employed at All India Institute of Mecial Sciences (AIIMS) at Deoghar.Taking to Twitter, Soren shared the letter and wrote, “For Jharkhand, especially in and around Santhal Pargana, AIIMS Deoghar will be a platform of excellence in both medical education and public health.”Raising his “concerns” with the newly-appointed health minister, Soren stated in his letter that 90 per cent of staff at AIIMS Deoghar hail from other states. “This is not conducive to the public good,” the chief minister’s letter read.Soren further wrote that the institute should recruit local people “as far as possible” so that they get employees who “better understand the community they serve”. Such an approach will also contribute to the “economic upliftment” of Deoghar, the letter added.For Jharkhand,especially in and around Santhal Pargana, AIIMS Deoghar will be a platform of excellence in both medical education & public health.However I have raised my concerns with @mansukhmandviya ‘ji on under-representation of our local people in employment of staff in AIIMS pic.twitter.com/1HWmQfXdPxThe chief minister also stated that the Jharkhand government is “committed” to providing employment opportunities to the local citizens, and accordingly had set up the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021. This bill permits 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs with a remuneration of up to ₹30,000 for local people, Soren’s letter highlighted.“I request you to look into this issue as a matter of great urgency and importance and ensure that the local people of Jharkhand are employed to ensure engagement with the local community,” Soren’s letter mentioned.The central government had announced the establishment of an AIIMS in Jharkhand in the 2017-18 Union budget. Following that, the state government identified a 236.92-plot in Deoghar to set up the hospital-cum-medical institution. In May 2018, funds to the tune of ₹1,000 crore was given a nod by the centre, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had even laid the foundation stone.AIIMS Deoghar inducted its first batch of MBBS students in 2019 by admitting 50 candidates. However, the institution increased the capacity to 62 last year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-writes-to-mandaviya-over-under-hiring-of-locals-at-aiims-deoghar-101626773105923.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Mumbai from Aug 1: Maharashtra govt tells Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government and the Mumbai civic body told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that they would start door-to-door vaccination against Covid-19 for bed-ridden and immobile people in the city as a pilot project from August 1. The court expressed its satisfaction and said, “The Union government did not rise to the occasion. However, the state government has risen to the occasion and today there is some light at the end of the tunnel.”Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state government, told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that initially the plan was to start the home vaccination drive in Pune, but it has been changed to Mumbai considering the response received from such people. Kumbhakoni told the court that the government has received 3,505 responses in Mumbai from people who are bed-ridden or immobile and hence, unable to travel to the vaccination centres. He said a policy to this effect would be issued by the government and the home vaccination drive would begin from August 1 in Mumbai. As per the policy, people who are completely bed-ridden, immobile or suffering from some terminal illness shall be eligible for home vaccination. The court said the government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) can begin the home vaccination drive for bed-ridden and immobile people from August 1, and a status report shall be filed by August 6 on its progress. "We hope and trust that the state government and the BMC shall leave no stone unturned to ensure that the eligible bed-ridden and immobile individuals will also have the benefit of Covid-19 vaccine,” the court said. The HC said the home inoculation drive shall also include those bed-ridden and immobile people who have somehow managed to get the first dose of the vaccine. Kumbhakoni said they will be included and the vaccines would be free of cost, as is being done in all government and civic-run hospitals. The court was hearing a petition filed by two advocates, seeking a direction to the Union and state governments to start door-to-door inoculation against Covid-19 for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled people and those who are bed-ridden and hence, unable to go to vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doortodoor-covid-19-vaccination-campaign-in-mumbai-from-aug-1-maharashtra-govt-tells-bombay-hc-101626770023765.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Patna HC quashes blacklisting of firm, orders fresh bidding for NMCG project||The Patna high court has come down heavily on Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (BUIDCo) for disqualifying a bidder M/S EMS Infracon Pvt. Ltd on the basis of a complaint alleging fact-fudging from an unknown source. BUIDCo had also served a show-cause notice to the company without enclosing the copy of the complaint, and directed the technical tender committee of the government to revisit the technical bid evaluation reports (TBER) for a ₹300 crore World Bank-funded sewage and sewerage project in Hajipur.“The Court is of the considered opinion that BUIDCo has acted irresponsibly in passing the impugned order in casual and cavalier manner, which has serious adverse consequences not only in respect of the petitioner’s eligibility to participate in the bid with others in government contracts, but has also adversely affected the progress of the project in question,” said justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh, setting aside the blacklisting order and ordering fresh evaluation of bids by a committee under the development commissioner, not urban development secretary. The order was passed on Monday.Also Read | Ahead of Eid-al-Adha, Covid norms ignored in Patna’s goat market“Let a fresh evaluation of the technical bid be done by a technical committee with the Development Commissioner, Bihar, as its Chairman and Executive Director, Technical, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) as one of the members. The Development Commissioner shall be at liberty to reconstitute Technical Tender Committee for the purpose of said evaluation. It will be open for the Technical Tender Committee to take into account the facts mentioned in the show cause notice and the petitioner’s reply thereto, keeping also in mind this Court’s observation, for the limited purpose of evaluation of technical bid of the work in question; if permitted under the model bid document and other arrangements under which the project is to be implemented to disqualify the petitioner. It is expected that the Chairman and other members of the Technical Tender Committee shall go into wider aspects of the matter in accordance with the mandatory requirements under World Bank’s Guidelines January, 2011. Considering the dateline for finalisation of the tender as noted in the letter of the World Bank dated June 15, 2021, the Court expects that the meeting of the Technical Tender Committee be held, if not before, by Thursday,” the court said.Since three orders blacklisting the bidders by the same chief engineer were found illegal and quashed by the court, the bench left it to the development commissioner to consider whether he should be allowed to participate as a member of the technical tender committee for evaluation of the technical bid and whether there is any chance of his view being biased because of the facts and circumstances of this case recounted herein above.“The impugned order of blacklisting dated March 4, 2021 is hereby set aside. It is clarified that the court is interfering with the impugned order mainly for four reasons, viz. it does not duly consider the petitioner‘s explanation submitted the in response to the show cause notice, it has referred to a new fact which was not part of the show cause notice, it has completely ignored the observations made by this court in its previous order and the most importantly, the Chief Engineer had an obligation to record a finding on the applicability of Bihar Contractor Registration Rules, which is in the nature of executive instructions for taking action in relation to the bid process in question where as tender documents is based on model tender document set by NMCG in funding arrangement from the World Bank, a plea which was specifically taken in the reply to the show cause notice. This aspect goes to the root of the matter, which has been completely ignored. The Technical Tender Committee shall be obliged to consider all communications received from NMCG in this regard. ” the court said. “The court has not given complete clean chit to the petitioner and that BUIDCo shall be at liberty to act in accordance with law in this regard and issue to the petitioner a fresh show-cause notice, if black-listing is proposed under Bihar Contractor Registration Rules, 2007. Before issuance of such show cause notice, however, the competent authority shall be obliged to record a finding that the said executive instruction is applicable even in respect of the externally aided project in question,” it added.Petitioners’ counsel and former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay said that BUIDCo exercised the power of blacklisting only for the purpose of keeping the petitioner out of competition in the tender process. He submitted that the chain of events show that the blacklisting order was passed hurriedly, overreaching the direction of NMCG and the World Bank on the pretext that funding share of the state government was also there to the extent of 30%. Advocate general Lalit Kishore appeared for BUIDCo and defended the decision. The court said that the technical tender of the petitioner had been rejected on some other grounds and though by a subsequent letter dated August 14, 2020, the secretary, urban development and housing department, government of Bihar, and the programme director, SMCG, were asked to revisit the TBER with respect to M/s EMS, those points, which were the basis for rejecting the petitioner’s tender documents, were overlooked and BUIDCo put the petitioner on notice for proposed blacklisting through the show-cause notice dated October 31, 2020, on different grounds altogether.“I must record that if the State of Bihar or any of its undertakings intend to have or adopt any document in the form of Act, rules, regulations, notifications or guidelines for the purpose of blacklisting a contractor, the same must be clear and structured in its form as half-baked arrangement of casually adopting an executive instruction issued by the Road Construction Department for all works and projects under the State Government or its undertakings, in Court’s opinion, does not go well, keeping in mind steep rise in infrastructure development projects,” the court said.The petitioner, aggrieved by a BUIDCo order to blacklist it on March 4, 2021, that rendered it disqualified for award of any contract by BUIDCo for a term of one year, sought that Bihar Contractor Registration Rules, 2007 (Public Works Department) was ultra vires and not enforceable to the extent the same was repugnant to the provisions of Bihar Financial Rules, 1950. It challenged the legality of the TBER of the BUIDCo for a World Bank-funded Ganga River Basin Project in Hajipur, citing its representations along with the letters of the other functionaries of the government of India, government of Bihar as well as the director, NMCG, New Delhi, and team leader, World Bank, New Delhi, asserting that it was wrongly disqualified by the bid evaluation committee. The director (projects), NMCG, addressed a letter August 14, 2020 to the secretary, urban development and housing department, government of Bihar, to consider the petitioner’s bid for the project, but BUIDCo again disqualified it, which the petitioner said seemed to help other competitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-quashes-blacklisting-of-firm-orders-fresh-bidding-for-nmcg-project-101626774094317.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Punjab Police SIT files chargesheet against 4 dera men||The Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in a Faridkot court against four Dera Sacha Sauda followers for pasting derogatory posters near the gurdwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on September 24, 2015. However, the SIT has not named Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in this case so far. Sources said the SIT is looking for clinching evidence before naming the dera head. Also read: Sidhu shown black flags by farmers protesting against farm laws in Punjab3 absconding dera members named conspirators The chargesheet was filed in the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani against Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, both residents of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in Faridkot district. The SIT has also named dera follower Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail, and three absconding members of the Sirsa-based dera’s national committee as conspirators in the case. They are Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri, all residents of Haryana. The challan was filed under Sections 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (being party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) and 153-A (promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence or language etc) of the Indian Penal Code. Sacrilege threat if MSG-2 film release stalled The SIT said that Sukhjinder wrote the posters and pasted two of them on the gate of the gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala along with Ranjit. “Shakti brought A-4 size papers and the marker from the stationary shop of Gopal at Bargari. He along with Baljit pasted the poster at the Bargari gurdwara,” the SIT found. In the three posters, it was threatened that the “bir (copy)” of Guru Granth Sahib stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, would be torn if the Gurmeet Ram Rahim film Messenger of God (MSG)-2 was not allowed to be released in Punjab. Court dismisses dera follower’s plea The move comes a day after the Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed Sukhjinder’s plea, challenging the SIT’s action of resending his handwriting samples to match it with the writings on the derogatory posters at Bargari village to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Chandigarh. During the July 9 hearing the court had taken up Sukhjinder’s plea and restrained the SIT from submitting a chargesheet. The restraining order was lifted after his plea was dismissed. On June 1 this year, the SIT collected samples of Sukhjinder to match them with the writing on the derogatory posters, claiming that one of the posters was written by him. The CFSL report is pending. SIT probing three interlinked sacrilege cases The SIT led by then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra had in 2018 found that the handwriting of the dera followers matched with the ones on the posters. But the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019, said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters. The SIT, led by inspector general, border range, SPS Parmar, is probing three interlinked sacrilege cases. The first case pertains to the theft of the “bir” from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second is the putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari village on September 25, 2015, and the third is the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-punjab-police-sit-files-chargesheet-against-4-dera-men-101626773854468.html
20-07-2021||Other||BJP functionary arrested for allegedly raping minor in Tripura’s Khowai||A 46-year-old booth level functionary of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been arrested for allegedly raping a 16-year-old in Tripura’s Khowai district. Shyamal Sarkar, the accused, was due to be produced before a court on Tuesday, said police and added the girl is seven-month pregnant.Also Read | Nagaland declares Class 10, 12 board exam resultsSonacharan Jamatia, a local police officer, said Sarkar, who was in charge of a polling booth in the Krishnapur, went absconding after the case was lodged on Sunday. “We arrested him from on Monday late evening,” said Jamatia.Sarkar has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said the party has suspended Sarkar. “Police will take due action against him. Our party will never interfere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-functionary-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-tripura-s-khowai-101626772654254.html
20-07-2021||Other||Kerala legislator KK Rema gets threat letter||The widow of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader TP Chandrasekharan, KK Rema, now a legislator, received an anonymous letter on Tuesday threatening that her son will be killed if she continues her tirade against her political opponents. The police registered a case after RMP secretary N Venu filed a complaint. “TP Chandrasekharan was murdered as he did not heed repeated warnings. TP, who led several discussions on TV channels, was hacked to death with 51 wounds. KK Rema’s son will also be eliminated the same way with 100 stab wounds. If you continue like this, we will not allow him to come up,” the letter said. Also Read | Sorry state of affairs: Supreme Court on relaxation in Covid-19 curbs in KeralaRema has been very vocal against some persons convicted of her husband’s murder after their names allegedly cropped up in gold smuggling cases in north Kerala. Facing double life-terms, most of them are on parole now after being released citing the Supreme Court directive to decongest jails in view of the pandemic. After their names cropped up in connection with smuggling, leaders from the Opposition Congress and Rema asked the government to cancel their parole and send them back to jail, which the government refused. Last month, former home minister Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan also received a similar letter. TP Chandrasekharan was murdered during his tenure in 2012. Most of the accused were convicted later. Though the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), distanced itself from the murder, most of the convicted are party leaders and cadres. Rema said, “CPI(M)-backed criminals” were behind the latest letter. “I will continue my fight against political criminals. The party can’t silence me like this,” said Rema. The CPI(M) refused to comment on the issue. Police said the letter was posted in Kozhikode and bore names of the Red Army, PJ Army and Red Star, groups floated by people close to Marxist leader P Jayarajan. Jayarajan later disowned them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-legislator-kk-rema-gets-threat-letter-101626768694099.html
20-07-2021||Other||Trooper killed in Chhattisgarh’s Maoist-hit area||A paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) trooper was killed, and another was injured in an exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency affected Naraynapur district on Tuesday.Inspector general of police (Bastar Range) Sunderaj P said the gunbattle took place near Aamdai Valley when a road opening party of the ITBP’s 45th battalion was out to clear the movement of Chandan Kashyap, the member of Chhattisgarh assembly from Narayanpur.Also Read | Seven go missing in Chhattisgarh, suspected to be in Maoist captivity“After the convoy of Kashyap passed through the area around 10 am, a small action team of Maoists opened fire on the ITBP jawans. One jawan, Shiv Kumar Meena, died while assistant sub-inspector Keshav Ram suffered minor injuries,” said Sunderaj P. He added Ram was out of danger and undergoing treatment at a local hospital.Police were combing the area around the gunbattle scene, said Sunderaj P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trooper-killed-in-chhattisgarh-s-maoist-hit-area-101626767674093.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||10-year-old boy washed away due to heavy rains in Mumbai||A 10-year-old boy drowned in Mumbai after he was swept away in a drain due to the incessant rains in the city, fire department officials said, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The fire department added that the minor’s body was later recovered.Heavy rainfall has been battering Mumbai and its neighbouring regions, including Thane and Palghar districts after torrential rain triggered by a thunderstorm hit the state during the early hours of Sunday. Between 12am and 4am on Sunday, Mumbai received 235mm of rain, according to weather officials – only hours after it gauged the season’s highest daily rainfall (253mm) on Friday.Such extreme weather conditions led to waterlogging, and even incidents of electrocutions, landslides and house collapses in Mumbai, resulting in the death of at least 31 people. Several of them died in two separate landslides in Mumbai’s Chembur and the suburb of Vikhroli, which also left six people injured.This comes after a four-year-old boy drowned after being swept away into a swollen drain in Thane city of Maharashtra on Sunday. The incident occurred in Thane’s Ulhasnagar township, and the boy’s body was recovered before being sent to a government hospital for a postmortem report.Four separate incidents of wall collapses triggered by heavy rainfall were also reported in Thane. A watchman was injured after a tree fell on him at a residential complex in Ghodbunder Road, news agency PTI reported. Four auto-rickshaws were also crushed to the ground after a 15-feet wall of a compound collapsed in the Wagle Estate area in Thane.Mumbai local train services were severely affected due to the rain, with several long-distance trains short-terminated, diverted or rescheduled, Central Railway (CR) stated in a release. However, services were restored on Monday and are currently operating normally, the CR added.Also Read | Heavy rain forecast for Mumbai today, tomorrow; local train services normalThe India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, has issued an orange weather alert till July 23. According to its latest update from Tuesday morning, Mumbai and its suburbs are expected to observe moderate to heavy rain with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places for Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10yearold-boy-washed-away-due-to-heavy-rains-in-mumbai-101626766039515.html
20-07-2021||Pune||24-year-old arrested for stabbing mother to death in Thane||Mumbra Police have arrested a 24-year-old man for allegedly stabbing his mother to death with a screwdriver in Maharashtra’s Thane. The accused, Vishal Alzende, a resident of Mumbra Retibandar, stayed with his mother Urmila (48) and younger brother Vishnu (22). Police said Vishal did not have a steady job and would travel to Bhiwandi every day to secure whatever work he could find, on daily wages. Also Read | Mumbai wakes up to third consecutive day of rain, intensity to decrease“On Monday afternoon, Vishal asked Urmila for money so that he could pay the bus fare to go to Kongaon in Bhiwandi. Urmila refused, which led to an argument between the mother and son,” police inspector Ramchandra Valatkar, Mumbra police station, said. The argument soon turned ugly, with Vishal allegedly stabbing Urmila in the neck and chest with a screwdriver. Urmila fell unconscious, bleeding heavily, and Vishal fled the scene. A couple of hours later, Vishu returned home to find his mother lying in a pool of blood. He informed the police, after which a team was sent to the spot to conduct inquiries. Urmila was rushed to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa where she was declared dead before admission. “Several of our teams fanned out in Mumbra and Kalwa to look for Vishal, who was arrested in the evening from near the Kalwa railway station,” Valatkar said. Vishal has been charged with murder under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24yearold-arrested-for-stabbing-mother-to-death-in-thane-101626766773780.html
20-07-2021||Other||Seven go missing in Chhattisgarh, suspected to be in Maoist captivity||At least seven people have been missing for two days after attending a social gathering in a village in Chhattisgarh’s Maoist insurgency-hit Sukma district, officials said on Tuesday. Police said they are searching for them and that they suspect a possible Maoist involvement.“...(the) villagers from Kunded under Jagargonda police station limits went to a nearby village to attend a social gathering couple of days back and they are yet to return home. We are trying to verify the information about a few of them being taken captive by Maoists,” said inspector general (Bastar range) Sunderaj P. He added police were gathering more information about the seven.Also Read | Senior Maoist quits, 3 others surrender before Odisha PoliceSukma police superintendent Sunil Sharma said Maoists may have picked the seven villagers. He added four others, including a village head who are believed to have gone to talk to the Maoists for release of the villagers, are also with them and have not returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-go-missing-in-chhattisgarh-suspected-to-be-in-maoist-captivity-101626764613841.html
20-07-2021||Bhopal||MP court sentences 13 international poachers to 7 years’ imprisonment||The chief judicial magistrate of a Sagar court convicted 13 international poachers and sentenced them to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for smuggling endangered turtles and pangolins from Madhya Pradesh to different parts of the world, said an advocate. In the past 10 years, the gang smuggled at least 100,000 red-crowned roofed turtles and pangolins--both are listed as critically endangered on the IUCN list of threatened species-- to Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar and a few other countries, said Sudha Bhadoria, an advocate. The court imposed a fine of ₹5 lakh on the kingpin of the gang, a resident of Chennai, Manivannan Murugesan, who is also wanted in Thailand, under Section 51(1)A of Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The court also imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on the accused Ajay Singh, Ram Singh and Mohammad Iqrar from UP, Thamim Ansari from Chennai, Mohammad Irfan, Tulsidas and Tapas Basak from Kolkata, and a fine of ₹20,000 on Azad Singh, Sampatiya Batham, Vijay Gond, Kamal Batham and Kailashi from MP. Also Read | ‘Mini cloudbursts’ increasing by 10% every year, particularly on western coast: ResearchersBhadoriya said, “Mohammad Irfan from Kolkata used to work as an agent for Murugesan to supply wildlife animals to Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand via Myanmar and Bangladesh. Ajay Singh from Agra used to hand over turtles to Thamim Ansari of Chennai to smuggle them to Sri Lanka. The other accused were supplying the turtles and pangolins from the forests and rivers,” “The accused were lodged in Sagar jail and applied for bail in the high court and Supreme Court but they were denied. The hearing was being monitored by the apex court since January 2020. During the trial in the case, 27 witnesses were examined by the prosecution before the court. In the case, final arguments were presented on behalf of the prosecution for 13 days,” said Saurabh Dhimha, additional district prosecution officer. Notably, Murugesan is also wanted in Thailand in connection to a case of smuggling of 890 endangered turtles in 2012. He was arrested by Thailand police and was released on bail. He then went on the run until his arrest in MP. A lookout notice was issued against him and a metropolitan court also issued a warrant against him. With inputs from Anupam Pateriya from Sagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-court-sentences-13-international-poachers-to-7-years-imprisonment-101626764373683.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to third consecutive day of rain, intensity to decrease||Mumbai woke up to its third consecutive day of rainfall on Tuesday, recording 38.4mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am. This was down from 70.44mm of rain recorded in the 24 hours prior. The total rainfall for the month of July now stands at 958.4mm, in excess of the 827mm normal set by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the last four days alone, the city has received 699mm of rain. Seasonally speaking, Mumbai has now received 1958.2mm of rain, or 88.8% of the total seasonal normal up to September-end.IMD has placed Mumbai under an orange category storm warning for the next four days, indicating “moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in city and suburbs with possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places.” Also Read | Heavy rains predicted in Western Tamil Nadu for next four daysLatest radar observations from the IMD’s doppler instrument in Colaba, however, suggest that rainfall intensity will continue to decrease, and shows only isolated clouds over the city, suburbs and adjacent areas like Thane.An offshore monsoon trough near the Maharashtra coast is likely to remain vigorous for the next few days, and Mumbai will continue to see an active monsoon spell till at least July 23, according to officials and independent forecasters. The next week will also have another two to three active spells of rain under the influence of more typical synoptic features, namely a low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal between July 20-21.“During the day we are not expecting any heavy showers, but there may be an increase in intensity toward the evening. Within the next 36 to 48 hours, however, there will be another two to three spells of heavy rain as the low pressure system forms over the Bay of Bengal. More detailed forecast will be released later today,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-third-consecutive-day-of-rain-intensity-to-decrease-101626764013716.html
20-07-2021||Lucknow||Kalyan Singh's condition continues to remain unstable, says hospital||Kalyan Singh's health is unstable and the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister is being administered oxygen through a face mask, the hospital treating him in Lucknow said on Tuesday."His clinical parameters are being closely monitored by the expert Consultants. He has been kept on non-invasive ventilation due to respiratory worsening," the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said in a bulletin on Tuesday.The hospital's director RK Dhiman is supervising the 89-year-old Singh's treatment every day and senior doctors from the Critical Care Medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, the hospital also said.On Monday, the hospital said in a statement that oxygen therapy was started after Kalyan Singh complained of respiratory discomfort on Saturday evening. "He was put on non-invasive ventilation on Sunday evening due to respiratory worsening," it said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday to enquire about Kalyan Singh's health, according to the hospital earlier.Singh, who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. He was being treated at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences before that.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kalyan-singh-s-condition-continues-to-remain-unstable-says-hospital-101626763035368.html
20-07-2021||Other||Two elephant carcasses found in Odisha’s Keonjhar district||Two elephant carcasses have been recovered from Odisha’s Keonjhar district, wildlife department officials said on Tuesday. The exact cause of their deaths was unknown yet, they added.The officials said the carcasses of a 25-year-old female elephant and a calf were spotted by residents in Raba village under Bhuyan Juang Pidh forest Range on Monday morning.A herd of elephants had come to the village on Sunday night in search of food.“Electrocution is ruled out as no 11 KV power line passes in that area. There is however a low-tension power line, but it is cabled. The deaths likely happened early morning. To find out the cause of death, we have sent samples of the carcasses to Centre for Wildlife Health at Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology in Bhubaneswar,” said divisional forest officer (Keonjhar) Swayam Mallick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-elephant-carcasses-found-in-odisha-s-keonjhar-district-101626762993617.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||3 Delhi children get ₹16 crore drug for fatal genetic disease||One-year-old Zuha’s mother Ayesha, both of whom go by one name, thought the child would meet the same fate as her brother. The boy, born in 2018, died just six months later because of a genetic disease called Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a progressive condition that affects the nerves that signal the muscle, leading to muscular weakness. Children with Type 1 severe SMA, accounting for 60% of those with SMA, die within the first two years of life after the respiratory muscles weaken. “She was normal for two months but after that, her activities reduced significantly. That’s when we suspected she might have SMA just like her brother. We got her tested and by October, we had a diagnosis of Type 1 SMA,” said Ayesha. This time, however, there was a treatment. The US Food and Drug Administration approved the gene therapy-based medicine, Zolgensma, in 2019. The medicine replaces the defective SMN 1 gene, thereby producing the protein needed to keep the connection to the muscles alive. But the single dose therapy costs ₹16 crore. “We had given up hope. That’s when I saw the news about a baby from Mumbai whose parents crowd-funded the treatment,” said Ayesha. Also Read | Scientifically Speaking : Identifying genetic superpowers in peopleZuha is one of the first three babies in Delhi to receive the therapy at Sir Ganga Ram hospital three weeks ago. “The medicine is expensive, but we were able to get it through the managed access programme of Novartis, the company that manufactures the drug; it is a lottery system of free doses for those who cannot afford it,” said Dr Ratna Puri, chairperson of the Institute of Medical Genetics and Genomics at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. She said, “This is a game-changer. This is the first time a therapy exists for children who would have died otherwise. The babies are now doing well and the mothers have reported some increase in activities –one child can hold their milk bottle, another is using their leg. Of course, it is early and the children will have to continue physiotherapy.” Ahmedi Khatun’s 1.5-year-old could not stand or sit up properly. “Everyone kept saying that it was because he was healthy. But, I had my doubts. Two of my older daughters were also born healthy but by his age they could walk. So, I decided to take him to a doctor in Benaras who told us he has a rare disease and asked us to come to Delhi for the treatment,” said Ahmedi. She too was able to get the medicine through lottery system. The third child to receive the therapy is a one-year-old with type 1 SMA. The doctors refused to give any details without the parents’ consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-delhi-children-get-rs-16-crore-drug-for-fatal-genetic-disease-101626762453766.html
20-07-2021||Other||Heavy rains predicted in Western Tamil Nadu for next four days||The Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai has predicted four days of rain starting from Tuesday, Tamil daily Dinamalar reported today. The Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts are likely to receive rains with lightning and thunderstorms, the weather bulletin warned. The districts along the Western Ghats like Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi will also receive moderate rainfall in this period, the forecast further said. Dry weather will prevail in the rest of the districts of the state.In the last 24 hours, Chinnakallar in Coimbatore’s Valparai taluk has received a maximum rainfall of 7 centimetres. A low depression is likely to form in Northwestern Bay of Bengal on July 23. As a result, the coastal districts are likely to receive rainfall in the coming days.Meanwhile, Chennai and its suburbs are receiving rains during the night time for the last three days. Monday was cloudy and it started raining later in the night at the outskirts like Poonamalle, Kundarathur, Chembarambakkam, Avadi, and other areas like Porur, Mogappair, Vadapalani, and Mount Road. The waterlogging problem was reported from many low-lying areas of Chennai.Tamil Nadu has been receiving widespread rainfall since June. The copious rainfall is easing the drinking water problem in Chennai as major water bodies supplying potable water are filling up, reported Hindu Tamil newspaper. Chennai depends on five lakes - Poondi, Puzhal, Chembarambakkam, Cholavaram, and Kannankottai. The catchment areas of these lakes in the Tiruvallur and Kanchipuram districts are receiving good showers in the last two weeks.The aggregate capacity of these five lakes supplying drinking water to Chennai is 11.757 TMC of which 7.469 TMC is full at present, according to the public works department. Meanwhile, the Krishna river water released from the Kandeleru reservoir for the drinking water needs of Chennai city has reached the zero point at Thamaraikuppam on July 16 and flowing into Poondi lake. The zero point is recording 722 cubic feet per second water flow at present, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rains-predicted-for-western-tamil-nadu-in-next-four-days-101626761658205.html
20-07-2021||Jaipur||Of 60 candidates who filed nomination, only 43 to contest Rajasthan civic body by-polls||As many as 43 candidates will be contesting the Rajasthan by-polls to be conducted in the municipalities of the state’s nine districts, news agency PTI has reported. A total of 60 candidates had filed 67 nomination papers for the bypolls. Chitra Gupta, the secretary of the State Election Commission (SEC), told PTI that after an evaluation of the papers and withdrawal of nominations by candidates, 43 are now left in the fray. Moreover, one candidate has been elected unopposed.The voting will take place in 18 wards of 16 municipalities of the nine districts on July 26, and the counting of the same will be held on July 28.The by-polls will be conducted at a time when the political tussle in the state continues with independent politicians, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) turncoats in the ruling Congress and other party leaders demanding political appointments and cabinet expansion.As many as six BSP legislators joined the Congress in September 2018, and along with the independent MLAs, they are mounting pressure on the Ashok Gehlot-led state government to bag their stakes in the cabinet and the political appointments.Meanwhile, 15 Congress leaders, who lost the elections in 2018, wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last month, citing that the Rajasthan government is working on the “whims” of the independents and the BSP turncoats. “The party workers and voters are feeling cheated,” they said in the letter seen by HT.Earlier this month, Shahpura assembly candidate Manish Yadav said that the “rightful dues” of the 15 candidates are “being killed”. He added that Gehlot and the Congress state party chief – both are “avoiding” them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/of-60-candidates-who-filed-nomination-only-43-to-contest-rajasthan-civic-body-bypolls-101626760508502.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtang tunnel landfill to be developed into tourism village||Ten months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened the Atal Tunnel at the 13,058-ft Rohtang Pass, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to develop the landfill site adjoining the North Portal into a tourism village. The Border Roads Organisation that built the tunnel over a decade since 2010 excavated 15 lakh cubic metres of earth and dumped it at the landfill site at Sissu near the tunnel’s North Portal. The Indian Army has already created a lake near the South Portal about 10km away by tapping a rivulet. Also read: ‘Congress still not out of coma’: PM Modi at BJP parliamentary party meetingThe Himachal Pradesh government has asked the BRO to return the land allocated for activities related to the construction of the tunnel. The Lahaul and Spiti district administration had given 34.87 hectares. “We have asked the BRO to return the land allocated to it for different activities to set up a tourism village,” said Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar. Walking trails to vistadome buses When contacted, state tourism director Amit Kashyap said, “Nayi rahein nayi manzilein (New routes, new destinations). The tourism village will have cafes, walking trails, eateries and a hotel, too. There will be rural haat (exhibition area) where tribal residents of the region can display and sell local organic produce besides articles of traditional attire and accessories.” Once the plan is ready, the government will apply for forest clearances. The government plans to run vistadome buses with a glass rooftop for a panoramic view through the region. The bus will ply through the 8.8-km tunnel between Manali and Leh. There are plans to develop ski slopes at Tiling village in Lahaul to boost tourism in the Himalayan valley. Tiling, which has a population of 35 people according to the 2011 census, is 2km from the North Portal. Tourist footfall on the rise The ₹32,000-crore tunnel has shortened the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km and has further cut short the journey by two-and-a-half hours. The tourism potential can be gauged from the fact that a record 6,400 vehicles crossed the all-weather Atal Tunnel on July 18. The tourist footfall has been on a rise since the Covid restrictions were lifted as the second wave subsided in June. After the opening of the tunnel in October last year, more than 3.45 lakh vehicles have crossed the tunnel. “Normally, the number of vehicles crossing the tunnel ranges between 600 and 2,300 vehicles a day,” says superintendent of police Manav Verma. The government plans to improve amenities, including building toilet facilities, for tourists as littering and waste disposal have emerged as concerns along the Manali-Leh highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtang-tunnel-landfill-to-be-developed-into-tourism-village-101626761254618.html
20-07-2021||Other||Rare stone idol of Sun found during excavation in Bihar’s Saharsa||A rare black stone Sun idol has been found during excavation on the premises of Baba Mateshwar Dham Temple at Katho panchayat in Saharsa district of Bihar. The three-feet-tall idol carries lotus flowers in both the hands. “We were digging to lay the foundation for an extension of the temple on Sunday when we found the idol,” said one of the labourers.Temple Trust chairman Arun Kumar said, “The idol is unique...We have informed the district administration. We have placed the idol in the temple and have begun worshipping it.” Saharsa district magistrate Kaushal Kishor said, “We have directed the local administration to ensure the idol is kept safe. We are writing to the department concerned.”Also Read | Bihar varsities gearing up to clear pending exams next month after UGC noticeRipunjay K Thakur, a researcher in ancient history, Delhi University, whose research area is ancient temples, Gods and Goddesses, said, “The Sun idol belongs to the Pala dynasty [750 AD]...There would be many such antique statues in Kosi area.” Purnea University professor-researcher of history Naresh Kumar Srivasatava said, “Fearing an Islamic invasion, people buried idols of their deity under the earth or immersed them in wells or ponds...that’s why they come up during excavation.” Meanwhile, people from distant villages have started gathering at the temple to offer prayers to the idol. Saharsa-based social activist Amit Anand said the idol should be taken for archaeological examination. He said three years ago, a rare black stone idol of Goddess Saraswati of pre-Pala era was recovered at Patuwaha village during a similar excavation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rare-stone-idol-of-sun-found-during-excavation-in-bihar-s-saharsa-101626758193423.html
20-07-2021||Other||Rainfall continues in J&K; could reduce from tomorrow||Rainfall continued in many parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, officials said. The weather office said that there was widespread light to moderate rainfall in J&K, with heavy rainfall reported from isolated places in Jammu region. “Katra (in Jammu division) recorded the most rainfall (99mm) in the past 24 hours. The present weather condition is likely to continue on Tuesday with moderate spells of rain. Expect significant decrease in rainfall from Wednesday,” said director, meteorological department, Sonam Lotus.Jammu witnessed 44.3mm of rainfall, Batote 26.8mm, Gulmarg 23mm and summer capital Srinagar 5.2mm. The weather office has predicted moderate to very heavy rain on Wednesday morning, with the likelihood of it affecting preparations for the festival of Eid-al-Adha, to be celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday. “The weather may start improving on Wednesday afternoon in Kashmir and by the evening in Jammu,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir. Also Read | Intense wet spell over NW India likely to continue todayThe weather office advised people living in the higher reaches to remain cautious while tourists and trekkers have been advised to avoid camps on mountains or riversides owing to chances of flash floods.The weather office said there may be a temporary disruption of traffic mainly on Jammu- Srinagar highway, Srinagar-Leh highway, Doda- Kishtawar road and Mughal road from July 19-21, 2021.“There are chances of landslides and falling stones at vulnerable places and waterlogging and minor floods in low-lying areas. Suspension of agricultural and horticultural operations during the above period is advised,” Mir said.“The maximum day temperatures have fallen by at least 2 degrees in Kashmir and more in Jammu division,” an official of the meteorological department said.The maximum temperature on Monday in Kashmir was recorded in Kupwara at 28.3 degrees Celsius and 27.3 degrees Celsius in Srinagar. In Jammu region, Banihal recorded 24.4 degrees Celsius, and Jammu district recorded 28.2 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius and 36 degrees Celsius respectively, the highest so far this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rainfall-continues-in-j-k-could-reduce-from-tomorrow-101626758013263.html
20-07-2021||Patna||Ahead of Eid-al-Adha, Covid norms ignored in Patna’s goat market||Ahead of Eid-al-Adha, or Bakrid, social distancing norms were ignored as Patna’s biggest goat market, once a Covid-19 hotspot, witnessed crowds over the weekend. The festival will be celebrated on Wednesday.Locals said there was no police team in the area to enforce Covid-19 norms in the market located in the heart of the city, and most shoppers were not wearing masks.While the imams (religious leaders) of various mosques announced precautions to be taken while celebrating the festival, government guidelines were openly violated in the state capital. Also Read | Eid-al-Adha 2021: History and significance of this holy festivalMuslim clerics have been asked to ensure that people don`t collect in groups, and instead, celebrate the festival at their homes, according to the guidelines issued in view of the Covid-19 pandemic Islamic religious organisations Imarat Sharia (Bihar, Odisha & Jharkhand) and Ameer-e-Shariat have urged Muslims to offer special prayers at homes and avoid any public gathering. The state government has imposed a ban on large gatherings at holy places till August 6 in light of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Bihar Police urged the general public not to take the law into their own hands while confronting those involved in illegal transportation/slaughtering of cattle. They should immediately alert the police. Strict action would be taken against those who spread fake news. The Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh asked the police to be vigilant at all times. Namaz Eidan committee president Mahmood Alam said like previous year, this year, too, namaz will not be held at Gandhi Maidan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ahead-of-eid-al-adha-covid-norms-ignored-in-patna-s-goat-market-101626755373173.html
20-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC judge criticises acting chief over case transfer ‘modus operandi’||A Calcutta high court judge on Monday criticised acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and the court administration over “whimsical modus operandi” after a case the former was hearing was “suddenly” transferred to a division bench even as it did not have the jurisdiction to take up the matter. In his 10-page order, justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya noted “chutzpah is probably not appreciated in the higher echelons of power” and added that “opacity creates whispers in the corridors and is not healthy for a judicial system”. He said that “do not wash your dirty linen in public” is a nice defence for the “beneficiaries of an oppressive/corrupt system” but it is an anathema to “transparency, which is in-built in the concept of the judiciary being the last bastion of democracy”.The case was transferred days after Bhattacharyya on Friday directed the central project coordinator in charge of the virtual hearing to explain why technical glitches have become a regular feature. He asked why proceedings should not be drawn up against the court administration, including the registrar general and the central project coordinator, in particular, for criminal contempt of court. “I categorically refuse to be a part of such circus because I have taken an oath to deliver justice to the litigants, who are outside the courtrooms and beyond the reaches of the air-conditioned rooms accommodating the Judges and toiling in the sun and the dust outside,” he said in his July 16 order. “I personally feel guilty, as a part of this court, since disruption and interference in the functioning of courts, in whatever form, might amount to criminal contempt. I am a party to such an act as a part of the showcase of Judges who are adorning this court, including the Chief Justice.”Bhattacharyya on Monday said at no point of time was he ever contacted to seek either his consent or shown the courtesy of informing him about the transfer. “I have serious doubts about the transparency of the system of dispensation of justice in our court in view of the... chain of events. Hence, I feel it my duty to inform all the beneficiaries and victims of such translucence in the system...,” he said.Also Read | Aspiring police constables chased away by real ones during agitation in Kolkata“I was amazed when my officer...intimated me that the RG (registrar general) had been directed to call for the records, to be allocated before a division bench, despite my judicial order dated July 16, 2021, on the instruction of the Hon’ble the Acting Chief Justice of this court. A copy of the letter, allegedly written and signed by the Hon’ble Acting Chief Justice, who was not even present in Kolkata due to a personal bereavement in the family, was also sent via WhatsApp and forwarded to me,” he said. He added in his previous order on July 16, he made “certain caustic comments” against the court administration including the registrar general”.Bhattacharyya underlined the chief justice (including acting chief justice) is the “Master of the Roster” and “more equal among equals”. He added the “equality pertains only to the Administrative Side of this court and cannot override the Appellate Side Rules, framed and modified by the Full Court comprised of all Judges of this Hon’ble Court”.“There is doubt as to whether the Chief Justice/Acting Chief Justice, in her/his administrative capacity as the Master of the Roster, can override a judicial order passed by a Bench having determination, fixed by the Chief 4 Justice/Acting Chief Justice herself/himself, and the file of the matter be assigned to some other court overnight,” said Bhattacharyya in the order uploaded on the court’s website late on Monday.He said the Appellate Side Rules of the court clearly provide that these matters “are to be heard by single judges, coupled with the fact...that this court had determination on both the relevant dates to take up such matters”. Bhattacharyya added the “Master of Roster‟ concept cannot be equated with the “Master of all I survey”, even as per the Supreme Court’s interpretation. “As per my instruction, my ACO (assistant court officer) indicated to the registrar general (RG), that she should not have the audacity or the gall to dictate as to what matter shall be allocated to each Bench, particularly in the teeth of a judicial order dated July 16...”He cited the restricted hearings to virtual appearances and added access to justice is being denied to most litigants and advocates from distant places, who are technically and financially challenged. “A coterie of members of the Bar and a limited few of the litigants are having an undue monopoly by running the virtual show, thereby depriving the common citizen of access to justice before this court, which is included in their right to life and equality before the law as guaranteed by the Constitution,” he said.“I sincerely hope that the uploading of this order will, at least, not be prevented by the powers-that-be, so that the contents of the order may appear in the public domain.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-judge-criticises-acting-chief-over-case-transfer-modus-operandi-101626753333145.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||After 4 months, Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count below 100,000||After over four months (130 days), Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count went below 100,000 on Monday to 96,375. The state, which is still battling the second wave of Covid-19 infections, had gone past 100,000 active cases on March 11 — the beginning of the wave.Even as the overall active case has come down, 10 rural districts in the state are still recording a higher number of fresh cases in comparison to the state’s overall average.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 6,017 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the tally to 6,220,207. It also recorded 66 deaths — lowest since July 12 —taking the toll to 127,097. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 403 new cases and 14 deaths. The city’s active caseload stood at 10,422 on Monday.Also Read | Covid-19 antibodies last at least nine months after infection, here’s howPune district tops the state with highest number of active infections with 15,768, followed by Thane district (13,632), Kolhapur district (10,538), Mumbai, Sangli district (10,014), and Satara district (6,566).Ten districts, including Raigad, Ahmednagar, Pune rural, Solapur rural, Satara, Kolhapur rural, Sangli rural, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Nandurbar, in the state have been reporting over 60% of the state’s total cases daily. However, state health department and district officials said that positivity rate in these districts, especially the rural areas, is reducing gradually.As per the state’s data, rural areas in the 10 districts reported 66.61% of the total cases recorded on Monday. While urban areas, which were the hotbed of viral activity earlier, including Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Raigad district), Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, contributed 1,248 fresh cases or 20.74% of the total cases reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-4-months-maharashtra-s-active-covid-19-case-count-below-100000-101626750573438.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Deficit covered, moderate rain to continue||A day after heavy rain lashed the national Capital, covering the rainfall deficit of nearly 51% that Delhi had recorded till Saturday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that moderate rain is likely to continue through Tuesday. Met officials said that parts of Delhi started receiving light rains from early Tuesday morning, which is expected to continue through the day. The city on Monday received 69.6mm of rain in 24 hours, a spell that led to the temperature dropping to 26.5 degrees Celsius, down from 36.4°C the previous day, and eight degrees below normal for this time of year. In fact, Delhi’s daytime temperature on Monday was the lowest for the season since July 30, 2014, when the mercury dipped to 24.9°C. The minimum on Monday was 24.2°C, three degrees below normal.Also Read | Mumbai sees continuous rainfall; IMD issues orange category storm warningThe showers started early on Monday morning, and continued throughout the day.“With Monday’s showers Delhi has covered its rainfall deficit. Usually, in July, Delhi records around 210mm of rainfall but as of Tuesday, the city has already reached 220mm. Rains are expected to continue till July 21. However, the intensity will be lower. From July 23-24, rain will pick up again,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Srivastava also said that from Tuesday temperatures are likely to rise by a few degrees.The monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, after a 16-day delay, and a series of inaccurate forecasts by the Met department. After moderate showers on the first two days of its onset, the city got only “traces” of rainfall, despite predictions of light rain and thundershowers, and an “orange alert” that was issued for the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-deficit-covered-moderate-rain-to-continue-101626749973077.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain forecast for Mumbai today, tomorrow; local train services normal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday predicted moderate to heavy rain in Mumbai and its suburbs with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places. These weather conditions will remain for Tuesday as well as Wednesday, IMD's update showed. The weather bureau already issued a red alert for Mumbai and other districts in the Konkan region.Meanwhile, the Central Railway said that local train services are running normally on the Main Line, Harbour Line, Transharbour Line and the Fourth Corridor. No long-distance trains have been rescheduled as well.Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 07.00 hrs on 20.7.2021. pic.twitter.com/p2WrPGibyFMumbai and many other parts of Maharashtra, including Thane, Palghar districts, continue to receive incessant rains that have led to house collapses, waterlogging, landslides and electrocutions in several areas.In Mumbai, as many as 31 people died and six were injured due to rain-triggered landslides on Sunday. Ten fatalities and one injury were reported in a landslide that happened in Vikhroli, while 19 deaths and five injuries occurred due to a landslide in Chembur.Apart from this, a four-year-old boy was reportedly drowned in Thane after he was swept into a swollen drain. Five members of a family, including three minors, also lost their lives in Thane’s Kalwa area on Monday as a boulder crashed into a slum colony, PTI reported.The intensity of rainfall although decreased for a brief period of time on Monday, it eventually picked up as the day unfolded. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that no new fatalities have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rains-in-mumbai-today-tomorrow-local-train-services-normal-101626749116281.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Poetry after second surge||Each person is separated from the other by a seat plastered with a printed leaflet cautioning “Please do not sit here.” They were put up last year during the first surge of the coronavirus pandemic.The auditorium is filled with sadness, and half a dozen people. In a 198-seat hall, this is no embarrassment. Since a crowd is actively discouraged in these times of social distancing, only a few invites were sent on WhatsApp. A mobile phone camera has been set up to stream the proceedings live on Facebook.This is the first literary meet of the Ghalib Academy following the pandemic’s deadly second surge that began in April. Held once a month on a Friday evening, poets, writers and readers from across the city gather at this central Delhi hall, and read/hear fresh compositions on the stage. This has been a tradition for 25 years in the literary institution. It was set up 52 years ago to celebrate the life of Delhi’s great poet. Ghalib’s grave lies in a courtyard nearby.The masked attendees include poet Gulshan Rai Kanwal (in a magnificent long tie), who has come from Punjabi Bagh extension, writer Chashma Faruqui from Zakir Nagar, poet Naseem Begum from Jasola, poet Sarfaraz Faraz from Jafrabad, artist Ehtram Siddiqui from Laxmi Nagar and poet Mateen Amrohi from H. Nizamuddin West. And of course there is the scholar Aqil Ahmad, the academy’s long-time very-unassuming secretary who launches the proceedings by noting that everyone present here, both offline and online, personally knows of at least one person lost to Covid-19. He recalls some of the departed who were regulars to this Friday tradition—professor emeritus Shamim Hanfi, short story writer Anjum Usmani, novelist Tarannum Riyaz and poet Naseem Abassi (the list is long).Later, Chashma Faruqui gets up to read a paper on her late father, a writer and journalist.In the lobby outside, a framed panel displays old photos of various meets—each picture shows crowds without masks. On a side wall, a portrait of Ghalib is partially blocked over with a yellowing flyer, put up last year during the early days of the pandemic. It says: “Mask is the vaccine. Distance is immunity. Hand wash is the medicine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-poetry-after-second-surge-101626745337906.html
20-07-2021||Kolkata||HC judge slams acting CJ for reassigning case||Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya of Calcutta high court, who had sharply reacted to technical glitches during the virtual hearing of a case last week, on Monday expressed strong objection to acting chief justice (CJ) Rajesh Bindal’s delisting of the case from him and listing it before a division bench.Justice Bhattacharyya had on July 16 directed the central project coordinator to show cause in writing as to why criminal contempt proceedings should not be drawn up against the High Court Administration including the Registrar General (RG) over disruptions in virtual court hearings.In a strongly-worded order on Monday evening, Bhattacharyya said: “…. at no point of time, I was ever contacted by the RG or the Acting Chief Justice through His Lordship Secretary or O.S.D. (Officer on Special Duty) seeking either my consent or at least having the courtesy to inform me about such assignment, which negates my judicial order in administrative capacity.”“I have serious doubts about the transparency of the system of dispensation of justice in our court in view of the above chain of events,” the high court judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/hc-judge-slams-acting-cj-for-reassigning-case-101626735622707.html
20-07-2021||Gurugram||Showers wreak havoc in Millennium City||An auto-rickshaw driver drowned, four underpasses were shut, almost all arterial roads got flooded, and traffic across the city was disrupted after Gurugram recorded a heavy spell of rain on Monday, exposing claims by agencies that arrangements were in place to deal with the annual problem during monsoon.The city received 185mm of rainfall over the past two days, which is almost 39% of the total rainfall it receives in monsoon, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.In several residential colonies, neighbours were cut off from one another, while on major roads, at Subhash Chowk and Rajiv Chowk especially, pedestrians held hands to navigate the waist-deep rainwater.Many parents were also spotted carrying children on their shoulders to school.In Malibu Towne, Suncity and condominiums on MG Road, in DLF Phases 1 and 3, as well as in the office of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Sector 14, flooding at the entry and exit points trapped people on the premises.With the Badshahpur drain overflowing by 9.30am, most city roads were inundated and Gurugram traffic police officials issued updates on social media, cautioning commuters to avoid severely waterlogged stretches in Suncity Township, Naharpur, Medanta underpass, Signature Towers, Iffco Chowk underpass, Galleria Market road, Kanhai Chowk, Wazirabad Chowk, Huda City Centre, Sector 4/7/9 Chowk, Himgiri Chowk, areas near the Mini Secretariat, Sheetla Mata Road, Bilaspur Chowk and Subhash Chowk.According to a release issued by the district administration on Monday evening, 113 pump sets, 32 tankers, and 14 earthmovers were deployed at 113 critical water logging points in the city and over 127 complaints were received from residents at the administration’s control room.In a release, deputy commissioner Yash Garg said of the 113 critical places identified by the administration, Hero Honda Chowk, sectors 4, 7, 9, 9A, 10, 10A and 15, and Palam Vihar were the worst affected.At the two underpasses at Iffco Chowk and one at Rajiv Chowk, traffic police barricaded the entry points to keep motorists away, while at the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, they stacked sandbags to prevent commuters from entering, as all four were flooded.The body of a 24-year-old auto-rickshaw driver was recovered from the Rajiv Chowk underpass. Divers took about two hours to locate the body, police said. The victim was identified by his single name Durgesh, a resident of Baldev Nagar in Sector 7. Police said they received a call from a bystander at around 4.30pm saying that a man drowned in the underpass.Using motor pumps and suctions tankers, rainwater was cleared from the bidirectional underpass at Rajiv Chowk, Iffco Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk by evening and opened to traffic, said a release from the district administration.Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said over 1,100 traffic police officials were deployed across the city from 5am. According to the police, a total of 4,500 personnel were deployed on city roads.A portion of the roof of the Ambience Mall partially collapsed on Monday afternoon due to heavy rain. The mall management said no one was injured in the incident and that it took place due to excessive water accumulation on the roof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/showers-wreak-havoc-in-millennium-city-101626733409009.html
20-07-2021||Other||At 123, J&K sees lowest daily Covid count in 4 months||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday witnessed one Covid-related death and 123 fresh infections, the lowest daily count in four months.The last time the UT had recorded cases in the ballpark was March 16 when 97 cases had been detected.As many as 268 people recovered in the UT, which brought down the active cases to 1,773. So far, 3,20,024 people have contracted the virus in J&K , of which 4,365 have succumbed.Officials said with 33 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 17 in Jammu and 15 in Doda. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 407, followed by Jammu district that has 213 infected persons.Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad said the situation was improving by the day. “The pace of the ongoing vaccination drive has increased and till date around 5 lakh vaccines have been administered in Srinagar,” he said, adding that around 90% of the population in the 45- 60 age group have been administered the shot. He also urged the public to follow standard Covid protocols during Eid. Dr M Salim Khan, professor and head community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar said that only vaccinated butchers should slaughter sacrificial animals and only those of the family who have been vaccinated should deal with the animals while wearing masks and maintain physical distance. Children should be kept away at the time of slaughtering as they are not vaccinated yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-123-j-k-sees-lowest-daily-covid-count-in-4-months-101626724590396.html
20-07-2021||Other||Gumshuda’ app reunites missing persons with families||When 10-year-old Kartik of Jagraon went missing on July 14, his parents were advised to upload their son’s picture on ‘Gumshuda’, a mobile application developed by the Ludhiana police. Within hours, the parents received details about his whereabouts as some cops who had spotted him took him to the police post and uploaded his picture and details into the same app, under the ‘found persons’ category.The app, which has a facial recognition feature, was able to connect the two entries and the child was reunited with his parents. The app, which was launched in February this year, has helped solve several such cases. “So far, the data of about 3,300 persons (missing and found) has been uploaded in the app. The app uses facial recognition to connect databases of missing children or elderly persons. It is also useful in case of unidentified bodies,” said police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal.Users can search the database with case ID, text search and image search using different filters such as age, gender, date when the person went missing etc. The reports can be easily downloaded in PDF format and shared over different platforms. He added that on one hand the kin can use the app to upload details of the missing persons, Good Samaritans and cops can use it to report any vulnerable children or persons they find on the street.Other success stories: In March, an 80-year-old woman Maya Devi of Ganesh Nagar, Ludhiana, had gone missing. She was traced by a Good Samaritan. The woman was unable to share her name and address. The Good Samaritan reported her as a ‘found person’ and uploaded her photo in the app. The app using the facial recognition and artificial intelligence matched it with a missing report entry of Maya Devi. He contacted Division Number 3 station house officer as mentioned in the profile. The then SHO, inspector Jarnail Singh immediately sent the police team and reunited the woman with her family.A 26-year-old person with mental disabilities, identified as Maninderjeet Singh of Moga district, who was missing since March 1 was traced by an NGO in Dehlon. The NGO contacted Dehlon SHO inspector Sukhdev Singh, who made arrangements for reuniting Maninderjeet Singh with his fam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gumshuda-app-reunites-missing-persons-with-families-101626724290347.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP suspends Kupwara dist BJP chief after son ‘stages attack on self’||The Bharatiya Janata Party has suspended its Kupwara district president Mohamed Shafi Mir and launched an investigation after it emerged that his son and personal security officers had staged a terror attack to grab the limelight . The police have detained Mir’s son, Ishfaq Mir, and two personal security officers. While Kupwara senior superintendent of police (SSP) GV Sudeep refused to furnish any details, the BJP issued a statement saying that Mir had been suspended from the party and probe was underway. BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said party spokesperson GM Mir has been asked to examine the incident and present a report on July 25. “Till then, the Kupwara district president will remain under suspension,” he said.Earlier, the Jammu and Kashmir Police had said BJP worker Ishfaq Mir was injured by a bullet misfired by his personal security officer (PSO) in Kupwara on Friday and had ruled out speculations of a terror attack on the politician. Mir, the son of BJP district president Kupwara, Mohammad Shafi, is also active worker of the party in Kupwara.“The weapon of the PSO went off accidentally in the car, which hit the arm of BJP worker Ishfaq Mir. The other PSO fired in fear. People are requested not to spread rumours of [a] militant attack,” SSP Kupwara GV Sundeep had said, soon after the incident.Earlier, news of the attack had spread panic among BJP workers in Kashmir as several leaders of the saffron party have been attacked by militants over the last two years. Police, however, detained Ishfaq Mir and the PSOs to investigate the matter. An official, who did not wish to be named, said that the police had clues that indicate the attack was orchestrated by the BJP leader and his son to get the attention of the party’s leadership and to get enhanced personal security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-suspends-kupwara-dist-bjp-chief-after-son-stages-attack-on-self-101626723811726.html
20-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC issues work orders for C&D waste plant in city||Hanging fire for over four years, the municipal corporation (MC) has finally issued work orders for establishing a construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant in the city.As per officials, it will be the first-of-its-kind plant in the state and will be established in Dhandari Kalan area at a cost of ₹4.40 crore under the Smart City Mission. The work order for the project was issued last week and construction is set to begin soon.Will restore C&D waste into sand, gravelThe plant will be commissioned within six months and the contractor hired for the project will supply, install, commission, operate and maintain the plant for a period of five years. The contractor will also be responsible for restoring the C&D waste into sand and gravel, which the civic body will procure.Will help check pollutionThe plant will come as a major relief for residents who have been raising a hue and cry over the dumping of C&D waste at vacant plots and green zones of various parts of the city, including the cremation ground road in Model Town Extension, Dugri, Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, Focal Point, Haibowal among other areas.Dumping of waste in the open also leads to air pollution. During a virtual meeting held on May 21, the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the MC to start operations of the C&D waste plant within three months, otherwise a penalty of ₹2 lakh will be imposed on the civic body. Arvind Sharma, a resident of SBS Nagar, said, “We have been regularly complaining about dumping of construction waste by building contractors. It creates unhygienic conditions and encourages others to do the same.” Karandeep Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension Block-B, said, “The green belts on the cremation ground road have been lying in shambles for a long time. It also presents a filthy look even as we live in one of the posh areas of the city. If maintained properly, the area can be developed as a place where residents can spend leisure time with their families.”As per officials, the MC will also be purchasing dumpers and JCB machines under the Smart City project for shifting waste dumped in different parts of the city to the plant.MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Pardeep Sabharwal said the plant will help the civic body in reducing pollution. The civic body has already designated six sites for dumping C&D waste. These are located on the Chandigarh Road, Dhandari Kalan, Rahon Road, Barewal among other areas. Those caught dumping waste in green belts or open plots will be penalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-issues-work-orders-for-c-d-waste-plant-in-city-101626723753003.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Building bridges with Capt, putting Congress’s house in order key challenges for Sidhu||Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has been keen to head the Punjab Congress to set himself up for the chief minister’s post if the party wins in 2022.On Sunday, he was named president of the state unit by the Congress leadership despite a stiff opposition from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The elevation has come as a huge boost for the cricketer-turned-politician who is considered close to former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.But there are several challenges tied to the reins of the party and the state polls are just seven months away. The first and foremost task before the 57-year-old Amritsar East MLA is to build bridges with the veteran leader who is angry over the former’s “derogatory” tweets and remarks against him.Amarinder had told All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, who informed him about the impending changes, on Saturday that he would meet Sidhu only after a public apology from him. Sidhu had, in his tweets and interviews, accused Capt of colluding with the Badals and allowing mafia raj.Accompanied by a few young MLAs, Sidhu traveled to Chandigarh and Mohali and visited several party leaders on Monday, but he has not responded to the CM’s demand as a public apology would mean recantation of his accusations. The former minister will need to find a way to reach out to the CM to mend relations with him for cohesion, not just the customary photo-op, now that he heads the state unit, said two senior party leaders.Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said this is a time to be united and reconciliation is the way forward, appealing to both sides to show magnanimity. The two-month-long factional war, which saw a number of other seniors, including some ministers, MPs and some traditional Congressmen, oppose his promotion, has made the cadres and leaders apprehensive about the party’s poll prospects.The Congress’ rivals, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), are already sensing an opportunity in the Congress infighting.Though the former TV commentator is a tireless campaigner with crowd-pulling capacity, he will need to take everyone along, besides addressing issues related to caste and religious equations, to build a winning campaign. Both Amarinder and Sidhu are Jat Sikhs and belong to Patiala. The party high command has also attempted to strike a balance by appointing four working presidents. Another challenge that he faces now is his position on issues, including Bargari sacrilege, drugs, mafia and power purchase agreements (PPAs), on which he attacked the government.“The question is will he (Sidhu) continue to target the CM or focus on poll agenda and preparations? The onus is on him. A party is like a cart pulled by two bulls. If they start pulling it in different directions, it gets stuck,” said one of the leaders quoted above. Also, the new job will put to test his organisational and election management capabilities like never before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/building-bridges-with-capt-putting-cong-s-house-in-order-key-challenges-for-sidhu-101626723751789.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Meet the new Punjab Congress working presidents||Kuljit Singh Nagra, Fatehgarh Sahib MLAFrom being a student union leader at Khalsa College, Chandigarh, to working president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, it is no less than meteoric rise for Kuljit Singh Nagra (56), the Fatehgarh Sahib MLA who comes from a non-political family. Considered close to the party leadership, particularly former president Rahul Gandhi, Nagra is associated with All India Congress Committee (AICC) communication head Randeep Singh Surjewala since college days. Nagra remained Punjab Youth Congress general secretary from 1995 to 1997 and later general secretary of the India Youth Congress besides being a senate member of Panjab University, Chandigarh. He caught Rahul Gandhi’s attention in 2007 when he spoke on the farmers’ issues. He was made vice-president of the party’s kisan cell. He managed to get ticket from Fatehgarh Sahib in 2012 and defeated Akali heavyweight Prem Singh Chandumajra. He was re-elected in 2017. “My appointment as PPCC working president is a testimony to the fact that any ordinary worker can reach up to any level in the party, provided you work with dedication. I considered myself among grassroots workers who are the backbone of a party,” said two-time MLA and AICC secretary Nagra, thanking Rahul Gandhi.Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Jandiala Guru MLAJandiala Guru MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny, also known as Danny Bandala, has been appointed as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) working president at a relatively young age of 43. Though there are other senior Congress leaders like Amritsar east MLA Raj Kumar Verka and Attari MLA Tarsem Singh DC from the scheduled caste (SC) community in the Majha region, the party high command preferred him for the post in an attempt to woo the Dalits. His proximity with Rahul Gandhi is also believed to have played a role in his new appointment.Sukhwinder’s father and two-time Congress MLA late Sardool Singh Bandala was a minister in the previous Congress government led by Amarinder Singh from 2002 to 2007. The Bandala junior was among the Youth Congress leaders who were fielded by Rahul Gandhi in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections but he lost from the Faridkot segment. He, however, scraped through in the 2017 assembly elections and defeated SAD’s Dalbir Singh. He was Youth Congress vice-president from 2005 to 2014 and served as a member of the Committee on Welfare of SCs, STs and BCs of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha (2017-2019). Pawan Goel, former PPCC general secretaryPawan Goel is the only Hindu face and a non-MLA among four newly appointed working presidents of the Punjab Pradesh Congress committee (PPCC). The 65-year-old low-key leader, Goel, who hails from Jaitu in Faridkot district, comes from a family of traditional Congressmen. His father Lala Bhagwan Dass was elected MLA from Kotkapura in 1980 and served in the cabinet of then chief minister Darbara Singh for two years starting 1981 (the Darbara Singh government resigned and President’s rule was imposed in Punjab in 1983). He also served as PPCC vice-president from 1985 to 1988. Dass was assassinated by Sikh militants in 1988. His family had close ties with former chief ministers Beant Singh and Rajinder Kaur Bhathal. Goel is considered to be close to the CM Capt Amarinder Singh. He was general secretary of PPCC, which was dissolved in 2020. Goel also served as Faridkot Congress president between 2006 and 2011. He, however, never got a chance to contest an assembly election but his recent appointment has made him a frontrunner for Congress ticket from Kotkapura in the assembly elections. Sangat Singh Gilzian, Urmur MLAGilzian, 68, a three-time MLA from the Urmur assembly segment in Hoshiarpur district, began his political journey at the grassroots level when he was elected sarpanch of his village in the 1990s. One of the few MLAs who first joined ranks with Navjot Singh Sidhu against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Gilzian lost his first election from Urmur in 2002 by a small margin. During the 2007 assembly, the Congress denied him party ticket but he chose to contest as an independent and won with a margin of over 10,000 votes. Till he rejoined the Congress-fold in 2009, his supporters managed to stage an impressive victory in the Tanda municipal elections despite the fact that the Shiromani Akali Dal was in power. The backward class (BC) community leader has retained the Urmur assembly seat since 2007. He resigned from party posts in 2018 after he was not included in the expanded state cabinet and accused the party of “ignoring” the backward classes in the government, underlining that he is a senior legislator from the Doaba region. “I have been serving the people since I became sarpanch. We will take our workers along and form government in 2022,” he said. (Inputs by Vishal Rambani, Surjit Singh, Gagandeep Singh and Parteek Singh Mahal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meet-the-new-punjab-congress-working-presidents-101626723690330.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu in Chandigarh but no meeting with Capt||A day after he became the new Punjab Congress president, expectation was that Navjot Singh Sidhu will call on chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Sidhu, whose appointment was announced on Sunday night, spent the entire day visiting cabinet ministers and other senior leaders of the party in Chandigarh and Mohali, but their much-anticipated meeting did not materialise even though they were within a few hundred meters of each other at one point of time.The new state Congress head was with leaders at cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s house, whereas the chief minister was having a meeting with MLAs from Patiala district at his official residence. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had indicated earlier that the two leaders would meet.Sidhu returned to Patiala after meeting dozens of party leaders in the tricity and will travel to Amritsar on Tuesday. Both sides later said there was no meeting planned or requested.Monday’s developments are sign that the crisis is still simmering. Amarinder, who had opposed Sidhu’s appointment, is furious with the Amritsar East MLA for making “derogatory” tweets and statements against him. The CM told Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, one of the three persons tasked with resolving the crisis in the Congress, that he would met Sidhu only after a public apology from him.Till Monday night, there was no apology or response from the new appointee on his demand.Amarinder has not put out a tweet or statement to welcome the changes so far whereas Congress’ other two CMs Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) congratulated Sidhu on Twitter.Earlier, Sidhu arrived in Chandigarh in the morning and met former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, assembly speaker Rana KP Singh, former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Razia Sultana and Charanjit Singh Channi. Jakhar, Randhawa and some MLAs joined him as he went around meeting other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-in-chandigarh-but-no-meeting-with-capt-101626723630432.html
20-07-2021||Other||Day after Sidhu’s elevation as PPCC chief, his posters emerge in Ludhiana||A day after Navjot Singh Sidhu was named the president of Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee (PPCC), his posters have begun to emerge on the outskirts of the city. One such hoarding was placed near Ram Nagar Chowki following Sidhu’s elevation.Recently, Sidhu’s posters installed by Jasraj Grewal, a resident of Dugri, were found torn, triggering speculations that local Congress leaders were unhappy with Sidhu taking over the role ahead of the assembly elections slated for 2022. Meanwhile, the district Congress unit conducted customary celebrations after Sidhu’s elevation as PPCC chief but the legislators remained conspicuous by their absence.District Congress Committee (urban) president Ashwani Sharma said it was an informal programme. “We are in touch with the newly appointed PPCC chief and are planning for a grand reception once he arrives in the city. All the MLAs’ will also be present during the occasion,” said Sharma.Sidhu elevation has baffled opposition parties. And the selection of four working presidents has strengthened the party’s structure in the run-up to the elections.No hard feelings against Sidhu: PandeyWhen contacted for comments on the developments, Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey said the party has a democratic setup. “The decision high command is acceptable to all. The rest depends on a person’s work and results,” he said.Recently, Sidhu had courted a controversy when he questioned his own government’s decision of offering a government job, as Naib Tehsildar, to Pandey’s son Bhisham on compassionate grounds.Pandey had strongly reacted to this. “I still maintain that the job was well deserved. It was a goodwill gesture by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to honour the sacrifice my father had made for restoring peace in the state,” said Pandey.Terrorists had killed then MLA and towering Congress leader Joginder Pal Pandey (Rakesh Pandey’s father) in 1987.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan, Ashu, Sanjay Talwar remained incommunicado. Kuldeep Vaid, Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Lakhvir Singh Lakha were visiting Chandigarh to congratulate the newly appointed PPCC chief.Before taking over the charge of PPCC chief, Sidhu had visited Gurkirat Singh Kotli’s house on Sunday. Kotli is also the cousin of Congress MP from Ludhiana, Ravneet Singh Bittu.Bittu has been critical of Sidhu and has been siding with the Amarinder camp.Both Kotli and Lakha introduced Sidhu to the party workers. Later both MLAs’, along with district planning board chairman MLA Malkit Singh Dakha, conducted a meeting.After an hour hour-long meeting Lakha and Kotli sang paeans of Sidhu and termed him a charismatic leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-sidhu-s-elevation-as-ppcb-chief-his-posters-emerge-in-ludhiana-101626723510248.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Murdered Panchkula girl’s father found dead in Mohali||A day after a 10-year-old girl was found murdered near Bander Ghati in Panchkula, her father – the main suspect in the crime – was found dead at a railway track in Zirakpur on Monday. The child, Agrima, a student of Class 4, was last seen leaving with her father, Bhupinder Bhandari, 40, in their car on July 17. On Monday, the driver of a Shatabi Express discovered his body after it was dragged for several metres by the train.A bag with an Aadhaar card was found near the body that helped the Zirakpur police identify Bhandari, following which the Panchkula police were alerted. “We have confirmed that the deceased is Bhandari. We are suspecting that he died by suicide, but the Mohali police will carry out investigation in the case as the body was found in Ghazipur area of Zirakpur,” said Arvind Kamboj, SHO of the Chandimandir police station.Mohali police have initiated inquest proceedings in the matter. Meanwhile, police sources said the post-mortem report of the child had revealed strangulation as the cause of death. The family originally hailed from Dehradun in Uttarakhand and Bhandari used to run coaching classes in Panchkula. The victim’s mother is a clerk with a Haryana power body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murdered-panchkula-girl-s-father-found-dead-in-mohali-101626723450301.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Revised EWS housing policy: GMADA initiates process to construct 5K houses in Mohali||With the Punjab government notifying the revised economically weaker section (EWS) housing policy recently, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has initiated the process to construct 5,000 houses in the first phase. The Punjab cabinet had approved the policy in February. GMADA will construct a total of 22,000 houses. The process had been hanging fire for the last six years. Five years ago, the development authority had got back 230 acres of land from 46 builders in the district as part of EWS housing policy, but failed to build any dwelling unit. Pradeep Aggarwal, chief administrator of GMADA, said that they have floated a request for proposal (RFP) to engage a project management company (PMC) for construction of around 5,000 flats in the first phase. As per GMADA’s plan, four-storeyed houses will be constructed over 54 acres at four of its townships — Aerocity (13.49 acres), IT City (17.48 acres), Eco City-1 (3.6 acres), and Eco City-2 (20.17 acres). The flats will be sold to the financially-backward for around ₹10 lakh per unit. What the new policy states These houses will be constructed in reasonably-sized pockets with social infrastructure such as schools, community centres and dispensaries at convenient locations to ensure comfortable living. They will be constructed using latest brickless technology and offered to eligible families and financed by banks at affordable monthly instalment rates. Eligible applicants will have to furnish proof of birth in Punjab or of 10-year stay in the state. The family’s income should not exceed ₹3 lakh per annum from all sources, as revised by the central or Punjab government from time to time. The applicants, their spouse or minor child must not already own freehold/leasehold residential plot/dwelling unit in Punjab or Chandigarh, and the applicant will be required to self-certify on these counts. Policy revised thrice in 12 years In a 2008 cabinet meeting, the Punjab Housing and Habitat Policy was approved, under which EWS houses were to be built. But, most builders had shirked responsibility. Thereupon, GMADA took possession of the land earmarked for EWS houses from private builders. Currently, GMADA has 25 mega projects and more than 100 approved colonies under its ambit. Then, in its 2013 notification, the housing and urban development department told Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) and other development authorities that if approved builders fail to make houses for the EWS category, they should transfer the land to the government. Again in 2016, it was approved that the land transferred to GMADA by builders may be utilised for other purposes, and the money earned should be used for constructing houses for the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/revised-ews-housing-policy-gmada-initiates-process-to-construct-5k-houses-in-mohali-101626723390562.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||LeT terror module busted in Budgam, 5 held||A Lashkar-e-Taiba module was busted with the arrest of five members of the proscribed terror outfit in Budgam on Monday. Initially, acting on a tip off, the Jammu and Kashmir Police along with the 53 Rashtriya Rifles and Central Reserve Police Force arrested a local militant, Mohamed Younis Mir, and recovered incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one Chinese pistol, one magazine, and eight pistol rounds. After interrogating Mir, police were able to arrest four of his associates. Incriminating materials and ammunition, including two hand grenades, were also recovered from their possession, a police spokesperson said.Those arrested are Imran Zahoor Ganie, Umer Farooq Wani, Faizan Qayoom Ganie and Shahnawaz Ahmad Mir. All accused are residents of Budgam. “The arrested men were involved in providing shelter, logistics and other material support, including transportation of arms and ammunition, to the active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit LeT in different areas of Budgam,” the spokesperson said, adding that the arrested persons were in touch with Pakistan-based terror commanders through various social media platforms and were also in constant touch with local LeT commanders in Kashmir,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/let-terror-module-busted-in-budgam-5-held-101626723330169.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Goons attack lawyer, associate, clients in Dahisar||MHB Colony police on Monday arrested three people for allegedly attacking a lawyer, his associate and clients with swords and knives when they went to survey a land in Dahisar (West) on Sunday.According to police, the lawyer, Satyadev Joshi, had gone to survey the land near Kandarpada with his associate Ankit Tandon and clients — Divyesh Desai, his father Rajendra Desai, his partner Taufiq Khan and Khan’s two sons, when more than 30 men reached the spot and threatened to kill them if they did not leave. The group of unknown persons claimed the land belonged to Arun Upadhyay and Mukesh Bhatia. When Desai and Khan refused to budge as they bought the land to construct a school on it, the men removed swords and knives from a nearby parked rickshaw and assaulted them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/goons-attack-lawyer-associate-clients-in-dahisar-101626723149635.html
20-07-2021||Other||Day after landslides in Mumbai, BMC and collector’s office pass the buck||Days before the onset of monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had written to the suburban collector’s office, expressing fear over casualties in case of heavy rainfall. BMC’s S ward, under which Vikhroli and Bhandup fall, had asked the collector’s office to make alternate arrangements for citizens residing on the hilltop, citing there are chances of an untoward incident, as monsoon was about to make landfall in the city.On Sunday, two landslides were reported in the city, of which one took place in Surya Nagar at Vikhroli, where boulders fell due to heavy rain. Around seven to eight houses collapsed in the landslide, killing 10 – including two minors – while one person was injured. Another landslide was reported in New Bharat Nagar area of Mahul at Chembur, that resulted in the collapse of at least five houses and 19 deaths, including of five minors victims. Five more people were injured in the incident. BMC claims S ward officials had written to the collector on June 7, warning of possible mishaps at the two areas where the landslides took place on Sunday, as the illegal structures are on the land owned by the suburban collector. According to the letter, the ward had asked suburban collector Milind Borikar to take the required measures, as monsoon was expected to hit the city anytime soon. Suburban collector Milind Borikar was not available for comment. However, a senior official from his office said, “As per the state government’s directives, it’s BMC’s responsibility to clear encroachment irrespective of title of the land. The deputy collector (encroachment removal) works under housing department and not under the collector. We’ve submitted our detailed reply in a petition in the Bombay high court.”BMC had also written to the disaster management authority, expressing concerns of an untoward incident in the hilltop, where the slums located. “Prepare a plan for rescue operation during any mishap such as landslide, collapse of dilapidated structure removal of material, firefighting measures, rescue of affected people etc and submit it to Hon’ble M.C (municipal commissioner) with your suggestions (sic),” S ward’s letter to the disaster management authority on May 24 read. Rescue operations at both Mahul and Vikhroli seemed difficult owing to the narrow lanes at the site. A civic official from S ward said, “We had written to all the required authorities in advance as around 400,000 people in the ward reside in slums that are mostly located on hilltops. We are ready to give the collector’s office all the support on where to shift citizens who are at landslide-prone areas. For now, we have shifted 30 citizens from Surya Nagar slums to safe locations in civic-run schools.”The suburbs have around 250 landslide spots, of which 150 are in S ward. According to a report prepared by BMC’s disaster management cell, areas around hill slopes in Ghatkopar, Bhandup and Kurla are more prone to landslides, and slum populations residing on these hill slopes are at high risk.Between 2011 and 2018, 16 incidents of landslides were reported in the Island city, while 58 in eastern suburbs and 20 in the western suburbs, in which nine people died and 26 were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-landslides-in-mumbai-bmc-and-collector-s-office-pass-the-buck-101626723096013.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||36% students in Chandigarh colleges yet to receive Covid shot||Out of around 23,000 responses received, as many as 36% students of UT colleges are yet to receive the Covid vaccine.The data was recently compiled by the UT higher education department upon receiving the figures from around 16 colleges including technical institutions in Chandigarh.The officials, however, said that the number of vaccinated students may have increased after the education department started Covid vaccination camps last week at three city colleges, mainly for students.As the second Covid wave has ebbed away, the UT administration is preparing the unlock plan for city colleges in August. As per this plan, at least a single dose of Covid vaccine will be mandatory to attend the classes for both students and college staff.As per the data, the response from over 5,000 postgraduate students was received out of which over 50% students are yet to get vaccinated.For more than a year now, city colleges have remained largely shut. Some colleges reopened in November last year, but didn’t evoke much response from the students.When the first wave had subsided in February this year, the administration had decided to reopen all colleges. However, the second wave descended soon after in March, thwarting UT’s plan.UT secretary, education, Sarpreet Singh Gill said, “We have already started camps in colleges. We will issue instructions to colleges making vaccination mandatory for those who want to attend the college.”Covid vaccination camps are already operational at three city colleges, but it is likely that another camp for students may be started. A college principal, on condition of anonymity, said, “The number of students getting vaccinated is increasing daily. We are also urging students to get jabbed so that colleges can function in a hybrid mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/36-students-in-chandigarh-colleges-yet-to-receive-covid-shot-101626723095363.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Pankaja Munde skips BJP’s OBC morcha||Days after she openly voiced her dissent against state leadership of the party, Bharatiya Janata Party’s national secretary and former state minister Pankaja Munde skipped the party’s day long OBC morcha at its Mumbai office on Monday. Munde’s absence was conspicuous as she had openly expressed her discontent last week after her younger sister and Beed MP Pritam was denied inclusion in the central cabinet during its recent expansion and elevation of another OBC leader from her region, Bhagwat Karad, as a union minister. While expressing her full faith in party’s central leaders prime minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah, Munde had last week hit out, in her veiled attack, at leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. The former chief minister is believed to have played a key role in selecting the MPs inducted from Maharashtra in the Modi cabinet. She even had said that it was not time to quit the party and the decision would be taken at appropriate time. She was addressing her supporters gathered outside her Worli office to registered their protest for the ‘unjust’ decision.Munde is a key leader from the OBC which is the strong base of the BJP. She is the eldest daughter of the late Gopinath Munde, who played a significant role in building the party’s base in Maharashtra. He was also regarded as the most influential OBC leader in the state and is often credited with changing the earlier perception of the BJP that it was a party of a few upper caste communities. After her father’s death in 2014, Pankaja has been fighting to retain his legacy in state politics. Karad’s elevation into the cabinet is seen as an attempt by the state unit leaders of downsizing Mundes who enjoy strong support among OBC communities.Her keeping away from the launch of the OBC Chetan Abhiyaan has raised many eyebrows in the party. The drive was launched in the presence of national general secretary of OBC Morcha Sangamlal Gupta, leader of opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.Senior BJP leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said that Munde will remain in the party till her ‘last breath’. Another party leaders Chandrashekhar Bawankule too was away from the function.Both Munde and Bawankule had attended OBC Chintan Shibir in Lonawala last month along with Congress leader Vijay Wadettiwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pankaja-munde-skips-bjp-s-obc-morcha-101626723094003.html
20-07-2021||Other||Unsafe buildings pose threat to lives; Ludhiana MC, police fail to take action||The rising number of unsafe buildings in the city continues to pose danger to the lives of residents with the municipal corporation (MC) and police department failing to act against the same. According to a recent survey conducted by MC, the number of such buildings has increased from 113 in 2019 to 132.Many of the buildings are over 100 years old.Rather than taking action against the buildings and the occupants, the civic body has again written to the police department to get them vacated, stating that the civic body has no powers to do it themselves under Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. Further, notices have been issued to the occupants to vacate the buildings, else they will be responsible for any accident caused.Fearing that the buildings might collapse during the monsoon season, the MC has been writing to the police department on the onset of the rainy season for the last few years, but no concrete action has been taken yet.As per the recent survey conducted by MC, out of the total 132 buildings, 64 are situated in Zone A, 21 in Zone B, 14 in Zone C, and 33 in Zone D.The buildings are situated in Chaura Bazar area, Daresi road, Rarri Mohalla, Lakkar Bazar, Field Ganj, Iqbal Ganj Chowk, Moti Nagar, Amarpura, Dashmesh Nagar near Gill chowk, Jawaddi, Barewal, among other areas.One of the MC officials, requesting anonymity, said that many cases of unsafe buildings are sub-judice as owners and tenants are at loggerheads over vacating the building. Due to this, the MC cannot take action against the building. Despite notices served by MC, no tenant or owner vacates the building.A 70-year-old man, Gurcharan Singh, had in 2015 died after a part of an unsafe building collapsed in Thapran Mohalla. In 2018, a part of an unsafe building at Sanglan Shivala Mandir Road had also collapsed.Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust secretary Tribhuvan Thapar said, “Two such buildings are situated in Naughara Mohalla, where the house of martyr Sukhdev Thapar is situated. The buildings can collapse anytime, but the authorities have failed to take any action. They have only served notices to the owners. People do not even go near the buildings when a thunderstorm hits the city suspecting that it might collapse.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the police department has to get the building vacated as the MC does not have the power to do so. “I will also take up the matter with the commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal,” said Sabharwal.Meanwhile, Agrawal said he will look into the matter as he has not yet seen the letter issued by the MC. “The civic body will also be involved as the unsafe buildings might have to be demolished. The police will assist the MC as these buildings pose danger to lives,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unsafe-buildings-pose-threat-to-lives-ludhiana-mc-police-fail-to-take-action-101626723092828.html
20-07-2021||Other||Four booked for robbing contractor of ₹43,000||Four men have been booked for robbing a contractor of ₹43,000 at gunpoint.The accused have been identified as Rohit Kumar of Gulabi Bagh, Harjinder Singh of Gopal Nagar, Bobby of New Subhash Nagar and Amardeep Singh of Prem Vihar.The victim, Inderdev Tiwari, 27, of Harjap Nagar said that he supplies raw material and labourers and the accused men are his acquaintances. On Sunday, they called him to Disposal Chowk on the pretext of offering him a new contract. When he got there, they robbed him and fledA case has been registered at the Focal Point police station under Section 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-booked-for-robbing-contractor-of-rs-43000-101626723091836.html
20-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana locals visiting police stations in for a surprise||Locals visiting police stations, posts and other units are in for a surprise as they may be greeted by freshly painted walls, carpets, decorated offices and well-behaved police personnel offering water and tea to them. All 29 police stations, 28 posts and 12 other units are competing to bag the first prize in a competition being conducted by the police department where they will be judged on various parameters. The winner will receive ₹3 lakh.The parameters include beautification of building, cleanliness, law and order situation in their respective areas and disposing off pending complaints. Punishment will be given to worst-performing police units.The department had announced the competition on January 1, 2020 and had asked the police personnel to prepare for it. But, it was postponed after the Covid lockdown was imposed in March 2020 and public dealing was suspended at police stations.On March 24, 2021, the department had announced the competition again and asked the SHOs, police post, unit in-charges to gear up.The police commissioner has already started taking rounds of police stations and buildings to evaluate working and preparations. The evaluation will be done by a committee comprising police officials as well as members from public.The police stations, posts and units have to fulfil various criteria including location and access of police stations, community orientation and public facilities, welfare of police personnel, crime prevention, police station management, transparency and accountability.Evaluation will also include the condition of visitors’ room, help desk, receptions with proper sign boards, waiting room chairs, toilet and water facilities, investigation officers’ work stations, progress of arrest of POs, recoveries under the NDPS Act, percentage of complaints disposed of within three months, maintenance of record room, maintenance of equipment, weapons and vehicles. The evaluation committee will also see case property disposal, particularly vehicle disposal systems.The top-ranked police station will get a reward amount of ₹3 lakh, the second-ranked police station will get ₹1 lakh while the third-ranked police station will get a reward of ₹50,000, besides certificates. Among the police posts, the police post bagging top three spots will get ₹1 lakh, ₹50,000 and ₹25,000 each. Likewise, among other police units like women cell, Anti Human Trafficking unit, cyber cell, economic offence unit, traffic wing, Motor Transport Section, Licensing Unit, Summon Units, the first-ranked unit will get a reward of ₹1 lakh, the second-ranked unit will get ₹50,000 while third-ranked unit will get ₹25,000 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-locals-visiting-police-stations-in-for-a-surprise-101626723090245.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University, Punjab Engineering College professors get patent for collaborative research||A patent titled “Improved calcium orthophosphate for biomedical applications and method thereof” has been granted to Panjab University (PU) and Punjab Engineering College (PEC) recently, the PU said on Monday.The product is an outcome of research collaboration between Dr Seema Kapoor, professor at PU’s chemical engineering department, and Dr Uma Batra, professor and head of the metallurgical and materials engineering department at PEC. The research collaboration was initiated in the field of biomaterials in the year 2009.Dr Batra said that the synthetic mesoporous calcium orthophosphate has potential usage for ingeniously developing of bone scaffold, bone void filler, bone cements, coating or constituent of bio composites, bone graft or bone substitute biomaterial land for drug and gene delivery. “Some important applications include orthopaedic surgery, dentistry and cosmetic surgery,” she said.“The method of synthesising the mesoporous calcium orthophosphate can be scaled up to commercial scale to be manufactured by pharmaceutical industries. The material of the said patent is totally synthetic and developed from the chemicals so that it does not cause any kind of an infection in the body,” she added.“The cost effectiveness comes from the fact that the material has been developed indigenously in the research lab and it has improved functionality as compared to the imported products,” said Dr Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-punjab-engineering-college-professors-get-patent-for-collaborative-research-101626723037882.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Hindutva: BJP’s ammo in its fight against Shiv Sena||Amid heavy rain in Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday afternoon drove to Pandharpur, the town in western Maharashtra that houses the temple of deity Lord Vithhal, which is visited by millions of devotees in the month of Ashadh as per the Hindu calendar. Thackeray’s travel to Pandharpur to perform the puja at the temple on Tuesday, which is traditionally done by chief minister of the state every year, comes at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to corner the Shiv Sena and question its Hindutva credentials over the curbs imposed on the annual wari (processions of devotees) to Pandharpur and the closure of places of worship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP alleges the Shiv Sena has diluted its commitment to Hindutva for political expediency—to come to power in Maharashtra with “secular” parties like the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Influential fringe groups like Shivprathisthan Hindustan led by controversial Sambhaji Bhide have also hit the ground over the curbs on the wari and sought the reopening of temples, which may add to the Sena’s difficulties. Like last year, the state has imposed curbs on the Ashadi pilgrimage to Lord Vithhal temple at Pandharpur due to the pandemic. Instead of millions of warkaris (as followers of Warkari sect are called) walking to Pandharpur with palkhis of saints, 10 palkhis will be taken by bus to the temple town in Solapur, with 40 devotees each. Last week, Warkari leader Bandatatya Karhadkar who tried to walk to Pandharpur in violation of these orders, was detained with some associates near Pune. “I do not agree with the excuse about the Covid-19 pandemic. Corona is a hoax meant to loot and scare people,” said Karhadkar, when contacted by HT. “The (Shiv Sena’s) Hindutva has lost its edge… the NCP has suppressed everyone. Thackeray seems to be helpless,” he claimed. Bhide, who has been accused of involvement in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon riots, met Karhadkar at Karad, where he has been detained, to express solidarity. Bhide’s statements about Covid-19 mirror those of Karhadkar. Bhide, has kicked up a controversy by calling Covid a “hoax” and claimed that the wari must be resumed to end the pandemic globally. “The government could have allowed 50 warkaris to undertake the pilgrimage to Pandharpur. This is a centuries-old tradition that was not disrupted even during the reign of the Mughals, Nizam and the British,” said Acharya Tushar Bhosale of the BJP’s Adhyatmik Aghadi (spiritual front), while attacking the move to detain Karhadkar. Bhosale alleged that the Shiv Sena had diluted its commitment to Hindutva to ally with the Congress and NCP. The Shiv Sena, which was born as a sons-of-soil political party in 1966, made a sharp turn towards majoritarian politics in the 1980s. The use of political Hindutva helped the Shiv Sena cultivate right-leaning voters and the late Sena chief Bal Thackeray emerged as a right-wing mascot. This helped it grow into a pan-Maharashtra entity by expanding outside its traditional stronghold in the Mumbai-Thane belt, where its Marathi manoos agenda had a strong resonance. Now, as an ally of the Congress and NCP, the Shiv Sena is compelled to walk the tightrope on issues of religious assertion and identity to avoid alienating its voters. In October 2020, Governor BS Koshyari had written a scathing letter to Thackeray questioning the government’s decision to not open temples, and had asked him whether he had “turned secular” by abandoning Hindutva. This had prompted the chief minister to retort in a similar vein, stating that he did not need a certificate to validate his pro-Hindutva credentials. Reminding Koshyari that he had taken oath as the governor of the state on the constitution, Thackeray said secularism was the core principle of this constitution. “Bars and wine shops are open, but places of worship are closed. They can be opened at least once a week on particular days like Monday for Shiva temples,” said BJP spokesperson Atul Wagh. “The Shiv Sena is not a Hindutvawadi (pro-Hindutva) but an opportunist party... They strike compromises for power,” he said. A Shiv Sena leader from western Maharashtra, Bhide’s stronghold, said, “The organisation operates like a proxy front by making statements and undertaking activities that the BJP can’t take up directly.” Earlier this year, in the elections to the Pune graduates constituency in the legislative council, the organisation had supported the BJP nominee. A Sena leader admitted the BJP’s campaign about the Pandharpur yatra and the temples was putting the party in a quandary. “The BJP-ruled Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have called off the kanwar yatra over Covid concerns. We may also have to strike a balancing act on issues like the UCC and the family planning policies, which are being seen as reflecting the demographic concerns of the majority community,” the leader said. Arvind Sawant, Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP and spokesperson, lashed out at the BJP for playing petty politics to cover up for the Central Government’s failures in tackling the Covid crisis, inflation, rise in fuel prices, unemployment and farm distress. PG Jogdand, political analyst and former head, department of sociology, University of Mumbai, said this was part of the larger attempts by the BJP to corner the Shiv Sena and Uddhav on the issue of Hindutva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hindutva-bjp-s-ammo-in-its-fight-against-shiv-sena-101626723034658.html
20-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana records 36-yr low as mercury plummets to 28.2°C||A thick blanket of clouds covered the city but showers continued to evade the region on Monday. The overcast weather caused the mercury to plummet to 28.2°C, which is a record low for July. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) head department of climate change and agricultural meteorology Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu said the last time the mercury had plummetted to 28°C was 36 years ago on July 19, 1985. The minimum temperature in the city was 26.2°C. The cloud cover also increased the humidity, which was 84% in the morning and 82% in the evening. The PAU meteorological department said the rainfall received so far was short of the desired target. “The average rainfall seen during the month of July is 217mm, but so far the city has recorded only 72.2 mm of rainfall, which is well below the target,” Sidhu said, adding that the target had been met in June due to the early arrival of monsoon.“The shortfall does not bode well as proper distribution is rainfall is very important. It has been seen that the duration of rainfall has decreased, while its intensity has increased. Heavy rainfall in a few hours leads to waterlogging, which does not allow recharge the ground-water levels,” Sidhu said, adding that it drizzled at isolated places in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-36-yr-low-as-mercury-plummets-to-282c-101626723034221.html
20-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC teams raze 7 illegal colonies, 11 buildings||Municipal corporation (MC) teams razed seven illegal colonies and 11 illegal commercial and industrial constructions in different parts of the city on Monday. This comes two days after municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had during a meeting pulled up building branch officials over mushrooming of illegal colonies. Two colonies each were razed by MC teams in Zone A, B and C, while one in Zone D. They were located in areas like Jassiyan Road, Kakowal Road, Giaspura, near Eastman Chowk, Tibba Road and Barewal. Further, three under construction illegal industrial buildings at Azaad Nagar, Bahadurke Road and Manna Singh Nagar, two under-construction illegal shops at Lohara Road and six illegal commercial constructions at Haibowal and Barewal areas were also razed. They faced resistance from locals in Haibowal, as they tried to stop the demolition drive by standing in front of the JCB machines. But, they were pacified by the police.MC joint commissioner and municipal town panner (MTP) Kulpreet Singh also inspected the demolition drive. Singh said, “Action has been initiated on the directions of Sabharwal and the civic body is also working to conduct a survey of illegal colonies in the city. The drive will continue in the coming days and the residents should also inform us if they have any information about any illegal colony being developed.” During the MC general House meeting on Wednesday, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bhartiya Janata Party councillors (BJP) had slammed the MC over its failure to take action against illegal colonies. They said that the residents living in their areas, especially outer wards of the city, are facing water shortage due to mushrooming of illegal colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-teams-raze-7-illegal-colonies-11-buildings-101626723033146.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Structure found at Golden Temple remnant of a private property: Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday said an old structure found during excavation in the Golden Temple complex is remains of a private property called ‘Gianian Da Bunga (serai)’, endorsing the claim of a local family which purportedly lived in the building till 1988. During an interaction with mediapersons, he said, “The descendants of Giani Sant Singh lived in this building. The family vacated the premises after getting compensation from the government in 1988. Nobody raised a hue and cry when the building was razed at that time.” “People should not make a noise over it as no one is constructing personal buildings on the site which will have a jora ghar (where shoes are kept), a gathri ghar (locker) and a two-wheeler parking for the devotees visiting the Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple),” he said.He, however, did not clarify whether the structure should be preserved or not. The family’s ancestors, including Giani Sant Singh have been granthis, preachers and scholars of Sikhism. The family has demanded that the remains of the building be preserved owing to its historic importance. A meeting of Sikh bodies, thinkers and scholars will be held at the Akal Takht on July 26 to discuss sacrilege incidents happening frequently in Punjab, he said. Structure has Damdami Taksal link, says ex-jathedarAkal Takht former jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) executive member Charanjit Singh Jassowal on Monday linked the structure with the Damdami Taksal, a Sikh seminary. Rode said the historic structure found during kar sewa was built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for Giani Sant Singh who was granthi at Darbar Sahib and chief of the Sikh seminary. He also appealed to SGPC and Kar Sewa to stop all the work till all facts are cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/structure-found-at-golden-temple-remnant-of-a-private-property-akal-takht-jathedar-101626723031574.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||After season’s hottest day, rain brings down mercury in J&K||A day after witnessing the hottest day of the year so far, monsoon showers lashed parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. With the mercury hovering over 30°C for the last few days, the downpour brought much-needed respite from the heat.  On Sunday, the maximum temperatures in summer capital, Srinagar, and winter capital , Jammu, were 35°C and 36°C, respectively – the highest so far. Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts and Kathua in Jammu received heavy rainfall. Kulgam’s Khudwani recorded 81mm rain, Anantnag’s Batkoot 45mm and Kathua received 121mm rain. Jammu recorded 5.1mm rain, while Srinagar logged 0.5 mm precipitation.Flashflood damages homes in Anantnag “In Anantnag, a flashflood in Dadi Canal washed away many trees and damaged a few houses. It also caused a lot of soil erosion,” said a local Mohammad Abbas. Water also entered several houses at Pehru in Anantnag. “The maximum temperature dropped to 27.3°C in Srinagar and 28.2°C in Jammu,” an official of the weather office said. Sonam Lotus, director of the regional meteorological department, said heavy showers could be expected in the region till July 21. “The heavy rainfall may cause flashfloods, waterlogging and landslides,” he said. The weather office has predicted moderate to very heavy rainfall for two more days with the likelihood of it affecting preparations for upcoming festival of Eid-ul-Azha, to be celebrated in J&K from Wednesday. Thousands of sacrifical animals are bought during the festival, but the monsoon may affect sales. The weather office has asked people living at higher reaches to remain cautious while tourists and trekkers have been advised to avoid camping on mountain or riversides. The divisional commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir have also been alerted. The confluence of winds from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal is likely to cause lightning, thunder and widespread rainfall at most places in Jammu, mainly the Pirpanjal Range, and the Kashmir valley.“We may be celebrating Eid amid the rains. There may be a five-six degree drop in temperatures,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.The weather office said there may be temporary disruption of traffic mainly on Jammu- Srinagar highway, Srinagar-Leh highway, Doda- Kishtwar Road and Mughal Road.“There are chances of landslides and shooting stones at vulnerable places and water logging and minor floods over low-lying areas. Suspension of agricultural and horticultural operations during the above period is advised,” Mir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-season-s-hottest-day-rain-brings-down-mercury-in-jk-101626722973377.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Malaria tests dipped 37.2%, cases rose by 14% in 2020: BMC||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the detection of malaria cases has taken a backseat. The number of tests for malaria in 2020 fell by 37.2% compared to 2019, even as cases increased by 14% last year, as per data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Medical experts said drop in tests is likely to hinder the civic body’s antimalarial drive, which helped in attaining zero casualties caused by the mosquito-borne disease in 2019. In addition, malaria infection among Covid-recovered patients with compromised immunity can prove to be more fatal. Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected female anopheles mosquitoes. Every year, the city records around 5,500 cases of malaria. The highest number of cases is recorded during monsoon due to stagnant water which turns into breeding grounds for anopheles mosquitoes. Data provided by BMC shows that on an average, over 1 million tests are conducted every year to diagnose malaria patients. However, in 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic started, only 882,771 tests were being conducted while, 1,405,758 tests were done in 2019, showing a 37.2% drop in testing last year. Dr T Jacob John, virologist and retired professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said Mumbai has a long history of “urban malaria” cases and therefore ignoring it may lead to under-reporting of cases and related deaths.“Healthcare facilities are running only on one-sixth manpower. It is impossible for health departments to handle Covid-19 pandemic along with diseases like malaria, which is considered as a disease of the poor. But ignoring diseases like malaria, dengue and tuberculosis will bite the health system later,” said John.There are two types of malaria — Falciparum malaria, considered most dangerous affecting organs like brain, liver, adrenal gland, intestinal tract, kidneys, lungs, and the other is Vivax malaria which is considered non-deadly.Health activists warn that amid the pandemic, people already infected with Covid-19 have low immunity. So, post-Covid malaria infection may further worsen the health condition. “It is a ticking bomb. Recovered patients are still struggling with fatigue and low immunity. They cannot afford to contract malaria with such compromised health conditions. People in slums will be the most-affected ones,” said Brinelle D’Souza, senior faculty at Tata Institute of Social Sciences and co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan-Mumbai. “If BMC turns a blind eye to malaria cases, it would not only worsen the situation but also affect policy-level interventions. If cases go unreported, we may miss on the essential data which is required for policy planning,” she added. Data shows that since 2017, the lowest number of tests was recorded in 2020. In 2017, of 1,389,440 tests conducted 6,019 diagnosed with malaria. In 2018, 5,036 of 1,376,185 tests done tested positive for the disease. This year till May 31, 1,358 people have been diagnosed with malaria of 406,472 tested.In 2019, for the first time in a decade, the city recorded zero malaria deaths. Medical experts believe that fewer tests can hinder the anti-malaria drive of BMC.“With the gradual relaxation of lockdown, the movement of people outside has increased. Citizens are going to gardens and parks, which exposes them to mosquito bites. Also, construction sites have opened which become breeding grounds for mosquitoes due to stagnant water. So, we cannot ignore malaria which proves fatal if not treated in time,” said Dr Abhijit More, a health activist. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC, said, “Last year, our priority was Covid-19, so we mostly focused on it. Due to the lockdown last year, many people could not reach hospital on time. But the situation has improved this year. We are doing enough testing.”As HT reported, last year monsoon-related illnesses except malaria and swine flu cases dropped by over 50% compared to 2019. In 2020, the city had reported 237 cases of leptospirosis, 128 dengue, 2,478 gastrointestinal and 259 cases of hepatitis. In 2019, 281 cases of leptospirosis, 920 dengue, 7,785 gastrointestinal, and 1,534 cases of hepatitis were recorded. Swine flu incidence in the city also saw a huge fall as the number of cases dropped to 44 in 2020 from 451 the previous year.“Now, as Mumbai is recording heavy rain, the number of malaria cases is likely to rise next month,” said Dr John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malaria-tests-dipped-37-2-cases-rose-by-14-in-2020-bmc-101626722971615.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Traffic Police demarcate lane for commercial vehicles at Jan Marg||The Chandigarh Traffic Police have reintroduced lane driving for commercial vehicles on Jan Marg – from the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium till the Punjab and Haryana high court.A lane has been demarcated with a yellow strip on the extreme left, to be used by vehicles with yellow number plates, including taxis, autos, trucks and buses.Private vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers, will move in the remaining two lanes on the right. Since July 15, a traffic police team has been deployed on the spot with loudspeakers to ensure motorists adapt to the new lanes.For now, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Traffic Administration) Palak Goel said, there will be only an awareness drive and no challans.Recently, there have been a string of fatal accidents in the city involving commercial vehicles like trucks and autos.“Commercial vehicles often move in a rash and negligent manner, changing lanes very often. Lane driving will keep their pace in check,” said Manisha Choudhary, senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic).Residents respond positivelyAppreciating the move, president of Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said, “The road is wide enough to try this and will aid movement of emergency vehicles as well.”Advocate Kuljinder Sra, who uses this road often to reach the high court, said tourists must also be made aware of this initiative and it must be ensured that residents don’t face harassment because of it.“Similar steps have been taken the world over. It will help the traffic move more smoothly here,” said Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, local area councillor.Also hailing the initiative, Kamaljeet Singh Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said, “Although segregation is usually done between slower and faster vehicles, drivers of commercial vehicles have a different mentality compared to those of other vehicles. It is likely to reduce the number of accidents on this road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traffic-police-demarcate-lane-for-commercial-vehicles-at-jan-marg-101626722971106.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Local bus fleet of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking to go smart by August 15||All local buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) are set to go smart with the UT transport department’s Intelligent Transport System (ITS) ready for launch by August 15.The World Bank-sponsored project, costing the administration around ₹25 crore, aims to modernise the transport system and attract more passengers to the public transport.“All the preparations have been done and we are planning to launch the full-fledged ITS on the entire CTU fleet of local buses by August 15,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport. Currently, the system is being tested on the entire CTU fleet of 358 buses.In August last year, a trial run on 100 buses on 14 routes was launched by the UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore.Slew of security features introducedA slew of security features will be introduced in the buses. There will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. At a time, the central command and control centre will be able to live monitor 24 buses through these cameras.For additional security of passengers, particularly women commuters, a panic button will be available to solicit urgent help from the police and ambulance, if needed. Drivers will have a direct line of communication with the control room.The ITS will also allow live-tracking of the buses through a global positioning system (GPS), and the department authorities and commuters will be able to determine the exact bus locations.There will be a digital display of the bus timings at each bus queue shelter. Passenger information display screens have also been installed at different locations including the Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) in Sectors 17 and 43, the railway station, and some bus queue shelters.For integrating all ITS services, including monitoring and tracking, a SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) system or central command and control centre has been set up at the Sector-43 ISBT.“In case a bus is late or not sticking to a designated route, or if it jumps a light or speeds, the ITS will alert the officials concerned so that immediate corrective measures can be taken. In the long-run, it will allow the department to rationalise the bus routes in line with passenger traffic,” said Gupta.Rates of smart card-based bus passes fixedAs the initial step towards launching the ITS, the transport department on Monday fixed the rates of smart cards, which will be shortly rolled out. Initially 10,000 smart cards will be issued free of cost, and only printing charges will be taken. Thereafter, ₹100 will be levied for buying a smart card. The minimum recharge will be of ₹100, up to a maximum of ₹4,900 with a cap at ₹5,000.For both the existing passes and the new smart card-based passes, the facilitation charges or printing cost per card basis (excluding the cost of smart card) will be ₹30 (inclusive of GST). For issuance of an anonymous smart card, the charges will be ₹20. For recharges or for any other operation for personalised and anonymous smart cards, the charges will be ₹10. Online recharges through a portal will be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/local-bus-fleet-of-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-to-go-smart-by-august-15-101626722918218.html
20-07-2021||Other||Water supply normal in Mumbai , wall to protect plant||The city’s water supply has now normalised and there will be no shortage of water supply, civic officials said on Monday, a day after Asia’s largest water filtration plant in Bhandup had submerged under water due to heavy rainfall. BMC has advised that citizens continue boiling water as a precautionary measure for next two days.After the filtration plant went under water on Sunday, water supply was affected in several parts of the city.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also said that it has decided to construct a flood-retaining wall around the complex to prevent rain water from Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) entering the Bhandup filtration plant. According to BMC officials, the construction of the retaining wall is an extension of the existing wall that is constructed around the complex. “There is already an existing retaining wall but what we will construct now will be an extension in portions where there is no wall currently. This will prevent the rain water from entering into our filtration plant,” a BMC official said. BMC will also ask SGNP authorities to construct a separate drainage line or a canal that diverts all the rainwater towards Tulsi Lake instead of the Bhandup pumping station.“Currently, the rain water enters through a drain into the Bhandup plant, from where it goes to Tulsi Lake and gets filtered in an independent plant near the lake. However, now we are going to propose to forest authorities that they construct an independent storm water drain facility that takes water directly to Tulsi Lake, bypassing the Bhandup plant, as we cannot have waterlogging inside the plant in the future because it affects water supply in the city.” The BMC official said,The Bhandup plant filters 65% of the total 3,850 million litres of drinking water that BMC supplies daily to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-supply-normal-wall-to-protect-plant-101626722916460.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn prohibits protests in city other than at Sector-25 rally ground||Two days after the vehicles of mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon were attacked by protesting farmers in Sector 48, the UT administration prohibited protests, rallies, demonstrations and gathering of five or more people within Chandigarh other than at the rally ground in Sector 25.As per the orders, issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to stay in effect for 60 days, no tractor trolley will be permitted during protests. The decision was taken during a meeting between UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, senior UT officials and Chandigarh Police on Monday. Badnore said while every citizen had the right to protest peacefully, no unlawful activity will be tolerated and strict action will be taken against those who indulged in violence. He added that since Chandigarh was the capital of Punjab and Haryana, police from both states were responsible for containing such protests within their jurisdictions. In this regard, a joint meeting of police chiefs of the tricity will be convened soon. SKM delegation meets SSPA deputation led by Prem Singh Bhangu, president of All India Kisan Federation and convener of legal cell, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), along with other SKM leaders met Chandigarh senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal. They said after the attack, 25 farmers were rounded up and released in the evening. However, three more farmers were arrested later and police raided a number of villages in the periphery of Chandigarh to make more arrests. To oppose the raids, a local committee of farmers called for blocking of roads in Chandigarh. However, after the SSP assured them that cases registered against the farmers will be considered, the call to block the roads was withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-prohibits-protests-in-city-other-than-at-sector-25-rally-ground-101626722915916.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s elevation a jolt for Capt, all eyes on cabinet rejig now||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tried his best to forestall the appointment of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new president of the state Congress unit. Capt cautioned the Congress high command that if Sidhu is given charge, the party could split and questioned his style of working. He also joined hands with his long-time bête noire Partap Singh Bajwa who held a meeting of nine party MPs on Sunday to throw their weight behind the chief minister as a last-ditch effort. But their punches hit thin air and Sidhu’s elevation has come as a jolt for the two-time chief minister who seemed well-entrenched till a few months ago. Capt, who is upset over the party’s handling of infighting, then refused to meet the Amritsar East MLA till he tenders a public apology for making “derogatory” tweets and remarks against him. A clear sign that the crisis is far from over.Till Monday night, there was no apology or response from the new appointee who went around calling on MLAs in Mohali and Chandigarh with a celebratory glint in his eyes and cameras tailing him. Sidhu later held a meeting with several of them at cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s bungalow, close to the chief minister’s official residence. Besides Sidhu, the high command has also named four working presidents to maintain caste and community equations, but Amarinder’s choices did not get in. “Capt has faced dissent before. There was a bigger rebellion in the party ranks during his first term (2002-07). He had the backing of the high command at that time and staved off the challenge. The shoe is on the other foot this time,” said a party leader. The signs of resentment against bureaucrats running the show and Capt’s lack of accessibility were there for some time and should have set alarm bells ringing. The opposition to the chief minister coalesced and grew around Sidhu over unfilled promises after a legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case three months ago, leading to his promotion. From the party’s standpoint, the appointment of Sidhu, a younger leader who is expected to bring energy to the party’s campaign, is part of a generational shift. Besides upending his calculations, the CM’s appearances before the three-member panel set up to resolve the crisis, 18-point to-do list handed to him and the subsequent changes have dented his standing. However, it is too early to count out the veteran of several political battles who is weighing his options, given that he is still to invite the new team for a meeting. All eyes are now on the cabinet reshuffle that was to follow the revamp of the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-elevation-a-jolt-for-capt-all-eyes-on-cabinet-rejig-now-101626722850626.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s govt schools reopen to lukewarm response||Suspended since March this year, physical classes at Chandigarh’s government schools resumed for Class 9 onwards on Monday. Since it was the first day and due to factors like rain and unit tests, attendance remained on the lower side.School education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said around 4,000 of the 40,000 students enrolled in Classes 9 to 12 attended school on Monday.The city has 53 government high schools (up to Class 10) and 43 government model senior secondary schools (up to Class 12).According to staff of various schools, attendance was higher at schools in the periphery than those within the city. Teachers said since many students reached school on their own, the showers in the morning acted as a deterrent. Further, unit tests are going on for some classes, so their students also didn’t show up.Pradeep, Aryan and Saurabh, students of Class 9 at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 10, said they were able to study better in class and they also got their doubts cleared ahead of the maths unit test.“It was a refreshing experience to interact with students in person, but students who are not vaccinated yet remain at risk,” said a teacher at GMSSS, Sector 18. “There were just four students in Class 12 and one each student in Classes 9 and 10,” she added.A student, Kanika, said though only four students turned up in her class, she was quite excited to see her friends.On the other hand, a parent at GMSSS, Sector 10, said he assumed that attendance was mandatory, but as that was not the case, he will wait before sending his child to school again.Students attending physical classes need to bring a consent letter signed by their parents. Online classes will continue for those who opt out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-govt-schools-reopen-to-lukewarm-response-101626722731305.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vax drive resumes in HP; daily jabs capped||Even as the state government resumed vaccination of the 18-44 age bracket on Monday, it also capped the daily limit of jabs for each district.Himachal Pradesh National Health Mission director Hem Raj Bairwa said instead of inoculating different age brackets in separate sessions, everybody will be administered the vaccine at common sites.“All sessions will be created on CoWIN as regular sessions and not as “Near to Home Covid Vaccination Centres” (special session), except in tribal areas and Dodra Kawar, to ensure session visibility for the general public on the application,” he said. The state has a stock of nearly five lakh doses and the supply of vaccines has also been smooth. On site slots will be decided by the district authority based on previous experience of session booking. For rural Covid vaccination centres, CoWIN allows to create sessions with any number of online slots. However, in urban areas at least 50% online slots have to be made available at the time of session creation. Districts may publish sessions for urban areas with minimal session capacity to limit online session booking based on previous experience and local requirements in consultation with district administration, he said. Sessions will be published between 12pm to 1pm, at least a day prior to the session. “Session capacity and a number of sessions is to be planned as per vaccine availability. However, district-wise daily capping limit for session planning has been set considering eligible beneficiaries for the second dose and population proportion for the first dose,” he said.Daily vaccination has been limited to 75,000 doses. Ongoing sessions will be extended to minimise vaccine wastage from the last open vial.In urban areas, in case online slots are not taken up, on-site slots will be increased to cater to the available cohort of beneficiaries, subject to vaccine availability for that day. The inoculation drive for the 18+ age group slowed down at the end of June and was completely stopped on July 14 due to a shortage of doses.So far, Himachal has administered around 44 lakh doses. Around 33.6 lakh people have been given the first dose, which is 62% of the total population.Similarly, around 10 lakh people have been given the second dose as well, which is around 22% of the total population. Over 12 lakh people of 18+ category have been given the first jab and the target population is over 30 lakh.Districts’ daily vaccination limit Himachal has limited daily vaccination to 75,000 dosesDistrict Daily limitBilaspur 4,100Chamba 5,500Hamirpur 4,600Kangra 16,000Kinnaur 1,000Kullu 5,000Lahaul-Spiti 400Mandi 10,800Shimla 9,500Sirmaur 5,800Solan 6,800Una 5,500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vax-drive-resumes-in-hp-daily-jabs-capped-101626722730133.html
20-07-2021||Other||400 vehicles in Mumbai’s public parking lot submerged after rainfall||Around 400 private vehicles parked in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public parking lot at Thakur Complex, Kandivli, submerged in waist-deep water, after the spot was flooded with rain water on Monday. The incident occurred following heavy rainfall post Sunday midnight and Monday morning. By Monday evening, BMC had drained out all the water using dewatering pumps. The public parking lot is located in the basement of a residential building and BMC had handed it over to a contractor for operations. Deputy municipal commissioner Vishwas Shankarwar said, “After rainfall on Sunday midnight and Monday morning, water entered the basement parking lot. It is a public parking lot, so any vehicle owner can pay and park here. BMC set up five dewatering pumps to drain the water out on Monday. By evening, all water was drained out and we started removing cars from the area.” In case of damage caused to property due to a natural calamity, the damages are paid to property owners by the city collector and not BMC, Shankarwar said. “As a panchanama (testimony) of the incident will be recorded, the police will take stock of the situation and the damages caused. Through the same procedure, the owners of these vehicles may be compensated. But BMC does not play a role in this procedure,” added Shankarwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/400-vehicles-in-mumbai-s-public-parking-lot-submerged-after-rainfall-101626722669602.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||18.6mm rain cools down Chandigarh, but leaves roads inundated||The 18.6mm rain on Monday caused the mercury to plunge to 27.7°C, six degrees below normal.Monday’s maximum temperature was the lowest since May 19, when it was recorded at 27.4°C. Data for whether any record for the lowest maximum temperature in July has been broken wasn’t readily available with the IMD.While there was 18.6mm rain at the Sector 39 observatory of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), at the Chandigarh International Airport there was 55mm rain. More rain is likely on Tuesday.IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “During monsoon it is common to see different parts of the city get different amounts of rainfall. Similar conditions will continue on Tuesday, but Wednesday onwards, only light rain is expected.” The minimum temperature also went down from 30.2°C on Sunday to 26.3°C on Monday, but was still three degrees above normal. Over the next three days, the weather department has forecast that the maximum temperature will remain between 29°C and 33°C, while the minimum temperature may drop further to 25°C.Waterlogging complaints pour in While the rain was mostly at a pleasant pace, several city areas were still left inundated. Industrial Area, Phase 2, was the worst hit as the water under the Railway Bridge reached up to waist level. In Manimajra also, several streets were left waterlogged. Complaints were received from northern sectors as well, with waterlogging experienced along Madhya Marg in Sector 8 and at the Sector 20/21 roundabout.Power cuts hit professionals working from homePower cuts through the day also left residents harried, especially professionals working from home owing to the pandemic. Savita Dhawan of Sector 64, Mohali, said, “It’s sheer harassment when the internet drops right between a meeting. Even if there is back up, it takes time to reconnect and by that time, the narrative gets lost.” Panchkula resident Mayank Gautam said, “Sudden power cuts are routine during the rainy season, without any consideration for people working from home. Owning an inverter isn’t enough for long outages, so I am planning to buy a generator for a better solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/186mm-rain-cools-down-chandigarh-but-leaves-roads-inundated-101626722610927.html
20-07-2021||Other||5 dead, 2 injured in landslide in Thane||Five people from a family, including a three-year-old girl, died and two others were injured after their house was crushed under a landslide on Monday morning.The deceased have been identified as Prabhu Sudam Yadav, 45; his wife Vidhavatidev, 40; and their children Ravikisan, 12; Simaran, 10, and Sandhya, 3, while the injured were identified as Achal, 18, and Preeti, 5.According to the locals, the incident occurred around 11.30am on Monday at Durga Chawl in Gholai Nagar, Kalwa. Residents said that they heard a loud noise and came running out of their houses fearing the worst as the rain had been incessantly pouring since Sunday.“We ran out and turned back to check out what had happened only to see that the house of the Yadav family had completely been crushed under the mud. Our chawl is located at the foot of a hill with all the houses being in a single line. The Yadav residence was directly in the path of the mud that came crashing down when the landslide occurred,” Gulabchand Jaiswal, a tailor who stays two houses away from the Yadavs, said. The residents immediately called the fire brigade, and personnel from the Kalwa police station, fire brigade, Thane Disaster Response Force and the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation were rushed to the spot. One rescue vehicle, one fire tender and two ambulances were pressed into service, a civic official said.“A total of seven people were stuck under the debris of the collapsed house, of which five died on the spot and two others were rescued in an injured condition. The bodies as well as the injured were taken to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa,” an RDMC official said.“We are scared to go back home after the incident. I have already started trying to find at least a temporary place for us to stay as the rain is showing no signs of letting up any time soon,” Jaiswal said.The Kalwa police have registered Accidental Death Reports in connection with the deaths of the five victims and are conducting further inquiries into the matter.Meanwhile, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde visited the two survivors at the hospital. He also announced compensation of ₹5 lakh for the survivors and said their medical expenses will be borne by the state. Shinde instructed TMC to immediately relocate residents at-risk areas to safer locations instead of just issuing them notices, in light of the ongoing monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-dead-2-injured-in-landslide-in-thane-101626722609551.html
20-07-2021||Other||At 4, Ludhiana’s single-day Covid count dips to all-time low||Recording an all-time low of Covid-19 cases yet again, Ludhiana reported just four new cases in the last 24 hours while the death count was zero. The number of active patients also fell to 126, which is also an all-time low since last year.So far, the district has recorded 87,234 Covid cases, of which 2,093 patients died. It is for the sixth time this month that the daily cases have remained below 10.Since the second wave subsided, Ludhiana logged single-digit cases for the first time on July 9, when eight people had tested positive. Five days later, on July 14, the number came down to five, and on July 16 again, eight cases were recorded. This was followed by seven, nine and four cases in a day reported on July 17, 18 and 19 respectively.Even as the pandemic’s figures are receding steadily, health experts have been cautioning residents against letting their guard down, as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and keeping hands sanitised are the only ways to avert a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-4-ludhiana-s-single-day-covid-count-dips-to-all-time-low-101626722491229.html
20-07-2021||Other||Traffic hit, walls collapse in Thane district||Incessant rains in Thane district led to water logging in several areas of Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli. The worst affected were the interiors of Diva, Badlapur and Bhiwandi. Shilphata Road was flooded with knee-deep water in the morning causing traffic jams in Mumbra and Navi Mumbai.Water logging along the tracks at Thane, Mumbra and Diva stations impacted the train services for a few hours in the afternoon. There were incidents of wall collapse, gallery collapse and tree fall across these cities.An unidentified dead body was found in Nagla Bandar at Ghodbundar Road on Monday evening.Till Monday evening, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) witnessed 98.92mm of rainfall, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) witnessed 125.4mm rainfall and among other areas within the district, Bhiwandi and Ambernath received maximum rainfall at 79.25mm and 87.62mm, respectively. Ulhas river in Badlapur has filled up till 15.40m, not far from the 17.50m dangerous mark. In Navi Mumbai, at around 3am on Monday, a car plunged into a lake in Belapur village as the road was not visible due to torrential rains. “Three men in the car including the driver escaped by getting out of the car just in time. However, the car sank completely in the lake. The car was later pulled out by a crane in the afternoon. The driver could not judge the road and drove into the swollen lake. When they realised that the car was sinking, they opened the doors and came out while the car sank inside,” a police officer from NRI Coastal police station said.Around 150 people, stranded in a temple at Adavali near Koparkhairane, were rescued late on Sunday evening.With Bakrid approaching, a few traders had kept 29 goats in a godown in Mumbra for sale. Of these, 15 drowned after water flooded the godown on Sunday night and the rest were rescued. In Ulhasnagar camp 3, a part of the gallery of a vacant building collapsed on Monday morning. While TMC and rural areas of Thane district will have no vaccination on Tuesday, KDMC and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation have suspended the vaccination schedule for two days owing to a shortage of vaccine doses.(Inputs by Raina Shine)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-hit-walls-collapse-in-thane-district-101626722430856.html
20-07-2021||Other||Workers die of asphyxiation in Mohali: Negligence FIR lodged against real estate firm||A day after a municipal sanitation worker and a labourer died of asphyxiation after descending into a sewer in Sector 62, police on Monday booked the management of the real estate project where the incident took place.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has also ordered a probe into the matter and sought a separate report from the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner. The deceased – Harpal, 22, was a contractual sanitation worker from Mohali, and Gagan, 30, a construction labour hailing from Bihar. According to police, Harpal was sent to the Sector-62 site, where Home and Land Planners (HLP) Group is building the HLP Galleria mall, after MC received a complaint to clean the sewage pipeline.Around 6pm, as Harpal went down the sewer to carry out cleaning work, he fell unconscious. Working nearby, Gagan volunteered to take a water bottle to Harpal and help bring him up. But when he climbed down three-four steps using a ladder, he also fainted. Police reached the spot and rescued the two men with the help of a JCB machine. They were rushed to a private hospital, where they were declared brought dead. An MC official said Harpal was wearing safety gear, while Gagan was not.“We have registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the management of HLP Galleria mall where the sewer cleaning was to be done,” said Rajesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Phase 8 police station.After post-mortem examination, the bodies were handed over to the family members. Deputy commissioner Dayalan said, “I have ordered a probe and asked the sub-divisional magistrate concerned to submit the report at the earliest. MC commissioner will prepare a separate report. Strict action will be taken against those guilty.” On the firm’s part, Pardeep Bansal, director of HLP Group, said, “Our project has nothing to do with the incident as the manhole is outside the site. The sanitation worker was employed by MC. We will take up the matter with the senior superintendent of police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/workers-die-of-asphyxiation-in-mohali-negligence-fir-lodged-against-real-estate-firm-101626722370694.html
20-07-2021||Other||Mumbai under orange alert till Friday: IMD||The city woke up to continuing showers on Monday, a day after a second thunderstorm deposited nearly 235mm of rain over Mumbai in just a few hours. Rainfall intensity has, however, markedly reduced, with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz recording 70.4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Monday, and another 35.2mm of rain in the subsequent eight hours. At 1pm on Monday, IMD upgraded its orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at a few places) for Mumbai to a red (storm) alert. However, an orange category alert remains in place till Friday. The city has so far received 920mm of rain this month, against the seasonal normal of 827mm. Since June 1, the city has received about 1,951mm of rain, which is about 88% of the seasonal normal up to September-end.“The southwesterly monsoon flow is expected to strengthen, and the rainfall distribution and activity is expected to increase over the region, parts of Konkan, Goa and the adjoining ghat areas of central Maharashtra,” an IMD statement on Monday read. This is due to a combination of multiple weather systems, including an off-shore monsoon trough at sea level running from Maharashtra to Karnataka along coast, which will persist for the next three to four days.There is also a cyclonic circulation lying over the south Gujarat region, about 3.5km above mean sea level, along with a low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal, which is expected to form around Friday. Due to active monsoon conditions, squally weather, with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph (km per hour) and gusting to 65 kmph is likely to prevail along the Maharashtra-Goa coast, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-under-orange-alert-till-friday-imd-101626722369493.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets 48% of season’s avg rain||Many parts of the state witnessed heavy rainfall over the past few days resulting in the rise in lake levels and improvement in the sowing rate after a dry spell of two weeks. The state has received 48% of the season’s average rain, while the sowing of various crops has crossed 80% of the average. Besides the deaths due to landslides and house collapses in Mumbai on Sunday, Ratnagiri and other few districts reported rain-related deaths. Two persons in Sangameshwar tehsil in Ratnagiri drowned in a river on Sunday. Until last Tuesday, the sowing on 10.59 million hectares or on 74% of the cultivable land was completed. It is expected to cross 80% this week. The lake level in 3,267 reservoirs of all sizes have reached 31.34%, with accumulated stock of 19,579 MCM. The dams were 35.5% full on the same day last year. The lake level in the reservoirs in north Maharashtra is still low because of the below-average rainfall. The reservoirs are 22.43% full, against 31.68% last year. Of the average rain of 1,004mm between June and September, the state has, until Monday, received 488mm rainfall so far. With 61% rainfall of its seasonal average, Konkan division has received highest rainfall this monsoon, while Nashik division comprising districts from northern Maharashtra has received just 30% of their season’s average. Eknath Davale, agriculture secretary, said the sowing of almost all crops are in their last leg and expected to finish in the next few days. “A week ago, 74% of the sowing was completed in the state, while it has speeded up in the past few days after resumption of the rainfall. There is no dearth of fertilizers or seeds which has helped farmers to complete the sowing as per schedule. There are no reports of damages to crops,” he said. Vijay Jawandhia, farm expert from Vidarbha, said the satisfactory rainfall in the past few days have revived the hopes of farmers. “After a dry spell of about two weeks, heavy showers have ended the threat of resowing of crops. Besides, there is no shortage of fertilizers and unlike last year, have not received complaints of inferior quality seed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-48-of-season-s-avg-rain-101626722249482.html
20-07-2021||Other||Humiliated by financier, Ludhiana trader ends life||Minutes after celebrating his daughter’s birthday, a 40-year-old trader ended his life by jumping into a canal on late Thursday night. His body was fished out of the canal near Sudhar area on Sunday. A case of abetment to suicide has been lodged against a financier, identified as Prince Kesarwani of Nirmal Nagar, on the complaint of the victim’s wife. The woman told the police that her husband had borrowed ₹70,000 from the accused for his business. However, due to the Covid-induced lockdown that came into effect in March 2020, her husband suffered losses and was unable to pay back the financier. The accused, however, continued to mount pressure on the victim to return the money. He allegedly added interest on the principal amount and asked the victim to return ₹4 lakh. Due to this, the victim had been stressed for the past several days, his wife said.On July 14, when the family had gone to the victim’s brother’s house, the accused allegedly turned up at the victim’s house and told the neighbours about the debt. The accused allegedly also told the neighbours that if the victim failed to pay back the amount, he would take away his car. The neighbours narrated the incident to the victim and his family when they returned home on July 15, the day of his daughter’s birthday.The victim’s wife said that once the birthday celebrations ended, the victim left home around 11pm. Around 11.45pm, he called her up and told her that he was unable to take the insult and humiliation and was going to end his life. He told her to take care of the three daughters and then hung up the phone.Following this, the woman rushed to look for him and found his car parked near the canal. On Sunday, she was told that his body had been fished out of the canal. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) was registered against Prince Kesarwani. He is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/humiliated-by-financier-ludhiana-trader-ends-life-101626722130142.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon mayhem: 2 dead, 2 missing, key HP highways blocked||Two people were killed and as many went missing in rain-related incidents in Himachal Pradesh on Monday after torrential showers lashed the region. A woman died, while her husband and son were feared dead when their car fell into the Ravi river after being hit by a landslide triggered by heavy rain at Balogi on the Chamba-Bharmour highway in Chamba district. Subhadra Devi, 55, died on the spot, while her husband, Farangu Ram alias Kalyano, 57, and son Tej Singh, 28, were swept away in the gushing waters. Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said a search was on for the two. He said the highway was blocked after overnight rain caused the landslide. In another accident, a person died after the car he was travelling in plunged into a stream at Koti bridge on Chamba-Tissa road. The deceased has been identified as Hitesh Singh, resident of Drakedi village in Bhalei sub-tehsil of the district. Highways blocked, houses damagedThe Mandi-Manali highway was blocked due to a landslide at Hanogi near Pandoh. Hundreds of people were stranded in the area as the alternative route between Mandi and Kullu via Kataula was also blocked. Mandi deputy commissioner Arindam Chaudhary said efforts are on to restore traffic on the highway. The Pathankot-Mandi highway was also blocked near Kotla in Kangra due to a landslide. In Dharamshala, flood waters entered houses, hotels and shops after a drain was blocked due to a landslide. The Palampur-Dharamshala route via Nagri Road was also blocked. Property was damaged in Dadasiba market of Dehra sub-division as slush flowed through the streets. Rivulets in Dharamshala were in spate due to heavy rain. In Fatehpur, five kuchha houses were fully damaged and eight were partially damaged after flood water entered Nagoh village of Tatwali panchayat. Cattle were also killed and swept away in the flood. Kangra deputy commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal said a relief camp has been setup at the nearby Gurudwara and affected families have been shifted there. “A nullah flowing near the village was blocked under a culvert due to accumulation of trees and debris and water started flowing into the village and entering houses,” Jindal said. Palampur was the wettest place in the state, receiving 230mm of rainfall since Sunday night. Dehra Gopipur got 185 mm rainfall, Ghamroor 165mm, Sujanpur Tira 156mm, Berthin 134mm, Guler 124mm, Jogindernagar 112mm, Bilaspur 104mm, Amb 98mm, Banjar 92 mm, Baijnath 90mm of rainfall, Paonta Sahib 71.6mm, Una 70.6mm, Dharamshala 64.4mm, Kangra 58.6mm and Mandi 50.1mm. The meteorological department has issued an orange alert, predicting heavy to very heavy rain on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-mayhem-2-dead-2-missing-key-hp-highways-blocked-101626722072152.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s lake levels swell to 28.68%||MumbaiWater levels in the seven lakes that provide drinking water to Mumbai swelled to 28.68% on Monday morning, against 27.03% on the same day in 2020 and 51% in 2019. The total available drinking water in the lakes is 415,175 million litres (ML), against the total capacity of 1,447,363 ML. On July 16, the lake levels were at 17%, prompting Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) hydraulics department to consider a water cut, if the situation had failed to improve over the next few days. Last year on July 16, the lake levels were at 25.80%, while in 2019, it was 48.80%. While Tulsi lake overflowed on Friday morning, Vihar lake started to overflow on Sunday morning. Both these lakes now have 100% useful water content. However, the Upper Vaitarna’s useful water content is at 0%. In the 24 hours up to 6am on Monday, Upper Vaitarna had received 155 mm rainfall, and its water level rose by a meagre 0.04 metres. Mumbai city receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vehar and Tulsi lakes. BMC supplies 3,850 million litres of water per day to the city. Until 6am on Monday, Modak Sagar had 51.26% useful water content, while Tansa had 54.09%. At Middle Vaitarna, the useful water content was at 19.40%, while at Bhatsa it reached 21.52%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-lake-levels-swell-to-2868-101626722069452.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rain: Waterlogging, hassles for one more day||Many parts of the state witnessed heavy rainfall over the past few days resulting in the rise in lake levels and improvement in the sowing rate after a dry spell of two weeks. The state has received 48% of the season’s average rain, while the sowing of various crops has crossed 80% of the average. Besides the deaths due to landslides and house collapses in Mumbai on Sunday, Ratnagiri and other few districts reported rain-related deaths. Two persons in Sangameshwar tehsil in Ratnagiri drowned in a river on Sunday. Until last Tuesday, the sowing on 10.59 million hectares or on 74% of the cultivable land was completed. It is expected to cross 80% this week. The lake level in 3,267 reservoirs of all sizes have reached 31.34%, with accumulated stock of 19,579 MCM. The dams were 35.5% full on the same day last year. The lake level in the reservoirs in north Maharashtra is still low because of the below-average rainfall. The reservoirs are 22.43% full, against 31.68% last year. Of the average rain of 1,004mm between June and September, the state has, until Monday, received 488mm rainfall so far. With 61% rainfall of its seasonal average, Konkan division has received highest rainfall this monsoon, while Nashik division comprising districts from northern Maharashtra has received just 30% of their season’s average. Eknath Davale, agriculture secretary, said the sowing of almost all crops are in their last leg and expected to finish in the next few days. “A week ago, 74% of the sowing was completed in the state, while it has speeded up in the past few days after resumption of the rainfall. There is no dearth of fertilizers or seeds which has helped farmers to complete the sowing as per schedule. There are no reports of damages to crops,” he said. Vijay Jawandhia, farm expert from Vidarbha, said the satisfactory rainfall in the past few days have revived the hopes of farmers. “After a dry spell of about two weeks, heavy showers have ended the threat of resowing of crops. Besides, there is no shortage of fertilizers and unlike last year, have not received complaints of inferior quality seed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-stays-rained-in-for-one-more-day-101626722011052.html
20-07-2021||Other||Sustainable aircraft fuel: A safe bet for green aviation||In May, the GMR Group-run country’s busiest airport – the Indira Gandhi International (IGIA), Delhi – announced that it had performed 1,000 TaxiBot-aided flights since the introduction of fuel and carbon emission-saving equipment at its facility in 2019, which helped various airlines save 214,000 litres of jet fuel, besides reducing around 532 tonnes of carbon emissions.A TaxiBot is used to tow an aircraft from the terminal gate to the take off point and return it to the gate after landing. The private airport operator said the use of TaxiBots is part of its strategic initiatives to reduce carbon emissions by aircraft and also to become a ‘net-zero carbon emission airport’ by 2030. ‘Greening’ the aviation sectorAccording to international airlines global body International Air Transport Association (IATA), India is set to become the world’s third-largest air passenger market after China and the United States within the next 10 years.The government’s regional connectivity scheme, Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN), will contribute to emissions of carbon because more fuel will be burnt with the increase in flights. The 2015 Paris Agreement excluded the international aviation sector due to difficulties in attributing emissions – from complex international supply chains to individual countries.As a result, the International Civil Aviation Organization’s (ICAO) member states designed the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) with an initial target of achieving carbon-neutral growth for the sector from 2020. ICAO in 2016 had warned that the aviation industry needs to prepare for severe disruptions as a result of climate change and that it needs to make full use of clean technology and policy tools in order to reduce its carbon footprint along with other environmental impacts. While over 88 states agreed to pilot CORSIA scheme from 2021-2023, India is currently working with its own national targets for the aviation sector to remain compliant with its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and move towards carbon-neutral flying.In 2019, India came out with a white paper on National Green Aviation Policy, which was published with inputs from key aviation stakeholders, including the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC); Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas; the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), airport operators and airlines.In March, the then civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri informed the Rajya Sabha that his ministry had not formulated any policy on green aviation.“Air traffic management needs to be equipped with the latest technologies for best management of aircraft arrivals and departures so that they save on fuel,” said Mukesh Yadav, senior associate at Indian Institute for Human Settlements. Sustainable aviation fuelBack home, the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) Clean Skies for Tomorrow (CST) initiative has brought together an Indian community of private and public institutions with a shared vision of scaling production and use of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). CST India initiative established a specific goal to transport 100 million domestic passengers on at least 10% blended fuel with SAF by 2030.WEF in a blueprint titled ‘Deploying Sustainable Aviation Fuels at Scale in India’ in mid-June revealed that SAF is the most achievable and effective pathway to reducing aviation’s lifecycle emissions in the immediate future.It also proposed key methods, cost-sharing models, and economic and environmental benefits for accelerating the SAF industry in India.Yadav said controlling carbon emission is not very easy in India. “For a government to bring about a change in such an issue requires global help. Usage of biofuel is one of the most important initiatives that need to be undertaken in order to control carbon emission, but not much has been done by the government,” said Yadav.Biofuels typically refers to fuels produced from biological resources (plant or animal material). However, current technology allows fuel to be produced from other alternative sources, including non-biological resources.According to Yadav, biofuel supply is a major concern for India as there are environmental challenges. “The infrastructure required for biofuel is also a major challenge,” he added.India’s sustainable aviation initiativeTwo budget carriers, SpiceJet and IndiGo, in 2018 operated test flights determining the feasibility of using biofuels, which reduces emissions. However, there is no further update either by the airline or DGCA on these trial flights, said Yadav.“It seems that DGCA is not working on the goal with enthusiasm and doesn’t seem to have done anything ahead,” Yadav alleged.Sources in the aviation ministry said that while the existing airports are working towards making their airports greener, new airports are focussing on sustainability. An example of such an airport is the international airport coming up at Noida, which has recently submitted its plan, according to them.“It will be having electric vehicles and also work with the latest air traffic management techniques for better coordination to save ground time of an aircraft, thus reducing the consumption of fuel. It will also be equipped with autonomous taxiing using TaxiBot or WheelTug operations.” According to GMR, which runs airports in Delhi and Hyderabad, both the airports have taken a number of proactive measures to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. “Currently both these airports are working on major expansion projects in which significant investment is being done for technological upgradation. Once completed, these projects will result in state-of-the-art green infrastructures,” said a GMR Group spokesperson.The spokesperson added, “Both the airports are working closely with air traffic control (ATC), airlines, ground-handling agencies as well as other stakeholders in improving the overall operational efficiency and reduce fuel consumption and emissions.”Both the airports have adopted operational improvement measure – Airport Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) – to reduce the holding time and delay, and saved significant amounts of emissions by avoiding unnecessary fuel burning, he emphasised.According to IndiGo, the automation of its ground support equipment has reduced the carbon emissions by almost 5% equivalent, which is equivalent to 1246 tons. “Apart from investing in the new NEO aircraft – replacing the older generation CEOs (current engine option), which reduces fuel usage by 15% and GHG emissions during flights – we adopted various innovative solutions in both passenger and freight services,” said the airline spokesperson.Sources said Indian airports are now adopting new ways to implement additions and changes looking at the foreign airports which include usage of renewable sources of energy.“Building green airports with environmentally-friendly infrastructure and renewable sources of energy is essential,” Yadav said, adding that in 2015, Cochin international airport became the first in the world to be fully powered by solar panels with the inauguration of a 12 MW (megawatt) solar power plant.In January, the airport commissioned a floating solar power plant having a capacity of 452 Kilowatt-hours (KWh), in a move towards self-sustainability of power. Airport designing too plays an important role, highlighted Yadav. “The government also needs to encourage airport operators and airlines towards sustainability. This requires good funds whereas the sector currently is in heavy losses due to the pandemic. It needs to introspect on what kind of infrastructure is required to make airports greener; how will the requirement of using less fuel or using biofuel be fulfilled,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sustainable-aircraft-fuel-a-safe-bet-for-green-aviation-101626721889514.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 56 Covid cases, two deaths||Punjab on Monday reported 56 fresh cases and two Covid-related deaths on Monday, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government. With this, the state’s positivity rate also came down to 0.18%, lowest ever since Covid cases started rising in Punjab. Barnala, Faridkot, Moga, Rupnagar and SBS Nagar reported no case on Monday whereas Amritsar reported a maximum nine cases, followed by eight each in Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur and five in Mansa. The state’s active caseload has also come down to 953, whereas 42 persons are still reported to be critical. As many as 142 patients were discharged on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-56-covid-cases-two-deaths-101626721830073.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLA son’s firm fails to deposit 1.56-cr royalty||Congress MLA from Baghapurana Darshan Singh Brar’s son Gurjant Singh Brar has failed to deposit ₹1.56 crore royalty imposed by the mining department for allegedly obtaining minerals illegally at his stone crusher at Bringli Patan village in Mukerian. The royalty was imposed on the firm, Brar Stone Crusher, which is registered in the name of Gurjant Singh Brar, son of MLA Darshan Singh Brar, after it failed to define the source of obtaining the minerals at the stone crusher. The firm was slapped two notices last year by the mining department citing violation of the Punjab Minor Mineral Rules, 2013. The department had alleged that the firm wrongfully obtained 1,30,298 tonnes of minerals and the royalty was pegged at ₹1,56,35,760. HT has copies of both the notices. Pathankot mining officer Gagandeep, who has additional charge of stone crushers in Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur districts, said: “The department asked the firm to deposit the royalty after it failed to define the source of the raw material.” The department had issued the first notice July 9, in which it stated that the firm had extracted gravel, minor minerals illegally. “In the event of your failure to comply with this notice, I shall proceed to access the royalty best of my judgment under rule 85 (5) of Punjab Minor Mineral Rules, 2013, and furthermore you will be liable to prosecution under Rule 76,” the notice reads. The second notice was issued on November 23, in which the royalty was imposed by the mining department and it had directed the firm to deposit it in government treasury on or before December 22. However, the royalty is yet to be deposited. “We have challenged the department’s decree of imposing the royalty. We had procured the raw material from a private firm. An appeal has been filed to the director of the mining department,” said Gurjant Singh Brar.MLA Darshan Singh Brar said: “We have filed an appeal against the department notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mla-son-s-firm-fails-to-deposit-1-56-cr-royalty-101626721711235.html
20-07-2021||Other||Cardboard godown goes up in flames in Ludhiana; no casualty||A major fire broke out at a cardboard godown situated in Mahavir Jain Colony near the Central Jail on Tajpur road on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. It took over 12 hours for the firefighters to douse the flames, however, no casualty was reported as the unit was closed at the time. Labourers working at a nearby factory spotted smoke billowing out of the godown and raised the alarm. Fire officials said they received an alert around 12.45am on Monday and rushed seven fire tenders to the spot. As per information, fire tenders had to be refilled at least 110 times to control the blaze. The operations ended around 1pm on Monday. Leading fireman Rajinder Singh said, “It took over 12 hours to douse the flames as the godown was around 50-ft long and 40-ft wide. A large amount of cardboard was stocked inside, and it was difficult for the firefighters to enter the building due to the smoke. High velocity winds added to the problem. We also had to bring down one of the boundary walls with a JCB machine during the operation.” Fire officials stated that the godown did not have proper fire safety arrangements. The unit did not even have a water tank due to which the firemen had to refill the fire tenders from a nearby dying unit and the sub-office of the fire brigade, due to which a lot of time was lost. “No casualty was reported from the spot as the factory was closed. But the material kept in the building was completed gutted. The building has also been damaged as the walls have developed cracks due to the mishap,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cardboard-godown-goes-up-in-flames-in-ludhiana-no-casualty-101626721710098.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||SIT questions Takht Damdama sahib ex-jathedar||Chandigarh The special investigation team led by ADGP LK Yadav, probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident, on Monday questioned Giani Kewal Singh, former jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib. Giani Kewal Singh is a key witness in the case as he was reciting Gurbani when the incident took place. The SIT members questioned Singh for at least three hours. The SIT has already held two rounds of questioning in Faridkot. It had questioned preachers Panthpreet Singh and Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale in two separate sittings. Others, including top cops, including former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, and politicians, have also faced SIT questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-questions-takht-damdama-sahib-exjathedar-101626721529432.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismissed dera man’s plea against resending handwriting samples to lab||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday dismissed a Dera Sacha Sauda follower’s plea challenging the special investigation team’s move of resending his handwriting samples to match it with the writings on derogatory posters pasted at Faridkot’s Bargari village in September 2015 to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Chandigarh.Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, a Dera Sacha Sauda follower, moved an application in HC demanding that the SIT be stopped from re-examining his handwriting samples. Sukhjinder is among four accused in the case, besides Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh and Baljeet Singh. In a desecration incident, three derogatory posters were pasted near gurdwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on the intervening night of September 24 and 25 in 2015. On July 9, the HC restrained the SIT probing the sacrilege cases from submitting a chargesheet (challan) against accused and the court reserved order for Monday. The HC bench of justice HNS Gill said that indisputably the handwriting samples of the petitioner had been obtained by the probe team after the petitioner had given his consent in the presence of his counsel. “The petitioner’s counsel could not show as to what prejudice is caused to the rights of the petitioner by objecting to obtaining of his handwriting samples and sending them for comparison. Rather, by raising such an objection in the middle of the investigation, the petitioner is pre-empting his guilt,” he added. “It may further be noticed that the earlier handwriting samples of the petitioner had been taken in FIR 63 and not in the present FIR 117. Thus, the prosecution cannot be restrained from obtaining the handwriting samples of the petitioner in FIR 117. Besides, the order passed by the magistrate was never challenged by the petitioner,” the HC bench said dismissing the plea. On June 1 this year, the SIT collected samples of Sukhjinder to match them with the writing on the derogatory posters claiming that one of the posters was written by him. In the three posters, it was threatened that the “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1 2015 would be torn if the now jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim-starrer film Messenger of God (MSG)-2 was not allowed to be released in Punjab. The SIT led by then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018 had claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers had matched with the ones on the posters. But the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters. On CBI’s handwriting samples report, Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala, deputy advocate general, had told the court that the necessity to obtain the handwriting samples of the petitioner again has arisen in view of the fact that earlier samples had not been taken according to the set procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismissed-dera-man-s-plea-against-resending-handwriting-samples-to-lab-101626721410022.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Three arrested for stealing ₹17.5 lakh from ATM in Greater Noida||Three alleged members of a Mewat-based gang were arrested on Monday for allegedly breaking an ATM with a gas cutter and stealing ₹17.5 lakh from it in Dankaur last week. The police identified the three by their single names as Nasir, 26, Shahid, 25, and Imran, 28, all residents of Jewar, and said that they were caught from near Dayanatpur underpass on the basis of a tip. “We recovered ₹2.5 lakh stolen money, one motorcycle, two countrymade guns, and two live cartridges from their possession,” said deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) Abhishek, who goes by a single name. The officer said the suspects had revealed to them that they were part of a gang from Mewat, Haryana. They were presented before a magistrate who sent them to 14-day judicial custody.The DCP said that the suspects had also tried to rob an ATM on July 10, 2021 in Neemka village in Jewar, but abandoned the plan when they noticed police in the area. Police discovered the attempted robbery and informed the bank manager who then filed a complaint with the Jewar, he said. “They would conduct a recce of unguarded ATMs located at isolated places. They would damage the ATM at night and steal cash and then distribute the money among themselves,” said Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-stealing-17-5-lakh-from-atm-in-greater-noida-101626721169373.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Three held for luxury car robbery||Police on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly robbing a man of his luxury vehicle on July 3 near Sector 76 metro station. Restauranteur Amandeep Singh, 35, a resident of Noida Sector 47, was returning home when the incident happened, said police. He had stopped to relieve himself near a drain when the suspects -- police identified them as Nitin Kumar (27),Sandeep (35) and Rahul (25), natives of Firozpur, Punjab -- allegedly struck. They allegedly held Singh at gunpoint and robbed him of his car, a BMW, and mobile phones and fled in the car. A case was registered at the sector 49 police station. The suspects were arrested from Sector 112 following a tip-off, police said, adding that Kumar had several cases against him, including one for attempting to kill a man in Firozpur. The car and the pistol used in the crime were recovered from them, said police. The suspects were later sent to judicial custody by a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-held-for-luxury-car-robbery-101626721110672.html
20-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar to get 3 new centres for e-challan filing||Noida The traffic police department of Gautam Budh Nagar will soon open three new centres in the district for the filing of e-challan. At present, people either pay challans online or at the traffic police headquarters in Sector 14A.“Three new centres will start operating at the offices of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) — Noida Sector 6, Surajpur, and Knowledge Park. People can pay challan amounts at any of the centres, depending on convenience and proximity,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).Online support for filing of e-challan has also been linked to the traffic police helpline number: 9971009001. “Queries for filing of e-challan will be redirected to the staff concerned. Outsiders, who got challaned here, will also be benefitted from these provisions. People can also file challans at the district court in Surajpur. A representative will be available to help people during the process,” Saha added.According to the officials, this will also ease the backlog of more than 1,600,000 pending e-challan in the district from 2018. “The most common excuse we hear for the non-payment of challan is the ‘inconvenience in going to traffic offices’. So, this will hopefully ease the situation,” said a traffic official, requesting anonymity.Residents in Noida, too, have welcomed the move. “People will definitely be benefitted. Nowadays, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, we do most of the work online. In case of technical issues, having a centre nearby will be very convenient for the residents,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-to-get-3-new-centres-for-e-challan-filing-101626721109969.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Woman, two children found dead in Loni||In what police suspect to be a double murder-suicide case, a 25-year-old woman and her two minor children were found dead at their home in Loni on Sunday night. According to the police, the woman’s husband discovered the three unconscious when he returned home at around 7.30pm from the market. Police said he rushed them to the GTB Hospital in Delhi where they were declared brought dead.The minor victims were a 5-year-old girl and a month-old boy.“We received information on Sunday night from the hospital that the three were brought dead. Preliminary investigation suggests that the woman probably killed the two children in a fit of rage and then killed herself by hanging. But we are waiting for the autopsy reports to come to any conclusion,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni. “The marks on the two children’s necks suggested that they were strangled. The woman’s husband has given us his statement and we will take more details from him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-woman-two-children-found-dead-in-loni-101626721109357.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Health dept told to ensure children too are tested for Covid||In yet another step towards preparations for the possible third wave of Covid-19, which experts say is likely to affect children more than adults, the Uttar Pradesh health department has directed the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to ensure 15% of the total coronavirus tests being carried out across the district are of children, said officials on Monday.According to the Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, the district has a daily target of conducting 4,000 RT-PCR tests and 5,250 antigen tests. “Officials of the district health department have been told to ensure that at least 15% of the total samples tested for Covid-19 should be of children in the 5-18 age group. To meet this purpose, testing is being done at the district hospital and all the community and primary health centres,” said Sharma. Currently, the district is meeting 50% of the target set for conducting antigen tests per day and around 40% of the daily RT-PCR testing target.Sharma said the department aims to increase testing in the coming days. “Currently, the number of tests being done in the district is at an optimal level considering the positivity rate (samples that return positive out of the total samples tested for Covid-19) is 0.16%. We aim to increase the number of tests as well as ramp up contact tracing and tracking in the district,” he said.Another health department official said in rural areas, teams of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and auxillary nurse midwives (ANMs) are going door-to-door to increase awareness regarding Covid-19 protocols and importance of maintaining social distancing. Talking about preparedness for the new variant of Covid-19, Dr Sharma said, “Delta or Delta plus variant of Covid-19 does not matter as long as we are prepared for the surge in cases”.He added,”As per our estimates, only 5% of Covid affected children need admission. So, for every 1,000 Covid cases ,about 120 will be in age group of 0 to 18 years and only six children will need admission to hospitals. We are prepared for the same, and even more, if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-health-dept-told-to-ensure-children-too-are-tested-for-covid-101626721049367.html
20-07-2021||Noida||IITGL to launch industrial plot scheme in Greater Noida soon||Greater Noida The Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGL), an authority formed by the Uttar Pradesh government to develop dedicated industrial townships, will soon come up with a plot scheme for big industrial projects in Greater Noida, in a bid to attract international and domestic investors to the region.The IITGL will allot at least 260 acres of land, which was earlier meant for research and development (R&D) units, for the industrial projects, officials said on Monday. It is 40 kilometres away from the Jewar airport project site, and the land use change was done from R&D to any kind of non-polluting industrial units in 2020-end.“We are completing all the formalities and will launch the scheme by the end of July 2021. We will check credentials and financial background of firms before allotting the industrial plots to them through a lucky draw, and then interview the firm owners to finalise the deal,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of IITGL.Mumbai-based developer, Shapoorji Pallonji, will develop the township near the Jewar airport project site. The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle of the state government, is developing the Jewar airport in Greater Noida, and the Switzerland company Zurich AG, the concessionaire of the airport project, is engaged in developmental and operational work of the airport project that is likely to become operational in 2024.The Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh had formed the IITG in Gautam Budh Nagar in August 2016, and the IITGL started allotting industrial plots in an integrated township spread over 747 acres to the developers from 2017. 50% of the total 747 acres available is earmarked for industrial usage and the remaining for residential and commercial purposes.The authority has already allotted land to several China-based home appliances companies, and they are setting up their units in the township.“We will offer tailor-made plots of 5 or 20 acres for allowing green units here. We will soon declare the launching date of the scheme. So far, we have got nearly ₹3,600-crore investment for this township. We hope that we will soon allot the remaining land, and we will be able to generate sufficient employment opportunities in this region,” Bhooshan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/iitgl-to-launch-industrial-plot-scheme-in-greater-noida-soon-101626721049905.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Nearly 400 coaching centres closed after Covid-19 outbreak in GB Nagar||Prince Sharma had a booming business till March last year - three coaching centres for students of classes 6 to 12 in different sectors in Noida that got him and his brothers ₹1.5 lakh a month. But after the Covid-19 outbreak, they had to shut down most of their operations. They now provide home tuitions to some students in Sector 12. “We paid the monthly rent of ₹25,000 for each centre to our landlords till October last year from my savings. But after that, we lost hope due to the repeated lockdowns. Now we earn less than ₹50,000,” he said. Ramesh Kumar of Sector 49 used to run a coaching centre in a multi-storey building. Now, he works as an assistant in a private company in phase-2. The building he once rented is now a hotel. “I tried my level best to run the institute but could not manage the rents and fixed electricity charges. So, I surrendered. I’ve now started working at a call centre that gives me ₹ 20,000 per month,” he said. He earned ₹75,000 a month earlier from his mathematics and physics tuition classes for students of class 8 to 10. Nearly 700 coaching centres had been operating in the district before Covid-19 that employed 10,000 teachers to provide additional coaching in English, mathematics, the various sciences, accountancy and economics. Some even provided coaching for various competitive examinations like engineering and medical. Now, according to Suraj Kumar Singh, who runs a coaching centre in sector 62, there are just around 300 institutes left, of which most are big brands in this field. Most teachers, Singh added, have gone back to their native places. Jitendra Yadav still runs his coaching centre in Sector 18. He had decided to adopt online teaching method to counter the lockdown but said the response has been less than encouraging. “Before the pandemic, there were over 300 students registered to my coaching. But, now it has been reduced to 50. Since most of the students do not come from well-off families, their parents are paying only 50% of the monthly fees for online classes. We don’t have any association through which we can highlight our plights to the administration,” he said. Parents are not happy with the situation either. Dinesh Awana, a parent in sector 62, said that the online classes have hampered the academic and social growth of the children. “My son was a good student and badminton players. The pandemic has compelled him to be at home all the time, making his life monotonous. We really want to send our children to schools and coaching classes for regular classes, but the fear of successive waves of Covid-19 don’t permit us to risk their lives,” he said. Dipesh Rajput, a parent from sector 21, said that monotony after the Covid-19 outbreak has turned his daughter short-tempered. “She used to attend music classes but now she is getting only tips from her teacher online. She has given up practising. When I ask her to do so, she either starts yelling or crying,” he said. Even the students don’t seem much comfortable with online classes. Deepika Mishra, a class-11 students, said that online classes don’t give opportunity for exploring the subjects. “I usually solve mathematics and science questions from advanced books. When I raise some questions from those books, the teachers say that it’s out of syllabus. During regular classes, most of these questions were solved in group discussion with friends. Phone and computer can never be the replacements for regular classes,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-400-coaching-centres-closed-after-covid-19-outbreak-in-gb-nagar-101626720990663.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: 2 dera followers move bail pleas||Faridkot Two followers of the Sirsa-based dera Sacha Sauda, Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, who were arrested for the 2015 Bargari sacrilege, on Monday filed applications in a court seeking bail. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjini issued a notice to the state and adjourned the matter to Tuesday. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar on May 16 arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village. On July 9, SIT filled a chargesheet against the six accused. The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on October 12, 2015, at Bargari. On June 21, the court had dismissed the bail plea of two other accused dera followers, Nishan and Pardeep, in the Bargari sacrilege case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-2-dera-followers-move-bail-pleas-101626720990182.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Lukewarm response as Ghaziabad starts with Covid vaccination of pregnant women||More than two weeks after the Centre allowed pregnant women to get vaccinated against Covid-19, Ghaziabad on Monday started the inoculation process for such beneficiaries. However, several government-run vaccination centres witnessed a lukewarm response from would-be mothers for the drive, officials said.On July 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare extended the vaccination drive against Covid-19 to pregnant women. The health ministry said that pregnant women can register on the Co-WIN portal or walk-in to the nearest vaccination centres for Covid-19 shots.The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that the vaccination for this group was started after guidelines were received recently from the state government. At present, the district has about 100,000 pregnant women, they said. “After directions were received from the state health department, we started with vaccination of pregnant women at the 54 centres across the district. The centres have been directed that such women should be provided vaccine on priority and should not be made to stand in queues. Pregnant women can get vaccination by booking online slots or even by way of walk-in,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination in Ghaziabad. Several government hospitals on Monday did not get a good response for the drive.“We started with the arrangement for pregnant women, but no such beneficiaries turned up for getting vaccinated. We feel that with more awareness, the pace will pick up in coming weeks,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. There were no such beneficiaries either at the other centre at the District Women Hospital. “No pregnant woman arrived for vaccination on Monday. But we have started receiving queries from women about vaccination during pregnancy,” said Dr Sangita Goel, CMS of the hospital. However, at Gandhi Ideal School at Rakesh Marg in Nehru Nagar, the centre in-charge said that six pregnant women turned up for vaccination. “On Monday, we had six such beneficiaries. There were no adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) reported in any such case so far,” said Dr Pawan Kumari, in-charge of the Covid vaccination centre. When asked about the poor response, Ghaziabad chief medical officer, Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, said, “We have antenatal care centres in both rural and urban areas where pregnant women visit for normal immunisation. We will ask these centres to properly guide the pregnant women and encourage them to get vaccinated. We expect that pace of vaccination for this group will pick up in the coming days.”The officials said the count for vaccination of pregnant women could not be ascertained as there was no separate indicator on Co-WIN portal.Meanwhile, experts said that pregnancy is not a contraindication for Covid-19 vaccination. “We feel that by vaccinating the pregnant women, we are in fact securing two lives. The district administration should spread more awareness. On our part, we will soon be starting with online doubt-clearing sessions with experts. Besides, we will put up posters at hospitals, nursing homes and clinics indicating that vaccination is safe for pregnant women,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lukewarm-response-as-ghaziabad-starts-with-covid-vaccination-of-pregnant-women-101626720869376.html
20-07-2021||Lucknow||Cyber crime cell of Lucknow police nabs five for posing as bank officials||The cyber crime cell of the Lucknow police arrested five men on Monday for posing as bank officials to defraud people, the police said.Confirming the arrests, Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur said, “Our cyber crime team has arrested one Vijay Mandal, 29, Manoj Mandal, 27, Rajesh Kumar Mandal, 20, Jitendra Kumar Mandal, 31 and Karan Kumar Mandal,19. The accused were arrested following a tip-off. They were wanted in a case of cyber fraud lodged at the Hazratganj police station (in Lucknow).”The said case was lodged last year where the complainant informed police that ₹5.3 million ( ₹53 lakh) was stolen from his account fraudulently in an online transaction. The case was handed over to the cyber cell for investigation.The accused are residents of Dumka district in Jharkhand, he said, adding that they were being questioned about their activities by a team of the cyber crime cell.The accused were believed to have been involved in defrauding people to the tune of over ₹200 million ( ₹20 crore) in the last six years by posing as officials of different banks and financial institutions.The team recovered ₹1.2 lakh cash from the accused and was working to trace the accounts in which money taken from their victims was kept, the senior police officer said.The accused told police that they used the loopholes in available mobile applications of various banks to get access to the bank accounts of people, according to the Lucknow police.The accused used to buy information about bank customers and call them at random, asking for verification for the mobile application. Once this was done, the accused used this information to transact money from the account of the victim.“They targeted people across the country and kept changing their phone and SIM card to avoid detection. They also divided the work among themselves and kept a low profile,” said Thakur.The accused were booked for fraud and under various sections of the IT Act and sent to prison, he said, adding that police were looking for other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cyber-crime-cell-of-lucknow-police-nabs-five-for-posing-as-bank-officials-101626720632425.html
20-07-2021||Other||8 pistols, 270 rounds seized along Pak border in Tarn Taran||AMRITSAR In a joint operation with the Border Security Force (BSF), Amritsar Rural police on Monday recovered eight pistols and a huge cache of ammunition during a two-hour search operation along the barbed-wire fence with Pakistan, near Khalra village in Tarn Taran. Sources said the consignment had been smuggled from Pakistan and buried in a field. A team of Amritsar-rural police that Gharinda station house office (SHO) Harsandeep Singh led coordinated with SN Goswami, commandant of the 103 Battalion, for the search operation near the Border Out Post (BoP) Ploh Pati in Tarn Taran. The operation was successful and the team recovered 16 magazines and 270 rounds, in addition to the pistols.A case under Sections of the Arms Act has been registered at Gharinda police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-pistols-270-rounds-seized-along-pak-border-in-tarn-taran-101626720631297.html
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||My journey has just begun, will work for ‘Jittega Punjab’ mission: Sidhu||“My journey has just begun,” said Punjab Congress new president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday, a day after his appointment was announced following weeks of speculation and tussle. The Amritsar East MLA, who thanked the party leadership for appointing him head of the state unit, said he would work with every member of the Congress family to fulfil the “Jittega Punjab” mission and strengthen the party’s organisation in the state. “Today, to work further for the same dream and strengthen the invincible fort of the Congress in Punjab. I am grateful to Hon’ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for bestowing their faith in me and giving me this pivotal responsibility (sic),” he said on Twitter. His appointment was announced by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Sunday night. The former minister has replaced Sunil Jakhar as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief after weeks of intense tussle. Sidhu spent the entire day visiting cabinet ministers and other senior leaders of the party in Chandigarh and Mohali. He will travel to Amritsar on Tuesday. He also tweeted: “Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of Jittega Punjab as a humble Congress worker to given power of the people back to the people through the Punjab model and the high command’s 18-point agenda.” Sidhu also shared a picture of his father with Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India. “To share prosperity, privilege and freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household and joined the freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work reprieved by the King’s Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC and advocate general,” Sidhu added in a Twitter post. Meanwhile, National Students Union of India (NSUI) state president Akshay Sharma on Monday called chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to discuss the strategy for “Mission 2022”. He has called a meeting of state office-bearers of the NSUI to finalise the modalities for a statewide campaign to energise youth power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/my-journey-has-just-begun-will-work-for-jittega-punjab-mission-sidhu-101626720630173.html
20-07-2021||Noida||Rain lashes GB Nagar, dissipates heat||Incessant rain lashed the city on Monday, bringing much-needed respite from the hot and sultry weather but also heaping misery on road users who had to grapple with inundated roads and traffic congestion in several parts of the city.Residents, however, said the situation is not as worse as it was a month ago when waterlogging had brought traffic to a standstill in many places across the city.The last time when Noida received showers was on July 13, the day the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced the arrival of monsoon in the National Capital Region (NCR). The south-west monsoon hit the region after running behind schedule for 16 days.The downpour on Monday brought down the maximum temperature by nearly 10 degrees. The maximum temperature was recorded at 26.6 degrees Celsius (°C), 10 degrees below normal, and the minimum was at 25.6°C, according to the weather officials. Monday’s is the lowest maximum temperature for the month of July so far, they said. The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Noida on Sunday were 36°C and 28°C, respectively.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, the maximum temperature was 26.5°C, eight degrees below normal and minimum temperature was 24.2°C, three degrees below normal.“The maximum temperature will hover around 32 to 35°C and minimum around 24 to 26°C,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD.Weather analysts said that the monsoon trough line is currently hovering over Noida and adjoining areas, sustaining the possibility of light rains till July 21. According to IMD, the rainfall recorded at Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, till 5.30pm on Monday was 38.4mm. While Noida received 1mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Monday, the rainfall data from 8.30am to 5.30pm for the city is unavailable. An IMD official said Noida received “moderate rain” on Monday. “There are chances of light rain tomorrow and day after in Noida,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rain-lashes-gb-nagar-dissipates-heat-101626720569296.html
20-07-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Now UP women teachers assn demands ‘period leave’||Amid all the talks over ‘menstruation leave’ for working women, the Uttar Pradesh women teachers have now demanded that they too be allowed to avail three days ‘Period Leave’ or ‘Menstrual Leave’ every month over and above other leaves available to them akin to the facility that their counterparts in states like Bihar can avail when in need. They stressed that menstruating women experience pain and bleeding, both of which affect their mental and physical state. A delegation of women teachers under the banner of Uttar Pradesh Women Teachers’ Association has submitted this demand to Anamika Chaudhary, a member of UP Women’s Commission on Sunday in Sangam city and now plan to approach deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Senior vice-president of the association’s district unit Poonam Gupta said that the Bihar government was extending this leave to women employees for the past 30 years. “We want UP government to also extend three days ‘period leave’ per month for women teachers and employees,” said Poonam, who was part of the delegation that met Anamika Chaudhary and also had organisational secretary Durgawati Mishra and Indu Sharma along with district president Vithica Amarnath and general secretary Aparna Bajpai in it. “Anamika Chaudhary has promised to make the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath aware of our demand,” she said. UP Women Teachers’ Association’s Prayagraj unit president Vithica Amarnath said that their state president Sulochana Maurya had also submitted a memorandum in this regard to UP cabinet minister Swami Prasad Maurya in Lucknow. “All units are submitting similar memorandums to elected MLAs and ministers in their respective districts. Be it Azamgarh, Bareilly or Lucknow, the plan is to let every MLA and minister aware of our demands. In Prayagraj, we plan to submit a memorandum to deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya also,” she added. The demand comes at a time when Indian food delivery service Zomato’s decision to give female employees up to 10 days of ‘period leave’ per year has triggered a discussion about it across India and other South Asian countries. “A lot of private companies like Tata Steel provide the option to women workers to avail ‘period leave’ even in India. It is an optional leave at most places and hardly anyone misuses it. Today women teachers either have had to come to work on the most painful day of their menstrual cycle or make up some excuse. The leave cannot take away their pain and discomfort, but it can give them a break on the days they are most uncomfortable,” said Madhvi, a primary school teacher of Sangam city supporting the demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-now-up-women-teachers-assn-demands-period-leave-101626720329255.html
20-07-2021||Kolkata||Aspiring police constables chased away by real ones during agitation in Kolkata||Around 200 youths who have applied for jobs as constables in the West Bengal police were chased away by policemen at Alipore in south Kolkata on Monday afternoon for blocking the main road outside Bhawani Bhawan, the government building which houses the offices of many departments including the CID, officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (south division) Akash Magharia rushed to the spot. Senior officials talked to the agitating youths and asked them to calm down but the stir continued.“The administration gave the agitators time to clear the road but they continued to disrupt traffic,” said Magharia. Police officials deployed to control the agitation said many of these youths were selected for the job but no recruitment took place since 2019 because of a case pending before the state administrative tribunal. The agitators blocked the roads leading to the Alipore court, Alipore police station as well as other government buildings located close to Bhawani Bhawan.When they refused to clear the area, baton-wielding policemen chased them away, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/aspiring-police-constables-chased-away-by-real-ones-during-agitation-in-kolkata-101626720271315.html
20-07-2021||Lucknow||MSME loan surges 2.5 times in FY 2020-21: ACS||As a result of effective measures taken by the Yogi Adityanath government, the banks disbursed two and half times more loans to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME’s) in the financial year 2020-21 as compared to 2016-17.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, on Monday informed that in the financial year 2020-21 banks disbursed ₹73,765 crore loans to MSMEs.This was two and half times more as compared to the loan amount of ₹28,136 crores disbursed by banks to MSMEs in 2016-17 four years ago.In the last four years, 2.6 crore people also got employment and an investment of ₹5 lakh crore was made in the state, said Sehgal. “Despite lockdown and pandemic in 2020-21, the state witnessed a spike in the disbursement of loans to MSMEs. In the last four years around 74 lakh new units have been set up in the state,” said Sehgal. In the financial year 2020-21, banks disbursed loans to 34,80,596 MSMEs and 63 lakh people got employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/msme-loan-surges-2-5-times-in-fy-2020-21-acs-101626720209304.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s active case count dips to below 100,000||After more than four months (130 days), Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count went below 100,000 on Monday to 96,375. The state, which is still battling the second wave of Covid-19 infections, had gone past 100,000 active cases on March 11 — the beginning of the wave. Even as the overall active case has come down, 10 districts in the state, which are rural parts of the state, are still showing higher number of fresh cases in comparison to the state’s overall average.Maharashtra on Monday added 6,017 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the tally to 6,220,207. It also added 66 deaths — lowest since July 12 — to take the toll to 127,097. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 403 new cases and 14 deaths. The city’s active caseload stood at 10,422 on Monday.Pune district tops the state with highest number of active infections with 15,768, followed by Thane district (13,632), Kolhapur district (10,538), Mumbai, Sangli district (10,014), and Satara district (6,566).Ten districts, including Raigad, Ahmednagar, Pune rural, Solapur rural, Satara, Kolhapur rural, Sangli rural, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Nandurbar, in the state have been reporting over 60% of the state’s total cases daily. However, state health department and district officials said that positivity rate in these districts, especially the rural areas, is reducing gradually.As per the state’s data, the rural areas in the 10 districts reported 66.61% of the total cases reported on Monday. While the urban areas, which were the hotbed of viral activity earler, including Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Raigad district), Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, contributed 1,248 fresh cases or 20.74% of the total cases reported on Monday.On Monday, 904 cases were reported in Kolhapur rural, 795 in Sangli rural, 545 in Satara, 436 in Pune rural, 427 in Ahmednagar rural, 286 in Solapur rural, 224 in Raigad, 221 in Ratnagiri, 169 in Sindhudurg, the state data said. These areas reported 4,008 fresh cases or 66.61% of the state’s total cases on Monday.State health minister Rajesh Tope, who had reviewed the situation in Kolhapur district on the weekend, said, “Ten districts are showing higher cases than the state’s overall average. However, the positivity rate is coming down in these parts.” A senior health department official said the wave is showing gradual signs of ebbing in rural areas. “Viral activity follows different pattern in every geography. These districts have been an area of concern, but the cases are reducing gradually. The positivity rate is showing a drop there,” he said requesting anonymity. Kolhapur district was at the top in the state with 1,108 (904 in rural areas, 204 in city) fresh cases on Monday. The district administration said the positivity rate is seeing a decrease. “Our positivity rate which was in the twenties has now gone under 10%. Even the positivity rate in the city is around 7% now. We were in a state on complete lockdown, while other districts were open, which has helped in controlling the situation. The viral activity is reducing and we are confident the numbers will come down soon,” said a senior district official who did not wish to the named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-active-case-count-dips-to-below-100000-101626720150916.html
20-07-2021||Other||TB patients not getting nutritional support for seven months||BATHINDA Scores of tuberculosis (TB) patients in the state have failed to get monthly nutritional support of ₹500 from the state government since December 2020. Punjab has 19,693 patients enrolled under the Tuberculosis Control Programme and officials say incentive under the “Nikshay Poshan Yojana” (National Nutritional Support Scheme) has not been disbursed over the last few months due to budgetary constraints. Ludhiana has a maximum of 3,473 patients under TB treatment followed by Amritsar (2,226) and Patiala (1,699).A 59-year-old patient from Bathinda said her six-month treatment began in December, but she has not received even a single instalment yet. Another patient being treated at a private institute said, “I have submitted my updated bank details, but the money for nutritional support has not been credited for four months.”Bathinda district tuberculosis centre (DTC) in-charge Dr Rosy Aggarwal said, “The district has 998 registered patients and most had been paid the money till March,” adding that the disbursement depended on the availability of funds.The head of TB clinic at Ferozepur Dr Satinder Oberoi said the delay was due to manpower being deployed on Covid-19 duty. “There has also been delay in getting money from the state headquarters,” she added.In-charge of Kishori Ram Hospital Dr Vitull K Gupta said hospitals and paramedical volunteers engaged in TB eradication programme were entitled to ₹1,000 per patient but they have not received the amount since December.Dr Jastej Kullar, state TB Control Programme officer, admitted that beneficiaries had not been paid, due to budgetary issues. “Exact data of the patients awaiting incentive is not readily available,” he added.“Normally, we make payment once in two months, but sometimes delays occur due to mismatch in bank account details or other issues. The money will be credited soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tb-patients-not-getting-nutritional-support-for-seven-months-101626720150319.html
20-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Mini cloudbursts’ increasing by 10% every year, particularly on western coast: Researchers||The morning after Mumbai got battered by record-setting rain — which flooded low-lying areas, triggering landslides, house collapses and electrocutions that killed at least 31 people — state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray attributed the deluge to “mini cloudbursts in a short span with full fury of nature”. Ongoing research by meteorologists indicate that mini cloudbursts — sudden, heavy rain spells of the kind that occurred over Mumbai early on Sunday — are increasing by around 10% every year. The scale of the weekend disaster can be better understood by looking at the civic body’s ward-wise hourly rainfall data for Saturday-Sunday. When almost all monitoring locations received barely any rain in the hour between 11pm and midnight, the subsequent two hours saw torrential downpours clocking between 100 and 150mm on average. Several locations saw between 90 and 110mm of rain in just a single hour, causing damage to live and property that would be akin to a cloudburst, even though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) didn’t declare one.The term “mini cloudburst” (MCB) was first used in 1999 by scientists CS Ramage and Thomas A Schroeder while studying high rainfall events at Mount Waialeale in Hawaii (one of the world’s wettest regions). However, Ramage and Schroeder did not actually quantify the amount of rainfall required for an event to be classified as such. This happened in 2018, when a four-member team from Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, defined MCBs as short-term, but intense rainfall events characterised by 50mm (or more) precipitation in two consecutive hours. The paper, led by principal investigator Nayana Deshpande, was published in 2018 in the International Journal of Climatology, a peer-reviewed journal of the Royal Meteorological Society. In light of the downpour in Mumbai recently, their findings and continued research hold warning signs for the city’s climate future. The same researchers, who spoke about the yearly 10% rise in MCBs, told the Hindustan Times on Monday that the frequency of such high-impact rainfall events seems to be increasing particularly over peninsular India, including the western coastline.Earlier analysis of hourly rainfall data between 1969 and 2015 across 126 rain gauges revealed that India records 200 MCB events a year on average, and that their frequency along the west coast seems to be increasing. Between 2005 and 2015, India saw roughly 1,100 MCBs, while Mumbai on average saw above five such events in a year.While Deshpande (and others) do not present similar data for subsequent years, ongoing work by her team indicates that the frequency of these events has been increasing even after 2015. This year alone, there have been at least three such events in Mumbai, on June 9, July 16 and July 18. “The specific number, location and intensity of MCB events in more recent years will be published in a paper sometime next year. However, we can say even after 2015, the number of mini cloudbursts in India seems to be increasing by an average of 10% year on year. This is only a marginal increase in absolute terms, taking into account inter-annual variability of rainfall and the fact that we are only considering four months of the monsoon. But it is nevertheless worrisome. We have seen two back-to-back events in Mumbai last week. As MCBs become more frequent in the long-term, it means more flash floods, more landslides, more problems for disaster relief and so on,” said Dr JR Kulkarni, one of researchers.The mini cloud bursts that lashed several parts of Mumbai on Sunday, Hindustan Times had reported, were the result of “convective precipitation”, triggered by a rapid “in situ” convergence of moisture-laden clouds that were formed as easterly winds in the mid-atmospheric levels transported dry air over warm and moist air in the lower levels, brought by westerly winds. The cloud structure responsible for the deluge touched a height of almost 60,000 feet -- more than twice the cruising altitude for most commercial airlines.While rainfall exceeding 100mm in an hour — a phenomena largely associated with cloud conditions in the Himalayan region and which leads to flash floods — has already been categorised as cloudburst events, according to the IMD, so far there have been no categories to define intense, but short bursts of rain.M Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said, “This is certainly a plausible observation. We have also noticed that such kinds of extreme rainfall events, of 50mm or more in two hours, are increasing in multiple meteorological subdivisions. At the moment there is no need to introduce another official term, and when required it will be done globally by the World Meteorological Observation. But the important thing is that we are aware of the impact caused by such accidents. The IMD is working at various levels to fine tune flood warning systems to mitigate the damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mini-cloudbursts-increasing-by-10-every-year-particularly-on-western-coast-researchers-101626719969250.html
20-07-2021||Lucknow||UP’s draft Bill on population control gets criticism, appreciation and suggestions||The State Law Commission has received over 8,500 responses on the draft law on Population Control with some of them criticising, some appreciating and others giving suggestions to make the law more effective.The Commission on July 9 this year had uploaded the draft Uttar Pradesh Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare Bill, 2021, on its website seeking suggestions in 10 days (till July 19) from public on the proposed law. “The State Law Commission has received 8,500 responses on its email on the draft Bill on Population Control. Some of them have criticized the proposed Law and some are appreciative of the steps taken by the Law Commission,” said Justice AN Mittal, chairman, State Law Commission. “We have also received large number of suggestions for the draft Bill on Population Control,” added Justice Mittal. “The Commission will download all emails and go through all of them. We will carefully study all suggestions. They will be taken into account, if found feasible, important, while preparing the draft Bill on Population Control,” pointed out Justice Mittal. “It will take a month for us to finalise the draft Bill and submit to the state government,” said Justice Mittal. The draft Bill had evoked sharp reaction from political parties and even social and religious organisations not only from Uttar Pradesh but all across the country. The draft law has listed out incentives for those who have two children or less and disincentives for those who have more than two children.On July 11 this year, CM Yogi Adityanath had unveiled Uttar Pradesh’s population policy 2021-2030 that aims to bring the birth rate down to 2.1 per thousand population by 2026 and to 1.9 by 2030.At present, the birth rate in the state is 2.7 per thousand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-draft-bill-on-population-control-gets-criticism-appreciation-and-suggestions-101626719551116.html
20-07-2021||Other||SDMC draft policy sets ₹75,000/day rate for shooting films||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday approved a draft policy for shooting films in its area. According to officials, filmmakers will have to take prior permission and pay the prescribed fee of ₹75,000 per day, for shooting at areas including parks, roads, malls, monuments or recreational places, coming under the SDMC area. “A security amount of ₹25,000 will have to be deposited irrespective of the number of days of the shoot,” said a senior corporation official. The policy, officials said, is aimed at generating revenue. “Being a local authority, SDMC can exercise its powers with respect to framing policies and terms and conditions, and can collect charges for granting permission as a licensing authority under section 430 of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act,” the official said. The SDMC House meeting also decided to apply the same rates to all buildings under the civic body’s jurisdiction. The terms and conditions further include an undertaking by the applicant that they will not damage, misuse or create any kind of nuisance. Besides,they will have to ensure cleanliness of its premises as well as smooth flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmc-draft-policy-sets-75-000-day-rate-for-shooting-films-101626719489827.html
20-07-2021||Other||Delhi: IGNCA event to celebrate Chandrashekhar Azad’s legacy||New Delhi: Ahead of Independence Day, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) is planning an exhibition to celebrate the legacy of freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad from July 23.“We will be marking freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad’s birthday with an exhibition that will be inaugurated on July 23. Going by the name of Azad ki Shaurya Gatha, the exhibition will be the first big show since we relocated to the new location,” said Achal Pandya, head of IGNCA’s conservation and cultural archives unit. IGNCA member-secretary Sachidanand Joshi said that activities and exhibitions will be thrown open to the public next month. “We will also start storytelling sessions to make people aware of relatively lesser-known freedom fighters. Ordinary people who played a crucial role during the freedom struggle need to be taken to the masses,” said Joshi. Earlier this month, IGNCA relocated to Janpath Hotel, which will be their temporary home for at least two years as the Central Vista redevelopment project takes shape. The permanent campus is expected to come up at Jamnagar House.Joshi said that the premises will be thrown open to the public next month. “Even during the lockdown, we did not stop our activities. Starting from next month, we will allow visitors in compliance with Covid-19 protocols,” he said. Joshi also said that the IGNCA will continue to hold online activities alongside physical events, adding that there were also plans to adopt a hybrid model for holding events in line with the Covid protocols.“In the future, we are also thinking of doing activities involving children. We want to invite school children from both private and government schools for storytelling sessions once schools reopen. While some children can be present in person, the session can be live streamed for the remote audience as well,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-ignca-event-to-celebrate-chandrashekhar-azad-s-legacy-101626719429183.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Jabs drive slows down as vaccine stocks fall short||The sluggish pace of immunisation continued in the Capital, with fewer than 26,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered on Monday, when only 418 of the city’s 1,374 vaccination sites were open, with jab stocks still low.Last week, the city managed to cross the 100,000-mark only on one day, with a low of just over 33,200 doses on a weekday and over 11,300 doses on Sunday.Officials said the vaccination drive is unlikely to pick up pace on Tuesday.“We received vaccine doses today [Monday], but supply is still limited. We are not getting the required number of doses, so we will not be able to run all vaccination sites,” said a senior official from east district.A senior official from West Delhi district also confirmed the shortage.“We are unable to get as many as we need for some time now. There are days when we have administered more Covaxin first doses,” said a senior official from the district.The government stopped administering first doses of Covaxin after a shortage of jabs for those turning up for the second shot, after getting their initial shot in May, when the vaccination drive first opened up for everyone over the age of 18 years.The government resumed it, with a mandate that only 20% of the Covaxin stock be used to administer the first dose, only two weeks ago.Over 200,000 doses of Covaxin and 72,240 doses of Covishield were available with the Delhi government on Monday morning.It was unclear whether the government received a fresh batch of vaccine doses on Monday. The city had last received 60,000 doses of Covishield on July 17, according to the government’s vaccination bulletin.Delhi’s vaccination rates have been erratic since June 21, when the Centre took over control of purchasing and distributing vaccines to states. This was a change from the earlier policy, when states were buying doses for those aged between 18 and 45 at a higher price.In the three weeks since then, vaccinations peaked on June 26, when the city administered over 207,000 vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-stocks-slow-down-vaccine-drive-in-delhi-only-26-000-jabs-given-on-monday-101626719369183.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 4 hurt, 2 critically injured in after truck overturns on van in Wazirabad||Six people, including a one-year-old boy, were injured after a container truck overturned and fell on the van they were travelling in at north Delhi’s Wazirabad on early Monday morning. Two of the six sustained critical injuries in the accident, said police.A senior police officer said the accident took place when the van was headed to Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh via Ring Road. The passengers inside the van were identifed as Amrinder Singh, 33, his wife Anita, 28, and their one-year-old son; his sister-in-law Kavita, 35, and Prabhu Kumar, 25, a neighbour. Pranjul Kumar, 21, was driving the van, said police.As the van neared the CNG pump on the Ring Road at Wazirabad, a container truck coming from behind overturned while overtaking it, and fell on the van. All the six occupants were trapped inside the van. Passersby and locals rescued four of them, but the driver and Prabhat remained trapped inside the van, said police.“A crane was used to lift the container truck and the van. The rescue team cut the van’s roof with a gas cutter and rescued the two men. They were critically injured. All six were admitted to a nearby hospital. They are undergoing treatment,” said the officer, adding that the driver fled the spot after the accident.“A case has been registered and both the truck and the damaged van have been impounded,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-4-hurt-2-critically-injured-in-after-truck-overturns-on-van-in-wazirabad-101626719309166.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Underground car parks among govt proposals to improve Delhi master plan 2041||Developing underground multi-level parking sites at parks, and allowing a floor area ratio (FAR) incentive to builders who surrender land for public use are among some of the proposals that the Delhi government has made as its feedback to the draft Master Plan for Delhi-2041, state urban development minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday.The DDA has prepared the master plan, and put it in the public domain seeking suggestions and feedback. Once notified by the Centre, the plan will act as a blueprint for the development of the Capital.On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a meeting to review the master plan with different agencies such as the PWD, DJB and DTC, in addition to the power, industries and transport departments. According to documents shared by the administration, the suggestions are mostly to improve housing, economy, environment and parking in the city.“Parking is a common problem... To deal with the issue, the government has proposed that multi-level car parking lots may be allowed under existing parks within a colony or nearby areas. At such sites, public parks can be reconstructed on top of such structures and the cost...can be subsidised by allowing the construction of indoor sports clubs, community/multipurpose halls for public use... This will ensure parking within 300 metres of the residence,” said Jain, who is also Delhi’s PWD minister.To increase the number of public green spaces, the Delhi government has proposed an “FAR Regeneration Policy” where developers who surrender land for public use are incentivised by offering proportionate excess FAR. Floor area ratio is the ratio of a building’s total floor area to the size of the piece of land upon which it is built.For affordable rental housing, it suggests increasing the maximum ground coverage -- the construction on the ground floor -- from 33.33% to 40% and FAR from 200% to 400%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-sends-dda-feedback-on-master-plan-2041-101626719249145.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||When it rains, it pours: Large parts of Delhi submerged, temperature drops 8°C||After a weeks-long wait, the hot, humid days in the national capital on Monday gave way to the season’s first spell of heavy rain, which proved a nightmare for motorists and commuters across the city, but pulled the mercury down by eight degrees, and broke the weather office’s spell of inaccurate forecasts.At least two drowning deaths in city amid rainThe city received 69.6mm of rain in 24 hours, a spell that led to the temperature dropping to 26.5 degrees Celsius, down from 36.4°C the previous day, and eight degrees below normal for this time of year. In fact, Delhi’s daytime temperature on Monday was the lowest for the season since July 30, 2014, when the mercury dipped to 24.9°C. The minimum on Monday was 24.2°C, three degrees below normal.The showers started early on Monday morning, and continued throughout the day.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Safdarjung observatory, the official marker for the city’s weather, received nearly 70mm rainfall between 8.30am on Sunday and 8.30am on Monday. From then onwards, the city received another 38.4mm of rain (classified as “moderate”) till 5.30pm.The Palam weather station recorded 99.3 mm 24-hour rainfall and 66.6 mm rain during the day. Lodhi Road station got 62 mm 24-hour rainfall while recording 34.1 mm during the day. Ridge and Aya Nagar stations recorded 58 and 51 mm 24-hour rainfall. These stations got 45.8 mm and 39.8 mm rainfall during the day.Showers wreak havoc in Millennium CityThe monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, after a 16-day delay, and a series of inaccurate forecasts by the Met department. After moderate showers on the first two days of its onset, the city got only “traces” of rainfall, despite predictions of light rain and thundershowers, and an “orange alert” that was issued for the weekend.After Monday’s dip, IMD officials said the temperature is likely to rise over the next few days.“Light rainfall is likely on Tuesday as well. However, the activity will slow down thereafter and may pick up again on July 23-24,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Independent weather forecasters said that with Monday’s rainfall, Delhi’s overall rain deficit of the monsoon season is 3%. “Between June 1 and July 19, Delhi recorded 180.4mm rain against the normal of 185.3mm,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster.However, Srivastava said rain at the Safdarjung observatory is now in the green for the month. “With the rainfall on Monday, July has received 220.4mm rainfall, while the normal for this month is 210mm rainfall,” he said.The rain brought traffic to a standstill at several arterial roads during the rush hours.Delhi Traffic Police said that in many areas, the early morning showers that continued throughout the day led to roads being inundated. While traffic was diverted at several places, some areas were barricaded because of a portion of the road caving in.There are around 150 waterlogging-prone stretches across the city, of which civic authorities consider five crucial — Minto Bridge, Pul Prahladpur, Zakhira, Moolchand and Peeragarhi.The Pul Prahladpur underpass was blocked for traffic after water started accumulating in it around 7.30am. “Eight pumps have been installed at the site and water was still being pumped out of the spot in the evening,” said a senior PWD official requesting anonymity.Traffic police data showed that 51 key stretches, most of which are from the list of flood-prone areas, were inundated and pumps were put to use. These include Vasant Kunj underpass, DND-Ashram, Cariappa Marg, Sarai Kale Khan to Barapullah, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur, Dwarka Link Road, Okhla Mandi, Lajpat Nagar Metro station, Mayapuri Metro station, Adchini, Spinal Injury Hospital, IP Estate and Tilak Nagar, among others.Residential colonies including Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas, East of Kailash, CR Park, Kailash Colony, RK Puram, Green Park, Alaknanda apartments, Saket, Jasola, Janakpuri, Karol Bagh, Pitampura and Laxmi Nagar reported incidents of waterlogging on the day.Civic bodies directed blame at PWD and the state’s irrigation and flood control (I&FC) department.“We have only four-feet-deep drains under our purview. We have completed de-silting ahead of the monsoon. These drains flow into the bigger drains under the PWD and I&FC that are not being cleaned,” said East corporation mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal.A second PWD official said: “When there is a heavy downpour, areas get flooded and it takes some time for water to recede. The city’s drainage system has its own limitations and long-term plans are underway to improve the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/when-it-rains-it-pours-heavy-spell-of-rain-submerges-parts-of-delhi-mercury-dips-by-eight-degrees-101626719190624.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||'Govt to redesign Delhi’s drainage system': Kejriwal||The Delhi administration will redesign the city’s drainage system and identify more waterlogging hot spots so that area-specific interventions can be made to ensure smooth flow of traffic and people’s safety, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.The decisions were taken in a monsoon review meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and attended by the Delhi chief minister, Public Works Department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and other senior officers from agencies such as the municipal corporations (MCDs), PWD, flood and irrigation department and Delhi Jal Board (DJB).The announcement by the chief minister came on a day when a man drowned in the submerged Pul Prahladpur underpass -- one of the perennial problem points -- and at least 39 key road stretches were flooded after heavy morning rain. The stretches included Vasant Kunj underpass, Zakhira underpass, Mehruali Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur, Dwarka Link Road, Okhla Mandi, Lajpat Nagar Metro station, Adhchini, Spinal Injury Hospital, IP Estate, and others.Data from the state traffic police shows that at least 96 roads from a list of 150 stretches identified as “waterlogging prone” last month ended up with knee-deep water after showers on Tuesday, the day when monsoon officially arrived in the city albeit 16 days late.“Delhi, being the national capital, should have the best designed drainage system that unfortunately we do not have. There are a lot of places in Delhi where drains managed by the DJB and the MCDs converge, there is no coordination between them. I would like to suggest that PWD act as the nodal authority and redesign Delhi’s drainage system. If an excellent design is in place and all the agencies can work together on it, then we can implement it. Delhi should have a world-class drainage system,” Kejriwal said.The last drainage master plan was drafted by the Delhi administration in 1976. To be sure, Delhi was administered by a metropolitan council between 1966 and 1990. In 2016, the Delhi government commissioned a study of the city’s drainage system by IIT-Delhi. Following the study, a drainage master plan was compiled which had also pointed out to the fact that the city had no single agency to manage and maintain drainage. However, the plan could not be implemented.Kejriwal said once such a system is in place, then the agencies will have to de-silt or clean the main drains only once a year. “Also, the drainage system will be free of liability. So we should work on that prospect. We need to also popularise our grievance helpline numbers with the people of the city,” Kejriwal said.Senior officials who attended the meeting said Kejriwal praised officers for ensuring proper drainage at the Minto Bridge this year. “I am pleased with the work done by our agencies... In Delhi, it is said if Minto Bridge gets waterlogged, then monsoons have begun in the city. But, this time, Minto Bridge is the talk of the town for all the good reasons,” Kejriwal said.This year, Delhi government’s PWD identified 147 vulnerable spots that are most prone to waterlogging during the rains. Some of the vulnerable spots identified are Vikas Marg (Karkardooma courts, Laxmi Nagar metro station), Netaji Subhash Marg, Anand, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, etc.Asking officials to increase the number of identified flooding hot spots, Kejriwal said, “We know of 147 such vulnerable points. If we conduct extensive mapping, we can enlist all possible vulnerable points. If solutions for all vulnerable points are planned and worked towards like the Minto Bridge, then we can bring Delhi freedom from waterlogging.”PWD minister Satyendar Jain asked the agencies to be fully prepared as Delhi is likely to receive more rainfall this week. “In the next three days we are going to have excess rainfall, so we need to be fully prepared to handle the situation. We have to be alert during the day, and extra alert during the night. We have over 1,500 pump sets and we should deploy them all,” he said.Jain directed officers and engineers to be available and alert 24x7 for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-drainage-system-to-be-redesigned-more-waterlogging-spots-to-be-identified-kejriwal-101626719190005.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||ITO, INA Market, DU campuses to be made friendlier for pedestrians||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has proposed a series of measures to make seven key areas, which include educational or institutional zones, traffic junctions, and important markets in the city, safe and friendly for pedestrians and non-motorised vehicles(NMV).The authority has come out with “walk plans” for ITO junction, INA market and Metro station, Hauz Khas/IIT-Delhi, Delhi university’s (north and south campuses), and Lajpat Nagar and Kamla Nagar markets. These plans are part of the DDA’s walkability policy, which was approved in 2019, and is aimed at providing pedestrian-friendly infrastructure in the Capital. According to the policy, 34% of all daily personal trips, 58% of all trips to educational institutions, and 31% of business or service trips are “walk only”.The walk plans were approved last week by the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC), which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.DDA officials said all the areas taken up have a high volume of pedestrians moving amid high-speed traffic, specially at ITO junction, Aurobindo Marg near INA, Ring Road, and Outer Ring Road.The agency plans to prepare 27 more walk plans, of which 15 are ready, including the ones approved last week. DDA officials said walk plans are being prepared for Nehru Place, Bhikaji Cama, all interstate bus terminuses, and Karol Bagh, market among others.“We have considered an area within a radius of about 500metres around the Metro stations to implement the plan. We will soon send the plans to Delhi government’s public works department (PWD), which can prepare a detailed project report and implement the project, a senior DDA official said, asking not to be named.However, when contacted, a senior PWD official, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said that they had not received any plan so far.DDA officials said the area-specific walk plans aim to address localised problems. For instance, the walk plan for ITO junction, one of the busiest traffic junctions in the city, talks about connecting the skywalk, which was made operational in 2019, with the foot overbridge at Tilak Bridge railway station. “A large number of people who work at ITO come on trains from nearby towns. In the absence of proper connectivity to ITO, people have to walk along the railway tracks to reach ITO. Connecting the overbridge at Tilak Bridge with the skywalk will provide thousands of people hassle-free access to ITO and Pragati Maidan Metro station,” said a DDA official in the know of the plan.Amit Bhatt, head of transport, World Resources Institute (WRI), India, said, “There is a need to calculate the influence area at ITO. Its influence area is between Delhi Gate and India Gate. Just improving the ITO junction won’t help. For significant results, a walk plan for a big area around ITO has to be prepared.”The walk plan also talks about providing a dedicated cycling path and continuous pavement of 500m around ITO Metro station.Experts have welcomed the DDA’s decision to prepare area-specific walk plans, but they said there is a need to have a comprehensive walkability plan for the city. Bhatt said, “The world over, cities which have good pedestrian infrastructure have city-level walkability plans, which are essential as they broadly indicate requirements such as minimum width of pavements, lights, shade, pedestrian-friendly crossings etc. For instance, a 2m wide pavement is required, especially on arterial roads. Area-specific plans can then be prepared or tweaked as per the ground situation.”The walk plans propose having pavement width of 1.8-2m in all the six areas.But Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said the width of the pavement should be determined by the pedestrian volume in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddas-walk-plans-ito-ina-and-kamla-markets-to-be-friendlier-for-pedestrians-101626719129669.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||3 killed after car collides with tanker in southwest Delhi||Three people, including a four-month-old boy, were killed and four others were injured after the car they were travelling in collided with a water tanker in Samaspur village near Jaffarpur Kalan in southwest Delhi on Saturday.Police said the occupants of the car were returning home to Nangloi when the incident took place.“The tanker driver fled the spot, and we arrested him later. He has been booked for rash and negligent driving. Both the vehicles have been impounded,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.According to the officer, the police received information about the mishap around 6.30pm on Saturday. A police team reached the accident spot and learnt that seven injured people were rescued from the car and rushed to Rao Tula Ram hospital.While three of them succumbed to their injuries, the condition of the other four is still serious, said police. Police believe that the car driver and the person sitting on the front passenger seat were trapped as the front portion of the car was completely damaged.Police said that deceased have been identified as Paramjeet, his four-month-old son Nikku, and his friend Sunny. Among the injured are the two men’s wives, who are siblings,and Sunny’s two children, aged four and eight.Police said Sunny was driving the car at the time of the accident and Paramjeet was sitting on the front seat with his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-dead-four-hurt-after-car-collides-with-tanker-101626719069739.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Kailash Colony: Locals say tap water ‘unusable’||Residents of south Delhi’s Kailash Colony said that, for the last 10 days, they have been getting foul-smelling water that is not even fit for cleaning. Residents alleged that worst affected are K and L blocks.Gurminder Singh Bedi (Micky), president of Kailash Fraternity, one of the residents’ groups in the area, said he has been receiving complaints from several households. “Initially, the water looked dirty too. Over the past few days, though the water appears clean, it stinks of sewage. It appears to be an issue with the pipelines, which often get mixed with the sewerage network. We are buying drinking water and using it for other chores as well,” he said.He added that he has raised the issue with authorities.“DJB (Delhi Jal Board) officials, who were supposed to visit the area to collect samples for testing, have not turned up so far. We have also been circulating the issue on the WhatsApp group the residents have with the local MLA, but there has been no response,” Bedi said.Mandira Mitra, a resident of the colony’s K-block, said that the water smells foul even after being boiled.“We have been boiling the water for domestic chores but the stench is just too bad. One of these days, we had to call for a tanker, because the water from the tap could just not be used,” said Mitra.A senior DJB official said they received a complaint and were looking into the matter.“The matter is being examined and normal water supply will be restored at the earliest,” said the official, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-kailash-colony-residents-complain-of-unusable-tap-water-101626719009205.html
20-07-2021||Pune||Palkhis reach Pandharpur in time for Ashashi Ekadashi||PUNE The palkhis of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar left Dehu and Alandi on Monday morning to the beats of “Dnyanoba Mauli Tukaram”, and reached Pandharpur in the afternoon. For the second year, the palkhis travelled by MSRTC in wake of the tradition of the walking wari (pilgrimage) being cancelled due to Covid-19. As restrictions are in place only a limited number of warkaris and state government officials were allowed for the departure ceremony. Both palkhis reached Wakhri, a village before Pandharpur, in the evening. On Tuesday, Ashadhi Ekadashi, the warkaris along with the palkhis will walk to Pandharpur. Eight prominent palkhis of various saints from all over the state reached Pandharpur on Monday, also by bus. Every year hundreds of thousands of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur, all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. Before the pandemic, annually, 0.4 million warkaris joined in several dindis (group of warkaris) and walked with the Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram palkhis from Alandi and Dehu villages, respectively, to Pandharpur. There are 250 registered dindis (group of warkaris) that accompany the palkhi to Pandharpur. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with his wife Rashmi, drove to Pandharpur. The state’s official “Maha Puja” will be done by Thackeray and another warkari couple at 2 am on July 20, in the main Vittal Rukhamini temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/palkhis-reach-pandharpur-in-time-for-ashashi-ekadashi-101626715589430.html
20-07-2021||Pune||At ₹10 for a full-day fare, Punyadarsham leaves Pune commuters more than satisfied||PUNE Punyadarsham – the ₹10 full-day fare for a bus service launched by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and the PMC on July 10, is making travel within the parts of the city easier.When HT boarded the bus on route number 5 from Swargate to Pune station, passing through Nana peth on a rainy Monday afternoon, passengers on board were really happy with the initiative. However, drivers have a few complaints. The bus journey from Swargate to Pune station saw less crowded, while the return trip saw more passengers getting into the bus. Standing passengers are not allowed due to Covid norms, however, the driver and conductor were left with no option and allowed a few to stand till the nearest stopTukaram Mote, an employee of the Maharashtra Security Force, on board the bus, said, “PMPML should expand such services to other parts of the city as well. Travelling for a whole day in ₹10 is saving a lot of money. One can travel hassle-free. Since its launch, I travel every day from Swargate to Pune station. Even if I have a double shift, now there is no need to spend more money for a double trip.”PMPML has launched 50 such buses on nine routes. Most of the buses are travelling distances of 5km.The bus has a CCTV which captures images from four directions.“I have to travel frequently between Nana peth and Pune station every day, almost five times. This ₹10 ticket makes things easier now instead of buying a new ticket every time,” said Anil Kumar, a carpenter from Jodhpur, on board the bus.Sandeep Pradhan, an officer of the agriculture department in Nanded, said, “I did not know about this service, when I came in the morning from Nanded. The conductor told me at the Pune station about this new bus service. It was safe and comfortable and even with the rain, all my work was done easily.”Bus conductor, Balasaheb PaygudeFootfall is increasing every day. Buses are running full in the morning session: 7:30am to 10.30am, and in the evening session, 3.30pm to 10.30pm. In afternoon there is a little less crowd.Continuous inflow of new passengers generates more revenue.If all passengers travel directly between the two main station (Pune station to Swargate), then one trip generates ₹220, as there are 22 seats in the bus.Narayan Kamthe, bus driver The bus service is no doubt a boon for the general public, but seating arrangements for the driver are uncomfortable, as there is no space for a foot rest. We have to keep the foot on the clutch all the time. The side rear view mirror should be placed a little higher. Whenever we start the AC, it impacts the speed of the vehicle. However, due to Corona we are not keeping the AC on and keeping the windows open instead. Chetna Kerure, joint managing director, PMPMLEvery day we are receiving a footfall of around 20,000 passengers. The aim of starting this service was to attract people to use public transport and reduce the number of private vehicles on roads, especially in the core areas of the city. On all the routes of the ATAL service (Aligning Transit on All Lanes for ₹5 for 5km) have been converted to Punyadarsham service. If we get a good response we may expand the same service to other parts of the city. Any government ID proof is allowed. Tickets are non-transferable.Punyadarsham routes* ₹10 per ticket (same ticket can be used all routes for the day)* Identity proof must* Person can buy a monthly pass as wellRoute no; To and Fro; Bus route1; Pune station to Shivajinagar bus stand; Collector’s office road2; Swargate to Shivajinagar; Shanipar - PMC building3; Swargate to Pune station; SP college-Ramanbaugh4; Swargate to Shivajinagar; Tilak road-Deccan Gymkhana5; Swargate to Pune station; Nana peth-Power house6; Swargate to Pune station; Sonya Maruti chowk-Kamla Nehru Hospital7; Pulgate to Deccan; Kasewadi- Nana peth- Laxmi road8; Deccan to Pune Station; Apolo Talkies-Narayan peth road9; Deccan to Pune Station; Laxmi road-Nanapeth-Westend||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-10-for-a-full-day-fare-punyadarsham-leaves-commuters-more-than-satisfied-101626715468858.html
20-07-2021||Lucknow||Ensure no cow, camel sacrificed on Bakrid: Yogi Adityanath to officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the administration to ensure that no cow, camel or any other prohibited animal was sacrificed on the festival of Bakrid (July 21).He also said sacrifices must not happen at any public place, adding that not more than 50 people should gather at any place associated with the festival. He issued these instructions to the officials concerned at a Covid-19 review meeting.“All administrative preparations in view of the festival of Bakrid should be completed. Considering Covid-19, not more than 50 people should gather at any place associated with the festival. Ensure that no cow, camel, or any other prohibited animal is sacrificed. The sacrifice must not take place at any public place and only earmarked places, or private spaces should be used (for sacrifice). Cleanliness should be paid special attention to. Issue detailed guidelines in this regard,” he said.CM orders action against substandard trauma centresChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday ordered action against all substandard trauma centres that have mushroomed in different parts of the state.“No one can be allowed to play with public health. The state government is committed to providing quality medical care to people. It has come to the notice of the state government that (there are) trauma centres in the state that lack standards or are below standard. This is unacceptable. Launch an in-depth probe. Mark such centres and act against them,” he said to the officials concerned at the Covid-19 review meeting.Once again, no district in Uttar Pradesh reported new Covid-19 cases in double digits in the past 24 hours, he said.There was no fresh Covid-19 case in 55 districts while single-digit cases were reported in the remaining 20 districts.At present, the state has 1,188 active Covid-19 cases (patients under treatment). As many as 2.18 lakh tests were done in the past 24 hours and 40 people tested positive for Covid-19 while 99 patients recovered during the same period. The positivity rate has remained at 0.02% and the recovery rate is 98.6%“Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Hathras, Kasganj, Mahoba, Shamli and Shravasti have no active cases,” he said and added that this indicated that the state’s policy of “trace, test, treat, and vaccinate” was working well.He also said that vaccination was going on well in the state with a total of 4.30 crore doses administered so far, including 3.38 crore first doses. He asked officials to further speed up the vaccination drive.6,400 PICU, 2,700 NICU beds in place Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state had put in place a total of 6,400 PICU (paediatric intensive care unit) beds at medical colleges and 2,700 NICU (neo-natal intensive care unit) beds at the health department’s hospitals. The work on creating more PICU and NICU beds for taking care of children’s health should be speeded up in all districts, he said. The steps have been taken in view of experts’ predictions of a possible third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-no-cow-camel-sacrificed-on-bakrid-yogi-adityanath-101626712709092.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Property feuds, extortion feed gangs of Delhi||March 25, 2021: Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, one of Delhi’s busiest government health facilities with a nearly 5,000 daily footfall, was abuzz with activity when gunshots rang around the building, and people outside the gate of the OPD building spotted a man running out with blood oozing out of his chest. Nearly 50 metres away from the gate, he collapsed. Almost the same time, another gunshot was heard near the main gate when two men threw a man and his wife off his bike and fled on the two-wheeler..It was a carefully planned operation by two fugitive dons to help Kuldeep Mann alias Fajja, who was in the hospital that day, to flee police custody, investigators have said. At least 17 criminals, in separate teams, were present inside and outside the hospital premises for the operation, according to the charge sheet filed in the case. Fajja was brought to the hospital from Mandoli Jail by a police team for a check-up at the surgery OPD when the suspects attacked the police team. Though one was shot dead in the hospital, and another was injured, Fajja managed to escape on the robbed bike.Less than 72 hours after the shoot-out in the busy hospital, police shot dead Fajja in an encounter in another gunfight -- this time at a residential apartment block in north Delhi’s Rohini, where the gangster was hiding in an associate’s flat. Fajja was named in 11 criminal cases, including five murders and three robberies, and was a key member of the Jitender Gogi gang.Gunfights have become more common between the police and criminals in the Capital. In the last three days, there have been three shoot-outs between police and criminals. To be sure, not all of them involve those associated with gangs.Sandeep Kala Jathedi, Neeraj Bawana, Kapil Sangwan, Jitender Gogi and Ashok Pradhan run one of the most notorious gangs active in Delhi. Except Jathedi and Sangwan, all others are currently in jail. However, the disclosures by the gang members, who are arrested in different cases, confirm that despite being behind the bars, these gangsters continue to run their activities, mostly extortion.According to the police’s annual crime data, over 100 people filed complaints alleging criminals and gangsters threatening them for protection money in 2020. Last year, police registered 120 extortion FIRs, while the number in 2019 was 179.This means, criminals and gangsters threatened at least 120 people asking for extortion or protection money. To be sure, the actual number of such people could be more because many complainants do not inform police and pay the money out of fear.The police in their press statements have in past few years mentioned that Delhi gangsters extorted sums ranging from ₹10 lakh to ₹1 crore.Land disputes and crime in Delhi’s wild westPolice officers who have investigated cases related to gang wars say that even though there are similarities between the Mumbai underworld and Delhi’s gangs, they differ in the fact that most of the Capital’s criminal groups have largely local interests. They added that due to constant pressure by the police, over the years, Delhi never had a big organised crime problem.The officers said there are at least 20-30 big organised criminal gangs in Delhi, whose members are mostly from the city’s urban villages located on the periphery of the national capital.When asked for specific examples, serving and retired police officers pointed out that Neeraj Bawana and Gaurav alias Monty, who was arrested last Friday, are the manifestation of the rise of the organised crime in Delhi. Both Neeraj and Gaurav are residents of Bawana village.In 1996, the Supreme Court ordered shifting of small scale industrial units from Delhi’s residential areas to the villages such as Bawana and Narela. Retired government officials said that for shifting the industries, the government acquired around 1,865 acres in Bawana at an estimated cost of ₹7 lakh per acre. This meant overnight riches for the local farmers.Arvind Kumar, a social activist in Bawana, whose family was relocated to the area in 2004, said, “When the government started buying land for industries, the original owners (village residents) became rich overnight. But for the industries that were shifted from the centre of the city to the fringes, the deal was not profitable. As failed industries started vacating the allocated plots, individuals and groups started using the opportunity to grab this land.”Kumar said poorly implemented industrial zoning; some families becoming millionaires over night; many youngsters seeing an opportunity around them to make quick money and property feuds led to the rise of a real estate mafia.Police officers say several local groups galvanised around their leaders, depending on their loyalty, and the property dispute they were related to.“Many local criminals found it lucrative to extort money from traders who had set up factories there. All Delhi criminals such as Neeraj Bawana, Ashok Pradhan, Sandeep Kala Jathedi specialise in extortion. In outer Delhi, traders were asked what was famous as Neeraj Tax (named after Neeraj Bawana). When the factory owners refused to pay, they were threatened or shot dead. In such cases, when the factory owners leave the factory, the criminals use their muscle power to grab the property. And then they fight among themselves for the land,” a police officer, who asked not to be named, said.Another senior officer who asked not to be named cited the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankhad, in which two-time Olympic medalist, Sushil Kumar, has been arrested. He said the murder was a fallout of a dispute over a property in north Delhi’s Model Town area, adding that the case shows the deep connection between land and crime in Delhi. Though Sushil has not been linked with any gang, but Dhankhad was allegedly associated with Kala Jathedi, the police said.Jailed, but no barIn August 2015, two members of the Neetu Dabodia gang were travelling in a police van from the Rohini court to Tihar Jail. The other seven were from Neeraj Bawana’s gang, with the leader himself being present in the vehicle. As soon as the van left the court premises, the seven pounced upon the two and strangled them. Then, they stomped on their faces so hard that an eye of one of the victims gouged out. The alert van driver immediately took the vehicle to Mahavir Hospital on the outer Ring Road, where the two -- Paras Vikram and Pradeep Bhola -- were pronounced dead on arrival.And the terror of these ganglords has not diminished over the years.Recently, the police decided against shifting Sushil Kumar from Mandoli Jail to Tihar. The reason: Several members of Kala Jathedi gang are lodged in Tihar and the police felt that Sushil may not be safe there. The Intelligence Bureau also informed prison and police officers about a possible threat to him from another gangster prisoner, Lawrence Bishnoi, who came to prison after Kumar. Though prisoners have to spend 14 days in quarantine at Mandoli before being shifted to Tihar, the threat to Kumar was so high that Bishnoi was shifted to Tihar, away from Kumar’s cell in Mandoli, within a few days.A prison spokesperson, said, “Tenders have been floated to install two body scanners on a trial basis. The idea was proposed in 2011 but it took time to get permission. Tihar will be the first jail to get such scanners. Prisoners will not be able to smuggle weapons or phones, once it is installed.”The glamour of crimeAdvocate LN Rao, a former deputy commissioner of police, who led many police encounters over three decades, said, “In the 90’s most criminals were from western UP. There were gangsters like Ranpal Gujjar and Brij Mohan Tyagi, who were based in UP. Today’s youngsters have realised how easy it is to make money by extortion. They then use social media to spread their name.”Ashok Chand, a retired IPS officer, who headed Delhi police’s special cell and the crime branch, said,“We did not allow the Mumbai underworld to spread its tentacles here. The gangsters in Delhi in the 90s were mostly from western UP. Delhi had Kishen Pehalwan but even he did not have the aura that the current ones have. Delhi gangsters are being glamourised by the media. Maybe social media is also to be blamed for making heroes out of them.”To be sure, in most cases it is the gang members themselves who eulogise their leaders on social media. Many of these have presence on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and even Twitter. They even have fan pages. Gangsters like Lawrence Bishnoi, Neeraj Bawana and Kapil Sangwan have multiple fan pages.What the police sayA Delhi Police spokesperson said they maintain a close eye on the activities of various criminals and keep organised crime under check. “There are small local gangs operating in rural or semi-rural areas who indulge in fight among themselves. They may also indulge in extortion from small businessmen or traders to make easy money, but most of their gang leaders are behind bars. In fact their network of operation is very limited. Most importantly, ordinary citizens of Delhi are not much affected. We have arrested gangs operating in the name of Manjeet Mahal or Jitender Gogi or Dhillu gangs. 80% of all the gang members are now in various jails of Delhi NCR. Delhi Police does not allow organised crime to thrive.”The special cell and special staff teams have been tasked with keeping a check on any form of organised crime, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/property-feuds-extortion-feed-gangs-of-delhi-101626650526488.html
20-07-2021||Delhi||Villages set up own libraries with a little help from friends||It is a blistering afternoon, but as you enter the community library in Kalda village, located in the Panchayat Ghar in the midst of green agricultural fields, you are buffeted by a gust of cool breeze wafting through its high open doors. About a dozen youngsters sit hunched over books at brand new desks. The library’s iron shelves have books for various competitive examinations. Through its windows, one can see the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in the distance. “It is the favourite place of youngsters in the village; they spend most of the time here preparing for various competitive exams,” says Arvind Nagar, a village volunteer, who helps manage the library, which opened in November last year with the money contributed by villagers.Kalda in Gautam Buddh Nagar district, about 45 km from Connaught Place, is not the only village to have set up a library—in fact, a rural library movement is sweeping across the country. In the past year alone, about 100 libraries with sleek, air-conditioned reading rooms have come up in the villages of Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, among others as part of Gram Pathshala, a community initiative led by youngsters in these villages. It started last year when a few students in the village approached Lal Bahar, an inspector with National Human Rights Commission, who lives in Ganauli village in Ghaziabad, complaining of a lack of a place to study“I took up the matter with the villagers and the Gram Pradhan andsuggested that we should open a library in the village. Everyone immediately agreed. We collected 5 lakh rupees through donations from villagers and the library was opened in August last year,” says Lal Bahar.A month later, Bahar started reaching out to neighbouring villages to encourage them to build similar libraries. The villagers responded with great enthusiasm, and a brand-new library has since been inaugurated in one or the other village of these districts almost every week in Panchayat buildings, which had been out of use for years. On Sunday, Bahar attended the inauguration of the 100th such library in the region, which came up in Kailashpur village in Greater Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district.“Our mission is to open a library in every village of the country, and make Gautam Buddh Nagar the first district to have a library in every village,” says Bahar. “The villagers contribute anything between ₹100 to 20, 000 to set up the library. We only provide encouragement and advice. Now we are getting enquiries from villages in Bihar, Assam and Rajasthan and many other states,” adds Ajay Pal Nagar, who is part of the core team of Gram Pathshala initiative.A few km away from Kalda village is Koodi Kheda, another village, where about a dozen students are reading inside the library, which was inaugurated in February this year. Like the one in Kalda, this one is also located in the verdant surrounding of Panchayat Ghar, which was renovated for the library. The rustle of the trees is the only sound one hears inside its high-ceilinged reading room, whose walls are adorned with framed posters of national leaders, and many inspiring slogans, one of which reads, “When in doubt, come to the library”.“We decided to set up the library after the Gram Pathshala team approached our village and told us about their mission. Almost everyone in the village lapped up the idea,” says Arun Nagar, who is part of the village team that manages the library. Sunny Kumar, who is at the library preparing for the SSC GD examination for paramilitary services, adds, “I had no place to study at home. Lack of libraries and a place to study put students in villages at a great disadvantage. I am happy it is no longer the case in our village.”Indeed, these community efforts are important in a country like India where per capita expenditure on libraries is among the lowest in the world. The US, for example, spends, 35.96 dollars per capita annually on public libraries, but in India it is a meagre 7 paise. According to the 2011 Census, there were 70,817 libraries in rural areas and 4,580 in urban areas serving a population of more than 830 million and 370 million, respectively. While libraries were part of the Census for the first time in 2011, there was no precise information on their condition and service capabilities.While Ghaziabad-based Gram Pathshala’s movement’s objective is to give village students a convivial space to study, Noida-based organisation, Sarvahitey’s project Paper Bridge, aims to set up 1,000 libraries with the larger objective “to unify India culturally” and reduce a sense of alienation among the geographically isolated communities. Prem Prakash, the co-founder of Paper Bridge, says the organisation has set up over 300 libraries in villages in 11 states of the country, including the Northeast and Kashmir. “We have also set up about 150 libraries in the Naxal- affected rural areas of Jharkhand,” he says.The organisation runs book donation drives at schools, colleges, corporate houses and has so far collected over 200,000 books. “We encourage people donating books to write a message on them for the people in the region where the books are destined. These messages act as a soft bridge between people; that is why we have named the project Paper Bridge,” he adds.Among the villages where libraries have come up in the past few years, the most famous is Bhilar, near Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra. Famous as ‘Pustakanche Gaav’ or ‘Village of Books’, almost every house in this quaint hilly village has a library with about 1,000 books on a particular theme such as history, novel, short story, sports, among others. Large murals on the walls of the house depict the theme of the library it houses.The libraries in the village, also known as India’s Hay-on-Wye, after the famous Welsh village in the UK known for its literary festival, is a project started by the Maharashtra government in 2017 with the objective of promoting Marathi literature. “We provide books, shelves, tables and chairs to set up libraries in the drawing rooms of these houses. The villagers do not charge us any rent and are welcoming hosts. We keep adding new books to the collection,” says Vinay Mavlankar, the project manager, whose office is located in the Bhilar village, which also organises gala cultural and literary programmes.“Before Covid-19, we used to receive about 10 visitors a day. The library is part of our house, and so we get an opportunity to have long conversations with visitors about their lives, and literature, enhancing our understanding of other parts of the country and deepening our knowledge of books,” says Vaibhav Bhilare, whose house in the village is titled Kadambari-2, which is home to a library with Marathi novels.Bhilar has inspired many villages across the country.One of them is in Perumkulam, near Kollam, in Kerala. The villagers have put several sloped-roof, house-shaped glass bookshelves, with about 50 books each, across the village. Last year, well-known Malayalam writer MT Vasudevan Nair declared it a “village of books”.In the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, in the past few years, Shiva Shankar, a former professor at the Chennai Mathematical Institute and Asai Thambi Replong, English Literature professor at Pachaiyappa’s College, in Chennai, have been on a mission to set up libraries in Dalit villages across the state. So far, they have set up, 18 libraries in 15 districts, all of them with over 3,000 books. “We wish to create equitable opportunities for rural children and students, and our primary focus are Dalits. We approach the villages and all we ask for is a room in a public or private space and volunteers to run the libraries after we set it up. We want to create at least 100 libraries. Libraries, we believe, are an effective tool of social inclusion and empowerment,” says Replong.Agrees, Lal Bahar, the man who started the village library movement in western UP. “Libraries can be the key to the social, educational and cultural revival of villages,” he says. “Earlier, in our village when an elderly person saw a youngster loitering around, he would say, ‘what are you doing here, go home; now the elderly villager says, ‘do not waste your time, go to the library.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/villages-set-up-own-libraries-with-a-little-help-from-friends-101626637470382.html
